20-09-2021||Delhi||Sabzi Mandi building collapse: Fresh North MCD survey identifies 18 ‘high risk’ structures in Malkaganj municipal ward||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has identified at least 18 high-risk structures in Malkaganj municipal ward where a four-storey building collapsed last week, killing two children. The officials said they identified the buildings in a new survey soon after the incident.Officials said the identified are at least 50-60 years old. “After a fresh survey, we identified around 18 buildings that either needed to be demolished or required major retrofitting for providing structural stability. Two of the buildings have already been vacated for demolition, and a portion of another one has already been demolished,” said a senior corporation official, who asked not to be named.Two children were passing by a building on the main road of the Old Sabzi Mandi area last Monday when its front portion collapsed, burying them under debris. The building that collapsed was not on the list of “dangerous” buildings identified during the pre-monsoon survey by the civic body.Most of these buildings, being old structures, are vacant or are disputed properties, the North DMC said. “Notices have been issued to the house owners of all these properties under relevant sections of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957. Also, awareness drives are being carried out to tell people about the importance of structural safety,” the official said.The pre-monsoon survey conducted by the civic body during May-June to detect such structures across its six zones identified 699 properties as “dangerous” while 444 others were identified for necessary repairs, said officials. The building that collapsed came under Civil Lines Zone.The pre-monsoon survey showed that Civil Lines Zone has 89 “dangerous” properties; municipal ward number 13 (Malkaganj ward, where the incident took place) has 20 “dangerous” structures--the fresh survey this week identified 18 more. Of the 20 buildings identified in the pre-monsoon survey, nine are on the same stretch where the four-storey building collapsed. The civic body had ordered an inquiry into the building collapse incident, a report on which is yet to be submitted, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sabzi-mandi-building-collapse-fresh-north-mcd-survey-identifies-18-high-risk-structures-in-malkaganj-municipal-ward-101632162559521.html
20-09-2021||Other||Kirit Somaiya stopped on way to Kolhapur; Sena, BJP indulge in war of words||PUNE Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya on Monday claimed he was stopped and detained by police at Karad in western Maharashtra while he was on his way to Kolhapur, after district authorities cited law and order as well as security concerns following his allegations of corruption against Hasan Mushrif, the Rural Development Minister of Maharashtra. His detention preceded high drama in Mumbai where Somaiya was asked by police not to venture out of his residence citing Kolhapur administration’s order. After being stopped at Karad, Somaiya alleged that he was jostled by the Mumbai police, who on Sunday night to tried to prevent him boarding the Kolhapur-bound Mahalaxmi express. Somaiya planned to visit Kagal in Kolhapur, the Assembly constituency represented by Mushrif, and to file a police complaint against the minister over alleged irregularities committed by him. The ruling Shiv Sena termed Somaiya’s allegations as “theatrics”, while blaming the BJP of trying destablising the Maharashtra government. Former chief minister and leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis reacted to the episode saying action against Somaiya is “unprecedented”. “For the first time in independent India history, a person who was on his way to file a police complaint, has been detained,” Fadnavis told reporters in Goa, a state he has been made in-charge of, ahead of assembly elections there. In Pune, state chief Chandrakant Patil claimed that there was misuse of power and accused state ministers of indulging in corruption. A few days ago, Somaiya had accused Mushrif of indulging in corruption and holding ‘’benami’’ entities in the name of his kin, allegations dismissed as baseless by the latter. Somaiya, who boarded the Mahalaxmi Express in Mumbai on Sunday night to go to Kolhapur, in a tweet on Monday morning said, “Police stopped me at Karad under prohibitory order”. According to Kolhapur superintendent of police Shailesh Balkawde, a team of district police reached Karad. Somaiya was stopped at Karad railway station and served a copy of the (prohibitory) order. “After we told him that he was prohibited from entering the district, he cooperated and will return after addressing a press conference in Karad,” Balkawade said. Somaiya on Sunday displayed an order from Kolhapur Collector Rahul Rekhawar that said the former had been prohibited from entering the district under section 144 of the IPC “in view of the threat to his life and possibility of law and order situation due to his visit”. The order also said the police would be occupied with Ganpati immersions and it would not be possible to provide security to Somaiya. Senior inspector Sunil Kamble of Navghar police station in Mumbai had also issued a notice to Somaiya, asking him to follow the Kolhapur administration order. Somaiya’s residence at Mulund in Mumbai falls within the jurisdiction of Navghar police station. Somaiya termed the development “dadagiri” of the Uddhav Thackeray government. He also accused the Mumbai police of forgery, saying they had handed him an order by the Kolhapur district administration stating that he should not be allowed to leave Mumbai. “When I was given a copy of the order by Kolhapur police today (Monday) morning at Karad, there was no mention that I should not be allowed to go out of Mumbai,” he said. Somaiya said he would move court against his “illegal detention” and the order issued in Mumbai. He said the Kolhapur district administration’s order talks about a threat perception to him if he goes there. “Is it that since I registered a complaint against Mushrif, there was a plan to attack me?” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kirit-somaiya-stopped-on-way-to-kolhapur-sena-bjp-indulge-in-war-of-words-101632162548849.html
20-09-2021||Noida||Woman, daughter killed in hit-and-run in Noida||In an incident of hit-and-run, a 45-year-old woman and her 19-year-old daughter were crushed to death allegedly by an SUV near the Mahamaya flyover in Sector 37 late Sunday night. The woman’s husband sustained minor injuries in the accident, police said.The deceased were identified as Neeraj Sharma and her daughter Anjali, who lived in a society in Noida’s Salarpur. The family is a native of Agra, police said. According to Neeraj’s husband Ramkaran Sharma, they were waiting for public transport near the Mahamaya flyover when the accident took place.“We had returned from Mathura and were on our way home. Around 2am, I was trying to flag down an auto-rickshaw to take us home while my wife and daughter were standing aside. All of a sudden a speeding SUV hit them before hitting me, and fled the spot,” said Ramkaran.According to police, passersby called the police helpline after which a team from Sector 39 police station reached the spot and took the injured to a private hospital. While the women were declared brought dead while Ramkaran was treated for his minor injuries, police said, adding that both the bodies were sent for an autopsy.Officials said that based on information from eyewitnesses, they have identified the vehicle, a Scorpio registered in Noida.“We have also identified the owner and are working on tracing the driver. The SUV was speeding when it hit the victims. The bodies were handed over to the family following the autopsy,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.Based on Ramkaran’s complaint, a case was registered at Sector 39 police station against the unidentified driver under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act which endangers human life) of the Indian Penal Code.On September 15, a 27-year-old man from Delhi was killed by a speeding vehicle in Sector 98 under Sector 39 police jurisdiction when he was riding a motorcycle. Despite tracing the vehicle to Delhi, no arrests have been made in the case yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-daughter-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-noida-101632162547046.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Jamia students want university reopened||Student groups at Jamia Millia Islamia on Monday unanimously sought that the university be reopened. A group of students approached the university to make a case for its reopening. The university was closed last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In a joint statement, students said that it was crucial to reopen the university since several of them had been facing challenges during remote learning. “AC and EC meetings were held four-five days ago but its minutes are not yet released. In this situation, the students are facing an uncertainty related to the reopening of the campus,” said the statement issued by the student organisations Following the Delhi Disaster Management Authority directive on August 30, which allowed students of higher educational institutes to return to campuses as long as 50% seating capacity was maintained, Delhi University (DU) and Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) released their own reopening plans. While JNU allowed final-year PhD students to return to campus from Monday following a mandatory negative Covid-19 test report, DU allowed final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students to return to campus only for their practical examss, lab work, or academic consultation. Jamia, on the other hand, is yet to share any roadmap on reopening for undergraduate courses. The students’ statement also highlighted the travails they were facing due to the challenges of the digital divide and the lack of library facilities. Continued closure of the university would deteriorate the education system further, students said. “We have already seen the grievances students faced due to the ever-increasing digital divide and relentless natural calamities that went in parallel with the pandemic. Many students, who want to access libraries and practical equipment, are not yet given access to them,” the statement said. Less than two weeks ago, vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar said that the university had not discussed reopening for undergraduate students so far. “We have already been allowing final-year PG students of professional and science courses to come to the campus for their practical and lab work. Even final-year PhD students are allowed to come to campus following a special permit. With the risk of a third wave around the corner, we cannot take any decision in haste as it would put our students at risk,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jamia-students-want-university-reopened-101632162368260.html
20-09-2021||Noida||Eight new dengue cases in GB Nagar in three days, tally reaches 21||Gautam Budh Nagar has reported eight new cases of dengue in the past three days, taking the tally to 21 so far this month, officials of the district health department said on Monday. The new cases have been reported from the district hospital, Post Graduate Institute of Child Health and a private hospital, the officials said. The first dengue case was reported on September 6. “The district has reported a total of 21 dengue cases so far. While four patients are undergoing treatment at different hospitals, others are recovering at home,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, GB Nagar.Last year, the district had not reported any dengue case, while 40 such cases were recorded in 2019.After a dengue outbreak in western Uttar Pradesh districts like Agra, Mathura and Firozabad, GB Nagar has been on alert regarding the vector-borne diseases and viral fevers. Experts at the Indian Council of Medical Research have confirmed the D2 strain of dengue in samples of children who died due to a ‘mystery fever’ in some UP districts.However, officials in GB Nagar said that none of the dengue cases in the district have shown signs of the new strain. “The new strain is deadlier and often causes haemorrhage. Experts have said that the new strain is limited to the affected districts only,” said Sharma.Meanwhile, the district health officials are also monitoring scrub typhus and leptospirosis cases. “GB Nagar had reported three cases of scrub typhus who have all recovered now. However, there have not been any cases of leptospirosis so far,” said Sharma.According to GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, the district has been taking preventive measures to control breeding of mosquitoes. “Sanitation and fogging drives have been ramped up across the district to stop the spread of dengue and viral fevers. Fortunately, cases of dengue and malaria have remained low in GB Nagar so far,” said the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/eight-new-dengue-cases-in-gb-nagar-in-three-days-tally-reaches-21-101632162367025.html
20-09-2021||Noida||Aarogya Mela: GB Nagar health camps see patients with fever, respiratory issues||The Uttar Pradesh government has resumed ‘Aarogya Mela’, a health camp which was put on hold in April following the second wave of Covid-19, as several districts in the state are reeling under vector-borne diseases and viral fever, said officials on Monday.In Gautam Budh Nagar, health camps were organised on Sunday at 33 primary and urban primary health centres across the district. The officials said that out of the total 1,976 people who visited these health camps, 845 were men, 752 women, and 379 children.According to official data, 467 patients complained of respiratory issues, 337 patients of fever, 436 patients of skin diseases and 275 patients of stomach issues. Noting the symptoms, 173 patients were tested for malaria, but all of them tested negative for the disease. As many as 208 patients also took RT-PCR tests, but none of them tested positive for Covid-19.“The camps will now be held every Sunday from 10am to 4pm, where people will get free health checkups. A total of 66 doctors and 192 paramedical staff were working at the centres,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.The Aarogya Mela was officially launched in January 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/aarogya-mela-gb-nagar-health-camps-see-patients-with-fever-respiratory-issues-101632162308739.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Pragati Maidan tunnel road corridor may open by November, says PWD||New Delhi: A 1.2-kilometre-long tunnel road corridor underneath Pragati Maidan, connecting Mathura Road, Ring Road and Bhairon Marg is likely to be opened by November, said senior officials of the Delhi government’s Public Works Department -- the agency that is executing the work.The underground road corridor will help decongest one of the most traffic-intensive areas in Delhi as well as roads that are marred perennially by traffic jams. Once the tunnel opens, along with six underpasses that are also part of the project to allow traffic move seamlessly enter and exit the underground road, a drive to the India Gate and parts of central Delhi from different corners of the city will become hassle free.However, like the Ashram Chowk underpass, this project too has been running way behind schedule, and the PWD is not only yet to finish work on the tunnel, but also have to get necessary approvals to finish work on two of the six underpasses that are part of the project. This is besides the major road repair works that the agency will have to undertake on Mathura Road, Ring Road and Bhairon Marg, near project sites. The tunnel and the six underground U-turns were to be finished by March 2019. The same year, PWD fixed two new deadlines -- first for May and then September. However, when it could not meet either of them, the department did not fix a new deadline. Senior officials quoted above, however, expressed the confidence that the entire project will be opened in phases, after trials, adding that around 95% work on the tunnel has been done. Of the six underpasses -- five are located on Mathura Road, and one on the Ring road. Two of the five underpasses on Mathura Road are near Sundar Nagar and three are between Pragati Maidan and Supreme Court. The underpass on the Ring Road connects it to Bhairon Marg. Officials said though work on four underground U-turns is nearing completion, the other two are stuck. “Work at two of the underpasses near Supreme Court and Matka Peer is stalled as we are yet to receive permissions from a few agencies. As soon as we get those, work will commence there as well and we will soon be able to open those stretches as well. We will also construct a service lane along Mathura road before we open the roads for trial. After getting a final nod from the traffic police, it will be thrown open for final operations by November,” said an official.In the first phase, the main tunnel will be thrown open to traffic by November along with three other underpasses at DPS Mathura road, Kaka Nagar and Bhairon Marg. Officials said that trials on this stretch will begin after the second week of October, but only a limited number of vehicles will be allowed.Besides finishing work to be able to open the tunnel road by November, the PWD will have to undertake major road repairs on Mathura Road as well as Bhairon Marg. Stretches on both roads where work is going on, are in tatters. The project was primarily designed to handle the projected growth in traffic after revamp of Pragati Maidan. The tunnel road, goes beneath Pragati Maidan, starting near National Sports Club of India (NSCI) on Purana Qila Road, and ends on Ring Road near the Pragati Power station. The 932-crore project will help reduce snarls by cutting east Delhi-bound traffic from south and Lutyens’ Delhi through India Gate and ITO. At least 90,000 commuters use the ITO intersection every day and at least 60,000 commuters use the Bhairon Marg intersection every day, according to PWD data. A senior PWD official, who is associated with the project said the tunnel will also provide three entry/exit points to the underground parking coming up at Pragati Maidan. Sewa Ram, professor, School of Planning and Architecture, said the tunnel will definitely help decongest ITO and provide easier ride to and from East Delhi to Central Delhi. “However, the full results of this project will only be seen once the PWD opens all six underpasses,” he said.Other experts said to completely decongest the entire Mathura Road, the PWD should also expedite work on the under-construction underpass at the Ashram Chowk. They said once the tunnel opens, and traffic flow becomes smoother from ITO, vehicles will still get stuck at the Ashram Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pragati-maidan-tunnel-road-corridor-may-open-by-november-says-pwd-101632162308096.html
20-09-2021||Noida||Dengue cases cross 150 in Ghaziabad, more of scrub typhus patients getting hospitalised||The number of people infected with dengue fever has crossed 150-mark so far this month in the district, with 119 patients or nearly 77% requiring hospitalisation, according to figures of the district health department. The first dengue case this year was reported on September 1, officials said.The data also revealed that the instances of scrub typhus have reached 39 and over 87% of such patients required hospitalisation. Scrub typhus is caused by a bacterium called Orientia tsutsugamushi and the disease spreads to people through bites of infected larval mites.Till Monday evening, Ghaziabad reported a total of 155 dengue cases, the data showed. Last year, the district had recorded only 15 cases of dengue. According to the officials, the dengue cases reported so far in Ghaziabad are the highest since 2017 when the district had recorded a total of 232 such cases.Explaining the high rate of hospitalisation in these cases, Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer, said, “The fatality rate in case of scrub typhus is usually about 30%, while in case of malaria it is just about 1%. So, patients of scrub typhus prefer hospitalisation. Likewise, in case of dengue, when the platelet count comes down, patients prefer hospitalisation.” No death due to these two diseases has been reported in the district, Gupta said. “Our teams are regularly keeping an eye on high incidence areas where dengue cases have emerged. Anti-larvae sprays and fogging are getting done regularly. As far as the rise in cases of scrub typhus is concerned, we came to know that people who visited hill stations have got affected by scrub typhus. More than 90% of scrub typhus patients have history of visits to hill stations. So, the spread is not local,” said GK Mishra, district malaria officer.Experts said that indications of scrub typhus are fever, headache, nausea and vomiting, among others. “Patients who are getting admitted to hospitals due to fever are also being tested for scrub typhus. In the past few years, we have come across high number of cases of scrub typhus. Its patients also develop red rashes on skin. However, many scrub typhus and dengue patients with mild symptoms get recovered easily. Only patients having complications like dengue haemorrhagic fever require admission,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). “The incidence of vector-borne disease is high this year as there have been frequent rains during the ongoing monsoon season. This has resulted in waterlogging in several parts of the district, giving favourable conditions for mosquitoes to breed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dengue-cases-cross-150-in-ghaziabad-more-of-scrub-typhus-patients-getting-hospitalised-101632162186967.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Slight uptick as dengue cases crosses 200-mark in Delhi||New Delhi: With 53 more cases of dengue recorded in the Capital over the last week, the total number of the mosquito borne infection so far this year in Delhi has crossed the 200 mark.Delhi recorded 211 cases and no deaths due to the viral infection till Saturday, according to the weekly report released by the municipal corporations on Monday. The tally is higher than the 172 cases of the infection reported during the same period last year, even as doctors reported a surge in co-infection of dengue and Covid-19 in September last year. Delhi, along with 10 other states, is also reporting some cases of serotype 2 dengue, which is associated with higher risk of severe disease and may result in internal bleeding or capillaries leaking out fluids resulting in a sharp drop in blood pressure. There are four serotypes of dengue virus – Type 1 and 3 are the milder serotypes while type 2 and 4 are associated with severe disease. The Capital last saw serotype 2 infections in 2015 when a large outbreak affected nearly 16,000 people and killed 60. Since then, serotype 3 caused most of the infections in Delhi. So far this year, doctors have not reported too many cases of persons coming in with bleeding, circulatory shock, or severe drop in platelet count. “There has been an increase in dengue cases over the last three weeks. However, most people are coming in with mild to moderate disease. Although some do end up needing platelet transfusion, their numbers are still very low,” said Dr Atul Gogia, senior consultant of internal medicine at Sir Ganga Ram hospital. Dr Amitabh Parti, director of internal medicine at Fortis Memorial Research Institute in Gurugram, said, “There has been a 15-20% increase in the number of fever cases in the out-patient clinics. Over the last two months, most of the fever cases were that of flu. However, with flu cases on the decline, dengue has overtaken now.” “Only 2 -3% of the patients with dengue currently have reported severe symptoms. In most cases, the platelet count drops to around 40,000-50,000 and then starts going up again on its own. Only symptomatic management and hydration is needed [in most cases]. There are a few patients whose platelet count hovers in the 17,000-20,000 range and may need a platelet transfusion, but even they are recovering easily.” Platelet is a component of the blood that helps form clots and prevent bleeding from wounds. The decline in platelet count results in internal bleeding in dengue patients. The normal count is 150,000 to 450,000 platelets per microliter of blood. Dengue is caused by the aedes aegypti mosquito which mainly breeds in fresh, stagnant water near homes during the monsoon season and bite during the day. The Delhi government has started its ’10 hafte, 10 baje, 10 minute’ campaign that urges people to clean out all water-containing vessels in their homes and check for breeding once a week, thereby breaking the eight to ten day life-cycle of the mosquito. Dr Neeraj Nischal, associate professor in the department of medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), said that there was need to prepare keeping in mind the dangerous serotype of the virus. “Dengue and other mosquito-borne diseases are easily preventable if we ensure that we don’t allow mosquitoes to breed in and around our houses. If the cases of dengue rises significantly, it will definitely lead to complications in some patients and may even be life threatening. The general principle is to ensure you are adequately hydrated... Take medical opinion of an expert before taking any sort of medicine,” he said.Doctors said several pain medicines can lead to increased bleeding in dengue patients. They advised people to seek medical opinion within 72 hours since there are many infections doing the rounds in the city. “We are seeing cases of dengue, malaria, typhoid, flu, and Covid-19. It is very hard for patients to distinguish and some of them might worsen within a few days. So, it is best to seek medical opinion within 48-72 hours of getting fever,” said Dr Parti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/slight-uptick-as-dengue-cases-crosses-200-mark-in-delhi-101632161947649.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Three drug peddlers held with 32gm heroin||Three drug peddlers were arrested and 32g heroin was recovered from their possession, the police said on Monday.The accused have been identified as Pankaj Kumar, 18, of Daresi, Akash Kumar, 18, of Daresi, and Kamaljit Singh, alias Pamma, 27, of Kuldeep Nagar in Daresi.Two of their accomplices, identified as Hameed of Kuldeep Singh Nagar, Daresi, and Madhu of New Madhopuri, however, managed to escape, the police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that the team of Division number 6 police arrested the accused near Sherpur Chowk when they were stopped for checking.While Hameed and Madhu managed to escape from the spot, Pankaj and Akash landed in the police net. The two accused informed the police that they had brought the drugs from Kamaljit.The ADCP added that following the information provided by the accused, the police arrested Karamjit as well.A case under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered. A hunt is on for the arrest of the rest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-three-drug-peddlers-held-with-32gm-heroin-101632161827581.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Steep stairways make way for ramps at Delhi’s Qutub Minar||Steep stairways at the world heritage site of Qutub Minar will no longer pose a challenge to the disabled and the elderly as the Archaeological Survey of India has installed wooden ramps at three places within the complex, said officials in the premier heritage body. One ramp has come up between the Qutub Minar and the Quwwat-ul-Islam Mosque (both built by the Mamluk sultans of Delhi in the late 12th and early 13th centuries), while another is under construction and will connect the 16th-century Tomb of Imam Zamin built during the reign of Emperor Humayun with the 14th-century Alai Darwaza constructed by Sultan Alauddin Khilji. A third ramp will come up near the mosque. These ramps are being built over the existing stairways, which will no longer be accessible to any visitor. “Earlier, visitors were required to climb 15-20 stairs, which was not comfortable. While one ramp has already come up, two others are nearing completion and will be made operational soon. These will provide ease of access for the disabled and the elderly who struggle to climb stairs,” said an ASI official, who did not wish to be named. But this won’t limit the visitor experience. “We have installed glass panels on the sides of the ramps, which will allow visitors to see the staircases and their layouts below,” the official added. This is among the many changes that the complex has seen since last year, including a new parking lot, six new booking counters, four ticket-vending machines, toilets, drinking water kiosks, a cafeteria and a cloakroom. Due to this, the official said, the monument is close to becoming an ‘aadarsh smarak’ (model monument) as envisioned by a 2014 scheme of the same name that promises better civic amenities at heritage monuments. “There is now Wi-Fi internet connectivity at the complex, while touch-screen kiosks are also being set up. In terms of infrastructure and facilities, the complex is nearly ready and only a few aspects are left to be covered. Only an interpretation centre is missing right now,” said the official. A UNESCO world heritage site, the Qutub complex usually ranks among the top two in Delhi when it comes to footfall. Before the pandemic struck last year, Red Fort had the highest footfall. “When the monuments reopened after the first lockdown, Qutab Minar saw the highest footfall. Even before the pandemic, Qutub Minar was among the most visited monuments,” said another senior ASI official, requesting anonymity. As per ASI data, 24,496 people visited the site between September 1 and 19; the visitor figures for Red Fort and Humayun’s Tomb during this period were 23,052 and 6,018, respectively. The official said that there could be multiple reasons behind the post-lockdown visitor spike at the monument. “South Delhi has many well-to-do people who might have found it easier to visit the monument during the unlock phase at a time when other public transport facilities were suspended,” said the official. Heritage enthusiast, writer and filmmaker Sohail Hashmi said better facilities and easier access were welcome developments. “Quite a lot of our monuments such as Kotla Ferozeshah, Begumpur Masjid, and Hauz Khas, among others, are inaccessible to the differently-abled,” said Hashmi, adding that even eateries around the Qutub complex look cleaner now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/steep-stairways-make-way-for-ramps-at-delhi-s-qutub-minar-101632161768217.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Self-styled commander of Manipuri insurgent group arrested in Delhi||Delhi Police’s special cell has arrested a 24-year-old self-styled commander-in-chief of a Manipur-based alleged insurgent group, Kuki National Front (KNF), from Dwarka in southwest Delhi on Sunday. He is wanted by Manipur Police in connection with various criminal activities including kidnapping for ransom, snatching of firearms, extortion, firing, and robbery, senior police officers said.According to deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah, Mangkholam Kipgen, alias David Kipgen, controls a vast network of armed militants in Manipur. He was planning the abduction of employees of a construction company in Manipur, which is involved in the construction of roads and other establishments in the state, for ransom, said Kushwah.On Sunday, the DCP said, the special cell received inputs about Kipgen’s presence in Delhi. They arrested him from Sector 7 in Dwarka. During interrogation, Kipgen disclosed that he met KNF cadres in his village in 2018 and joined them in extortion, robbery, dacoity, and other crimes.“Soon, Kipgen became notorious in Manipur for snatching weapons from personnel of the armed police forces, kidnapping for ransom, and extortion. In June 2020, he declared himself as the commander-in-chief of KNF,” added DCP Kushwah.Police said that on the night of December 12, Kipgen and his associates armed themselves and allegedly attacked, overpowered, and abducted two sentries of Kangvai police outpost in Manipur’s Churachandpur and took away one INSAS rifle. Police arrested eight members of the outfit and recovered the stolen rifle. However, Kipgen evaded arrest. On February 18, Kipgen and his associates allegedly abducted a Nepali citizen, Tikkaram Rizal, from Churachandpur for ransom. Two suspects, including Kipgen’s brother, Haopilun Kipgen,20, were arrested, the police said.On the day of ‘Sahnit Ni’, the Kuki’s Black Day on September 13, 2021, KNF declared total shutdown in the state, restricting the movement of vehicles and closing down all administrative offices and business establishments. The group noticed a truck being driven along National Highway- 2 in the Champhai area of Kangpokpi district and opened fire for violating the shutdown call, said DCP Kushwah.“Kipgen claimed responsibility for that incident by issuing a press release. We have informed the Manipur Police about his arrest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/selfstyled-commander-of-manipuri-insurgent-group-arrested-in-delhi-101632161707465.html
20-09-2021||Lucknow||UP’s GSDP shrinks 5.9 per cent in 2020-21||Uttar Pradesh’s Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) is estimated to have shrunk by 5.9 per cent in 2020-2021 following the adverse impact of Covid-19 on the state’s economy, according to the State Planning Institute (Economics and Statistics Division), Uttar Pradesh.The revised estimates of the state’s income may push even farther the objective of making Uttar Pradesh a trillion-dollar economy in the next five years.The revised estimates of UP’s income that the State Planning Institute (Economics and Statistics Division) released on September 16 though show a slight improvement in the growth of GSDP (on constant price), the state government will have to mobilise additional resources to push the economy ahead. Advance estimates for 2020-21 (released in March 2021) had shown a contraction of about 6.4 per cent in the GSDP.A close scrutiny of the revised data released for 2018-19 (revised provisional) 2019-20 (revised quick) and 2020-21 (revised advance) also indicates that the state’s economy grew at a rate of less than 5 per cent in the past four-and-a-half-year tenure of the BJP government in UP. The GSDP growth in 2017-18 is estimated to be 4.9 per cent. In 2018-19 and 2019-20, it remained at about 4.3 per cent only. Significantly, the data shows that UP’s GSDP (at current prices) is estimated to have reached ₹15,82,682 crore in 2018-19, ₹17,25,860 crore in 2019-20 and ₹17,39,114 crore in 2020-21. The state government had recently claimed that the GSDP has increased from ₹17,91,263 crore to ₹19,40,527 crore (revised estimates) on March 31, 2021. “These estimates do not paint a rosy picture of the state economy and its performance over the past four years. As per these estimates, the rate of growth of the economy was less than 5% during 2017-20 and (- 5.9%) in the Covid-19 year 2020-21.These rates of growth are much lower than what is warranted by the target of making UP a trillion-dollar economy by 2025,” said Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of the department of economics, Lucknow University.Tyagi further said, “A worrisome fact is that an important sector like manufacturing registered negative rates of growth over the last four years. Its share in GSDP is also declining and is less than 15%. For rapid industrialisation of the state, this is not a good sign. The performance of the agriculture sector has been quite good. Even in the epidemic affected year 2020-21, it had a positive growth of 2.7%. Services or the tertiary sector has done well except in 2020-21 wherein it contracted by 7.9%. The above facts should be a sobering reminder to the state government that much needs to be done to put Uttar Pradesh on the fast trajectory of growth.”The Indian economy contracted by 7.3 per cent in the fiscal year 2020-21, according to the GDP statistics released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) of the Central government on May 31, 2021. The state planning institute has prepared the revised data on the basis of the methodology provided by NSO and using the data after holding online discussions from March 30 to April 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-gsdp-shrinks-5-9-per-cent-in-202021-101632161467657.html
20-09-2021||Gurugram||FIRs recommended against 30 over illegal colony in Sector 69; restoration notices issued to Sai Lane developers||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) recommended that FIRs be registered against 30 persons, including a former MLA, for allegedly developing an illegal colony in Sector 69. In a separate direction, the department also issued restoration notice to buyers and developers involved in constructing and selling flats in Sai Lane of Old Gurugram. DTCP officials said that despite repeated notices to violators, they did not stop developing and selling plots in Sector 69. The directions were issued on September 13 but the notice was shared by the department on Monday.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that they have written to the Badshahpur police seeking FIRs against 30 persons for developing an illegal colony in Sector 69. “We have asked the police to register a case against 30 persons for developing the colony illegally. We had earlier also got a case registered in this matter at Sector 65 (police station) but on investigation, it was revealed that these persons have neither stopped development work nor construction in this colony,” he said, adding that the matter was transferred to the Badshahpur police. Bhath said that the identified people colluded to dupe buyers, who will lose their investments as permissions were not obtained from the competent authorities. In the Sai Lane issue, the enforcement department issued notices to 20 persons for allegedly developing illegal flats at the colony in Old Gururgam. In its notice to the developers and owners of properties, the department said that replies to the show-cause notices were “not satisfactory.” “In view of the above, you are here by ordered under Section 10 (2) of the Haryana Urban Development Act No. 8 of 1975 to restore the said land to its original state including demolition of any building/ means of access wherever constructed to bring it in conformity with the provisions of the act or the rules framed thereunder as your offence is still continued by you. In case of non-compliance, the undersigned shall take necessary measures under Section 10 (3) of Act No. 8 of 1975 to restore the land, which may include demolition of the unauthorised construction to bring the land in conformity with the provisions of Act/Rules and cost incurred upon such measures shall be recovered from you as arrears of land revenue under act,” the notice issued by DTP (enforcement) on September 18 stated. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), said that the action against the owners and developers of illegal flats can include sealing of properties, registration of FIRs and demolition, as a final measure. “Action is being taken systematically against developers of illegal colonies and legal parameters are being met to ensure they stand scrutiny at all forums,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/firs-recommended-against-30-over-illegal-colony-in-sector-69-restoration-notices-issued-to-sai-lane-developers-101632161412177.html
20-09-2021||Gurugram||IMD predicts light rain for Gurugram||After a brief dry spell, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday predicted light rain in the city over the next four days, from September 21-24, according to the IMD’s weekly forecast. With rainfall, temperatures are likely to drop by two to three degrees, with The maximum and minimum temperatures expected to be around 33 degrees Celsius (°C) and 23°C, respectively. “Gurugram is likely to witness light rain at isolated places over the next few days. The intensity of rain is likely to be higher on Wednesday in whole of south and south-east Haryana region. An alert has also been issued as thunderstorm, lightning or squall is likely,” an official from IMD Chandigarh said. A weather warning bulletin issued by IMD Chandigarh on Monday predicted heavy rain at isolated pockets of Gurugram, Faridabad and other nearby districts on Wednesday. The meteorological centre issued a yellow alert and asked authorities to be prepared for flooding in low-lying areas and disruption of municipal services, such as water and electricity connection. The city on Monday recorded a maximum temperature of 34.7°C and a minimum temperature of 23.7°C. Meanwhile, the air quality in Gurugram has been in the satisfactory zone for the past four days. On Monday, Gurugram reported an air quality index of 66. The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to largely remain in the satisfactory category over the next five days, according to the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi weather bulletin issued on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/imd-predicts-light-rain-for-gurugram-101632161410638.html
20-09-2021||Gurugram||MCG Ward 34 polls: Wife of late councillor to contest on BJP ticket||Rama Rathee, a former ward councillor of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), will be contesting the Ward 34 councillor polls on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket. Rathee was announced as the candidate by the party on Monday for the elections scheduled for October 3.Rathee joined BJP on September 16 and has previously served as the councillor of Ward 34 as an independent candidate from 2011-2016. She is the wife of the late RS Rathee, who was a member of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and had won the Ward 34 seat in the 2017 MCG elections. The seat has been vacant since RS Rathee’s death due to Covid-19 on May 30.“Being a former ward councillor myself, as well as closely monitoring the developments executed in the area by my late husband, I am well-versed with the problems and localised issues of the ward. If elected, I would look to expedite development in the area,” she said.She said that she joined the BJP as the party’s views aligned with hers on developmental issues. The polls will take place on Sunday, October 3, from 8am to 4.30pm.The nomination papers for the election can be filled from September 17 to September 22, barring September 19, on account of the day being a Sunday. During the 2017 MCG elections, the ward had 23,402 eligible voters. According to MCG officials, the ward now has around 29,000 eligible voters and a population of over 100,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-ward-34-polls-wife-of-late-councillor-to-contest-on-bjp-ticket-101632161409152.html
20-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram-Faridabad highway: Nine animal underpasses proposed in Aravallis to reduce road kills||The Gurugram wildlife department has identified nine spots on the Gurugram-Faridabad highway that can be converted into animal underpasses as this busy road passes through the Aravallis, officials of the forest department said on Monday. Officials said that these spots are located along a 12-kilometre stretch between the Bandhwari landfill and Regional Centre for Biotechnology on the highway. MS Malik, the chief conservator of forests for the Gurugram circle, said that underpasses can help mitigate man-animal conflict on the stretch. “We have identified around seven to nine points on the Gurugram-Faridabad highway, which are either stormwater outlets that are not in use or other structures which can be used as animal underpasses, after proper fencing is done along with roads. We will be meeting with the Public Works Department this week to finalise the points and work is likely to start from next month,” Malik said.The Gurugram-Faridabad highway is a busy stretch that fragments the Aravalli forests, due to which several road kills have been reported. In June 2021, a two-year-old female leopard was found dead on the Pali-Surajkund Road near Gurugram, with autopsy reports suggesting it could have been hit by a vehicle. This was the seventh death of a leopard to be reported from this region since 2015. The stretch from where the leopard’s carcass was recovered is an ecologically sensitive area, as it is flanked by the Asola Bhati wildlife sanctuary on both sides.Sunil Harsana, a Faridabad-based wildlife researcher, said, “The points which have been identified for wildlife underpasses can work really well, provided proper fencing is done to stop the animals from going to the road and ensure that the underpass is the only outlet available for the animal. Some of the spots are close to places where leopard deaths have been reported earlier, so if made properly, the underpasses can serve the purpose. When the roads will be blocked with fencing, smaller animals or herbivores will start using the underpasses and leopards which follow these animals as prey, will also start using them.”In 2017, the Wildlife Institute of India, in a study titled ‘Mapping landuse/landcover Patterns in Aravallis Haryana’ concerning the status of key wildlife species, had mentioned, “Highways passing through the wildlife habitats have adversely affected the fauna in these forests. Fast moving vehicles kill these animals when they move across these road stretches. The Gurugram-Faridabad expressway is one such road in Aravallis.”Earlier this year, in August, the wildlife department had decided to convert three stormwater outlets on the National Highway-48 (NH-48) into animal underpasses, to provide safe passage to wild animals and reduce road kills and conflicts. Two of the underpasses are located near Panchgaon and the third is near the National Security Guard outpost in Manesar. Officials said that two passages are of one-metre diameter, and one is a box passage structure with dimensions of 1.5mX1.5m.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugramfaridabad-highway-nine-animal-underpasses-proposed-in-aravallis-to-reduce-road-kills-101632161407591.html
20-09-2021||Gurugram||Mayor-SE tiff: MCG workers defer strike till Friday||Employees of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Monday again deferred their strike to protest the suspension of a superintending engineer (SE) following a tiff with the mayor. They have now decided to wait till Friday, September 24, for the Haryana government to reinstate the SE, members of the engineers’ union said.“We have internally decided to give the MCG and the Haryana government till the end of this week to sort out the matter. If they still do not meet our demands on Friday, we will deliberate over the next course of action,” Praveen Kumar, head of the MCG engineers’ union, said.Kumar, however, did not specify any reason for extending the deadline again.Last week, the protesting employees had threatened to carry out a strike unless the government reinstated the SE by Monday. Union members said that the decision to extend the deadline was taken internally, without the intervention of any official.Following a tiff with mayor Madhu Azad regarding the cleaning of a blocked drain in Ward 22, the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) had suspended SE Ramesh Sharma two weeks ago. The ULB’s decision had evoked a strong reaction from MCG officials, contractual staff, and their unions.For the first time since its formation in 2008, the MCG employees staged a protest in the form of a two-day pen-down strike on September 9 and 10, demanding the reinstatement of the SE.After reassurances from the MCG commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, that the matter would be “looked into”, the protesters had initially given the commissioner a five-day deadline, till September 15, to resolve the matter. On September 15, after a meeting with Ahuja, they deferred their deadline by another five days to September 20, due to unavailability of officials concerned.A senior MCG official, requesting anonymity, said that the strike has lost momentum and it is unlikely that a full-scale strike will be carried out again.“Just a day before the September 15 deadline, ULB had asked for details of around 30 officials, workers, and union leaders who were protesting against the SE’s suspension. Details such as the time remaining on their tenure, whether they were permanent or contractual employees, were sought. Since then, most union leaders, contractual workers, and even the engineering wing staff have backed down and returned to their full-time roles,” the official said.Despite calls, Ramesh Sharma could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mayorse-tiff-mcg-workers-defer-strike-till-friday-101632161349277.html
20-09-2021||Gurugram||Encroachments cleared, MCG reclaims land in Nathupur village||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) conducted an anti-encroachment drive in Nathupur village near DLF Phase-3 on Monday and reclaimed 70 square yards of civic land by demolishing illegal temporary structures, shanties, junk and building material shops, a release issued by the civic body stated.MCG officials said that a team of Zone 3 officials, comprising assistant and junior engineers, conducted the drive in the afternoon. They were escorted by a heavy police force and an earthmover was used in the drive, they said.“The team took action on the basis of a complaint received at the CM Window and demolished part of a house occupied by a person on MCG land as well as an adjoining house built by the same person. After this, the team took action to demolish several temporary structures, including dozens of illegally settled slums, junk and building material shops in other areas of the village,” SS Rohilla, the MCG’s public relations officer, said. Rohilla said that police were present at the spot to deal with any possible resistance. However, no untoward action was reported and the drive was completed peacefully.Over the years, the MCG has faced heavy resistance from Nathupur locals during such drives.During an anti-encroachment drive in the area held in February 2020, three policemen were injured as locals resorted to stone pelting.During a drive to capture stray animals in August 2017, locals thrashed four MCG officials with rods, sticks, and batons.Six MCG officials were also injured during a demolition drive in May 2014 as residents of the slum took to stone-pelting. Two vehicles of the fire department were also set afire by protesting locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/encroachments-cleared-mcg-reclaims-land-in-nathupur-village-101632161347612.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||HC stalls proceedings against Gambhir, his foundation in drugs hoarding case||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Monday halted proceedings in a trial court against BJP MP Gautam Gambhir, his foundation, wife and mother in a complaint filed against them by the state Drugs Control Department for alleged unauthorised stocking and distribution of Fabiflu medicine during the second wave of Covid-19. Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar issued a notice to the department on a plea by Gambhir which sought quashing of the criminal complaint and the summons issued by the trial court. Seeking the Drugs Control Department’s response, the judge said, “Till then the proceedings are stayed.”In a plea filed through advocate Jai Anant Dehadrai, Gambhir said the medicines were distributed under the guidance of a doctor and was done for charity, a stand disputed by the department.The Drugs Control Department registered a complaint against Gautam Gambhir, his mother Seema, and wife Natasha, in addition to the Gautam Gambhir Foundation and its CEO Aprajita Singh, for offences under section 18(c) read with section 27(b)(ii) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act.Section 18(c) of the Act prohibits manufacturing, sale and distribution of drugs without a license and Section 27(b)(ii) makes sale and distribution without a valid license punishable with imprisonment for a term not less than three years but which may extend to five years and with fine.The complaint was registered by the department after a division bench of the high court directed it to conduct inquiries against people stocking and distributing medicines as it was a violation of the Act.The high court expressed displeasure over the manner in which a huge quantity of the drug was procured during the Covid wave, noting that genuine patients who needed medicines at that particular time could not get it as a bulk of the stock was taken away by Gambhir’s NGO.On June 3, the department informed the high court that Gambhir’s NGO was guilty of unauthorised stocking, procuring and distributing Fabiflu medicines to Covid-19 patients.On July 26, pursuant to the complaint by the department, a trial court noted that the complainant has been able to prima facie prove the commission of the offence, and had summoned Gambhir to appear before it.Last month, the city court posted the matter for hearing on February 7, 2022.On Monday, senior advocate Atmaram NS Nadkarni, appearing for Gambhir, challenged the city court order and argued that the complaint against his client could not be justified because he had distributed medicines free of cost to those in need and did not sell them to make profit. He added that Gambhir’s family members have also been named in the complaint for no reason.Additional standing counsel Nandita Rao, appearing for the Drugs Control Department, pointed out that the inquiry against Gambhir’s NGO was carried out on the instructions of the division bench of the high court. She submitted that while the division bench had exempted the people who were distributing oxygen, it directed inquiry against those stocking and distributing medicines.She said that a large quantity of medicines was found from Gambhir’s NGO, adding that the distribution of medicines cannot be done without a licence. The court said that the matter needed consideration and asked the department to file its reply. The matter will be heard on December 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hcstalls-proceedings-against-gambhir-his-foundation-in-drugs-hoarding-case-101632161287515.html
20-09-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka to launch major campaign in UP, 1st rally in Meerut on Sept 29||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra proposes to launch a massive campaign and address a series of public rallies beginning in Meerut on September 29 to connect with the people, including farmers agitating against the Centre’s three new farm laws.Priyanka is expected to make a number of public announcements about the promises her party may make to people in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election, according to senior Congress leaders.“Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is expected to make some important announcements about the promises the Congress proposes to make on various fronts. The promises may include scrapping of three farm laws (farmers have been agitating against the three farm laws since), free power, waiving loans of farmers and about the party’s stand on some other issues concerning the people,” said a senior Congress leader on condition of anonymity.Priyanka, who presided over a meeting with senior party leaders via video conferencing on Monday, also proposes to address public meetings at a number of other places that include Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gorakhpur, the Lok Sabha seat that chief minister Yogi Adityanath represented as an MP, and in the Bundelkhand region.“Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is scheduled to address mega public rally at Meerut. She will also address rallies in Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Mahoba and a number of other places. She may address a public rally in Varanasi on October 2 or 3. We will get details about her public rallies soon,” said another senior leader.Priyanka, who reviewed the Congress’s preparedness for the 2022 assembly election in Lucknow recently, had asked the state party leaders to launch Pratigya Yatras covering a distance of about 12,000 km to span nearly all the assembly seats across Uttar Pradesh. The party has worked out a detailed programme of the proposed yatras that would cover most parts of the districts during the Navratri celebrations the next month.“If the Congress wants to get some results this time, it should begin implementing certain welfare programmes using party funds. Making announcements at public rallies may not work,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.The Congress has been targeting the BJP governments in the state and the Centre over various issues that include inflation, unemployment, crime against women and issues concerning farmers. It has also raised issues like Rafale and Pegasus in the recent past.The Congress had contested the 2017 assembly election in alliance with the Samajwadi Party. As the alliance experiment failed to work for both the parties with the BJP sweeping the 2017 polls, the short-term alliance ended soon after the polls. The Congress won only seven seats in the 403-member state assembly, getting only 6.25 per cent votes in the 2017 assembly elections. Its vote share on the seats contested with the SP support was, however, 22.09 per cent in 2017 polls. The Samajwadi Party had won 47 seats while the BSP got 19 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-to-launch-major-campaign-in-up-1st-rally-in-meerut-on-sept-29-101632160627560.html
20-09-2021||Lucknow||2022 UP assembly polls: Oppn may be treading soft Hindutva path||There is a buzz about Prime Minister Narendra Modi arriving in Ayodhya for this year’s Deepotsav that the Yogi Adityanath government has been holding annually since coming to power in Uttar Pradesh in March 2017. Deepotsav is celebrated in the temple town the day before Diwali which falls on November 4 this year.While Modi’s yet to be confirmed Ayodhya visit is largely being viewed as the party’s attempt to play up the temple card ahead of the 2022 UP assembly election, politicians of other parties, too, are engaging in what is being referred to as “soft Hindutva.” In fact, as the Congress leaders indicated, the party could take out a “pratigya yatra” (pledge journey) from Ayodhya in October during the Navratri, a nine-day period which Hindus consider auspicious. “Nothing official yet but yes, something is in the works,” said a Congress party leader. Ahead of the 2017 UP polls that the Congress had contested with the Samajwadi Party, Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had offered prayers at Ayodhya’s Hanumangarhi temple in September 2016. Back then, it was the first visit by a member of the Nehru-Gandhi family to Ayodhya since the demolition of the Babri mosque on December 6, 1992 when there was a Congress government at the Centre and a BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. Other Opposition parties too are engaged in this subtle Hindutva play, which political experts said could be guided by the thought of blunting BJP’s ploy of labelling the Opposition as one engaged in “tushtikaran” (appeasement) of the minorities, mainly Muslims. “On offer these days is a deft play of soft Hindutva by almost all the major political parties ahead of the UP election,” said professor Manuka Khanna from the political science department of Lucknow University (LU). Whether it was Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party, which decided to take out a tiranga yatra (tricolour journey) in Ayodhya or the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) that launched its prabuddha samaj (intellectual class) meetings from the temple town, soft Hindutva is trending ahead of the 2022 UP polls. UP assembly speaker Hriday Narain Dikshit, who won the 2017 UP polls as a BJP MLA from Unnao, said, “There are many political parties whose leaders are visiting temples now. However, the people well know their vote bank considerations behind this.” He was speaking at a meeting of the intellectual class in Unnao. In December 2020, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, too, had visited Ayodhya.“Bhagwan Ram belongs to us as much as anyone else,” he had said. Yadav has since visited a series of temples across the state, including the famous Bankey Bihari temple in Mathura. However, the BJP has continued to target Akhilesh, continuously using the appeasement charge.“We know what the BJP is up to. However, we aren’t going to fall for their trap. They are trying to show that they have a copyright on Lord Ram or Lord Krishna while labelling us as ones engaged in appeasement. But we are saying the Lord is for all, not for a select few. We are Hindus, too, but the BJP is cleverly engaging in selectivism for the sake of the same vote bank politics that it accuses us of,” a Samajwadi Party (SP) leader, requesting anonymity said. Even lawmakers across all parties in UP appear to be guided by “soft Hindutva”. Take for instance, the UP tourism department scheme launched for the promotion of heritage and tourism places in the state. “Majority of MLAs, across all parties, preferred to identify sites associated with the Hindu faith for development. In all, close to 370 proposals for as many sites were received,” an official of the state’s tourism department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2022-up-assembly-polls-oppn-may-be-treading-soft-hindutva-path-101632160147470.html
20-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: PGI faculty forum opposes government move on raising age of superannuation||The faculty forum of the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) has objected to raising the retirement age of faculty members of medical institutes/medical colleges to 70 years. The forum intends to call an urgent general body meeting (GBM) to chalk out a strategy to oppose the move.Professor Sandeep Sahu, president, SGPGIMS Faculty Forum, said, “Recently, the UP government had taken a decision to raise the retirement age to 70 years. The faculty forum of SGPGIMS strongly disagrees with this decision to increase the retirement age of faculty members. This decision will only hamper patient care, as older faculty members, due to the issue of increasing age, are not able to serve patients professionally. They lack the required energy levels and modern vision to improve the institute.”He said, “Old faculty members are reluctant to adopt new methods of teaching. Old faculty members if not retired at the appropriate time, will debar new faculty acquiring administrative skills so that second line will never be prepared to take care of hospitals.“Earlier, the retirement age was 60, which was increased to 62, then it was increased to 65 but now it is going to be 70 years. But every time doctors were never consulted before making a decision.”He added, “Doctors want their point to be heard before reaching any decision, because young doctors are going to be affected because of this decision.”Another senior doctor who was unhappy with the decision said, “Nowhere in the country are people forced to work till 70 years.”He added, “If doctors do not retire, then new posts will not be created, new medical students will not get a chance for faculty jobs. The PGI Faculty Forum will oppose the decision and will request the state government to reconsider the proposal for wider interest of the public and future of young doctors. Besides, the forum will also call for implementation of rotary headship of each department so that all faculty members get administrative experience.”However a senior official of the medical education department said, “The fears of doctors are unfounded. If the age of retirement is increased, it will not affect further recruitment of new doctors. Other apprehensions of doctors can be solved when we sit across the table.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-pgi-faculty-forum-opposes-government-move-on-raising-age-of-superannuation-101632159547543.html
20-09-2021||Other||Unease in SAD camp over Channi’s elevation||Chandigarh With the Congress appointing Charanjit Singh Channi as the first dalit chief minister of Punjab, a certain degree of uneasiness has crept into camp of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), even as the party has already firmed up a pre-poll alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for next year’s assembly polls. At stake is the vote of 32% dalit population of the state, with every political party wanting a major chunk of it. Political developments over the weekend, however, have forced the top SAD leadership into a state of unease and, mostly, studied silence, with its eyes on the Congress. Channi, in his maiden press itself on Monday, categorically stated that he will work for the welfare of his community. As things stand now, the Congress government leave no stones unturned to woo dalits, something all parties in the state want to do. Towards this aim, Akalis have has promised the berth of deputy CM for a dalit candidate from the quota of alliance partner, BSP. Channi is elevation, is thus a bit upsetting, for the Akalis. “Political developments taking place in the Congress party is an issue for our party. I think, however, that the juncture at which the shift of power has taken place (in Congress) it will not have a major impact on our prospects because it has come out as a delayed response to cover up failures of the Congress government under Capt Amarinder Singh,” said SAD MLA Gurpartap Singh Wadala who comes from Nakodar assembly segment in Doaba. As part of its pre-poll alliance, SAD has allocated 20 assembly seats to the BSP. “We were hoping to mop up the major share of the dalit vote bank in the upcoming polls,” said a SAD leader on anonymity, adding that after Channi’s appointment as CM, things will be difficult for Akalis. BSP state president Jasvir Singh Garhi termed the development as a much-delayed response from the Congress, as a dalit CM has been appointed in Punjab, but 74 years after Independence. “BSP is a party formed for the welfare of dalits and the Akali Dal has always given respect and support to the downtrodden community,” he claimed. Another Akali MLA Pawan Tinu, who comes from dalit community accepted that the Congress move was purely aimed at electoral gains and had come on the right time for it. Tinu, of Adampur segment in Doaba, said, “Dalits, however, are intelligent and Channi could make the difference only when he sorts out issues pertaining to dalits, pending for four years now. Can he expedite pending scholarships for SC students and waive debt of farm labourers, who are also dalits? The new CM needs to perform up to earn support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unease-in-sad-camp-over-channi-s-elevation-101632159127497.html
20-09-2021||Lucknow||BJP government has made Uttar Pradesh a developed state: Minister||State cabinet minister Brajesh Pathak on Monday said the BJP government had made Uttar Pradesh a developed state. He further said law and order situation had also improved in the state. Addressing a press conference here, Pathak, the minister of legislative, law & justice and rural engineering services said, “Several development projects have been launched in Lucknow central assembly segment. The assembly constituency was neglected under the Samajwadi Party government. Two flyovers- Aishbagh to Lal Kuan and Victoria street— had also been constructed.” Pathak is a BJP legislator from Lucknow central assembly seat.“A sewage treatment plant (STP) and a drain have been constructed near 1090 crossing. A road has been constructed parallel to Kukrail drain near the DGP office to streamline traffic movement on Lohia Path. Under Smart City project, ₹150 crore has been spent in the central assembly segment over the construction of sewer system and roads. Shelter homes have also been constructed for the homeless,” he added.“Under MLA local area development fund, ₹657.493 lakh has been spent on various development projects in the Lucknow central assembly constituency,” minister said. “The BJP government is committed for the development of the state, Lucknow district as well as the Lucknow central assembly segment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-government-has-made-uttar-pradesh-a-developed-state-minister-101632159067370.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||2 dead and one missing as 5 drowned off Mumbai coast||Two people were declared dead on Monday and one is still missing after five people drowned off western coast at Versova beach on Sunday evening. Of the five, two were rescued and are undergoing treatment at civic-run Cooper Hospital and one is still missing.Shubham Nirmal, 18, had ventured into the sea around 8.30pm on Sunday with his brother Shivam and friends Sanjay Tawde, 20; Vijay Marathe, 16; and Vijay Patil, 18, to immerse an idol brought by Tawde, said officials. All five of them drowned, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s disaster management cell.Marathe and Shivam were rescued by locals and were taken to the hospital. According to officials from the disaster management cell, a search and rescue team along with divers of the Indian Coast Guard were called in for search operations. Additionally, flood lights and boats of coastal police were being used for the operation.Nirmal’s body was found at 10.30am, a few hundred metres away from the spot where he had drowned. Tawde’s body was also found near the spot. Meanwhile, Patil was still missing on Monday evening. “The spot where the incident occurred is not an immersion point, otherwise security personnel would have been there,” said an official. Officials said all men were residents of Kasam Nagar, a chawl off Veera Desai Road near Andheri RTO. “They probably did not know how to swim,” police officials said.Meanwhile, Prabhat Rahangdale, deputy municipal commissioner of BMC’s disaster management cell, said, “None of the five who drowned were on official duty for immersion of Ganesh idols. We are taking help from the Indian Coast Guard for search operations of the one missing person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-dead-and-one-missing-as-5-drowned-off-mumbai-coast-101632158709507.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||5 held for smuggling Rs28L worth pan masala||The Navi Mumbai crime branch arrested five persons and seized a stock of pan masala worth ₹28 lakh that was smuggled to Navi Mumbai for sale. While the five were arrested, one of the accused managed to flee by showing a pistol to police. The accused arrested have been identified as Ajay Kumar Suraj Gound (33 yrs), Govind Waman Bodare (44), Ghevaram Kanharam Devashi (31), Akshay Murli Gaikwad (26) and Rahul Kumar Munna Prasad Kumar (26) and the one who fled has been identified as Karan Ram Salunkhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-held-for-smuggling-rs28l-worth-pan-masala-101632158408699.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Congress picks ex-MP Rajni Patil for Rajya Sabha bypoll from Maharashtra||The All India Congress Committee has picked former MP and party’s in charge of Jammu and Kashmir Rajni Patil as party candidate for Rajya Sabha bypoll to be held on October 4. The bypoll was necessitated due to the demise of party’s sitting MP Rajiv Satav in May this year. Significantly, Patil was recommended for nomination to Maharashtra legislative Council as one among 12 persons appointed by the Governor. Patil, 62, who is currently party’s in-charge of Jammu and Kashmir, served as Rajya Sabha MP for five years till April 2018 on the seat fallen vacant after the demise of former Union minister Vilasrao Deshmukh. She was elected to Lok Sabha in 1996 from Beed as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate. She is considered to be close to party president Sonia Gandhi and has been preferred over other aspirants including Mukul Wasnik, Milind Deora among others. The party has believably picked the Marathwada (central Maharashtra) leader for the seat represented by Satav, who too was from the region.The move, however, has raised eyebrows in the state unit of Congress as Patil’s name has also featured in the list of 12 members recommended by the state government for nomination to legislative Council from governor’s quota. “The names are under consideration by Raj Bhavan and if not replaced in time by taking other two ruling parties into confidence, the party may lose chance to appoint its four leaders to upper house. This may lead to further clashes, same as the differences over the election to the post of speaker, within the ruling alliance,” a state Congress leader said.Initially, Pradnya, wife of Rajiv Satav, too was in the race but the party has reportedly decided to field her in Lok Sabha or Assembly polls in 2024. “This has been discussed with the Satav family. The sympathy after the death of Rajiv, who was a dynamic party leader, may play in favour of his widow in the general polls,” said a Marathwada leader.Satav, who was 46, died due to the post-Covid complications in Pune in May.The bypoll will be held on October 4 if necessary, while the last day to file the nomination is September 22. The BJP has fielded its Mumbai unit general secretary Sanjeev Upadhyay. The contestant is elected by the members of Assembly, where the rulling Maharasthra Vikas Aghadi has majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-picks-ex-mp-rajni-patil-for-rajya-sabha-bypoll-from-maharashtra-101632158407384.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||FYJC admission: Around 1.9 lakh vacant seats to be reallocated in special round||First-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants will get another chance to seek admission in colleges of their choice as the authorities will announce a special round on September 22. As per information shared by the office of the deputy director of education (DYDE), around 1.9 lakh seats of 3.2 lakh intake capacity across junior colleges remain vacant after three rounds of online seat allocation.“Once again interested students can refill the college preference list and a special merit round will be announced. We will decide the further course of action based on seat vacancy after the special round,” said an official from DYDE’s office.While the number of vacant seats is on the higher side, this is not the first time that the authorities are conducting special rounds to fill up unoccupied seats in FYJC. In 2018, DYDE conducted nine rounds of admissions, after which nearly 72,800 seats still remained vacant. Similarly, in 2019, seat vacancy stood at 1.3 lakh after three rounds of online admissions, forcing authorities to conduct a special “first come, first serve” round to fill up vacant seats.Since 2020, however, the number of vacant seats has been increasing. From 1.84 lakh seats vacant in junior colleges after first three rounds in 2020, the number stands at 1.9 lakh this year.A total of 117,883 FYJC aspirants were allotted seats in the first merit list on August 27, however nearly 50% of these students did not confirm admissions. Similarly, 60,037 students were allocated seats and only 21,116 (35.17%) of those confirmed admissions in the second round. In the third round, 39,964 seats where allotted of which less than 25% students confirmed admissions this year.“In the past two years, scores of students from neighbouring states and cities who would otherwise opt for Mumbai colleges have given the city a skip due to the pandemic. Since hostels are also still shut, many students from outside Mumbai have chosen to continue their education in their hometown since it’s a matter of two years only,” said TA Shiware, speaking for the management of Wilson College. He is also the chairman of Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fyjcadmission-around-1-9-lakh-vacant-seats-to-be-reallocated-in-special-round-101632158287443.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Undertrial escapes from Taloja jail by jumping off 25-foot wall||A 28-year-old undertrial lodged in Taloja jail since 2018 in a murder case of Bhandup managed to escape by jumping off the 25-foot boundary wall. The undertrial, Sanjay Yadav, escaped at around 12.45pm on Saturday.On the pretext of getting medicine, Yadav went to the hospital of the jail along with another inmate, identified as Sanio Pasco Keni, and managed to sneak near the watchtower. The watchtower, wherein the guards keep a watch from the top, has an iron-grilled door, which is locked so that it is not accessible for anyone.Yadav managed to climb the watch tower’s door, which was around seven feet tall. Yadav then managed to find grip on the exteriors of the tower. The grips were the rear part of the stairs which were inside the tower. The tower was adjacent to the 25-foot wall. From the exterior of the tower, he climbed onto the wall and then jumped down. While Yadav could jump off the wall, Keni got terrified and changed his mind. Keni was eventually caught by a guard.Taloja jail officials and Kharghar police searched for Yadav in the nearby bushes and other areas but he was not to be found anywhere. A team of police went to Bhandup as well to his residence but he could not be traced. A case against Yadav and Keni was registered with the Kharghar police under Section 224 (Resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the IPC.In July 2018, Yadav and his two accomplices hacked to death a 17-year-old minor boy near his college on the suspicion that the deceased boy was trying to get close to the girlfriend of one of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/undertrial-escapes-from-taloja-jail-by-jumping-off-25-foot-wall-101632158108615.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Forced to work after completion of tenure, claim resident doctors pursuing PG courses at Kalwa Hospital||Twenty five resident doctors pursuing post-graduate courses at Rajiv Gandhi Medical College and Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital, known as Kalwa Hospital, and who have completed their tenure between July and September claimed that they were forced to work even after the completion of tenure as the Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) health department was not relieving them.In a circular issued by the TMC, it claimed that the students who are appearing for their final post-graduation examinations in November, will have to rejoin after the examination as junior residents till new students are allotted the duties.While the TMC has claimed that they will be short-staffed if these residents were relieved immediately, the resident doctors have claimed that they were not able to apply for higher education or new jobs unless the TMC relieved them. Moreover, the residents also claimed that the college authority has also given them merely 15 days’ preparatory leave for the exams while the leave should actually be at least 45 days.A resident doctor who did not wish to be named said, “According to a circular issued by the College of Physician and Surgeons of Mumbai (CPS), who conducts these examinations, they have mentioned that students can render service after the training is completed if and only if they are willing to do so. Some of us have to apply for higher education or jobs in our respective cities, but with the new TMC guidelines we can’t do either.”He claimed that if the new students join in late, they will end up working for a long time.Another resident doctor added, “We have worked tirelessly in the pandemic due to which our original speciality work has been hampered. Still, we have worked very hard. We are meeting the TMC officials to discuss the issue today or tomorrow, requesting them to rethink the decision.”Bhimrao Jadhav, dean, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, Kalwa, said that the decision taken is in the interest of the patients and also the students. “The decision to not relieve the resident doctors was taken after talking to all the concerned department heads in the hospital. Every year, after the NEET PG and other PG exams are held, many PG students join the hospital. However, since the examinations were delayed this year, there are no new PG students as of now. If we release these residents immediately, we will fall short of doctors at the hospital. Our aim is not to make them suffer any losses but at present we are in need of doctors at the hospital too.”He added that the residents can prepare for their examinations while managing their duties too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/forced-to-work-after-completion-of-tenure-claim-resident-doctors-pursuing-pg-courses-at-kalwa-hospital-101632157627261.html
20-09-2021||Other||With both deputy CMs from Majha, locals hope for devp push||Amritsar The appointment of deputy chief ministers, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Om Parkash Soni, both from the Majha, in the rejigged Congress government has rekindled expectations of people of the region comprising the border districts of Amritsar and Gurdaspur. Residents in these Majhail districts, also comprising Tarn Taran and Pathankot, claim that it is after five decades that their representatives have got key posts in the state cabinet. With Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu also representing this region, a sense of expectancy is in the air. “The elevation of Randhawa and Soni as deputy CMs has made Majha residents feel pride,” said former ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria in a statement.Office-bearers of the Amritsar Vikas Manch, an NGO working for the betterment of Amritsar, said, “After Partap Singh Kairon, Àmritsar has been devoid of any political bigwig,who took interest in establishing big-ticket projects here. Now, Amritsar residents hope that both the deputy CMs, of Majha, will use their powers for the overall and holistic development of Majha region, and especially Amritsar. It is sad, but true that previous chief ministers have ignored this important area.”“During Parkash Singh Badal’s tenure, the prestigious All- India Institute of Health sciences (AIIMS) and the Central University allocated to Amritsar by the Centre, were relocated to Bathinda, the seat in Parliament represented by his daughter-in-law Harsimrat kaur Badal,” said Kulwant Singh Ankho, patron of the NGO. He added that even during the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev and the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur, not a single penny was sanctioned for the establishment of any project in Amritsar. He added, “The Capt government sanctioned special incentives for the airlines operating from Mohali airport, harming the prospects of Sri Guru Ram Das Jee international airport Amritsar. Residents now expect the state government under Channi to issue a gazette notification to purchase land for the establishment of the Post Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education.”Another local activist Manmohan Singh said, “We want the Amritsar medical college to be upgraded. International cricket stadium, hockey grounds with astro-turf and convention centre must come under the leadership of the two deputy CMs. Soni is also expected to improve law and order, along with making the Tung Dhab free of pollution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-both-deputy-cms-from-majha-locals-hope-for-devp-push-101632157507503.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Nere villagers of Panvel claim to have spotted leopard; Forest officials increase patrolling||Several residents of Nere village in Panvel claimed to have spotted a leopard near their periphery on Saturday. The forest officials have increased patrolling in the area and also sensitised the villagers not to roam around unnecessarily.According to the forest officials, a man from the village claimed to have spotted the leopard roaming around in the jungle on Saturday afternoon. The same evening, a woman said that she spotted the leopard near a water body.Dnyaneshwar Sonavane, range forest officer of Panvel region, said, “Our officials have started patrolling in the jungles ever since the man claimed to have seen the leopard. However, we have not sighted it so far. We don’t want to take any risk. Hence, we’ll continue with our search operation till we find it. We have sensitised all the residents of that area and have requested them not to roam around unnecessarily and not to leave their kids alone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nere-villagers-of-panvel-claim-to-have-spotted-leopard-forest-officials-increase-patrolling-101632157215038.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Central minister called to give protection to certain illegal constructions, claims Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske||In a startling revelation, Thane mayor, Naresh Mhaske, claimed that he received a call from a minister at the centre to stop action against some illegal constructions in the city.Mhaske made the statement at the general body meeting of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) held on Monday following a question raised by BJP over the action taken against illegal constructions in the city.However, Mhaske refused to reveal the name of the minister despite prodding by the house. However, the rift between Sena and BJP has further increased after the remark.Mhaske also claimed that despite such calls, the action on illegal constructions in the city would not stop. The issue of illegal constructions rampant in the city has come to light since Majiwada-Manpada ward assistant municipal commissioner Kalpita Pimple was attacked during a demolition drive.Though Pimple was razing illegal hawkers, she had claimed that the attack was for revenge against an illegal construction she had questioned.BJP corporator, Krishna Patil, had raised the question of illegal constructions in the question answer session of the TMC house. He said, “We demand to know the correspondence with respect to illegal constructions by guardian minister, Eknath Shinde, and housing minister, Jitendra Awhad, and also what directives Shinde gave to demolish illegal constructions so far. We want a copy of all these letters along with the one giving directives to be presented before the house.”Mhaske, however, objected to the question claiming that they did not have to abide by such a request as both the ministers were not part of the house. He said, “We have received letters and directives from BJP too. So, why aren’t those demanded to be presented before the house? BJP is merely politicising the issue. I have, in fact, received a call from a minister in the central government to give protection to certain illegal constructions in the city, though I will not reveal the name of the minister.”BJP, however, claimed these were mere baseless accusations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/central-minister-called-to-give-protection-to-certain-illegal-constructions-claims-thane-mayor-naresh-mhaske-101632156848585.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra ATS arrests second terror suspect from Mumbra||The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Sunday arrested second terror suspect Rizwan Momin from Mumbra in connection with a suspected criminal conspiracy, purportedly hatched by Zakir Hussain Shaikh to commit terrorist acts.Zakir, a Jogeshwari resident who was arrested by the ATS on Saturday, was allegedly acting as per instructions of his foreign handler, Anthony aka Anwar aka Anas, the ATS said in a statement. The agency has, however, not revealed what the conspiracy was all about.Maharashtra ATS swung into action after the Delhi Police’s Special Cell on September 14 busted a terror module by arresting six persons, including Mumbai resident, Japan Mohammed Shaikh.On September 17, ATS registered an offence under section 17 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 against 52-year-old Zakir and Anthony aka Anwar aka Anas, and a lookout circular was issued for arresting Zakir, who came to be arrested the next day.During the course of interrogation, Zakir revealed that he was receiving instructions from his foreign handlers and that Momin too was involved in his nefarious activities. The ATS then arrested Momin and seized some incriminating material from his residence.ATS further claimed in the statement that Zakir had given his mobile handset to Momin and the 40-year-old Mumbra resident had broken Zakir’s mobile handset into three pieces and dumped it in a drain near his residence, with an intention to dispose it off. The ATS claimed to have recovered the broken pieces.The ATS on Monday produced both Zakir and Momin before a special court but did not seek their custody. The court then remanded both to judicial custody. On September 14, Delhi Police’s Special Cell and Uttar Pradesh Anti-terrorism Squad in a joint operation arrested six terror suspects allegedly backed by Pakistan.The six men were arrested from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, and were identified as Jaan Mohammad Shaikh (47), Osama alias Sami (22), Moolchand Srivastav alias Saaju (47), Zeeshan Qamar (28), Mohamed Abu Bakr (23), and Mohammed Amir Javed (31). Police claimed to have seized 1.7kg RDX from Zeeshan’s house in Kareli, Allahabad, and a live improvised explosive device (IED) was found in Prayagraj and defused.The Delhi Police had said that the plot was to carry out terror strikes in Delhi, UP and Maharashtra during the festival season for which ISI had instructed Zeeshan and Osama to survey locations to plant IEDs.Police had also said that Anees Ibrahim, brother of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, was connected to this module and was tasked to smuggle arms and ammunition into India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ats-arrests-second-terror-suspect-from-mumbra-101632156608232.html
20-09-2021||Other||Akal Takht jathedar goes to Pak to mark Guru Nanak’s Joti Jot||Amritsar Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday went to Pakistan to attend functions being held at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, to mark Joti Jot (immersion in the eternal light) Gurpurb (day) of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikh religion, on September 22, via the Attari-Wagah border.On the other side of the border, a Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) delegation comprising president Ameer Singh, former PSGPC chief Satwant Singh, member of provincial assembly (Punjab) Ramesh Singh Arora and authorities of Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) accorded him a warm welcome. The jathdear is accompanied by his family.Ameer Singh told HT over phone, “Jathedar Sahib has reached Lahore, where he is staying at the Gurdwara Dehra Sahib. A dinner will be hosted for him at the Governor House, Lahore. On Tuesday, he will deliver a speech in a Lahore University, from where he will for Kartarpur to attend functions to observe the Joti Joti Gurpurb.”“The Akhand Path started on Monday at Kartarpur gurdwara and its bhog ceremony will be held on September 22. The jathedar will also address there and be part of the Nagar Kirtan (religious procession) being taken out from the gurdwara Sahib to the Zero Point on the corridor,” he added, appealing to Indian devotees to gather at Zero Point on the Indian side to be part of the nagar kirtan.Dedicated to the 550th Parkash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of Guru Nanak, the corridor was opened on November 9, 2019, to provide Indian devotees visa-free access to the sacred shrine for Guru Nanak’s followers, which is just four kilometers from the international border. The Joti Jot Gurpurb was also observed at the gurdwara and a nagar kirtan was taken out up to zero point last year.The PSGPC chief also expressed pleasure over exclusion of Pakistan from the black list by the UK. “We are very thankful to the UK government for lifting the restrictions. With this move, sangat from the UK will be able to visit historic Sikh shrines in Pakistan,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akal-takht-jathedar-goes-to-pak-to-mark-guru-nanak-s-joti-jot-101632156427342.html
20-09-2021||Ranchi||J’khand language controversy: Ex-Cong minister leads demand to include Magahi, Bhojpuri in competitive exams||Former minister and senior Congress leader KN Tripathi on Monday led hundreds of supporters to the deputy commissioner’s office in Palamu, demanding inclusion of Magahi in the list of regional languages for competitive exams for third and fourth grade government jobs. Under the banner of Magahi Yuvak Morcha, Tripathi and others submitted a memorandum to the Palamu deputy commissioner, pressing for their demand. Last week, chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren stirred row in an interview with the Hindustan Times, saying that languages like Bhojpuri and Magahi have been kept out, as they are “borrowed languages” from Bihar. The CM’s statement has now become a major political issue in the state, with the opposition BJP cornering the ruling dispensation, in which Congress is a major player. Tripathi, also the national president of Indian National Trade Union Congress, has been vocal on the issue, targeting his own government. “The religious government tried to divide the state by making a different employment policy for 13 scheduled and 11 general districts. We had objected to that as well. The policy was later struck down by courts. Now, this government cannot differentiate among districts on the basis of religion. I will take this up with the government as well as with my party,” said Tripathi. The ruling Congress and RJD, whose considerable support in the state comes from belts where the two aforementioned regional languages are spoken, have been guarded in their response, as the BJP has been raising heat over the issue. Reacting to the development, Jharkhand Congress chief Rajesh Thakur said he has taken up the issue with the CM. “Our stand is clear that Bhojpuri, Magahi and Angika should be included in the regional language list. I raised the issue three days back with the CM when I met him. He has assured us that he is working on a solution for it,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-language-controversy-ex-cong-minister-leads-demand-to-include-magahi-bhojpuri-in-competitive-exams-101632154147408.html
20-09-2021||Patna||Create volunteers to encourage MDA for filaria-free Bihar: Health minister||Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey Monday urged healthcare workers (HCWs) to motivate people to become volunteers and encourage community participation in the mass drug administration (MDA) campaign to eliminate filariasis. Speaking at the launch of the MDA round across 22 of Bihar’s 38 districts of Bihar on Monday, Pandey said the drive would be successful only through community participation. For this, he urged the HCWs, including accredited social health activists (ASHA) and auxiliary nursing midwives (ANM), to motivate at least one person from every household to become a volunteer to create awareness about it in the society when they visit from door-to-door for the administration of diethylcarbamazine (DEC) and albendazole tablets during the MDA round. He also urged public representatives, including MP, MLA, MLC and panchayati raj institution representatives to join the mass movement and encourage people to take the tablets and also motivate others to take them. “Community participation is essential for the success of any programme. Let’s eliminate this disease together and realise the vision of a healthy, filaria-free Bihar,” said Pandey. The 22 districts where the campaign was launched includes Araria, Banka, Begusarai, Bhagalpur, Buxar, East Champaran, West Champaran, Gopalganj, Jehanabad, Jamui, Kaimur, Katihar, Khagaria, Madhepura, Munger, Muzaffarpur, Patna, Saharsa, Saran, Sitamarhi, Siwan and Supaul. The minister and other attendees at the launch also consumed the anti-filarial drugs while demonstrating the contactless bowl method (drugs administered through a bowl) which health workers would be using during the round. Filariasis is a disabling disease that is transmitted by infected mosquitoes. Usually acquired in childhood, filariasis damages the lymphatic system and if left untreated, causes abnormal enlargement of body parts such as hydrocele (abnormal swelling of the scrotum) and lymphedema (swelling in the limbs). A few people also develop chronic cough called tropical pulmonary eosinophilia and can have symptoms like the passing of milky white urine (chyluria). Patients suffering from lymphedema and hydrocele often experience difficulties in carrying out day-to-day activities in their lives. Furthermore, patients also face stigma and discrimination due to severe disability and disfiguration that is irreversible if not treated early. “The albendazole administered in the filariasis elimination programme, also treats worm disease in children, which directly helps in their physical and intellectual development,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar. Filariasis is preventable with the administration of anti-filarial drugs during annual MDA rounds. Around 7 crore target beneficiaries will be administered these drugs during this MDA round. The tablets are administered to the eligible population, excluding children below two years, pregnant women and seriously ill people, in affected areas to interrupt transmission of the disease. These drugs must be consumed in the presence of health workers, said Dr Navin Chandra Prasad, director-in-chief (disease control and public health) health services, Bihar. Additional director Dr Anjani Kumar proposed a vote of thanks. Representatives of partner organisations like WHO, CARE, PCI, CFAR, LEPRA, GHS were also present on the occasion..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/create-volunteers-to-encourage-mda-for-filaria-free-bihar-health-minister-101632154087133.html
20-09-2021||Patna||ECR sounds alert amid terror attack input||The Samastipur Rail division of East Central Railways (ECR) has issued an alert and beefed-up security arrangements at stations in eleven districts, besides two rail districts of Muzaffarpur and Katihar, following intelligence inputs of a probable terror attack.The input came after recent arrest of two terrorists, identified as Zeeshan and Osama, who revealed before the Delhi police that they received training in Pakistan to carry out blasts on bridges, railway tracks and large gatherings by use of RDX, a highly explosive organic compound. It was recovered from the terrorists’ possession, while further probe in the matter was on.Railway Protection Force (RPF) commandant A K Lal on Sunday wrote in this regard to senior police officials concerned of Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Sitamarhi, Supaul, Purnia, East Champaran, West Champaran, Khagaria, Madhubani, Begusarai, Madhepura and Saharsa, requesting to keep a close vigil and beef up security in the backdrop of a threat. Following the alert, the Government Railway Police (GRP) and RPF personnel have been directed to maintain strict vigil on movement of strangers, unclaimed baggage and abandoned vehicles in trains, platforms and outer circulating areas in view of upcoming festivals too, officials said.“Dog and bomb squads have been asked to remain alert, and regular checking and monitoring is being carried out at railway stations. The GRP and the RPF are jointly patrolling entry points of all railway stations and railways culverts and bridges,” said a senior security officer of ECR.The ECR has already issued an advisory to check parcel luggage reaching any major stations from different places to avert any kind of parcel blast incident. Earlier, one such blast took place at Darbhanga railway station on June 17. Railways have already set up a security control at Danapur control office to monitor threat perception both on platforms or on running trains, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ecr-sounds-alert-amid-terror-attack-input-101632154027187.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Somaiya detained on way to Kolhapur, levels fresh graft claims against Mushrif||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya was detained by the police on his way to Kolhapur, where he was heading to lodge a complaint against rural development department minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Hasan Mushrif. Police action against Somaiya as well as fresh allegations levelled by him against Mushrif led to high-voltage drama and a slugfest between ruling parties and the opposition BJP on Monday. Significantly, Shiv Sena tried to distance itself, saying that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was not aware of the police action, exposing a probable internal rift between the ruling parties. Meanwhile, Somaiya accused Mushrif of corruption amounting to ₹100 crore in a cooperative sugar factory in Kolhapur by holding majproty share in the factory through a company in which his son-in-law has “benami” ownership. Mushrif rubbished the allegations and said he was being targeted out of “political rivalry”.Somaiya had announced that he would be lodging a police complaint in Kolhapur against Mushrif for corruption. The local NCP unit threatened to stage protests against the BJP leader, following which the administration issued a prohibitory order to stop Somaiya from visiting Kolhapur. While he was on way to Kolhapur by train, he was detained by local police at Karad, which is about 74 km away from Kolhapur. Somaiya then held a press conference alleging that a cooperative sugar factory (Appasaheb Nalawade cooperative sugar factory) was handed over to Brics India Private Limited, a firm allegedly owned by Mushrif’s son-in-law Matin Hasin Mangoli, without following any bidding process in 2020. Somaiya alleged that Mangoli is “benami owner” of the Brics India Pvt Ltd, which had no previous experience of running any sugar factory. Somaiya said that 7,185 shares of the sugar factory are held by SU Corporation, a shell company, used by Mushrif to park the money, while 998 shares each are held by Mangoli and one Gulam Hussain. He said that 98% shares of the sugar factory held by Mushrif family.The BJP leader also announced to expose a third case against Mushrif in the next two days and said that he would submit all related documents to the enforcement directorate (ED) and income-tax department in Mumbai in the next two days. Somaiya alleged that the minister diverted his illegal money earned after becoming RDD minister in 2019 to the sugar factory. This is the second set of allegations by Somaiya against Mushrif. Earlier, he had accused the minister of laundering Rs127 crore. Somaiya also alleged that Brics has links with the shell companies that were linked to the transactions in Sarsenapati Santaji Ghorpade sugar factory, which was named by Somaiya in the previous case. Mushrif, a senior NCP leader from Kolhapur in western Maharashtra, rubbished the allegations. “The sugar factory in question had been taken over by Brics in 2012 till 2020 and now being run on the cooperative basis by more than 60,000 farmers as its shareholders. The Maharashtra State Central Cooperative Bank had refused to hand over the factory to any private entity. The sugar factory is debt free now. Neither my son-in-law nor I has anything to do with the factory or Brics. I have been helping the factory as a local MLA of the constituency,” he said.Mushrif said that he has welcomed Somaiya in Kolhapur and he was ready to provide him every details related to the firms in question. He said he was being targeted because he turned down BJP’s offer to join the party ahead of 2019 Assembly polls.Police action Somaiya accused the police of high-handedness. He said the action taken against him by the police in Mumbai was illegal and he was obstructed from traveling to Kolhapur. Mumbai police had allegedly detained Somaiya at his Mulund (Mumbai) residence on Sunday afternoon and tried to stop him at CST station from travelling in Mahalaxmi Express to Kolhapur. The BJP leader said that the police failed to produce the order for his detention and orally cited the prohibitory order issued by Kolhapur district collector. He said the police had no rights to stop him from travelling from Mumbai.Somaiya had headed for Kagal in Kolhapur to lodge a complaint against Mushrif for his alleged Rs127-crore corruption through transactions, amounting to money laundering. He was stopped at Karad on Monday morning on the basis of prohibitory order issued by Kolhapur collection. The order has said that since there could be threat to his life, he was prohibited from entering the district. “Thackeray government should clarify if my life was under threat from NCP workers or the goons of Mushrif or NCP workers are goons,” he said. Somaiya has announced to visit Alibag on September 27 to reveal more information related to multiple bungalows owned by Rashmi Thackeray, wife of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. He has also announced to reveal more irregularities in Jarandeshwar sugar factory, which is under control of relatives of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on September 30. Sena distances itself from police action Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday said that BJP leader Kirit Somaiya was disallowed to enter Kolhapur district due to fear of law-and-order situation. Raut, the chief spokesperson of the party, distanced chief minister Uddhav Thackeray from the action against BJP leader, saying it was taken by the home department.“The action against the one who is making allegations happened by the home department. Nobody should call it vindictive as the home department felt that there could be a law and order situation on both sides. Therefore, there is no need to level allegations at the chief minister personally. Chief minister doesn’t involve himself in such small matters,” Raut said.He further added. “...if you are using central agencies at the behest of central government and making allegations against prominent leaders and ministers in Maharashtra, which could result in a law and order issue, the state home department can act on it. I spoke to chief minister and he has said that the chief minister office is not involved in the action [against BJP leader] and it was done by the home department.”The Sena leader also said that the MVA government will not “bow down” and is not “cowardly” to cower down against the action by central agencies. Raut targeted the Centre, saying the central agencies are used to “destabilise and defame” Maharashtra. “Whatever has been done by the Opposition since yesterday has happened with the backing and support of the Centre and this is an attempt to destabilise and defame Maharashtra. Over the past some days, it has become the opposition’s party programme to level allegations and create a doubt in the minds of people,” he added.Raut added that there will be “no cracks” in the government due to the “false allegations” by the Opposition. “If they think that there can be a political shift in the state by pressuring leaders, by threatening them of arrest, seizing their properties, harassing their family members, then they are disillusioned. We will face the situation. This government is not cowardly. This fight under the leadership of chief minister and Sharad Pawar will continue. No matter how many allegations are levelled, we will not bow down,” the Sena leader said.“The courts will decide whether the allegations are true or false. The attempt to destabilise our government will not succeed. Let them make allegations, our government is strong,” he further added.Somaiya, in his press conference in Pune on Monday, said that he would visit Alibaug to see a property allegedly bought Rashmi Thackeray, CM’s wife. “He (Somaiya) can go on the Moon and Mars and look for properties of our people. There is freedom in this country and state,” he said.Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said on Monday that instead of issuing political statements Mushrif should face the probe to prove himself innocent. “We never had given him any offer to join the BJP. He should face the probe if he thinks he is innocent…. It is not true that we are exposing only Sena or NCP ministers, we are going to expose two Congress ministers in next few days,” he said in Pune.Somaiya after returning to his Mulund residence on Monday evening said that he will expose all 40 ministers in the Thackeray government by December 31.Somaiya said that he was detained by police at his Mulund residence for more than five hours. “More than 100 policemen were there outside my house. I was not allowed to attend the Ganpati immersion at Chowpatty. I was allowed to venture out only after my lawyer lodged a complaint in Mulund police station. I was manhandled by the police at CST railway station,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/somaiya-detained-on-way-to-kolhapur-levels-fresh-graft-claims-against-mushrif-101632153370117.html
20-09-2021||Patna||RMRI tests kids’ samples for Covid, other viruses; says nothing to worry||While Bihar is on alert following the outbreak of viral fever, which has become a pattern every year, the latest findings of the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), under the Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi, has brought big relief.Given the rising number of cases, a team of RMRI visited Shri Krishna Memorial College and Hospital (SKMCH) at Muzaffarpur and collected 35 samples of children suffering from fever on September 15 and 16 to carry out various respiratory tests, including that for Covid-19 virus and other viruses, at the institute in Patna. However, all of them turned out to be cases of seasonal flu,” said Dr Krishna Pandey, director of the institute.The team comprised of Virologist Dr Ganesh Sahoo, epidemiologist Dr Debjani Purkayastha, clinician Dr Major Madhukar along with technicians.“Only one sample was detected positive for influenza B-type virus, while all the rest had seasonal flu-like symptoms. It is common in this season and there is no reason to worry, though utmost precaution needs to be maintained,” he added.Viral fever has been very common in Bihar, especially during this season, and this year the growing number of children suffering from it had alarmed the government, especially due to the continuing apprehension about another wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the past, there have also been fatalities of children due to it..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rmri-tests-kids-samples-for-covid-other-viruses-says-nothing-to-worry-101632153007066.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Woman booked for assaulting 15-month-old child in Mira Road||Reshma Firdaus Shaikh, a 32-year-old from Naya Nagar, Mira Road, has been booked by Naya Nagar police station for allegedly thrashing her 15-month-old niece since January this year.At the time of the incidents, the minor’s father, who runs a home appliance repair shop, would be away at work while the infant’s mother, Asma Shaikh, 23, would be doing household chores in the flat. Shaikh would allegedly enter the bedroom where the child would be sleeping and thrash her repeatedly. The child’s mother was unaware of the assault but was concerned about bruises on the child, said senior inspector Jitendra Vankoti, Naya Nagar police station.On September 14, Asma secretly hid a mobile and left the video recorder on, which caught the accused on the act. After checking the videos, she confronted Shaikh, said Vankoti.Asma then lodged a complaint with the police and a case was registered under Juvenile Justice Act, 1986 against Shaikh She is yet to be arrested. “We are examining the video clip and other evidences and investigating further. It seems Reshma has a family dispute with Asma over the flat. We are probing all possible angles,” said Vankoti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-booked-for-assaulting-15-month-old-child-in-mira-road-101632152827088.html
20-09-2021||Patna||Centralised portal to regulate pvt affiliated colleges in Bihar||All affiliated colleges and those seeking fresh affiliation would now required to apply through a portal of the department of education, government of Bihar, to be launched Tuesday by education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, officials said. The objective is to regulate the mushrooming growth of substandard affiliated colleges, usher in greater transparency in the way they function and better service conditions to teachers and staff working there and ensure accountability.Bihar government had last month tightened the parameters for of giving performance grant to the aided intermediate colleges and degree colleges by making presentation of audited accounts a prerequisite. It will have direct impact on 602 intermediate colleges and 225 affiliated degree colleges, which were awaiting funding, including backlog for years.Earlier, the colleges got affiliation directly from the universities and this led to complaints of serious irregularities made to the Governor, who is the chancellor of state universities, as well as the state government. The Raj Bhawan had also constituted committees of vice chancellors to regulate these colleges in the past, but many members resigned, alleging pressure from the affiliated colleges.Now, the affiliated colleges have to apply online and after that, there is timeline for different procedures to be completed, including inspection of the institutions and submission of report. In case of deficiencies, notice would be served to the institutions for their removal within a time frame. The final decision will rest with the state government.“When the government gives grants to affiliated colleges, it will like accountability and transparency to be maintained. At present, the same land deed is shown for two-three institutions, there is no principal trustee who would be accountable in case of many institutions and there are issues with the way government grant meant for salary to teachers and staff is disbursed. The government is accountable for every penny it spends. Why not colleges?” said a senior department official.This is not the first time the government has tried to regulate the mushrooming affiliated colleges. It had abolished unaided education policy on March 26, 2008, and decided to make payments to institutions on the basis of their performance, directly linked to pass percentage of actual number of students, in the hope that things would improve, but it did not. Instead, a new concept of non-attending colleges gained currency, where students were not required to attend classes and could directly take exams.“The effort is to help the genuine colleges and the teachers and staff working there so that the students could benefit. For sham institutions, it will be difficult,” said minister Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/centralised-portal-to-regulate-pvt-affiliated-colleges-in-bihar-101632152528255.html
20-09-2021||Patna||Nitish chides Soren for triggering language row||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday took exception to his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren’s bid to rake up a language row and said he could not understand compulsions behind sowing the seed of hatred against the people of the parent state. Talking to media persons after his customary Janata Darbar, where people meet the CM with their grievances, Kumar said people of Bihar and Jharkhand have love and respect for each other. “Bihar and Jharkhand were one till 2000 and remain like ‘brothers’. I can’t understand the political compulsions for raking up an unseemly row,” said the Bihar CM. In an interview to HT, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren had said Bhojpuri and Magahi were borrowed languages from Bihar and those speaking these languages had abused tribal women and activists spearheading the campaign for creation of Jharkhand. Kumar disputing Soren’s claim. “Languages can’t be restricted through the boundaries. There are some areas where people speak Bengali and others where people have accent of UP,” said the Bihar CM. Congress leaders from Bihar and Jharkhand too disputed Soren’s claim. Bihar Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra said the language row was uncalled for. Jharkhand Congress leader Furkan Ansari said the state’s heart was not that small that it could not accommodate languages like Bhojpuri, which is abundantly spoken in parts the state bordering Bihar. CM Kumar, meanwhile, said vaccination would be carried out at greater pace in coming days. “Along with the vaccination, the state government had intensified testing for Covid. Special focus is being given for testing for those coming from high incident states,” said the CM. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-chides-soren-for-triggering-language-row-101632152527069.html
20-09-2021||Patna||Court orders FIR against RJD and Cong leaders for ‘ticket sale’||A Patna court has ordered registration of an FIR (first information report) against six people, including RJD leaders Tejashwi Yadav, Misa Bharti and state president of Congress Madan Mohan Jha, for allegedly taking ₹5 crore from a man who they promised a ticket from Bhagalpur for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the petitioner in the case said. The order came from chief judicial magistrate (CJM) of Patna, Vijay Kishore Singh, on Saturday last on a complaint filed by Supreme Court lawyer and Congress leader Sanjeev Kumar Singh on August 10 this year. In the petition, Sanjeev alleged he was promised party symbol from Bhagalpur parliamentary seat on January 15, 2019, by Tejashwi, Misa, Madan Mohan, Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore, former speaker Sadanand Singh and his son Subhanand Mukesh and he allegedly ₹5 crore to Tejashwi and Jha at RJD office in Patna a few days later.“When I did not get the ticket and asked them to refund money, they assured me to provide symbol from Gopalpur (Bhagalpur) and my brother from Rupauli (Purnia) assembly constituencies, but we did not gave party symbols,” the petition says. Sanjeev has also accused Misa, Sadanand, Subhanand and Rathore of threatening to kill him and said they finally refused to return money on February 10 this year. Sanjeev told reporters on Monday that the CJM’s order has been sent to Patna’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) to lodge an FIR against the named accused. Sunil Kumar Singh, station house officer of Kotwali police station, told HT on Monday that they were yet to receive court’s order. RJD MLA Bhai Birendra dismissed all allegations against Tejaswi and Misa. BJP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi said this was nothing unusual for the RJD. “Giving tickets in lieu of money and making minister has been part of the RJD culture. Now Tejashwi is following Lalu Prasad,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/court-orders-fir-against-rjd-and-cong-leaders-for-ticket-sale-101632152467132.html
20-09-2021||Pune||Pune records lowest sound levels on day of Ganesh immersion for 20 years||PUNE 2021 will be recorded as the year in which sound levels on the last day of the 10-day Ganesh festival, measured in decibels, was at its lowest in the past 20 years. A maximum sound level of 59.8 decibels was recorded on Laxmi road on Sunday, marked as Anant Chaturdashi, and the day Ganesh idols are immersed across the city. Laxmi road is the main thouroughfare for idols in the city. The College of Engineering Pune (COEP) has been monitoring noise levels on Anant Chaturdashi, the last day of the Ganesh festival, since 2001. Mahesh Shindikar, assistant professor of Biology, Applied Science Department, COEP said, “This is the by far the lowest sound decibel average of that we have recorded in the city. Residents along Laxmi road, the main route during immersion, experienced ‘quiet’ probably for the first time. Since 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the immersion processions have been banned. Last year, the the average noise level recorded was 65.5 decibels (dB).” As per Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000 (amended in 2017) published by Ministry of Environment and Forest, is 55 dB in the daytime and 45 dB at night is the permissible sound limit in residential areas. COEP volunteers were stationed at 10 spots along the usual route and these were monitored from 12 pm on September 19, until 8 am on September 20, 2021. COEP used the spatio temporal method to measure the sound levels. “We have been monitoring these to create public awareness and for research and observation and to understand the sound levels and its effects on people,” said Shindikar. The main chowk where the Ganesh procession usually begins is Belbaug chowk which recorded a ound level of 55.4 dB on average. Ganpati chowk was at 55.1 dB, Limbaraj Maharaj chowk at 62.8 dB, Kunte chowk at 59.1 dB, Umbarya Ganpati chowk at 61.4 dB, Bhausaheb Gokhale chowk at 59.7 dB, Shedge Vithoba chowk (Vijay Talkies) at 57.6 dB, Holkar Chowk at 60.8 dB, Lokmanya Tilak chowk (Alka.) at 61.0 dB and Khanduji Baba chowk (Deccan) at 64.7 decibels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-records-lowest-sound-levels-on-day-of-ganesh-immersion-for-20-years-101632151087103.html
20-09-2021||Other||‘Kashi Vishwanath corridor project will be completed by November’||Around 75% work of Kashi Vishwanath (KV) corridor project had been completed, said Varanasi divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal. As per him, the project will be completed by November. As many as 24 buildings have been built as part of the project coming up in over an area of 5 lakh square feet. Different stones are being used in it. The KV corridor will have a virtual museum, a meditation platform, a library, a cafeteria, a path from river Ganga to Kashi Vishwanth Temple and a number of facilities for devotees. It will also have a security watch tower. UP religious affairs minister Neelkanth Tiwari said the construction work of the entrance gate of the corridor was nearing completion. Sunil Kumar Verma, chief executive officer, Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board, said the construction was being done while keeping in view that the corridor had all the facilities for devotees. During his visit to Kashi Vishwanth Temple on Sunday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the western entrance via Nandi hall and saw the grand entrance being built from there. After seeing the height and grandeur of the entrance, Yogi said the corridor would become the biggest attraction. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation of over ₹900 crore-project in March 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashi-vishwanath-corridor-project-will-be-completed-by-november-101632150306928.html
20-09-2021||Kolkata||‘Didi will decide’: Babul Supriyo on his new role after meeting Mamata Banerjee||Former Union minister of state Babul Supriyo met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna, the state secretariat, on Monday, and said after the talks that he is thankful to her and her nephew and Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee for welcoming him to their party. He referred to the CM as Didi (elder sister). “Didi will decide what role I will play in the TMC. I profusely thank Didi and Abhishek for welcoming me with such warmth. She asked me to work sincerely and sing with all my heart. That was the icing on the cake. She asked me to sing during the coming Durga Puja festival. We talked about music for a long time. She shared some anecdotes on music and gave me a book as a gift for my father,” said the former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader who joined the TMC on September 18. The two-time Lok Sabha member from Asansol in Bengal’s West Burdwan district announced on Sunday that he would go to Delhi on Wednesday and resign from the Parliament. “My ‘Z’ category security has already been withdrawn. I am moving without central paramilitary force personnel since August,” Supriyo said while leaving Nabanna on Monday. On a lighter note, the Bollywood singer-turned-politician said the chief minister advised him not to have commercially made puffed rice, a popular snack in Bengal, as these are laced with urea. “Didi said urea makes one gain weight. Like her, I also eat only traditionally made puffed rice and keep a can in my car,” said Supriyo.It may be recalled that in May 2015, when he was a Union minister, Supriyo made news by accepting Mamata Banerjee’s invitation to have jhal-muri, a spicy puffed rice snack, from a roadside vendor near the Victoria Memorial Hall in Kolkata. The CM had offered him a lift in her car as both were heading for the governor house to attend an official dinner. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in the Bengal capital on that day to inaugurate a Swachh Bharat mission project.Hours after Supriyo met the Bengal CM on Monday afternoon, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “The effect of the puffed rice he had with the chief minister six years ago can be seen now. Let him work well in the party he has chosen.”Although the Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya on Sunday described his party’s tryst with Supriyo as “a closed chapter,” BJP leaders did not stop targeting the Asansol MP. Ghosh called Supriyo a political tourist on Sunday and alleged that he left because he was not made a minister during the July reshuffle of the Union cabinet. Jagannath Sarkar, the MP from Ranaghat, on the other hand, alleged that Supriyo joined TMC to evade probe because he is involved in the coal and cattle smuggling case that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) are investigating.Hours before the cabinet reshuffle, Supriyo was removed from the government where he served as minister of state for environment, forest and climate change. He wrote an emotional post on social media saying he was “asked to resign.” This led to strong differences between Supriyo and Ghosh and it surfaced in comments the two made after Supriyo declared that he would quit politics and the Lok Sabha. “I’m leaving...Alvida (farewell)...If you want to do social work, you can do it without being in politics...” Supriyo wrote on Facebook on July 31.However, on August 2, he changed his decision and decided to stay in Parliament. “I have a constitutional responsibility,” Supriyo said after meeting BJP national president JP Nadda in Delhi. Supriyo did not elaborate on the talks he had with Nadda but said he remained firm on his decision to quit politics. “It is my personal decision and I am not going to change it. I may move either to Kolkata or Mumbai. I will not engage in any political activity. People of Asansol have asked me to stay as their MP,” he said. He also said that he would give up his security cover, the bungalow in Delhi and other facilities he is entitled to as a Lok Sabha member. “You may soon see me earning my living through other means, singing for example,” Supriyo told the media last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/didi-will-decide-babul-supriyo-on-his-new-role-after-meeting-mamata-banerjee-101632149287941.html
20-09-2021||Other||Yogi Adityanath: BJP government wiped out mafias, goons from Uttar Pradesh||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday accused the previous governments in the state of protecting the mafias and goons and said his government was wiping them out.Yogi was addressing a gathering after launching development projects and distributing certificates of various government schemes to the beneficiaries at a ground in Saidpur town of Ghazipur. In an apparent reference to gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, the CM said the mafioso, who defamed the name of the district, was being wiped out from Ghazipur. “BJP government knows how to deal with goons, mafia very well. Bulldozers are being run over the properties of goons and mafia in BJP government. In the previous governments, they used to get government protection,” he said.Yogi said the entire country was developing under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Today people can do aachman (religious ritual) with Gangajal. Continuous efforts have been done for improving the health infrastructure. The daughter of the poor is the daughter of the government,” he said. The CM also claimed that there had been a big change in the state in the last four and a half years.“The BJP government is working continuously for the benefit and development of farmers. Many schemes are being launched for the benefit of the farmers. Government schemes are reaching every village now,” the CM said.He also hit out at opposition parties over development.“Development is the agenda of BJP. The government is dedicated to the respect of the people. BJP government is dedicated to the interests of the people,” he said.The chief minister also promised to get the Purvanchal Expressway inaugurated soon by PM Modi.“Purvanchal Expressway will change lives of people. Development will get a new impetus in the entire region. PM Modi has done the work of changing the destiny and picture of the country,” Yogi said. He said the BJP government did not see caste, region and face and worked for all sections of society.Yogi said the government has cracked down on illegal mining and illegal occupations and removed illegal encroachments on lands. 
20-09-2021||Lucknow||High Court to Uttar Pradesh govt: What steps taken to implement waste management rules||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has directed the state government to file an affidavit indicating what steps have been taken to implement the Solid Waste Management (SVM) Rules, 2016, framed by the union government. A division bench of Justice DK Upadhyay and Justice Ajai Kumar Srivastava on September 15 said: “We, accordingly, require the state government to file an affidavit to this petition indicating therein as to what steps have been taken for appropriate implementation of the Rules 2016.” The Gomti Nagar Vistas Mahasamiti, Lucknow, has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) petition in high court seeking directives to the state government for proper implementation of SVM Rules. Appearing on behalf of the Lucknow Municipal Corporation, lawyer Namit Srivastava apprised the court that on account of non-cooperation of certain agencies, it was becoming difficult for municipal corporation to implement the SVM Rules.He said garbage was being dumped at unspecified places by vegetable and fruit mandis. “Appropriate directions need to be issued to such agencies which are responsible for dumping garbage at unspecified places in an unscientific manner,” Sharma apprised the court which listed the case for next hearing on October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/high-court-to-uttar-pradesh-govt-what-steps-taken-to-implement-waste-management-rules-101632147906856.html
20-09-2021||Kolkata||CBI knocks at TMC leader Manas Bhunia's Kolkata office in chit fund scam probe||The Central Bureau of Innvestigation (CBI) sleuths on Monday went to the office of senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Manas Bhunia in Kolkata to quiz him in connection with its probe into the ICore chit fund scam case.The visit by the CBI officers to Bhunia's office at Food and Supplies department in the afternoon came hours after the TMC leader refused to turn up at central probe agency's office at Salt Lake in Kolkata in connection to the chit fund scam case.Bhunia, who is the state irrigation and waterways minister, expressed his inability to visit the CBI office citing waterlogged streets owing to incessant rain and thunderstorms since the previous night.The summons to Bhunia also came almost a week after the CBI questioned another prominent TMC leader, Partha Chatterjee, for almost two hours in connection with the case.The CBI arrested the ICore group’s chief, Anukul Maity, in 2015 on the charge of illegally mobilising ₹3,000 crore from small investors. Maity who faced money laundering charges was in prison in Bhubaneswar till his death in November last year.The CBI officials reportedly quizzed Bhunia for two hours and recorded his statements on why he attended an event of the ICore group and if he had any finacial dealings with the firm.The I-Core sponsored event in question was held in 2011, the year Trinamool Congress (TMC) party came to power.Bhunia vacated the Rajya Sabha seat after winning the assembly polls from Sabang in West Midnapore district in May, prompting the Trinamool to nominate Sushmita Dev, who recently joined the Mamata Banerjee-led party after quitting the Congress, for the Rajya Sabha bypolls.Bhunia joined the Trinamool Congress in 2016 quitting Congress after a long association since 1969.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-knocks-at-tmc-leader-manas-bhunia-s-kolkata-office-in-chit-fund-probe-case-101632143991647.html
20-09-2021||Lucknow||Hathras gangrape, murder case: Family wants trial to be fast-tracked, says victim’s lawyer||The family of the Hathras gangrape and murder victim has requested to expedite the ongoing trial of the case in Special SC/ST fast-track court in Hathras district court. At present, the hearing of the case is taking place once a week on Thursday as the court has to take up other cases also. Out of 104 witnesses in the case, around 15 have recorded their statements before the court. “We want the trial to be expedited. Family members of the victim have also requested to complete the trial at the earliest,” said lawyer Seema Kushwaha, who is representing the victim’s family in court. Apart from ongoing trial of the case in Hathras, the case is also listed in the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court. The high court had taken suo-motu cognizance of the case on October 1, 2020. The court has listed the case for the next hearing on September 24. A division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh is hearing the case in Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court.“On next hearing of the case in the high court, I will request for expediting the ongoing trial of the case (in the Special SC/ST court in Hathras district),” said Kushwaha. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has directed all lawyers associated with the Hathras case to apprise the court on next hearing on September 24 about facilities being given to family of the deceased as per law and other such facilities that should be given. On September 14 last year, the 19-year-old Dalit woman was gang-raped by four people in Hathras district when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder. She was partially paralysed in the attack. As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hathras-gangrape-murder-case-family-wants-trial-to-be-fast-tracked-says-victim-s-lawyer-101632146408359.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||At Delhi's Ganga Ram Hospital, doctors save mucormycosis patient's life by removing kidney, portion of lung||Officials at Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital informed on Monday that, in a recent operation, a team of multidisciplinary doctors saved the life of a 34-year-old patient by performing a surgery to remove a kidney, as well as a portion of his left lung, both of which, they said, were infected with mucormycosis, a complication found in several patients who recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | Mucormycosis cases declining? Here's what senior doctor at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital has to sayThree doctors performed the operation in this case which, hospital authorities claimed, was being reported in medical literature as the “first case in the world happening after Covid-19 infection” which involved a kidney, lung and sinus.“The patient, who is from Ghaziabad, was brought here with breathing difficulties, blood in sputum and high-grade fever. After checking, it was found that the mucor, besides penetrating the patient’s nasal cavity, had also spread to his right kidney and the left lung,” the premier hospital noted in a statement, which further said that the kidney, and a portion of the lung, were both severely damaged. “As a result, we feared further spread. Hence an emergency removal of the infected areas was planned,” it added.Describing the surgery as a complicated procedure which went on for six hours, the statement noted that the patient was successfully operated upon and has since been discharged. It identified Dr Sabyasachi Bal as the one who removed the portion of the left lung, while Dr Manu Gupta worked on the right kidney. Dr Varun Rai, meanwhile, performed the sinus surgery, it said.Commonly known as black fungus, mucormycosis is more commonly found among people with lowered immunity due to issues such as Covid-19, diabetes, kidney disease, liver or cardiac related disorders or due to age-related problems.The risk of contracting black fungus is particularly high for patients who are immune-compromised, especially those being treated for Covid-19 with steroids.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-delhi-s-ganga-ram-hospital-doctors-save-mucormycosis-patient-s-life-by-removing-kidney-portion-of-lung-101632144464114.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||DDA to hold public hearing on Master Plan of Delhi-2041 in October, gets 33,000 comments||New Delhi: The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will start the public consultation process for finalising the Master Plan of Delhi (MPD)-2041 in October, with a senior official noting that the land-owning agency has received around 33,000 comments from the public on the draft plan which was put in the public domain in June this year.The proposal to constitute a board to conduct the public hearing, which will be held online in view of the Covid-19 protocols, was recently approved in a DDA meeting chaired by Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.“We are in the process of sorting the comments received based on various chapters of the draft master plan. Once it is complete, we will prepare the plan for public hearing, which will mostly be held in October,” said a senior DDA official, aware of the matter.DDA officials said that arrangements will be made for the public to participate in the online hearing.“We held public consultations online last year when the master plan was being prepared to get people’s perspective. This year, we held an online consultation after the MPD-2041 was put in the public domain to clarify people’s doubts related to the new plan,” said the official.The land-owning agency plans to notify MPD-2041, the vision document for the city’s development in the next two decades, by December end. The process has already been delayed due to the pandemic, as the land-owning agency had to extend the last date of submission of suggestions/objections by a month following demand from the public. While it received over 12,000 comments on its portal, officials said a large number of people submitted their comments manually.Explaining the process, a senior official said based on the inputs received during the public hearing, MPD-2041 will be tabled again in the authority meeting and, once approved, it will be sent to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for notification.The MPD-2041 focuses on regeneration of old areas (unauthorised colonies, urbanised villages), allowing mixed-use development, providing affordable rental housing and small format housing, promoting walkability and non-motorised transport, development of green-blue (green spaces and waterfronts) infrastructure and corridors etc for sustainable development of the city.The land-owning agency has also introduced new concepts and proposals to make Delhi a 24x7 city by promoting night time economy and nightlife; increasing economic activities; and ensuring planned development of urban extensions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-to-hold-public-hearing-on-master-plan-of-delhi-2041-in-october-gets-33-000-comments-101632145266700.html
20-09-2021||Other||Drug bust: Two arrested with 2kg opium in Kaithal||In a major drug bust, the special task force (STF) of Ambala police arrested two persons with 2.1kg opium from Kalayat town of Kaithal district on Sunday night.The accused have been identified as Shivam alias Kalu of Pundri and Gopal of Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh. Police said the accused’s car was stopped for checking on the Kaithal-Hisar road, following which the contraband was found in their possession. They have been booked under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and will be produced in the court for further interrogation, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-bust-two-arrested-with-2kg-opium-in-kaithal-101632144786554.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||28-year-old undertrial escapes Taloja jail by climbing 25 feet high wall||A 28-year-old undertrial lodged in Maharashtra’s Taloja jail since 2018 in a murder case of Bhandup managed to flee from the jail by jumping off the 25 feet boundary wall of the jail premises.According to people familiar with the matter in Taloja jail, this isn’t the first time when someone has managed to flee from the jail. Sanjay Yadav, an undertrial, managed to flee on Saturday in broad daylight at around 11.30 am, officials said. In the pretext of getting some medicine, the undertrial went to the hospital of the jail along with another inmate identified as Rahul Jaiswal and managed to sneak near the watchtower of the jail. The watchtower, where the guards keep a watch from the top, has an iron grilled door that is locked so that it is not accessible for anyone.Yadav managed to climb the door of the watchtower which was around seven feet tall. He then managed to find the grip on the exteriors of the watchtower. The grips were the rear part of the stairs that were inside the watchtower. The watchtower was adjacent to the 25 feet tall wall. From the exterior of the watchtower, he managed to climb onto the wall and then jumped down. While Yadav could jump off the wall, Jaiswal got terrified and changed his mind and was later caught by the guard, people cited above informed.Taloja jail officials, along with Kharghar police, looked for Yadav in the nearby bushes and other areas, but he was nowhere to be found. A team of police went to Bhandup as well to his residence but could not be traced. A case against Yadav and Jaiswal was registered with Kharghar police under section 224 (Resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the India Penal Code. In July 2018, Yadav, along with his two accomplices, hacked to death a 17-year-old minor boy near his college thinking that the victim was trying to get close to one of the accuseds’ girlfriend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/28yearold-undertrial-escapes-taloja-jail-by-climbing-25-feet-high-wall-101632144727524.html
20-09-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati: Punjab chief minister’s appointment a Congress stunt before polls||Terming the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister a political gimmick of the Congress before the assembly polls, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati asked the Dalits in Punjab to remain wary of “the dual face, character and tricks of the Congress”.Addressing a press conference in Lucknow within a few minutes after Channi took oath on Monday, Mayawati said, “The Congress has made it clear that it will not contest the assembly election under the leadership of Channi. It clearly shows that the Congress has no faith in the Dalit community.”“The Congress party is not concerned with the welfare of the Dalit community. It has made a Dalit chief minister to grab the votes of the community in the upcoming assembly election. The Dalits should not be allured by the gimmicks of the Congress,” she said.“The removal of the chief minister a few months before assembly election and the appointment of a Dalit community leader as new CM clearly shows that there is panic in the Congress camp over Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)- BSP alliance for the 2022 assembly election in Punjab,” she said. “The Congress and other rival political remember Dalit community either under compulsion or when these parties are facing trouble in elections,” she added.“It can be gauged from the fact that the Congress appointed Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar the chairman of the Constitution Drafting Committee as it did not have another leader who could match the capability or intellect of Ambedkar. Had there been a leader more capable than Ambedkar, Congress would not have made Ambedkar chairman of the drafting committee,” Mayawati said.“The Dalits, backwards and religious minorities would have been denied the rights they enjoy under the Constitution. The rights of the Muslim community have been also safe guarded by the Constitution. The people should know that Ambedkar followed the principles of secularism while drafting the Constitution,” she said.The Dalit community should know that in Uttar Pradesh too when few months are left for the assembly election, the Bharatiya Janta Party is also showing love for Dalit and other backwards castes.Terming the affinity of the saffron brigade for Dalits a mere show off and hollow Mayawati said, “Had the BJP been really concerned about the uplift of the Dalit community, it would have filled the backlog in government posts reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The posts reserved for these communities are still lying vacant.”“The BJP would also have considered the demand for the caste census raised by the backward community. The fact is that the BJP and other casteist political parties are panicky over the caste census. Earlier, the BJP had opposed the implementation of the Mandal Commission report. It had also launched a violent agitation across the country,” BSP chief added.“Now Dalit and other backward communities have realised the dual policy pursued by the BJP to get their votes. The BJP leaders should realise that ‘kaath ki haandi baar baar chaadney wali nahi hain’. I have full faith that Dalit and backward communities would not be allured by the BJP, the Congress or other political parties that use them as a vote bank. They should know that whatever rights they are enjoying today were given to them due to the initiative taken by Ambedkar,” she said.“Under the pre-poll alliance, the BSP will field candidates on 20 out of 117 assembly seats in Punjab while the SAD will field candidates on the remaining 97 seats,” said a BSP leader. The alliance is hopeful of support of 32% Dalit community (in Punjab) in the assembly election,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-punjab-chief-minister-s-appointment-a-congress-stunt-before-polls-101632144608188.html
20-09-2021||Lucknow||84-yr-old retired official to pursue LLB from Kanpur university||KANPUR In 1998, Sitaram Srivastava lost his wife to medical negligence at a government health facility in Lucknow. He was crestfallen and pledged to start a legal fight for justice. Without hiring any lawyer, he pled the case from the Consumer Forum to the Supreme Court — and his arguments won him everywhere. In 2018, the Supreme Court upheld the lower court’s order to penalise the hospital and compensate Srivastava. At that time, he decided to pursue a degree in law and become a lawyer. “I wanted to help people victimised by corruption, in the court of law,” said Srivastava. At 82, he attempted to enroll in the LLB course, but as per rules, he was overage. Two years later, the New Education Policy opened up the window for him to chase his dream at the age of 84. The CSJM University, Kanpur, accepted his application. Soon, he would be in the LLB class at Dayanand College of Law at Civil Lines, Kanpur. “Sitaram Srivastava had vice-chancellor Dr Vinay Pathak last week with his application stating that university computers were not processing applications of people born in 1960 or before that. But the V-C has given him special permission to pursue the course” said Dr Vivek Sachan, university spokesman. “We are updating our systems to help the elderly people still interested in pursuing different courses as the New Education Policy puts no age bar,” he said. Srivastava was born in 1937 (in Kanpur) and completed his graduation from Christ Church College. He retired from Provident Fund organisation as enforcement officer in 1995. His wife took ill in 1997-end and a hospital in Kanpur “misdiagnosed the problem and continued with the treatment.” This line of treatment was followed at the hospital in Lucknow, said Srivastava. “I contested the case tirelessly. The District Consumer Forum ruled in my favour and levied damages on the hospitals – both in Kanpur and Lucknow. The verdict was upheld in the state and national commissions. I went to the Supreme Court and filed a special leave petition expressing dissatisfaction over the compensation amount,” he said, adding the Supreme Court ruled in his favour in the first hearing. The success after tireless efforts made him to pursue LLB course. “I am excited that I am finally registered for it and waiting for admission forms,” said the senior citizen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/84yrold-retired-official-to-pursue-llb-from-kanpur-university-101632144126773.html
20-09-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Bommai calls farmers protest ‘sponsored’; Congress hits back saying comments ‘insult to farmers’||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that the farmers protesting at the borders of Delhi and other places were being sponsored by the opposition Indian National Congress or “foreign agents” in the country.“It is Congress or foreign agents in the country who are the sponsors of the protests by the farmers which are happening in the borders of Delhi and other places,” news agency ANI quoted Bommai as saying earlier in the day.Following the remarks, Congress MLA Dinesh Gundu Rao called it an “insult to the farmers” and went on to say that the government must arrest those who sponsor the protests if they have the proof.Also read | ‘Tikait a dacoit’: BJP MP says protesters are not farmers“I condemn the statement as it is an insult to the farmers' protest. If they have any proof, they should arrest those who are sponsoring it,” ANI quoted Gundu Rao as saying, in response to Bommai’s remarks. Further, he also went on to call the Karnataka chief minister “clueless”.“We asked him about inflation, LPG price, fuel price but he replied what is not asked. The CM is clueless,” he added.Notably, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, during his visit to state capital Bengaluru earlier in the year, had called for farmers to protest in the city similar to how it was being done in Delhi against Centre’s three farm laws. “Unless the three laws are repealed, and there is a law related to the MSP, you need to continue this agitation in Karnataka as well,” he had said.The fresh spat between the two parties in the state came even as the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) had earlier in the day organised protests against the rising fuel prices. Several state Congress leaders including KPCC president DK Shivakumar, leader of opposition in Karnataka legislative council SR Patil, former state minister Priyank Kharge and former CM Siddaramaiah were all part of the protests.The leaders rode their bicycles from the KPCC office in Bengaluru to the Vidhana Soudha (Karnataka Legislature), condemning the “continuous fuel price hike” by the Centre. Several other state Congress leaders were also present during the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-calls-farmers-protest-sponsored-congress-hits-back-saying-comments-insult-to-farmers-101632142704293.html
20-09-2021||Other||Export-import hit after Taliban takeover, say Afghan traders in India||Amid heightened geopolitical tensions following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, traders of the war-torn country fear dwindling trade relations with India. Dry fruits, jewellery, clothes and carpets from Afghanistan are a big hit among Indian consumers but traders from the country, some who have been bringing these items to India for the last 20 years, say that the recent developments have made exports and imports difficult.Amir Hamza, a trader from Afghanistan who had set up a stall at the Shimla International Trade Expo-2021 organised by the PhD Chamber of Commerce and Collaboration, said, “There is a lot of uncertainty in our country since the new regime took over. The situation seems to be improving slowly but this time we were not able to bring jewellery, dresses or carpets to India due to Visa restrictions. We have also not been able to transport fresh bananas to our country from India.”“We hope that the bilateral relations between Afghanistan and India remain good so that our trade isn’t hit,” he said. Bias Ibrahim, another trader from Afghanistan, said, “At least 60% of our business is dependent on trade with India. Nearly five tonnes of dry fruit is expected to arrive through the Wagah border in a day or two. But the situation back home is far from normal. There is barely any law and order, and government is also temporary. We hope they (Taliban) shun their conservative ideas. If they do so, people will be able to accept their government.” Anurag Singh Rana, one of the organisers of the trade fair, said, “We had 88 stalls in all, of which one was of dry fruits from Afghanistan. Had the situation been better, we would have had 17 to 18 more stalls, including those of spices and clothes, from the country.”The five-day fair, which was inaugurated by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on September 16, culminated on Monday. The idea, organisers say, was to cater to those consumers who have been unable to travel to other countries due to the Covid-19 situation for the last two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exportimport-hit-after-taliban-takeover-say-afghan-traders-in-india-101632142688114.html
20-09-2021||Dehradun||How Himalayan Heritage Walk spurred restoration project of George Everest’s house in Mussoorie||It took a heritage walk for close to four years, including that of senior Indian Administrative Service officers, to renovate and restore the heritage bungalow of Sir George Everest, the former surveyor-general of India, who who initiated the survey for measuring the height of Mount Everest, the peak named after him. After the restoration is completed by December 2021, part of the Everest House would be converted into a Cartographic Museum, Uttarakhand government officials said. George Everest House and laboratory, where he lived for eleven years, is located at Park Estate near Hathipaon, about 6 kilometres from Gandhi Chowk in Mussoorie. He bought the Park Estate, where this house was already built in 1833, and lived there for almost a decade before retiring and returning to England in 1843. But, years of neglect resulted in many parts of the building losing their traditional charm with some portions crumbling. Getting the attention of policymakers towards the heritage bungalow in Mussoorie was not easy. So, anthropologist Lokesh Ohri, who is also the convenor of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Uttarakhand chapter, decide to organise a heritage walk through their group called “Been There Doon That”.The walk used to be conducted on July 4 on Sir George Everest’s birthday. “Over two years ago, we conducted a walk through Landour for the reunion of the 1986 batch of IAS officers. After the walk, a very senior IAS officer asked me if they can do something for Mussoorie. We suggested that a group be formed that would focus on the conservation of Sir Everest’s house,” Ohri recalled. The group was formed and after some time, the then additional secretary, tourism, Neeraj Jyoti Khairwal asked Ohri to send a proposal for conservation of the bungalow. As Ohri had a plan ready, he immediately sent the proposal to Khairwal. “And this is how the restoration project for Sir Everest’s home came to the forefront,” Ohri said. On how the restoration work is being carried out, Yugal Kishore Pany, deputy director Uttarakhand Tourism Development Corporation said the restoration project was taken up under Asian Development Bank funding. “The project is focussing not only on the restoration of the House but also improving the whole area and making it attractive for tourists. Over one-kilometre-long pathway to the house has been given a heritage look by using cobbled stones,” he said. Pant said they are very careful in renovation and restoration as they wanted it to gel with construction materials used originally. “There is one observatory in the bungalow where George Everest used to make triangulation measurement of the Himalayan peaks. We are developing some glass-domed huts there on the premises where tourists can clearly see the night sky,” he said. Pant said a cartographic museum is also being developed where cartographic equipment and information about such scientific instruments and procedures would be put on display. “We have also sought the help of experts from Survey of India based in Dehradun. The whole restoration project would be completed by December,” he said. Ohri said he was satisfied with the restoration work and was happy that a cartography museum is also being built under the ₹24 crore restoration project. He added that the heritage building has immense historical and scientific value. According to the Survey of India, Sir George Everest (July 4, 1790 –December 1, 1866) was a British surveyor and geographer who served as the Surveyor General of India from 1830 to 1843. For his contributions, Mount Everest, the highest mountain on Earth which was earlier called Peak XV, was named in his honour. He worked on Great Trigonometric Survey and was largely responsible for surveying the meridian arc from the southernmost point of India north to Nepal, a distance of about 2,400 kilometres from 1806 to 1841.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/how-himalayan-heritage-walk-spurred-restoration-project-of-george-everest-s-house-in-mussoorie-101632142209211.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Lakes that supply drinking water to Mumbai are 99.2% full||The seven lakes that provide water to Mumbai city are now 99.2% full and this is 1% more than a year ago and 1.4% more than two years ago. Water reserves near-full capacity means there will be sufficient quantities to meet the city’s water supply requirements throughout the year and residents are unlikely to face any water-cuts.Mumbai city receives its drinking water supply from Upper Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa, Middle Vaitarna, Bhatsa, Vehar, and Tulsi lakes, whose total water capacity is 1,447,363 Million Litres (M Litres). They are located in Mumbai, and the neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) supplies 3,850 M Litres of water to Mumbai per day.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems- the Vaitarna system supplies water to the western suburbs and the Island city, and the Bhatsa system that provides water to the eastern suburbs.Tulsi, Vehar, Tansa, and Modak Sagar have already overflown once this monsoon, in July. On September 13, BMC began to release water from Upper Vaitarna also, which currently has 99.3% water, as per BMC data. Water-level in Tulsi and Vehar lakes is at 100%, while it is at 99.14% for Tansa and 99.9% for Modak Sagar.Bhatsa dam in Thane district has 99.5% useful water content. Of its total capacity of 717,037 M Litre, 575,700 M Litre are allotted to Mumbai for use, and comprise over 40% of the annual water requirement of the city. Middle Vaitarna has 97.44% useful water content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lakes-that-supply-drinking-water-to-mumbai-are-99-2-full-101632142206470.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Develop a work culture that appreciates dignity of labour||Anaiyssa, my granddaughter, was three years old then. She was travelling from Seattle to New Delhi with Sawan and Tanu, my son and daughter-in-law. Carrying her haversack on the back, her doll in one hand, and her passport in the other, on seeing me she ran and landed in my arms, saying, “I did the immigration all by myself, Dadu!” She was proud of her achievement and the confidence was palpable. In the West, people build a work culture around for everyone to follow without feeling anything inferior or superior about the job at hand. Even the president of a country would take pride in sharing that he worked in a restaurant to earn his living as a boy or a girl. In our system, if someone goes to drop a child to school, often the bag is carried by the person himself and not the child. In the US and the UK, schoolchildren carry their stuff themselves. We have a different mindset. In fact, it’s feudal and caste and class based. One who comes from a so-called higher class, or a creamy layer, is not supposed to do certain tasks of cleaning, assigned since centuries to a particular caste of people. Mahatma Gandhi did break this age-old practice. I was surprised to see my host in London cleaning the commode himself. Otherwise, who would do it? Nobody does it for others, without charging a hefty sum. The good thing is that the job is not looked at being lowly. Dog lovers, when they walk their dogs, carry polythene bags to pick up the poop and dispose it in the bins kept for the purpose. As an Indian Police Service officer, I’ve always lived in bungalows with security personnel in tow. Having been transferred on deputation to the Government of India and staying in a two-room accommodation with a bathroom at Pragati Vihar Hostel in Delhi, I once mopped the floor of the bathroom with a wiper. My son, Sagar, ran to help me, making it obvious that I wasn’t given to doing my own work myself. I know I should have been wiser. We had a get-together at Sawan’s home in Seattle when some neighbours were also invited. I was introduced to our immediate neighbour, who was a multi-millionaire having retired after selling his company worth $800 million. The next day, I was surprised to see him going up his roof through a ladder and clearing it of leaves. He later fixed a window, carrying the handyman’s tools. We would depend on others to carry out such tasks. The point to underscore is a need to develop such a work culture and appreciate dignity of labour. During the Covid-19 lockdown, I saw neighbours carrying out household jobs themselves, be it pruning plants, mopping the floor, brooming the driveway, buying vegetables from vendors, attending to courier boys, passing on the garbage fills to the collector outside, etc. I’m sure, like me they help one another inside the house, too. Trust me, it’s fun to be doing one’s own jobs. I had always been driven by chauffeurs and surrounded by security men, but since the lockdown, when I started driving myself, I’m a man confident more than ever. rajbirdeswal@hotmail.com The author is a retired IPS officer and an advocate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/develop-a-work-culture-that-appreciates-dignity-of-labour-101632141486651.html
20-09-2021||Pune||No water supply in eastern parts of Pune on September 21||PUNE There will be no water supply in the eastern part of Pune city, including Kalyaninnagar, Vishrantwadi, Dhanori, Phulenagar, Lohegaon, on Tuesday (September 21) due to repair and maintenance work undertaken by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).PMC’s water department issued a press statement regarding the same and announced the water cut due to urgent repair and maintenance work of the Bhama Askhed water treatment plant.PMC officials also said that these areas will get water supply at low pressure on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-water-supply-in-these-areas-of-pune-on-september-21-101632141306328.html
20-09-2021||Lucknow||UP BJP leader administered 5 doses of Covid-19 vaccine? His certificate shows so||The coronavirus vaccination certificate of a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut shows that he has received five doses of a Covid-19 vaccine, and is scheduled for his sixth jab between December 2021 and 2022. According to officials, however, this is a case of “mischief” and “conspiracy.”The “victim” in question is 73-years-old Rampal Singh from Sardhana area in the district. Singh, who is the president of booth number 79 of the ruling BJP, as well as a member of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, said he received his first jab on March 16 and the second one on May 8, thus completing his full vaccination course for the viral illness.However, upon downloading the certificate, Singh said he found that the document showed that he has received not two, but five doses, with a sixth scheduled as well. “The certificate showed that I was jabbed on March 16, May 8, May 15 and twice on September 15,” he added.Addressing the issue, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Akhilesh Mohan said district immunisation officer Praveen Kumar has been directed to probe the negligence. “This may be the first case of a person being registered more than twice for their inoculation. It is likely that some mischievous elements hacked into the online portal and did this,” Mohan remarked.Though the nationwide vaccination drive commenced on January 16 this year, beneficiaries aged 60 and above became eligible for it from March 1. Thus far, under the exercise, at least 808,568,144 doses have been administered, of which 3,778,296 were given in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-leader-in-up-got-5-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-certificate-shows-so-101632139993309.html
20-09-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo on another ‘personal visit’ to Delhi||Amid reports of power-sharing formula between Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and state’s health minister TS Singh Deo, the latter reached Delhi on Monday again. Singh Deo called it a ‘personal visit’ and did not rule out the possibility of meeting some senior Congress leaders in the national capital. “It is completely a personal tour. I have come to Delhi for my sister’s birthday. As you know, none of the party high commands is here,” he stated while addressing the media when he reached Delhi airport on Monday. Singh Deo further said that everything is normal in Chhattisgarh and all the issues that were there have been resolved. Functionaries close to Singh Deo also said he was on a personal visit and will return on Wednesday. “There is a family function in Delhi which he will attend on Tuesday. There is nothing political as of now,” said a close aide of Singh Deo. On August 28, emerging after a long meeting with the Congress high command on suggestions that he should move aside because of a reported two and a half year power-sharing agreement with colleague TS Singh Deo, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel seemed to have bought some time. He said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would visit the state the next week, especially Bastar, to review the work that was being done. The next day, when Singh Deo returned, he said that he had spoken to the leadership too and they had kept a “decision safe”. In December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance where the party won 68 of 90 seats, even as the party’s Delhi leadership sought to put out leadership fires in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh emerged as a problem too. Four state leaders, Baghel, home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the chief minister’s post. As Mahant settled for speaker’s post, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged as the frontrunner, but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi, reportedly arrived at a power-sharing arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-health-minister-ts-singh-deo-on-another-personal-visit-to-delhi-101632139386934.html
20-09-2021||Other||Telangana IT minister files defamation case against state Congress chief||Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and state IT minister KT Rama Rao on Monday filed a defamation case against Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and parliamentarian A Revanth Reddy for dragging his name into the ongoing investigation into the alleged usage of narcotics in the Telugu film industry.KTR filed a petition in Hyderabad city civil court stating that Reddy was spreading lies against him for political gains. He also sought an appropriate injunction against Reddy from making such defamatory statements and to take down all such false statements/accusations.“Today, I have invoked the legal process & filed a suit for defamation and injunction before the Hon’ble court. I am confident that the court process will clinchingly vindicate the falsity of the canards & lies spread against me and the culprits will be brought to book appropriately,” the minister posted on Twitter.Also Read | Time to liberate people of Telangana from TRS, says Amit ShahIn the petition, the minister said the PCC chief made various “baseless, scurrilous, and manifestly false statements and allegations” against him seeking to falsely link him with the investigation being conducted by the Enforcement Directorate against allegations of drug and psychotropic substances abuse by certain accused persons.He also sought adequate compensation for such serious and malicious acts of defamation and that further criminal proceedings be initiated.KTR’s petition was in response to the PCC president’s comment at a public meeting held in Gajwel on Friday that “the father (chief minister KCR) has become a brand ambassador for drunkards, while the son (KTR) is a brand ambassador for cinema stars, who are using drugs.”Reddy was referring to the ED questioning a host of Telugu film stars as part of investigation into their alleged link with drug peddlers. A special investigation team of the state excise and prohibition department busted the case in 2007 and questioned a few film personalities but has not yet filed a charge sheet.Continuing the tirade, Reddy on Sunday announced the launch of a social media campaign, #WhiteChallenge, to create awareness on increasing drug menace. He tagged KTR and former Congress MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy with his tweet.Stating that he was ready to take the first test for drugs and would give his blood and hair samples for the tests, the PCC chief asked KTR to come to Telangana Martyrs’ memorial in front of the state assembly on Monday afternoon to accept the challenge.While Vishweshwar Reddy arrived at the Gunpark, KTR did not turn up but tweeted that he was ready for the challenge. “I am ready for any test & will travel to AIIMS Delhi if Rahul Gandhi is willing to join. It’s below my dignity to do it with Cherlapally jail alumni (sic),” KTR tweeted, with an obvious reference to the PCC chief’s stint in the jail in the cash-for-vote case.KTR also sought to know whether Revanth Reddy would tender an apology and resign from his posts, if he (KTR) takes the test and gets a clean chit. He also asked whether the TPCC president was willing to undergo a lie detector test in the cash-for-vote case.Reddy shot back on Twitter, saying: “Indicate time and place @KTRTRS for the lie detector test along with KCR on CBI cases on corruption charges in Sahara Provident Fund and ESI hospital construction scandals. #WhiteChallenge.”Reddy alleged that KTR was making baseless statements to divert the attention of the people from the drugs issue. “I have not said KTR is taking drugs. I have only tagged him for my challenge, so that he would take steps to prevent the drug menace,” the PCC chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-it-minister-files-defamation-case-against-state-congress-chief-101632139266124.html
20-09-2021||Pune||Two chinkaras killed in Pune’s Indapur, 3 booked||Two chinkara deers also known as Indian gazelle were found killed in Kadbanwadi forest area of Indapur tehsil in Maharashtra’s Pune district, officials said on Monday. According to the forest authorities, villagers saw and filmed unidentified hunters shooting the protected species with an air gun while passing through the protected area in their vehicles on Saturday. Officials said some villagers had seen three persons in a vehicle kill a Chinakara deer with their airgun, while another eyewitness saw the second Chinkara being shot around 100 meters from the spot of the first kill. Indpur Taluka Chinkara Bachaon Abhiyan President Bhajandas Pawar said that his organisation through citizens movement had been trying its level best to protect the species from hunting and extinction. Indapur Taluka Range forest officer Ajit Suryavanshi said an FIR has been lodged against three unknown people captured in a video shot by a villager. “We are investigating the case and the details are being sought for further action,” said Suryavanshi. The Indian gazelle (Gazella bennettii), is native to the Indian subcontinent and is a threatened species, hunted for meat. Meanwhile, an alert has been sounded in the area and villagers have been told to keep a close eye on poachers and inform the police or the forest department in case of any suspicious activity. Indapur constituency is represented by state forest minister Dattatreya Bharne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-chinkaras-killed-in-pune-s-indapur-3-booked-101632138186127.html
20-09-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Gram panchayat members willingly resigning to help kin get sahayak job||Parents are known to make huge sacrifices to fulfil the dreams of their kids and newly elected gram panchayat (GP) and block development council (BDC) members are no different across the Hindi heartland of Uttar Pradesh. Despite winning hard fought polls to become gram panchayat members, many GP and BDC members are resigning to help their kids bag the job of panchayat sahayak or panchayat assistant, the recruitment process of which is now underway.In Prayagraj alone, 35 panchayat members have tendered their resignations to facilitate their children’s eligibility to bag the job as a panchayat sahayak or panchayat assistant. The district has 19,820 posts of GP members and for which polls were held in April 2021. In Bulandshahr also four gram panchayat members have resigned while in Pilibhit 23 individuals, including 20 gram panchayat members and three BDC members have resigned even as 27 persons, including 16 BDC and 11 gram panchayat members have resigned in Badaun. In Bareilly, 40 gram panchayat members have relinquished their posts while in Lakhimpur Kheri maximum 160 gram panchayat members and 50 GP members in Shahjahanpur have also resigned from their posts for this very reason, confirmed officials of the state Panchayati Raj department. Post Panchayat elections in April 2021, the state government announced its decision to appoint panchayat sahayaks across the state, but for its appointment it also put forth a condition: Any relative of a serving gram pradhan, block development council member, gram panchayat member etc would not be eligible for the post. The government aims to appoint these panchayat sahayaks on a monthly salary of ₹6,000 stationed at mini sadans in villages. Here, the government proposes to have computer operators at panchayat bhawans where they would help the villagers avail the various e-services of the state government and its various departments. In Prayagraj district alone, these panchayat sahayaks are to be appointed in 1540 gram sabhas and for whom the educational qualification is Intermediate pass. The craze for the job is such that around 500 aspirants having MBA and B Tech degrees too have applied for it. Officials, however, have made it clear that while making the merit list only the high school and intermediate marks of a candidate would be taken into account. Among the applicants are also kin and kith of newly elected gram panchayat members who are now tendering their resignations to allow them to bag the jobs on offer. One such Gram Panchayat member is Nirmala Devi of Daurahara village of Handia development block. “My son has applied for Panchayat Sahayak post and he is in desperate need of a job. Therefore, I have tendered my resignation so that his candidature for appointment does not get affected because of me being a Gram Panchayat member,” shared Nirmala Devi. She is not the only one. “So far we have received resignations of 35 GP members from all over the Prayagraj district. These are the members whose children have applied for the post of panchayat sahayaks and the rules make it clear that they cannot be considered for the post if their parents or kin are elected members of Gram Panchayat or BDC etc,” informed district Panchayati Raj officer Alok Kumar. Officials said, the application process for the post of panchayat sahayaks has been completed and even the block-level committees have submitted their report in this regard to the district-level committee and the work of screening of applicants of gram sabhas is now underway. The DPRO said that the list of selected candidates would become public any day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-gram-panchayat-members-willingly-resigning-to-help-kin-get-panchayat-sahayak-job-101632137951061.html
20-09-2021||Other||Of the 50k antigen tests planned at immersion sites, Thane had only 8,997||While the Thane Municipal Corporation had aimed at getting 50,000 antigen tests done at immersion sites throughout the ten-day Ganeshotsav festival, it could barely test 8,997 devotees. On the last day of Ganesh festivities, from among the 3,567 antigen tests, only one returned positive on Sunday. One of the reason for low testing was also the disinterest shown by those fully vaccinated, claimed civic officials. From among the 8,997 antigen tests that were conducted at immersion sites, only eight were found positive. “The next two weeks are crucial for the city and the impact of the festivities will be understood then,” said municipal commissioner Vipin Sharma. Also Read | Thane city police gets custody of Dawood aide ParveenCommenting on the low number of antigen tests, he said, “This was not a compulsion exercise rather an awareness initiative. Only those with symptoms or contacts of positive cases are tested, as we also have to follow some government protocols while testing,” added Sharma. Meanwhile, among the 4,147 idols that were immersed in various parts of the city on Sunday, around 2,050 immersions took place through online booking of slots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/of-the-50k-antigen-tests-planned-at-immersion-sites-thane-had-only-8997-101632137586400.html
20-09-2021||Dehradun||Central Zoo Authority seeks report forest dept over ‘illegal cutting’ of trees in Corbett||Dehradun: Central Zoo Authority (CZA) issued a notice to chief wildlife warden Uttarakhand seeking report on allegations of illegal cutting of trees in Corbett Tiger Reserve’s Kalagarh division for the setting up of the Pakhrau Tiger Safari. The development follows legal notice sent by Gaurav Kumar Bansal, wildlife activist and advocate of Supreme Court, in which he has urged CZA and National Tiger Conservation Authority ( NTCA) to withdraw their “approval” for the establishment of the tiger safari in the Gujjar Sot, Pakhrau Block, Sonanadi Range, Kalagarh Division in Corbett Tiger Reserve. Bansal said in his notice he has stated that Forest Advisory Committee of Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change had recommended the proposal only after the written assurance from Uttarakhand Forest officials that only 163 trees will be felled for the setting up of the tiger safari. “However, in contrary of its undertaking, forest department officials have uprooted nearly 10,000 trees in the area”, he said. Sonali Gosh, Deputy Inspector General of Forests at CZI in her September 17 letter to principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) and chief wildlife warden Uttarakhand has asked them to verify facts and submit their response for further action. Bansal said even director CTR has sought report from divisional forest officer Kalagarh on illegal cutting of trees for setting up of the tiger safari. The legal notice states that “grievance which applicant wish to highlight is that illegal felling of trees in the name of establishment of Pakhrau Tiger Safari and that too within Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is one of the best and oldest National Park in the Country, is not only against the statutory approvals granted by National Tiger Conservation Authority, Central Zoo Authority and Forest Advisory Committee but is also contempt of the order dated 09/04/2001 issued by Supreme Court of India in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 47 of 1998 titled as ‘Navin M Raheja Vs. Union of INDIA and Others’ wherein the apex court expressly observed that no tree whatsoever shall be felled in the Corbett Tiger Reserve by the State or anyone else”. When contacted PCCF Rajiv Bhartari said he had directed the PPCF wildlife JS Suhag to give a status report on the allegations, based on which the response will be sent to CZA. Rahul (who goes by his first name), director CTR, however, rubbished the allegations that 10,000 trees have been cut for the safari project. “Prima facie there are no irregularities in the construction of the tiger safari. We have all the required permissions. But still, I have sought a status report from DFO Kalagarh in the matter. This tiger safari project was conceived during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Corbett in February 2019,” he said. According to the minutes of the meeting of the forest advisory committee (FAC) held on September 21, 2020, the proposal for seeking prior approval of the Central Government under Section 2 of Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 for non-forestry use of 106.16 hectare of forest land Compartment No. 3 and 8 of Kalagarh Tiger Reserve Division of Pakhro Range, Pakhro Block of Pauri Garhwal district for the establishment of Tiger Safari was discussed. The FAC recommended the proposal on certain conditions that all statutory approvals obtained from NTCA and CZA would be complied and the state government would ensure the infrastructure of the tiger safari is created mainly from bamboo and other natural materials. The minutes stated that statutory approvals from NTCA and CZA have been obtained for the proposal, compensatory afforestation has been proposed over 16 hectares non-forest land which is equal to 15% of the forest land proposed for diversion. The minutes also noted that as the construction activity of over 4000 square metres will be carried out under the project, the proposal does not require Environment Clearance and consequent Wildlife Clearance from Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/central-zoo-authority-seeks-report-forest-dept-over-illegal-cutting-of-trees-in-corbett-101632134585316.html
20-09-2021||Patna||‘Bihar and Jharkhand are brothers...’: Nitish responds to Soren's remark on Bhojpuri and Magahi languages||Days after Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren’s remarks on Bhojpuri and Magahi languages triggered a major controversy, his counterpart from Bihar, Nitish Kumar, responded on Monday by saying that the two neighbouring states are brothers, adding that people on both sides have love for each other.Also Read | Soren’s remark on local languages creates stir, BJP accuses CM of ‘polarisation’“Bihar was divided into two in 2000,” news agency ANI quoted Kumar as saying, as the Janata Dal (United) leader referred to Jharkhand’s formation from out of the southern part of Bihar in November that year. “People in both states have love for each other. I don’t know what people say politically. Even though Jharkhand was separated from us, we only have love for them,” he said.Kumar then added that “such kind of things should never be thought of.” He further remarked, “Bihar and Jharkhand are brothers, we belong to the same family. People need not make comments about each other. They only have love for each other.”
20-09-2021||Pune||Man arrested for posting defamatory content; Sainiks blacken his face||The cyber cell of Pune Police have arrested Abhijit Limaye (35) for posting defamatory content on social media against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, late Sena chief Balasaheb Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, officials said on Monday. Limaye was arrested from his Mumbai residence, brought to Pune and produced before a court which granted him bail on Sunday. As he was released, Sena supporters gathered outside the Shivajinagar district court premises allegedly hurled abuses at him and blackened his face.Also Read | Two drown in Moshi during Ganpati idol immersion in PuneThe FIR was registered by the Cyber police station on May 13 against a social media handle by the name of ‘Lakhoba Lokhande’ for posting objectionable posts against CM Uddhav Thackeray, Balasaheb Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar. After technical analysis, his identity was established and Limaye was arrested by the cyber cell authorities, an official said.Accordingly, Limaye was charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. The video of the men blackening Limaye’s face later went viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-posting-defamatory-content-sainiks-blacken-his-face-101632128945548.html
20-09-2021||Kolkata||Heaviest September rain in Kolkata in 14 years, large parts of city submerged||Heavy rains, triggered by a cyclonic circulation over Bay of Bengal, lashed Kolkata and its surrounding areas since Sunday night, inundating large parts of the city on Monday and led to suspension of circular rail operation, few long-distance trains getting rescheduled apart from disruptions in road traffic. However, authorities at the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International (NSCBI) airport said that flight services were not affected.The weather department said that it had never rained as much in Kolkata on a single day in September in the last 14 years. Till 8:30 am, Kolkata received around 142 mm rain, the highest since September 25, 2007, when 174 mm rain was recorded.Several areas in the city such as Topsia, Ultadanga, Palmer Bazar, Ballygunge, Mominpur, Jodhpur Park, Chetla and Kalighat recorded more than 100 mm of rain since Sunday night, senior officials of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) said.Meteorologists have issued an orange alert in Kolkata for Monday and a yellow alert for Tuesday. Red alert is the highest category of alert followed by orange and yellow.On Tuesday, the western part of the state along with the coastal district of South 24 Parganas are likely to receive heavy rain.Officials of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional office in Kolkata said that a cyclonic circulation that had developed over the sea moved towards the West Bengal coast, triggering the heavy rain.“The situation is not good. It has been raining heavily since last night. Heavy waterlogging has been reported from several areas. What aggravated matters is that the city’s lock gates, which allow the storm water to drain out, had to be closed from 10:30 am to 3 pm as the high tide was coming in the Hooghly river. This resulted in more water logging,” said Tarak Singh, a member of the KMC’s board of administrators overseeing the drainage and sewerage department.At Lake Gardens in south Kolkata, TMC parliamentarian (MP) Saugata Roy was seen wading through water while taking stock of the situation in his locality. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had to cancel some of its organisational meetings due to the waterlogging.“I woke up and saw that the entire road in front of my house was under knee-deep water. I had two to three programs which I had to cancel,” he added.“There were no reports of any major breaches in river embankments or any untoward incidents from the districts apart from waterlogging. Last week we had to evacuate more than 120,000 people in two districts as river embankments were beached by heavy rains and large areas in Paschim Medinipur and Purba Medinipur were flooded,” said a senior official of the state’s disaster management department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/heavy-rains-lash-kolkata-large-parts-of-city-submerged-101632128285511.html
20-09-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh: Cops say suicide note found in late BJP leader Bhatia's pocket||Late Chhattisgarh minister Rajinder Pal Singh Bhatia left a suicide note wherein he wrote that he was ending his life due to ill health. The 72-year-old BJP leader was found dead at his home in Rajnandgaon district on Sunday evening.Police said the suicide note was found in the senior BJP veteran's pocket. “We got information that former state minister Rajinder Pal Singh Bhatia ended his life by hanging himself at his residence,” Rajnandgaon additional superintendent of police Pragya Meshram was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A suicide note has been found in his pocket. In which, he wrote that he committed suicide due to his health conditions: Rajnandgaon Additional SP Pragya MeshramAccording to reports, the former minister in the first Raman Singh-led BJP government had tested positive for coronavirus in March this year and had since not been keeping well. He was in charge of commerce and industry department as a junior minister.The three-time MLA from Khujji Assembly constituency in Rajnandgaon district had lost his wife a few years ago. He is survived by his son who works at a private hospital in Raipur. Bhatia had rebelled against the BJP in 2013 after being denied an Assembly ticket following which he unsuccessfully contested as an independent candidate from Khujji seat. He later came back to the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-cops-say-suicide-note-found-in-late-bjp-leader-bhatia-s-pocket-101632126663110.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra top cop orders immediate payment of transfer allowance||In a measure that was likely to help at least 180,000 junior cops, Maharashtra director general of police Sanjay Pandey on Sunday ordered all police unit commanders across the state to ensure that policemen transferred to other districts get paid their Transfer Travelling Allowance immediately.Transfer Travelling Allowance is a support fund of maximum ₹25,000, given as advance to police officers who are transferred to other districts. Thousands of police personnel are transferred during annual general transfers every year but the fund to ease their transfer burden is often delayed, defeating its very purpose.“It is observed that when an officer is transferred to another district then he/she immediately requires money to arrange accommodation, manage children’s school fees, spend money on travelling, etc. There is already a provision of immediate sanctioning of advance funds up to the limit of ₹25,000 to a police person so that he/she could manage his/her transfer- related expenses without any additional financial burden. But the processing of the said allowance generally takes a longer time. And as a result, the police personnel are forced to face financial challenges,” DGP Pandey’s order read.Many police personnel don’t even apply for the allowance because of the tedious process, said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity.Taking cognisance of the issue, the top cop has now directed for its immediate release to eligible personnel from the Police Welfare Fund. The unit commanders have been further directed to mention the details of the sanctioned advance in the last salary certificate of the said police officer. The new unit commander of the transferred police officer, in turn, has been directed to deduct the sanctioned advance from the cop’s salary only after three months, and in maximum 10 regular installments.“This is a positive directive issued by the head of the force and will prove beneficial for approximately 180,000-strong constabulary and over 10,000 junior officers across the state,” said another officer, requesting not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-top-cops-orders-immediate-payment-of-transfer-allowance-101632125766065.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||In first remarks as Punjab CM, Charanjit Singh Channi says he is aam aadmi||Charanjit Singh Channi got down to business on Monday soon after being sworn in as the chief minister of Punjab—the first Dalit to hold the top post in the state. In his first comments, Channi focussed on the three central farm laws and said his government is with the farmers in their struggle against the legislation.Calling himself an “aam aadmi” in an apparent dig at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Channi said in this first press conference as the Punjab chief minister that the Congress party has made a common man the CM. “I represent the poor. Aam aadmi's rule has been established,” he said. “The party is supreme, not the CM or the cabinet. The government will work as per the party's ideology,” Channi added.Flanked by senior party leader Harish Rawat and Congress’ Punjab unit chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Channi said, “All outstanding electricity bills of the poor will be waived and their electricity connections will be restored.” “An 18-point agenda will be implemented one by one,” he promised.Also read | Why will Charanjit Singh Channi have two deputies? Harish Rawat explainsThe 58-year-old Channi, who succeeded Amarinder Singh as the 16th chief minister of Punjab, praised him. “Captain Amarinder Singh did a lot of good work for the people of Punjab. We will take forward his work,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Charanjit Singh Channi soon after he was sworn in as Punjab chief minister and said the Centre will continue to work with his government. "Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji on being sworn in as Punjab's Chief Minister. Will continue to work with the Punjab government for the betterment of the people of Punjab,” Modi tweeted.Also read | Mayawati says Congress yet to trust Dalits fully as Channi becomes Punjab CMCharanjit Singh Channi was sworn in as chief minister of Punjab along with Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni as his deputies by Governor Banwarilal Purohit at a ceremony held at the Raj Bhavan. Channi took oath in Punjabi. Prominent among those who were present at the oath-taking ceremony were Rahul Gandhi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Amarinder Singh, who resigned as the chief minister two days ago, skipped the ceremony.Channi has been appointed the Punjab chief minister with less than six months to go before the assembly polls in the state. Experts have said his appointment will allow the party to play the Dalit card in the upcoming elections in the state, which has an estimated 30 per cent of the population belonging to the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-first-remarks-as-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-says-he-is-aam-aadmi-101632125074629.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Time will tell my side of story: Sonu Sood tweets amid I-T raids||“You don’t have to always tell your side of the story. Time will,” actor Sonu Sood tweeted against the backdrop of the income tax raids at his premises and the department’s claim that the actor and his associates were involved ₹20 crore tax evasion and violation of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) while raising funds from abroad. The department carried out marathon searches at the actor’s premises for three consecutive days last week, suspecting huge tax evasion. On Monday, the actor posted in Hindi from his Twitter handle, “Sakht Rahon me bhi asaan safar lagta hai, Har Hindustani ki duaaon ka asar lagta hai (It must be the blessings of every Indian that the journey seems easy even in tough times).” Another of his post reads, “You don’t always have to tell your side of the story. Time will. I have pledged myself to the service of the people of India with all my strength and heart. Every rupee in my foundation is awaiting its turn to save a precious life and reach the needy. In addition, on many occasions, I have encouraged brands to donate my endorsement fees for humanitarian causes too, which keeps us going.Also Watch |  ₹20 crore tax evasion by Sonu Sood & associates: Income Tax Dept’s chargeI have been busy attending to a few guests hence was unable to be at your service, for the last 4 days. Here I am back again in all humility. At your humble service, for life. My journey continues... Sonu Sood.”In just two hours, the tweet got 22,000 likes and about 4,300 users retweeted it. The actor has 9.3million followers on Twitter. He has posted a similar statement on his Instagram and Facebook accounts where he has 13.7mililion and 18million followers respectively. On Instagram, his post was liked by 380,000 users, while on Facebook his post received over 43,000 likes by 12noon.The actor and his charity works were praised nationally after he arranged free transport through rail, air and road for migrant workers trying to reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown last year to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Sood recently became an ambassador of AAP’s mentorship programme meant for students. The I-T department, since September 16, has raided 28 premises belonging to Sood, his foundation, associates and a Lucknow-based real estate group in Mumbai, Lucknow, Delhi, Kanpur, Jaipur and Gurugram, during which they allegedly found incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion. The agency has claimed that Sood routed his “unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities”. “Investigations so far have revealed the use of 20 such entries, the providers of which, on examination, have accepted on oath to have given bogus accommodation entries. They have accepted to have issued cheques in lieu of cash. There have been instances where professional receipts have been camouflaged as loans in the books of accounts for the purpose of evasion of tax. It has also been revealed that these bogus loans have been used for making investments and acquiring properties,” the CBDT said in a statement, adding that total tax evasion amounts to more than ₹20 crore, so far. Subsequently, the I-T department also alleged violation of the FCRA by the Sood Charity Foundation, a non-profit charity organisation established during the peak of the Covid-19 outbreak last year. According to the department, Sood’s organisation collected donations worth ₹18.94 crore since April 1, 2021. Of this, around ₹1.9 crore has been spent so far on various relief work, while the remaining ₹17 crore is lying unutilised in the bank account of the foundation, it added. “It is seen that funds to the tune of ₹2.1 crore have also been raised by the charity foundation from overseas donors on a crowdfunding platform in violation of FCRA regulations,” the CBDT statement said. AAP leaders, including Delhi CM Kejriwal, too have tweeted in support of the 48-year-old actor. Shiv Sena has also supported the actor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/time-will-tell-my-side-of-story-sonu-sood-tweets-amid-i-t-raids-101632125645516.html
20-09-2021||Pune||Two drown in Moshi during Ganpati idol immersion in Pune||Two men drowned in Moshi on Sunday out of a group of four who entered the Indrayani river in Moshi area of Pimpri Chinchwad for Ganpati immersion. The deceased were identified as Datta Abasaheb Thombre (20), and Prajwal Raghunath Kale (18). The men, belonging to the same family, lived in Mauli Vasti area of Dudulgaon. They entered the river along with two others, Shivaji Arjun Thombre(30) and Nitin Arjun Thombre (39), said Manish Kalyankar, senior police inspector of Bhosari MIDC police station.Also Read | ACB sleuths arrest two for forcibly transferring ₹50k to Haveli tehsildar’s accountPolice found Kale’s body while the search is on for Datta Thombre’s body.Meanwhile, the immersion of the five most revered idols of Ganpati in Pune ended at 1.17pm on Sunday.The other important idols took slightly longer and the immersion ended at 6.38pm. “Home immersions and community immersions were on till around 10-10.30pm,” said Priyanka Narnavare, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1 of Pune Police. Zone 1 consists of the old Pune area which has all major installations that draw major crowds during the 10-day festival.“There was dhol playing near Tulshibaug Ganpati. We went there and seized their dhols and ensured they did not play all day. That was the only incident. We have not registered any cases so far,” said DCP Narnavare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-drown-in-moshi-during-ganpati-idol-immersion-in-pune-101632124865167.html
20-09-2021||Kolkata||Trains delayed, roads submerged as heavy rain pounds Kolkata; commuters stuck||Torrential rain threw normal life out of gear in Kolkata and its neighbouring districts in West Bengal on Monday. Since it was the first working day of the week, the impact was felt by a lot of people.HT Bangla, Hindustan Times' sister publication, reported that the rain started after midnight, which led to accumulation of water on train tracks. The result: Train services are running late. There is waterlogging in Howrah-Tikiapara car shed, according to HT Bangla.The trains are running very slow on tracks, and there are indications that some of the services could be cancelled, HT Bangla reported. As the car shed is almost under water, it is very difficult to take the rakes out, the publication reported quoting railway officials.Similar scenes are being witnessed near the Sealdah station too.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast more downpour for at least another day."Due to movement of cyclonic circulation from north-west Bay of Bengal to Gangetic West Bengal and strong moisture incursion, heavy rainfall is occurring over Kolkata and adjoining North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Purba Medinipur," regional Met director GK Das said.More than 100 mm rain was recorded at different places in the city from 1am to 7am, submerging many important thoroughfares and low-lying areas under knee-deep water, it said.The other places which recorded heavy precipitation are Canning (113 mm) in South 24 Parganas, Salt Lake (112.8 mm) and Dum Dum (95 mm) in the northern outskirts of Kolkata, as per the Met department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/trains-delayed-streets-submerged-as-heavy-rain-pounds-kolkata-commuters-stuck-101632123966282.html
20-09-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli flashfloods: Labourers rescued before their 15 tents washed away||Flashfloods in a local water stream swept away about 15 tents of labourers of Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in Narainbagar area of Chamoli district, 240 kms from Dehradun in the early hours on Monday. However, the labourers and their families had already been rescued by the villagers so there was no loss of life, said officials. Also Read | Delhi govt names two roads in Patparganj after personalities from UttarakhandAccording to district disaster management officer Nandkishor Joshi, the incident occurred at around 5.30am while the labourers were still in their tents. “Due to heavy rains, the water level in the local stream flowing near the tents rose. Hearing the gushing sound of water, alert villagers living nearby rescued the labourers before the tents were swept away by the flashflood,” he said. “No life was lost but the Karnprayag-Gwaldam road is blocked by the debris brought by the flashflood. Efforts are on to clear it for traffic,” said Joshi. Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said, “The local administration is carrying out rescue operation in the area to provide all help to the affected people. Fortunately, no lives were lost in the incident.” The Dehradun Centre of India Meteorological Department had issued a warning of heavy rains on Monday in Dehradun, Pauri Garhwal, Nainital, Almora and Pithoragarh districts with intense spells in some isolated places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-flashfloods-labourers-rescued-before-their-15-tents-washed-away-101632124145188.html
20-09-2021||Patna||Tribals lynched middle-aged person in Bihar accusing him to be sorcerer||A middle-aged tribal man was lynched late Saturday night by fellow tribal men in front of family members at a tribal village in Kaimur wildlife sanctuary in Bihar over suspicion that he was a sorcerer, police said. The body of Madan Oraon, 45, was recovered a day later on Sunday evening following the arrest of 6 out of the nine accused.Deceased’s wife Sudeshwari Devi has named nine co-villagers for her husband’s murder. Surendra Oraon, Mahendra Oraon, Ajay Oraon, Rampati Oraon, Sushil Oraon and Pankaj Oraon have been arrested, while police raids continue to arrest the other three, Parikha Oraon, Dharmendra Oraon and Birendra Oraon, superintendent of police, Rakesh Kumar said on Monday.The accused armed with axes and other traditional weapons attacked Madan Oraon late Saturday night at his house, accusing him of being a sorcerer, who they alleged to be responsible for prolonged ailments and deaths in their families.They locked Oraon’s family members in a room when they resisted and tried to raise an alarm. After this, they killed the man in a brutal assault before burying him in the village crematorium.After the killers left, the victim’s family members lodged a complaint at Adhaura police station. Police managed to arrest six accused and recover the deceased’s body on their identification. Two country-made guns, axe and other weapons used in the murder were recovered from their possession, police said.Fear and faith in witchcraft and black magic is still very common, especially in the tribal regions falling under the Kaimur wildlife sanctuary on Kaimur plateau.On the night of August 24, a street hawker killed his pregnant wife and two children with a farming spade at Sondihara village under Bhabua police station limits because he didn’t appreciate her proximity to so-called sorcerers, police had said.Last year, some people branded a 70-year-old tribal widow a bitch and chopped off her tongue at the remote hilly Rediya village under Tilothu police station limits.A year ago, a 65-year-old tribal woman from Sorha village under Adhaura police station limits was killed in front of her husband over suspicion that she practiced witchcraft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tribals-lynched-middle-aged-person-in-bihar-accusing-him-to-be-sorcerer-101632123845338.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar’s nephew Ajay Vir quits as Punjab farmers’ commission chief||With the change in guard in Punjab on Monday, Ajay Vir Jakhar, the nephew of former state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, announced his decision to quit as chairperson of the Punjab State Farmers Commission (PSFC). In a tweet, he announced that he is resigning “due to the changed circumstances in the state”. Also read: Sunil Jakhar ‘baffled’ by Harish Rawat’s ‘Sidhu to lead Punjab polls’ statement Ajay refused to comment further or elaborate on the circumstances that led to his decision. A progressive farmer from Maujgarh village in Fazilka, Ajay is the grandson of former Lok Sabha Speaker Balram Jakhar and belongs to Abohar in Punjab. Ajay was appointed chief of the farmers’ commission by Captain Amarinder Singh in April 2017 soon after the Congress came to power. While Balram Jakhar was a veteran Congress leader who served as the Lok Sabha Speaker for two terms, his son and Ajay’s father, Sajjan Kumar Jakhar, remained a state minister. Ajay’s announcement came minutes after his uncle Sunil posted a tweet objecting to AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat’s statement that the 2022 elections next year will be fought under the leadership of state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Sunil Jakhar termed the statement baffling and claimed that it undermines the authority of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Under Ajay Vir’s command, the Punjab State Farmers Commission had drafted a farmers’ policy and submitted it to the state government in 2018. But the Captain government kept the report, aimed at strengthening the farm sector and improving the income of agriculturists of Punjab, pending for nearly three years. Ajay is the chairperson of a non-government organisation (NGO), Bharat Krishak Samaj, that was founded by Balram Jakhar in 1955.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sunil-jakhar-s-nephew-ajay-vir-quits-as-punjab-farmers-commission-chief-101632122765117.html
20-09-2021||Jaipur||4 killed in head-on collision between bus and truck in Rajasthan||Four persons were killed in a head-on collision between a bus and a truck in Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar district on Sunday night. The truck driver and three bus passengers were killed, but at least 21 other bus passengers managed to get out of the bus before it caught fire after the crash, police said.Both the vehicles caught fire after the collision which occurred in Anupgarh police station area. Sub Inspector Ram Singh said four charred bodies have been recovered from the accident site.Police said the injured were pulled out by breaking the glass of the bus and taken to the district government hospital.The private bus had left from Anupgarh for Jaisalmer with around 25 passengers. On Ghadsana road it collided with a truck coming from the opposite direction. The collision was so powerful that both the vehicles caught fire after the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/4-killed-in-head-on-collision-between-bus-and-truck-in-rajasthan-101632120965117.html
20-09-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru Police arrest 1 for alleged espionage activities||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) in Bengaluru on Monday said it had arrested one person in connection with espionage activities in which this individual is suspected to have taken pictures of sensitive installations and shared them with foreign agencies. “On information of military intelligence, CCB traced and arrested one accused who took photos of vital installations, defence establishments and shared them with foreign agencies,” Joint Commissioner of Police (CCB) Sandeep Patil said in a statement. Also Read | Rajasthan LPG distributor arrested on charges of espionageThe accused is a native of Rajasthan and a case has been filed under the Official Secrets Act and Indian Penal Code, the official said. The photos were allegedly taken in other states and not Karnataka. Though the modus operandi of the accused remains unclear or the location from where the photos were taken, a city like Bengaluru has several defence establishments. Bengaluru is home to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, labs of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), National Aerospace Laboratories and even the headquarters of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) among other public and private establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-police-arrest-1-for-alleged-espionage-activities-101632120665047.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police scan CCTV footage of suburbs to nab 3 thieves||Samta Nagar police in Kandivli used the network of close circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed across the suburbs and traced three women who allegedly stole a gold mangalsutra of a 38-year-old Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus commuter from her purse on September 15. The police had to scan footage of over 150 CCTV cameras from Ghatkopar to Kandivli and then to Bhandup via Powai to nab the three women, who are sisters. According to the police, the complainant – Rohini Chandrakant Akhade – was travelling from Ghatkopar on a BEST bus last week. When she got off at Kandivli station bus stop, she noticed that the chain of her purse was open and her mangalsutra was missing.Akhade, a home maker, then lodged a police complaint against an unidentified thief.Also Read | BJP leader Kirit Somaiya detained at railway station ahead of Kolhapur visitThe police began to scan the footages of CCTV cameras installed along the bus route from Ghatkopar to Kandivli.“At Thakur Complex, we noticed three women alighting from the bus and then taking a rickshaw,” said senior inspector Anandrao Hanke from Samta Nagar police station.“As they seemed suspicious, the officers followed the route of the rickshaw through the CCTV recordings and noticed that it was plying towards Powai. We then tracked down the rickshaw driver using the vehicle’s number plate. The driver informed us that he had dropped off the three women at Bhandup. On getting the location of the drop off, our officers then pulled up the recordings of the CCTV cameras of the area and saw the three women disappear in a chawl,” said Hanke.The police then took the CCTV grab and circulated it around the locality and managed to trace the house of one of the accused – 55-year-old Anusuya Gaikwad, Hanke added.Gaikwad revealed that her sisters – Marubai Gaikwad, 50, and Baby Gaikwad, 52, were her other accomplices. The police arrested the three for theft under section 379 of the Indian Penal Code and recovered Akhade’s mangalsutra, worth ₹2.5 lakh.Investigating officers said that the accused have been committing thefts in local trains and buses from a long time. “While one of the women starts a conversation with their target, the other two open the chain of the commuter’s purse and steal valuables. The middle-aged women did not create any suspicion as they used to get friendly with their targets by pretending to be helpless and seeking help from fellow commuters,” said Hanke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-scan-cctv-footage-across-half-of-mumbai-to-nab-3-female-thieves-101632119164915.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi likely to attend oath-taking ceremony of new Punjab CM||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to attend the oath-taking ceremony of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister of Punjab on Monday, party sources said.Channi, who is set to take oath at 11 am, paid obeisance at a gurdwara in Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district on Monday morning. He will be the first Dalit to hold the post in the state.The Congress on Sunday picked Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab.After having picked Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab, the Congress is likely to pick two senior leaders from the state as Deputy CMs.A tweet from senior Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal, who is AICC treasurer, revealed the names of two senior leaders and outgoing ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh's cabinet -- Brahm Mohindra and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa -- as the party's choice for the Deputy chief minister's posts.While Mohindra is the Hindu face of the party, Randhawa is the Jat face.Mohindra was considered a close confidant of former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.“Heartiest congratulations to @Charanjit channi for elevation as#PunjabCM and@Brahm Mohindra & @Sukhjinder INC as Dy CMs. Best wishes for their grand success in the services of Punjab under the leadership of Smt. Sonia Gandhi and Sh @ Rahul Gandhi,” Bansal, a former MP from Chandigarh, tweeted.Channi on Sunday had met Governor Banwarilal Purohit to stake claim to the top job in the poll-bound state soon after being elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party.Amarinder Singh was nudged into quitting ostensibly over his “failure” to fulfil the promises made by the party in the 2017 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rahul-gandhi-likely-to-attend-oath-taking-ceremony-of-new-punjab-cm-101632114355028.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhjinder Randhawa, OP Soni sworn in as Punjab deputy CMs||Punjab Congress leaders Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were sworn in as the two deputies to Charanjit Singh Channi, who took oath as the 16th chief minister of the state in Chandigarh on Monday. Also read: Channi prays at historic gurdwara before taking oath as Punjab’s first Dalit CMOutgoing chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who submitted his resignation to Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday following months of differences with Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, skipped Channi’s swearing-in ceremony. Channi and Randhawa were among the four cabinet ministers who had rebelled against Capt Amarinder. Soni was also a minister in the cabinet. On Sunday, Channi was unanimously elected leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab after a day of hectic parleys and feedback gathering by AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary. After the announcement of the new chief minister, Rawat had said that there will be two deputy chief ministers in the state. “One deputy chief minister will be from the Jat Sikh community and the other will be from the Hindu community,” he said. Senior party leader and former Chandigarh MP Pawan Kumar Bansal had even congratulated Mohindra on his appointment as deputy CM on Twitter on Sunday. “Heartiest congratulations to Charanjit Singh Channi for elevation as Punjab CM and Brahm Mohindra and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa as Dy CMs. Best wishes for their grand success in the service of Punjab under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/brahm-mohindra-sukhjinder-randhawa-to-be-punjab-deputy-cms-101632113344458.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar ‘baffled’ by Harish Rawat's ‘Sidhu to lead Punjab polls’ statement||Senior Congress leader and former Punjab unit president Sunil Jakhar took to Twitter on Monday to claim he was baffled by state in-charge Harish Rawat’s statement that election in the state would be led by Navjot Singh Sidhu. Stating that Rawat’s announcement coming on the day Charanjit Singh Channi was slated to take oath as the new chief minister could undermine the latter’s authority while also justify his selection for the position.“On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr Rawats’s statement that “elections will be fought under Sidhu”, is baffling. It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection for this position,” Jakhar wrote on the microblogging site. Punjab is set to see Assembly election in the next few months.Also read | Channi prays at historic gurdwara before taking oath as Punjab’s first Dalit CMOn Sunday, the Congress selected Charanjit Singh Channi for the chief minister’s chair, making him the first Dalit to hold the post in the state, a day after Amarinder Singh resigned following a bitter months-long power tussle in the party.One of the frontrunners for the CM’s post, Jakhar had put out another cryptic tweet hours before Singh put in his papers. He applauded former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who is likely to attend Channi’s swearing-in ceremony, for his “bold leadership decision” to bring an end to the leadership crisis within the party’s state unit.Using analogies of the “Gordian knot” and “Alexandrian solution”, Jakhar said the latest move had not only enthralled Congress workers, but also “sent shudders down the spines of Akalis”.Also read | Charanjit Singh Channi appointment doesn’t hurt Sidhu’s CM prospects in Punjab“Kudos to Shri Rahul Gandhi for adopting Alexandrian solution to this Punjabi version of Gordian knot. Surprisingly, this bold leadership decision to resolve Punjab Congress imbroglio has not enthralled Congress workers but has sent shudders down the spines of Akalis,” he wrote.According to reports, the veteran politician has declined the offer of becoming Channi’s deputy. Punjab is set to have two deputy chief ministers. Even before Channi’s name was announced on Sunday, it was decided that the new Cabinet will have two deputy chief ministers. An ANI report claimed that one will be Hindu and the other will be a Sikh.Rawat had said the decision to appoint two deputy chief ministers in Punjab was taken as it was felt necessary. "Our mutual feeling is that there should be two deputy CMs. Soon we will take a call on it along with names for the Council of Ministers...Some names have been discussed but it's the CM's prerogative who discusses it with party high command and takes a call," he was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sunil-jakhar-baffled-by-harish-rawat-s-sidhu-to-lead-punjab-polls-statement-101632112228699.html
20-09-2021||Patna||Session to improve nutrition in Bihar, which has highest child mortality rate||The Bihar child rights protection commission is busy explaining the nutritional values of fruits, vegetables and rice starch to mothers and children during the ongoing ‘Poshan Maah’, or the month of nutrition in a state where the neonatal mortality rate is the highest in the country at 34.5, as per a Central government report.The commission held an interactive session a couple of days ago with a large number of women and children gathered in Patna district’s Anganwadi centres, explaining how to improve nutrition levels and physical fitness of children.As per the National Family and Health Survey (NFHS)-5 released in 2020, compared to Bihar’s neonatal mortality rate of 34.5, it was just 3.4 in Kerala. Even in not so developed states such as West Bengal, it stood at 15.5, less than half of Bihar’s figure. The neonatal rate is the number of newborns dying within 28- days per 1,000 births in an assessment year.Even the infant mortality rate-- the number of infants dying within one year of birth per 1,000 deliveries in a given year-- is at 46.8 in Bihar, the highest in the country. In comparison, Kerala’s infant mortality rate is 4.4, West Bengal has 22 and Gujarat has 31.8, as per NFHS-5.Bihar also has the embarrassing distinction of being the state with the highest mortality rate of children under five years of age at 56.4, compared to Kerala’s 5.2, Bengal’s 25.4, and Gujarat’s 37.6. As per the report, the problem is almost as severe in urban areas of the state with a 50 mortality rate compared to 57.4 in rural areas.“There’s an urgent need to improve the physical health of children. To get the desired results, we need to make their mothers aware about nutrition and proper diet. We explained to the women how important it is to make children eat nutritional food like fruits and vegetables,” Pramila Kumari, the Child Rights Protection Commission chairperson, said.Women were also told about inexpensive and easily available fruits and other high nutrition value food options. “They need not worry about costly fruits. Even the rice starch, which is easily available, has a high nutrition level and can be used for physical fitness,” she said.Besides, women were also explained the importance of breastfeeding and bottle-free rearing of kids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/session-to-improve-nutrition-in-bihar-which-has-highest-child-mortality-rate-101632110764414.html
20-09-2021||Other||Former Chhattisgarh minister found dead; suicide suspected||Former Chhattisgarh minister and senior BJP leader Rajinder Pal Singh Bhatia was found dead at his residence in Rajnandgaon district on Sunday.Police officials said Bhatia, 72, was found hanging on Sunday evening and police are investigating if it was a case of death by suicide. They are also yet to confirm if a suicide note was recovered from the site.According to BJP leaders, Bhatia tested positive for Covid-19 in March this year and was not keeping well even after recovering from it.Also Read | In Chhattisgarh, the Congress leadership impasse refuses to endA three-time MLA from Khujji assembly constituency of the district, Bhatia was the minister of state for commerce and industry in the first BJP government led by chief minister Raman Singh.In 2013, he revolted against the party for being denied an assembly ticket and unsuccessfully contested as an independent candidate from Khujji seat during the state polls. However, he had later rejoined the party.His wife died a few years ago and his only son, Jagjeet Singh Bhatia, is in the management of a private hospital in Raipur, they said. (With PTI inputs)Help is just a call away: Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-chhattisgarh-minister-found-dead-suicide-suspected-101632109264477.html
20-09-2021||Patna||UP Police raid Bihar locations in search of NEET solver gang mastermind||UP police on Sunday raided multiple locations in Bihar in search of Nilesh Singh alias PK, said to be mastermind of the solver gang involved in NEET exam. They had also detained one person from Mussalahpur haat under Sultanganj police station.“UP police raided PK’s house in Patiputra area but he had already escaped. It emerged that he had introduced himself as a doctor in the locality,” a police official said.Also Read | Vice President to be chief guest at 2nd RPCAU convocationHe said, “The police also raided his house at his native Sendhwa village in Chapra but PK wasn’t there either. In his village, he was known as a businessman. Investigation revealed that the solver gang purchased SIM cards for a week on fake documents,” he added.Station house officer, Digha police station, Rajesh Kumar Sinha confirmed the UP Police raids.Meanwhile, the police have arrested six persons so far, including a mother-daughter duo from Patna. The UP police caught Juli last Sunday from St Francis Xavier School under Sarnath police station in Varanasi when she was appearing in NEET examination instead of Heena Biswas while her mother was held later. A fake Aadhar card, answer sheet of NEET exam-2021, admit card, photograph, two mobile phones and other documents were recovered from them. An FIR was lodged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/uppolice-raid-bihar-locations-in-search-of-neet-solver-gang-mastermind-101632108244222.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||No rain, expect cloudy skies in Delhi today: IMD||Delhi is likely to experience cloudy skies on Monday as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasts no rain for the day. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 35°C. The maximum temperature was 34.4°C on Sunday and the minimum temperature 26°C.Independent weather experts also said monsoon has behaved odd this season. From dry spells to intense rain, it has been oscillating from one extreme to another, and may result in the city having one of the wettest monsoons in many years.Also Read | Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel in Delhi today; to meet President, PM ModiDelhi recorded its wettest monsoon since 1964, with the total rain this season crossing 1160mm last week -- yet another landmark in the city that has been reporting at least one weather extreme for the past 14 months.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6am stood at 75. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 82, which is in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in satisfactory category today as predicted by SAFAR due to local dust resuspension and moderate ventilation, and it will degrade but will remain in satisfactory category for next three days due to similar weather condition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-rain-expect-cloudy-skies-in-delhi-todayimd-101632106804331.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Channi prays at historic gurdwara before taking oath as Punjab’s first Dalit CM||Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi, 58, who will be taking oath as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister in Chandigarh at 11am on Monday began his big day by paying obeisance at the Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib in his Chamkaur Sahib constituency. Outgoing chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is unlikely to attend the swearing-in ceremony of his successor. Also read: Charanjit Singh Channi to take oath as Punjab chief minister today: 10 pointsChanni, who was the technical education and employment generation minister in the Capt Amarinder Singh cabinet, drove from his house in Kharar town in Mohali district along with his family to the historic gurdwara, the main shrine at Chamkaur Sahib, around 6am. The gurdwara marks the site where the fiercest hand to hand fight took place on December 7, 1704, between the Mughal army and the Sikhs, including the Sahibzadas and three of the original Panj Pyare. The two sons of Guru Gobind Singh, Ajit Singh and Jujhar Singh, attained martyrdom during the Battle of Chamkaur. The CM-designate sought the blessings of a religious leader, Sant Ram Singh Ji ,by visiting his dera at Daphera Sri Ganduan Sahib along with his family and Congress leaders Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Kulbir Singh Zira.Channi, a three-time MLA, stays in a joint family along with his four brothers in Kharar near Chandigarh. Incidentally, the family was celebrating the engagement of his elder son on Sunday when he was unanimously chosen as the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader after a day of hectic parleys and flip-flops at the Punjab Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-prays-at-historic-gurdwara-before-taking-oath-as-punjab-s-first-dalit-cm-101632106564526.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya detained at railway station ahead of Kolhapur visit||Kirit Somaiya, a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Lok Sabha member, was detained early on Monday at Karad railway station in Maharashtra’s Satara district and later taken to the Circuit House by Mumbai Police.Somaiya was scheduled to Kolhapur later in the day to prove his allegations of corruption against minister Hasan Mushrif, an MLA from Kagal in the western Maharashtra district.#WATCH | Maharashtra: BJP leader Kirit Somaiya detained at Karad Railway Station in Satara districtSomaiya was expected to visit Kohlapur today. Kolhapur Dist Collector had issued prohibitory orders against him & imposed Section 144, prohibiting gatherings on September 20 & 21. pic.twitter.com/3fI42IU53yThe Kolhapur district collector had issued prohibitory orders against him and imposed restrictions under Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code, prohibiting gatherings on September 20 and 21.Collector Rahul Rekhawar said Somaiya had been prohibited from entering the district "in view of the threat to his life and possibility of law and order situation due to his visit".Also read | After Kirit Somaiya’s plaint, Shiv Sena’s Milind Narvekar razes part of his bungalowOn Sunday, the former MP alleged that he was detained at his residence in Mumbai. Hitting out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government, he wanted to know who had given orders to restrict his movement beyond Mumbai.In a tweet, he said the Thackeray government was indulging in ‘dadagiri’ (highhandedness) and putting curbs on his movement even within Mumbai. He added Mulund police, under whose jurisdiction his Mumbai residence fell, wanted to arrest him but did not have a warrant or order in this regard."Thackeray Sarkar Dadagiri, Notice is for Kolhapur District NO ENTRY, but not allowing Me to move out from My House. Not allowing to go for Ganesh Visarjan. Mulund Police wants to ARREST Me, but No Warrant, No Order...it's total illegal," he wrote.Somaiya has alleged Mushrif, a minister for rural development, amassed massive wealth through 'benami' entities in the name of his kin, allegations dismissed as baseless by the latter.He also said the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was laundering money to the tune of ₹127 crore following which Mushrif threatened to file a defamation suit against the former seeking at least ₹100 crore in damages.Meanwhile, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil called the move "dictatorial" and said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government would not be able to stifle Somaiya's voice. He said the BJP and Somaiya would take these corruption cases to their logical end.Somaiya had earlier levelled allegations of money laundering against cabinet ministers Chhagan Bhujbal and Anil Parab.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-leader-kirit-somaiya-detained-at-rly-station-ahead-of-visit-to-kolhapur-101632104027262.html
20-09-2021||Mumbai||5 boys drown during Ganpati immersion in Mumbai, 2 rescued: BMC||Out of the five boys, who drowned in the sea at Versova Jetty while immersing Ganesh idol, two were rescued while three are still missing, said Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday.The two boys were rescued by the locals and sent to Cooper Hospital, while search and rescue operations by Mumbai fire brigade for the remaining three is underway, said BMC."In an unfortunate turn of events, 05 boys who ventured into the sea for Ganesh idol immersion, reportedly drowned at Versova Jetty. 02 boys were rescued by locals and sent to Cooper Hospital while the rescue operation for remaining three is still on by fire brigade," BMC tweeted on Sunday."This was not a designated immersion point. We had restricted people. However, they mischievously entered for Ganpati immersion," said Manoj Waman Pohanekar, a police officer at Versova police station.Chief fire officer of the Mumbai fire brigade in an official statement said that aid of Navy divers and police boat has been requested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-boys-drown-during-ganpati-immersion-in-mumbai-2-rescued-bmc-101632097884696.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hundreds ‘pedal for peace’ in Srinagar||At least 1,000 people, mostly youth, participated in a cycle race – Pedal for Peace – in Srinagar on Sunday.Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and Director General of Police Dilbag Singh were part of the event. “Sports can unite people, create hope for a better tomorrow and a brighter future. The youth who are participating today are the epitome of the power of that change and with the efforts of Jammu Kashmir Police, they are becoming champions not only in sports but in their life too,” said L-G Sinha during the award ceremony at the Police Golf Course.A government spokesperson said that around 1,000 cyclists, including professionals, participated in the seven different categories of the event organised by the Jammu and Kashmir Police in collaboration with J&K Cycling Association.The L-G lauded the Jammu and Kashmir Police for holding a host of youth-centric programmes to engage youth in constructive activities.“When hundreds of young boys and girls participate in sports activities, they not only indulge in healthy competition, but also emerge as ambassadors of peace, prosperity and brotherhood. It leads to the creation of a society that is free from the feeling of fear, insecurity and discrimination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hundreds-pedal-for-peace-in-srinagar-101632093783832.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||1-crore Covid vaccine doses administered in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir has administered one crore cumulative Covid vaccines, including first and second doses, till September 18, officials said on Sunday. The number means that the Union Territory has vaccinated about 77% of the above-18 (or adult) population with either one or both doses.“J&K achieved a new milestone in Covid vaccination. Total doses administered has crossed the one-crore mark. It’s a momentous feat. Kudos to the medical fraternity for its tireless efforts,” J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said. The official figures reveal that the UT has vaccinated 92.3 lakh citizens above 18 years till September 18, besides around 5.69 lakh field-level workers and 1.89 lakh healthcare workers.Dr Ashiq Rashid Mir, surveillance medical officer, WHO, Kashmir division and Ladakh, applauded the healthcare workers for the feat.“Special mention to those ground workers who have been vaccinating without off-days including Sundays, gazetted holidays (or) festivals, and (going) door-to-door and at odd hours. They have sacrificed a lot, especially their family time. Your work has been extraordinary,” he said.The highest percentage of vaccinated people was in Samba (100%) followed by Ramban (88.5%), Reasi (87.3%) and Poonch (87.1%). The districts with lowest percentage are Kishtwar, Anantnag and Srinagar with 66.9 %, 67.8% and 68.4%, respectively. Owing to the increasing number of cases in Srinagar district coupled with low percentage of vaccination, the experts are urging people to go for vaccines.“It’s high time to decide now whether to wear a face mask and vaccinate or later face the risk of hospitalisation and ventilator support. Please follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and also get vaccinated. Why to be in minority who risk their lives for unscientific reasoning,” said Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, head of community medicine department and Covid in-charge at the Srinagar government medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-jk-101632093603418.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cap on gatherings relaxed in J&K districts with fewer Covid cases||After a review of Covid pandemic situation, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday increased the number of people allowed to attend gatherings in banquet halls to 50 for vaccinated persons and reduced the night curfew by three hours in districts with low weekly cases and positivity rate. The review of the Covid situation was conducted under the chairmanship of chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta along with other officials on Friday and an order on Covid containment measures was issued on Sunday.The order reiterated that there was a need to continue with the existing Covid containment measures in all the districts “in view of the uneven trend observed in daily Covid cases”.“The maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering will continue to be restricted to 25. However in banquet halls in districts with positivity rate below 0.2% and weekly caseload below 250, gathering will be permitted up to enhanced limit of 50 for vaccinated persons,” it said.Like previous week, there will be no weekend curfew in any district and the night curfew will continue to remain in force from 8pm to 7am.“But for those districts with positivity rate below 0.2% and weekly caseload below 250, it would be from 10pm to 6am,” it said.168 cases reported in J&KJammu and Kashmir recorded 168 fresh coronavirus infections on Sunday.There were 153 cases in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 15 infections. The summer capital Srinagar, which is witnessing an increase in cases, saw the highest count of 92 infections.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 154 with active cases reaching 1,493. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 795 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 134 and 135 active cases, respectively. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,22,032, prompting the recovery rate to mount up to 98.19%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3, 27,941 and the death toll stands at 4,416.The officials said that 54,342 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.Officials said with 92 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 20 cases in Baramulla. As many as 16 other districts had no or single-digit cases.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,143 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 838 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cap-on-gatherings-relaxed-in-j-k-districts-with-fewer-covid-cases-101632093363433.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t lower your guards, J&K L-G urges Srinagar people||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday urged the people of Srinagar to follow precautions against Covid as 50%  of the daily cases in the UT were being contributed by the summer capital.The L-G cautioned the people saying that if they don’t follow the SOPs, the administration might resort to change the measures which so far had been towards normalisation.“Of all the new Covid-19 positive cases, half of them are coming from Srinagar district. I would humbly request that we are trying for more and more vaccinations and you please cooperate in this,” Sinha said during a public function in Srinagar.He said they would have to change the measures if things start looking grim.“If we don’t follow SOPs then God forbid the same (past) situation might come (at a time) when all the things have become normal and we have to bring the change again,” he added.He made fervent appeals to people to be cautious. “I request you with folded hands, all of you are educated and bright, please follow SOPs and urge others like your neighbours and relatives to follow SOPs. It is a bigger social service,” he said.For the past 10 days, the summer capital Srinagar has recorded a minimum of 41 and a maximum of 96 daily cases while the daily cases in the entire J&K in these 10 days ranged between 86 and 173.Between September 9 and 18, the Union Territory saw 1,463 cases of which 706 reported in Srinagar alone.Out of 1,479 active cases across J&K, Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 773 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 144 and 135 active cases, respectively till September 18.Srinagar is the second affected district in terms of fatalities with 838 deaths owing to the Covid. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,143 fatalities.Earlier this week, Srinagar DC Ajaz Asad had said the district had 88 containment zones.“Currently, we have 88 containment zones in Srinagar, 22 of which were added in the past one week. Due to special congregations, there has been a spike in the cases from certain areas or pockets of the city,” he had said.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3, 27,773 and the death toll stands at 4,416.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-lower-your-guards-j-k-l-g-urges-srinagar-people-101632093123390.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||President Kovind accorded warm send-off in Shimla||President of India Ram Nath Kovind was on Sunday accorded a warm send-off at Annadale helipad in Shimla after his four-day sojourn in the state. Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, speaker of the HP Vidhan Sabha Vipin Singh Parmar, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Shimla mayor Satya Kaundal, Army Commander Lt General, ARTRAC, Raj Shukla, chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh, DGP Sanjay Kundu, Shimla DC Aditya Negi and SP Monika Bhatungru were among those present. The President of India was also presented a photo album comprising a collection of photographs during the visit by the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/president-kovind-accorded-warm-send-off-in-shimla-101632092823319.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP: 2 infants found dead in Mandi nullah||Bodies of two baby girls were recovered from a nullah in busy Mandi town, police said on Sunday. A passerby had informed the police that he spotted two bodies under a bridge on the Suhada nullah. Cops, who first responded to the alert, said they found froth around the babies’ mouths. The police have sent the bodies for postmortem examination and registered a case under sections 304 and 317 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “Two bodies were found and an FIR has been registered. The police have questioned a woman,” said Shalini Agnihotri, Mandi superintendent of police. The news of two infants being found dead spread rapidly across social media in the region witht he people demanding stringent punishment to those involved in the act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-2-infants-found-dead-in-mandi-nullah-101632092283318.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP govt plans to reopen schools||With hundreds of children across the state having lost a year and half of active class learning, the Himachal Pradesh is considering opening the schools even as Covid cases are rising gradually in the hill state. Parents and relatives of students, particularly those studying in private schools, are constantly mounting pressure on the government to reopen the day schools as the boarding schools in the state are open. “We have received representations from parents of those studying in private schools. Decision on schools will be made in a the meeting of state cabinet,” said secretary, education, Rajiv Sharma. “We can think of opening schools in a staggered way, but the final decision will be taken at the state cabinet,” he said, adding that 99% of the school staff in Himachal was vaccinated. Himachal Pradesh government had deferred reopening of schools for regular classes for one more week in the wake of current situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On 14th government-issued orders to this effect by Himachal State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), the schools were to remain closed till September 4. Currently, the first-term online examinations of classes 9 to 12 were conducted online. The schools were reopened for classes 9 to 12 in Himachal on August 2 after the lethal second wave of Covid subsided, but were closed a week later due to the rise in infections. “Keeping schools closed for such a long time also shows the failure of the government. Schools should reopen now with the set standard operating procedures,” said Lekhraj, parent. “If the government really cares for public health, it should stop the political functions and limit the tourism activities,” he added. Himachal’s Covid-19 tally has steadily risen since July-end. This month the till September 18, the state has recorded 3,265 new infections. The highest 744 cases have been reported in Kangra, 684 in Mandi and 568 in Hamirpur. The positivity rate was high at 3.08%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-govt-plans-to-reopen-schools-101632092103301.html
20-09-2021||Other||Three feared drowned in Western Jamuna Canal||Tragedy struck twice at the Western Jamuna Canal in Yamunanagar camp area on Sunday where a man was feared to have drowned in the morning, while later, a boat that had gone to look for him also capsized, leaving two others missing.Deputy commissioner Parth Gupta said state disaster response teams (SDRF) have been called in to look for the three missing men. As per information, a man identified as Satinder Singh had gone to immerse the ashes of his relative when he slipped into the canal and was washed away by the gushing water.After the incident, a group of six men, including two of Satinder’s acquaintances, a patwari, an MC diver and two firemen, went to look for him. When their boat reached the middle of the canal, it suddenly capsized, throwing all men into the turbulent waters. While four of them were rescued with the help of locals, the diver, Surender from Hisar and Satinder’s neighbour, Vijay alias Vicky Dhawan, went missing, said Tarun Sahota, duty magistrate for Ganesh Visarjan. Surender was a well-known diver who had successfully rescued scores of people, including children in the past, but got unlucky this time. The DC said that to ease the search operation, the water-level has been decreased and intimation has been sent to Karnal through the irrigation department.“We’ve made arrangements for safe Ganpati visarjan on river banks. Several CRPF personnel, police and divers have been deployed on the banks. Our men will ensure that devotees don’t wander off into deep waters,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-feared-drowned-in-yamunanagar-canal-101632086462830.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana smart city projects impress housing ministry secretary||While the district unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been alleging corruption in various projects taken up under the smart city mission, Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), in a series of tweets hailed the work of the civic body.The secretary, MoHUA, had visited the city on Friday to review the projects taken up under different flagship schemes of the union government.While lauding the walking track alongside the Sidhwan Canal, Mishra put up a photo of the Sidhwan Canal Waterfront project and said that the rejuvenated park will attract citizens for leisure, pleasure, sports, and will fill their lives with happiness. It is all accessible, safe, and friendly to kids, women, and divyang citizens, he added.In another tweet, Mishra praised the renovation work being carried out at Mini Rose Garden. He stated, “Visited Rose Park being redeveloped as a beautiful public facility for the people. Park is being retrofitted to get the musical fountain, play area for children, indoor badminton courts, open gym, public amenities and restaurant, water bodies along with rejuvenated greens, flower beds, and musical walkways, etc.”Mishra also lauded the dog sterilization project and inspected the state-of-the-art Animal Birth Control Centre developed by Smart City Ludhiana. It is a very well-equipped centre engaged in the sterilization of street dogs. It has already sterilized around 3,500 dogs from mid - June 2021 and 50 dogs each day are being sterilized.”Besides Mishra praised the refurbishment of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Nagar Market and inspected the rejuvenation works of the Buddha Nala Project to check the free fall of domestic wastewater into Buddha Darya within the municipal limits of Ludhiana City.This project is a convergence of AMRUT and Smart Cities Missions.Submitted memo with MishraHighlighting alleged discrepancies and large-scale corruption in different projects being taken up under the smart city mission, BJP leaders had submitted a memorandum with Mishra.BJP state vice president had Parvin Bansal stated that no information is being shared about the projects approved, the cost of projects, the design, etc.“Around Rs3.5 crore is being spent on renovation of the Mini Rose Garden in Kidwai Nagar even though that project could have been completed in a few lakhs, he said.“Around ₹38 crore has been spent on Malhar road and Sarabha Nagar main market. The width of Malhar road has been reduced from 120 feet to 46 feet resulting in traffic snarls. The parking space in Sarabha Nagar market has been reduced under the project, which was aimed at developing the infrastructure there,” said Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-smart-city-projects-impress-housing-ministry-secretary-101632086342806.html
20-09-2021||Other||Kurukshetra university to honour four scientists with Goyal Awards||Kurukshetra University has chosen four eminent scientists for the coveted Goyal Awards. According to the varsity management, Prof NK Mehra, former dean (research) of AIIMS, New Delhi, Prof A Ajaya Ghosh, director of CSIR-NIIST, Thiruvanthipuram, Prof Shyam Sundar, professor of medicine, head of the department of medicine at Institute of Medical Science, BHU, Varanasi, and Prof Rohini Godbole of IISc, Bangalore, will be receiving the awards. Kurukshetra University vice-chancellor Prof Som Nath said these scientists have made a great contribution in areas of applied sciences, chemical sciences, life sciences and physical sciences respectively. Goyal Prizes were established by late Ram S Goyal, an NRI settled in USA in 1992, and each prize consists of a medal, a citation and ₹2 lakh cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kurukshetra-university-to-honour-four-scientists-with-goyal-awards-101632085922880.html
20-09-2021||Other||Haryana MC employees gherao Khattar’s camp office over pending demands||Hundreds of employees of various municipal corporation (MC) of Haryana held a state-level protest rally at Karnal on Sunday, seeking reinstatement of sacked employees and other demands. The employees gheraoed chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar’s camp office and threatened to intensify their agitation if their demands were not met. They ended the protest after officials arranged a meeting with the chief minister on September 30. Protesting under the banner of Nagarpalika Karamchari Sangh, the employees alleged that the government had not fulfilled their demands even after a year of making a commitment. Naresh Kumar Shashtri, state president of the employees association, said, “We demand that all sacked employees should be reinstated, closed fire brigade stations should be reopened, equal-pay-for-equal-work scheme should be implemented for contractual employees and the salaries of contractual and rural sweepers should be enhanced to ₹24,000. He said they will hold gate meetings at all civic body offices on September 21 and protest in the cities on September 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-mc-employees-gherao-cm-khattar-s-camp-office-for-pending-demands-101632085262915.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: MC, CSCL staff to cycle to work on October 1||To encourage the use of cycles, staffers of the municipal corporation and the Chandigarh Smart City Limited will come to office on cycles on October 1. The initiative will be part of “Azadi Ka Mahotsav” being organised by the MC from September 26 to October 3. “Those who don’t know how to cycle or have any health issues may skip it. Those who come to the office on cycle will be welcomed by us at the MC entry gate and will be given a batch of commendation,” said municipal commissioner Anindita Mitra. On October 2, the MC will unveil a cycle created completely out of waste near the Sector 17 roundabout. A cycle rally will also be organised on October 2 under the theme “Freedom to Cycle”. Earlier in the day, while participating in an event organised by NGO Cyclegiri, Mitra said, “Youngsters should also try to incorporate cycling in their lifestyle, which will not only provide a new dimension to their fitness, but they will also be able to contribute towards the environment and country at large.” The NGO had organised a cycle rally to observe World Car Free Day.About 80 cyclists participated in the 15-km rally starting from Cloudnine Hospital, Industrial Area. Mitra also said that residents should use public transport so that traffic can be controlled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-cscl-staff-to-cycle-to-work-on-october-1-101632084127728.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB data: With 36 cases, Ludhiana ranks 8th in Punjab in cybercrime||The district’s cybercrime tally saw a dip of 2.7% in 2020, data released by the National Crime Records Bureau has revealed. With 36 cases, the district ranked eighth in Punjab in cybercrime, an improvement from 2019 when the district had recorded the maximum cases in the state. In 2020, Jalandhar topped the charts in cybercrime with 354 cases recorded by the rural police, and 312 cases by the police Commissionerate. While Patiala recorded 273 cases, Mansa only saw nine cases, the lowest in the state. As per the NCRB, most cybercrimes pertained to cheating and fraud, and contributed to 47.2% of the total cases lodged. Two cases each of cyberstalking, bullying and transmission of obscene content was registered. Meanwhile, the division 6 police had arrested two men for sharing objectionable content on Instagram in June after receiving a tip from Cyber Tipline, the nation’s centralised reporting system monitoring exploitation of children. Three FIRs pertaining to blackmail and threats were registered, while one case pertained to data theft. The Ludhiana police have a dedicated cybercrime unit. As many as 50 people have been arrested for cyber crimes and ₹40 lakh has been recovered.In December 2020, the Cyber Cell had busted an inter-state gang of criminals who had carried out multiple online frauds using fake ID cards, bank accounts and SIM cards with the arrest of seven accused. The police had recovered ₹5.45 lakh , 10 mobile phones, eight laptops and fake documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrbdata-with-36-cases-ludhiana-ranks-8th-in-punjab-in-cybercrime-101632084122758.html
20-09-2021||Other||Farmers skip meeting called by panel to clear Kundli Singhu blockade||Leaders of various farm unions on Sunday skipped the meeting with Haryana government’s high-powered committee, constituted to clear the blockade at Kundli-Singhu border, on National Highway-44.The high-powered committee, headed by additional chief secretary (home) Rajeev Arora, and comprising DGP PK Agrawal, Sonepat DC Lalit Siwach, ADGP Sandeep Khirawar, special secretary Balkar Singh, Jhajjar SP and DC, had called the meeting at Murthal.“Though farmers did not attend the meeting, industrialists of Sonepat and Bahadurgarh were in attendance and they spoke about the losses they suffered due to the blockade,” said additional chief secretary (home) Rajeev Arora.“We will talk to the protesting farmers. If required, we will visit the Singhu protest site to hold a meeting with the representatives of farmers,” he added.Sonepat deputy commissioner Lalit Siwach said he had extended the meeting invitation to 43 Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders, after the Supreme Court asked the central and state governments to coordinate to ensure that inter-state roads and national highways do not remain blocked due to farmers’ protest.“The industrialists said they had lost nearly ₹50 crore due to the ongoing farmers’ protest,” Siwach added.Bhog Singh Mansa, a farmer leader, said the Sonepat administration had sent an invite for the meeting, but they had boycotted it. “The top court had not given any directions to farmers and no farmer was party to the matter. The apex court had only directed the Centre and states to give passage to the common man,” he added.He claimed the state and central governments are stopping them from moving towards Delhi.“The roads have not been blocked by us, but by the Delhi Police by placing concrete barriers,” Mansa further added.A Noida resident, Monicca Agarwaal, had moved the apex court contending that due to the blockade, it has become a nightmare to travel to Delhi as the commute time has increased to two hours instead of the normal 20 minutes. She stated hat despite multiple directions passed by the apex court, the passage has not been cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-skip-meeting-called-by-panel-to-clear-kundli-singhu-blockade-101632083584301.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||No sampling, vaccination at Ludhiana civil surgeon’s office, patients hassled||High drama took place outside the civil surgeon’s office after its main entrance was closed on Sunday. A person, who introduced himself as Raju, and said he was a health department employee said neither vaccination nor Covid samples were being collected at the civil surgeon’s office. However, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said Covid sampling was being carried out in the urban dispensary of the civic surgeon’s office.However, the testing kiosk was empty, while a nurse sat at the dispensary. Nurse Rajvir Kaur said people were being told that no vaccination was taking place at the civil surgeon office. However, they continued to throng the premises due to which the vaccination staff may have closed the door.” Sushil, a resident of Civil City, said he had visited the civil surgeon’s office to get tested for Covid but he was turned away from the gate. 4 more Covid cases Four cases of the coronavirus infection were reported on Sunday, taking the Covid count to 87, 522.As many as 85,394 patients have recovered, while 2,100 residents have succumbed. The active cases stand at 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-sampling-vaccination-at-ludhiana-civil-surgeon-s-office-patients-hassled-101632083402802.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man booked for stalking, sexually assaulting girl||Police on Saturday booked a Burail village resident for stalking and sexually assaulting a girl. Police said the accused, Lakha, was known to the girl and had been stalking her. On September 8, when she went to drop her sister to school in Sector 33, he blocked her way near a park and sexually assaulted her, besides beating her up. A case under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354D (stalking), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at the Sector 34 police station. He remains at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-booked-for-stalking-sexually-assaulting-girl-101632083230989.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||12 fresh cases of diarrhoea surface at Zirakpur’s Sukhna Colony||A day after 60 people came down with diarrhoea at Sukhna Colony near Dhakoli, 12 fresh cases were reported in the colony on Sunday. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the situation was under control and people had been advised to drink only boiled water. “As far as cholera is concerned, we will get the reports on Monday,” she said. She said a medical camp had been set up in the area, and of the 12 cases detected on Sunday, five patients reported stomachache: “We are distributing chlorine and zinc tablets, along with oral rehydration salts, at each house in the colony.” Zirakpur municipal council executive officer Girish Verma said, “The colony has a population of around 1,500 and most people have illegal water connections. On Saturday, we changed the water pipeline and now things are under control.” In the past two months, more than 700 people have been infected and two have died due to the cholera outbreak at Baltana and Peermuchalla village in Zirakpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12-fresh-cases-of-diarrhoea-surface-at-zirakpur-s-sukhna-colony-101632083229180.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sharjah flight from Chandigarh to resume on September 23||Suspended in March due to the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak, the flight to Sharjah will resume from the Chandigarh International Airport on September 23.Air India Express will operate the flight on Thursday and Sunday. The fare ranges between ₹14,000 and ₹17,000.IndiGo’s Dubai flight, the only other international flight from the airport, is also likely to start in the second week of October.The Sharjah flight will take off from there at 9am to reach Chandigarh at 2.20pm, and depart at 4.35pm the same day for a 6.30pm arrival in Sharjah.Flights to Sharjah and Dubai in the UAE were launched in 2016 after the Chandigarh airport got the international tag. While the Sharjah flight was operating twice a week, the Dubai one flew on all days except Sunday.The pandemic grounded these flights in March last year. Thereon, scheduled flights from Dubai remained cancelled, though arrivals continued to bring in stranded citizens.In the case of Sharjah, flight operations resumed in December, but were discontinued once again due to the second wave in March this year.Domestic flights to increase to 50With the Union ministry of civil aviation on Saturday allowing Indian airlines to operate domestic flights at a maximum of 85% of their pre-Covid capacity, flights operating from the Chandigarh airport are set to increase soon.“In August, airlines were allowed to operate 72.5% of their pre-Covid flights. As the capacity has been increased to 85%, flights at the Chandigarh airport are expected to increase from the current 38 to around 50. Their schedules will be readied soon,” said Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited.“Between July 5 and August 12, the cap stood at 65%, and at 50% from June 1 to July 5,” he added.Get RT-PCR report in 30 minutesWith the introduction of an RT-PCR lab on the airport premises, from September 22 travellers will be able to get their Covid-19 test results in less than 30 minutes.“Each test will cost ₹1,727. The facility will enable passengers to get tested as and when required. The lab has been set up in line with the guidelines issued by the UAE government, which include mandatory testing of all passengers, who need to present their report on arrival,” said Bhardwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sharjah-flight-from-chandigarh-to-resume-on-september-23-101632083228171.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||90-year-old man succumbs to Covid in Mohali; 10 test positive in tricity||A 90-year-old man from Dera Bassi became the latest Covid-19 fatality in Mohali on Sunday.He was found infected on August 31 and had been under treatment at a private hospital in Panchkula since. This is the second virus-related death in the district in September that has pushed the toll to 1,062.Chandigarh’s death count stands at 818, including five deaths this month, and Panchkula’s toll has stayed unchanged at 377 with no casualty in the same period.Meanwhile, tricity’s daily Covid cases rose to 10 on Sunday after remaining in single digit for two days in a row.After the infections shot up to 14 on Thursday, the figure had dropped to seven and eight on Friday and Saturday, respectively.Among the latest cases, five were reported in Chandigarh, followed by three in Mohali and two in Panchkula.Those found positive in the UT are residents of Sectors 19, 26, 35 and 48. Mohali’s two cases surfaced in Mohali city and one in Kharar.In Panchkula, one case each was reported from Sectors 12 and 20.With this, Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,177, of which 64,326 patients have been cured and 37 are currently under treatment.Of the 68,694 cases in Mohali till date, 67,595 patients have beaten the virus and 37 are still fighting it.Panchkula’s 30,751 cases so far include 30,321 recoveries and 17 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/90yearold-man-succumbs-to-covid-in-mohali-10-test-positive-in-tricity-101632083227134.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Couple who duped Chandigarh residents of ₹1 crore through kitty schemes nabbed||A husband-wife duo, who was on the run for nearly four years after duping several city residents of over ₹1 crore through kitty schemes, has been nabbed, police said on Sunday.The accused, Jatinder Singh, alias Happy, and his wife, Manu Sandal, who used to live at Dhanas village in Chandigarh, till 2017, were arrested from Pune on September 16.Since fleeing from Chandigarh, they had settled in Naveli Basti, Pune, police said.According to investigators, the couple had been offering kitty schemes to Chandigarh residents for over 10 years. Earlier, they would pay back everyone at a higher interest than banks, eliciting interest of more people. But after they got investments worth over ₹1 crore from around 200 people, they disappeared from the city in September 2017.After being brought to the city, the accused were produced before a local court and sent to three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/couple-who-duped-chandigarh-residents-of-1-crore-through-kitty-schemes-nabbed-101632083226071.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali fire wing once again hides apathy behind notice smokescreen||Municipal corporation’s annual charade to make Mohali appear safer from blazes has returned. Having not penalised even a single fire-safety violator, despite sending out 600 notices annually for the past three years, the fire department has once again issued notices for non-compliance of the no-objection certificate – this time to 43 violators.As has been the practice, this, too, will end up being a paper exercise, leaving structures vulnerable to major fires.Even in February this year, 600 notices were slapped on violators, with an ultimatum of 15 days, but six months later, no violating structure has been sealed.2020 survey had found widespread violationsThrough a survey last year, the fire department had identified various properties, including high-rise buildings and commercial establishments, that did not comply with fire-safety norms. The violations included presence of only a single entry and exit point, which could be dangerous in an emergency.Fire extinguishers were missing on many floors and those available did not have the ISI mark. Hose reels, smoke detection alarm system and illuminated exit signs were also found missing in most buildings. Most showrooms had loose electricity wiring.At several industrial units and housing societies, there was no underground static water storage tank of 75,000-litre capacity with pump, as required under fire-safety rules, and terrace water tanks with at least 10,000-litre capacity were also found missing. Absence of a fire control room and emergency lifts with firemen switch was also among the violations. MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said last year, action could not be taken due to the lockdown: “We are starting the drive this month and will seal the units that have not complied with safety norms.”Fire officer Mohan Lal Verma said, “We have started issuing fresh notices to violators, and in the past one week, 43 notices have been sent out.”Last year in March, a fire broke out in the basement of Vishal Mega Mart in Phase 5, turning readymade clothes worth lakhs into ashes. A factory on Barwala Road in Dera Bassi was gutted in December 2020. Earlier, 2019 had witnessed two major fires at industrial units in Dera Bassi, which had left 18 workers injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-fire-wing-once-again-hides-apathy-behind-notice-smokescreen-101632083225066.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||iSewa: Soon, hire a gardener, barber in Chandigarh with a click||From a gardener to a barber, soon a multitude of service providers will be a click away in Chandigarh.By month end, the municipal corporation will bring together service providers and city residents on a common platform – iSewa, a web-based solution.“Often residents, who need help don’t know where to get it. Similarly, the service providers don’t know where their prospective customers are located. iSewa, a free platform, will connect them both,” said Anindita Mitra, MC commissioner.Akin to yellow pages, the website, an open crowd source-based platform, will initially provide access to hair stylists, gardeners, laundrymen, tyre repair shops, cobblers and ambulances, and more will be roped in gradually.“Service providers trained under the National Urban Livelihood Mission will be listed on the web portal. We are on-boarding more and more service providers, and in a week’s time, we will be ready for a formal launch,” said Mitra.The portal is the brainchild of Ravee Singh Ahluwalia, chief functionary of NGO Patiala Foundation that holds a special consultative status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. The website is already being used across various cities in India.More avenues for service providersService providers will have to register on the platform through a mobile number and OTP, with complete contact details.There will be no cost involved for registration, which is only mandatory for service providers and not customers. MC will not be involved in any financial transaction between the two parties. Sharing an example from Patiala, where she previously launched the initiative, Mitra said, “In Patiala, just one family still polishes copper utensils, but couldn’t get in touch with customers. But after registering on the platform, they got customers enough to open an exclusive shop.”The list of services depends on the city’s character and needs. “In Karnal, for instance, lots of dhaba owners registered themselves. In Ambala, there are lots of e-rickshaw service providers,” said Mitra. How it will work- Users will have to visit www.isewa.patialafoundation.orgTo start with, services of hair stylists, gardeners, laundrymen, tyre repair shops, cobblers and ambulances will be available- Under “Find an isewa to call at doorstep”, the user will need to choose the city, area and service - Thereon, a selection can be made from the list of service providers available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/isewa-soon-hire-a-gardener-barber-in-chandigarh-with-a-click-101632083224009.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Nepalese thieves that targeted compatriots at Chandigarh bus stand held||Police have busted a gang of three Nepalese men who stole belongings of their travelling compatriots at the Sector-43 ISBT.With the arrest of the accused, Ganesh, 42, and Virender, alias Biru, 26, who currently live in Manimajra, and Rajesh, 20, who lives in Dhakoli, police have solved two cases from Friday and Saturday.A stolen laptop, mobile phone and charger were recovered from them.Police said the accused were drug addicts. They would approach other Nepalese citizens at the bus stand. After building rapport with them using their native language, they would steal their bags.During interrogation, Rajesh confessed to have stolen the laptop bag of one Basant Khadka on Friday and then another from a Kailash Negi on Saturday. The accused were presented in court on Sunday. Ganesh and Virender were sent to judicial custody, and Rajesh to one-day police remand to ascertain his involvement in more such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nepalese-thieves-that-targeted-compatriots-at-chandigarh-bus-stand-held-101632083222874.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana allows colleges, polytechnics to open; no decision on residential varsities yet||Haryana government on Sunday allowed colleges and polytechnics to re-open for students even though the decision to start physical classes in residential universities will be taken on October 15 after assessing the Covid -19 situation.While extending the lockdown, Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana, till October 14, the state government said the higher education and technical education departments will release guidelines regarding reopening of colleges and polytechnics.The vice-chancellors (VCs) of residential universities were directed to continue with online classes till October 15, after which the decision on reopening will be taken. “In the meanwhile, the university administration may strive to ensure to get all students and faculty members fully vaccinated,” chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said in an order.As per the order, all relaxations like the opening of restaurants, bars, malls, clubhouses and shops permitted earlier will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-allows-colleges-polytechnics-to-open-no-decision-on-residential-varsities-yet-101632083042651.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police women constable exam: Ambala roads choked as thousands appear for two-day exam||Major roads and highways remained choked for almost 48 hours as thousands of candidates appeared for the Haryana Police women constable exam in several districts of the state, including Ambala.Candidates took the 1.5-hour written examination at 64 centres, 51 of which were in Ambala City and Cantonment and 13 were in Barara sub-division in three slots on Saturday and Sunday.Heavy traffic congestion put life out of gear in the Old City areas of Sarafa Bazaar, Jagadhari Gate, Old Cloth Market on Railway Road and Ambala-Hisar highway as scores of private and commercial vehicles ferrying aspirants and their companions thronged Ambala. Commuters also struggled as long queues were seen along the under-construction freight corridor overbridge and underpass near Shastri Colony on the NH-44 in the Cantonment.Despite attempts to reach senior superintendent of police (SSP) Hamid Akhtar, he remained unavailable for comment. Meanwhile, several candidates complained about being assigned exam centres hundreds of kilometres away. Rachna Kanwar, an exam aspirant from a village near Hisar, claimed that the government did not fulfil its poll promise of ensuring that exam centres were within 50km of the examinees’ native place.Deputy commissioner Vikram, in a statement, said that officers on duty ensured that the guidelines laid down by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission were followed and the centres were monitored through CCTVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-women-constable-exam-ambala-roads-choked-as-50-000-appear-for-two-day-exam-101632082990014.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Bansal calls upon residents to end BJP rule in city||Sounding the poll bugle for the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections, former Union minister Pawan Bansal called upon residents of the city to end the BJP’s rule and bring Congress to power. “The Chandigarh MC polls is a chance for the general public to give a befitting reply to the central government’s oppressive and anti-public policies,” he said. Bansal was addressing a Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee (CTCC) program on ‘’Housing Societies Pe Charcha” in Sector 49 here on Sunday. Talking about housing societies, Bansal said, “We are well aware of the problems being faced by residents. The Chandigarh MC has been in a paralysed state since BJP came to power, with no public welfare policies and plans in sight.” “The idea of setting up cooperative societies in Chandigarh was planned to settle the working class in the city, who put their hard-earned money into buying flats in societies. However, exorbitant rates of conversion of properties from leasehold to freehold were a big jolt to residents,” Bansal said. “After coming to power, Congress will work to resolve the residents’ problems on priority, along with ensuring the repair and maintenance of internal roads in societies by MC itself,” he maintained. Subash Chawla, city congress chief, said, “We have formed a team to chalk out the problems faced by society’s residents. We will make a comprehensive plan to solve them after coming to power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-bansal-calls-upon-residents-to-end-bjp-rule-in-city-101632082862711.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Chandigarh Under-19 boys’ and girls’ teams named||The UT Cricket Association (UTCA) has announced the Chandigarh Under-19 boys’ and girls’ teams. While Raj Angad Bawa will lead the boys team, Kashvee Gautam will captain the girls team. The boys’ team will play their first match against Madhya Pradesh on September 28 at the Vinoo Mankad Trophy being organised in Delhi, while the girls will play its first match against Andhra Pradesh on the same day in Surat.Chandigarh boys’ team: Alam Bakshi, Aarush Bhandari, Arbab Iqbal, Bhavesh Saini, Harnoor Pannu, Mohammed Ashad, Mohit Mehra, Neel Dhaliwal, Paras, Pratham Sodhi, Prince Dahiya, Raj Angad Bawa, Samardeep Kasana, Shubham Arya, Sohail Khan, Dushyant Thaman, Jaskirat Singh, Manan Rajan, Mohit Gupta, Prince Kumar.Support staff: Ravikant Sharma (coach), Praveen Sharma (manager), Pushpendra Raj (physio) and Sushil Bhujel (trainer)Chandigarh girls’ team: Aradhana Bisht, Ishana Chadha, Kashvee Gautam, Kavita Raj, Manvi Tomar, Mehak, Palak Rana, Parushi Prabhakar, Poorvi Singh, Sarah, Shivali, Tamanna, Tanishqa, Twinkle Pathak, Yashika Sawhney, Ganika Bansal, Jasnoor Kaur, Kiranbir Kaur Gill, Pushpinder Kaur, Sonam Yadav.Support staff: Deepak Lohtiya (coach), Anushka Suryavanshi (manager), Mala Devi (physio) and Manu Tiwari (trainer).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cricket-chandigarh-under-19-boys-and-girls-teams-named-101632082682458.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Fearing reprisal, Ludhiana cops clam up during welfare meet||After much coaxing, overworked police personnel told newly appointed commissioner of police Naunihal Singh that they were facing issues such as staff crunch and overextended duty hours during a welfare meeting on Sunday. At least, 150 police personnel of different ranks had taken part in the police welfare meeting, including two police personnel from each police station and wings. When the commissioner asked the police personnel about the problems they were facing, no one dared to speak up. A police officer, requesting anonymity, said that many officers shirked from flagging several issues that had been plaguing the police force, fearing reprisal from seniors. “Most of us have to purchase fuel for our police vehicles from our own pockets as we do not get enough fuel from the department. We also have to arrange for stationery, and material to seize the recovered items without the department’s support.” Agreeing a second cop said undue pressure by seniors, interference of politicians, insufficient sleep and consequent health problems are also some issues, which should have been raised during the welfare meet, but no one dared to do so. Later, after the commissioner encouraged them saying that he “could only help them, if they spoke up,” did some personnel raise the issue of the acute staff crunch, and the police control room employees said that are forced to work 24-hour shifts.The commissioner of police said that after fresh recruitments, the police commissionerate will get new police personnel and private security guards will be roped in to guard markets, and industrial areas with help of NGOs, industrialists and traders associations.The police personnel also said they were having trouble withdrawing money from their employees provident funds and the commissioner assured them that the problem will be resolved at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fearing-reprisal-ludhiana-cops-clam-up-during-welfare-meet-101632082622762.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula robbery bid: Police reconstruct crime scene again, scan CCTV footage||A day after a jeweller sustained injuries while foiling a robbery bid at his shop, Maa Luxmi Jewellers in Sector 8, Panchkula, police reconstructed the crime scene again on Sunday and screened CCTV footage.Sandeep Verma, 45, A resident of Sector 15, Panchkula, sustained injuries on his head and wrist as he put up a fight against three robbers who tried to loot his shop at gunpoint in broad daylight. He was rushed to the civil hospital in Sector 6 where he is still undergoing treatment there.Deputy commissioner of police Mohit Handa, ACP Satish Kumar, and the SHO of the Sector 7 police reconstructed the crime scene on Sunday. “We are also screening footage from CCTV cameras of the area,” Kumar said.A case has been registered under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 398 (attempt to commit robbery or dacoity when armed with deadly weapon) of the Indian Penal Code besides and under the Arms Act.Four teams have been constituted, including two of the crime branch and one each of the detective staff and Sector-7 police station, where the case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-robbery-bid-police-reconstruct-crime-scene-again-scan-cctv-footage-101632082325886.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||NIRF grading: Punjab colleges fail to make it to top 100 for 5th consecutive year||Punjab’s higher educational institutes have performed poorly in the recent National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) grading yet again as none of the colleges could make it to the top 100 list in the category for the fifth consecutive year.This is in contrast to the state’s schools topping the national performance grading index of school education for 2019-20 released by the Union government in June this year.The NIRF rankings for higher educational institutes across the country given by the Union ministry of education are based on teaching, learning, and resources; research and professional practice, graduation outcome; outreach and inclusivity; and peer perception.As per the NIRF data, a total 1,802 institutes participated from different states for the 2021 grading, the highest number since 2017 when colleges were clubbed for national ranking.Punjab has 303 colleges, including 67 run by government, 135 aided privately managed and another 100 run under self-finance scheme category. Only 22 colleges came forward for NIRF assessment’s latest annual edition. When college rankings were rolled out in 2017, none of the colleges participated in it.But the state’s participation improved in the next four with 10 colleges applying in 2018; 12 in 2019 and 17 in 2020.Teachers and academicians admit that most colleges are aware they do not fulfill the basic criteria of assessment and hence they stay away from participation.Prof RK Kohli, former vice-chancellor of Central University of Punjab, says it is a cause of concern that education was not a priority for the political dispensations. It is discouraging that a faculty member in a government institute in Punjab gets paid less than a peon for a minimum period of three years, he added.“The government ranking exposes the standards of education in Punjab. Educational institutes are evaluated from the talent they produce and no government has formulated a policy to check brain drain,” Prof Kohli said. Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) president Vinay Sofat blames lack of higher education policy in Punjab. “Governments are quick to announce new colleges but desist from appointing faculty members on regular basis. When a teacher is not paid well in government colleges and institutes run by social or charitable bodies are not supported financially how anyone could be motivated to participate in activities like NIRF,” said Sofat.Swaraj Raj, former head of English department at Government Mohindra College, Patiala, said the number of faculty members has reduced even as more colleges have been opened in the last three decades.“Government schools have seen an improvement in terms of infrastructure and number of teachers but the colleges continue to get step-motherly treatment. When I joined service in 1982, there were about 2,400 college teachers and the number was about 1,000 at the time of my retirement in 2015. One simply cannot expect qualitative education in the given circumstances,” he added.NIRF grading year College participants from India Punjab’s participation2017 535 NIL2018 1,087 102019 1,304 122020 1,659 172021 1,802 22||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nirf-grading-punjab-colleges-fail-to-make-it-to-top-100-for-5th-consecutive-year-101632082322751.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||In a first, garden based on Sikh scriptures set up at Moga’s Patto Hira Singh village||A first-of-its-kind garden based on Sikh scriptures has been set up at Patto Hira Singh village in Moga district with a view to motivating people towards environmental conservation and preservation of traditional flora and fauna. Nearly 6,000 trees, shrubs, crops, plants of around 58 species mentioned in the Sikh holy book, Guru Granth Sahib, have been planted in the garden named ‘Guru Granth Sahib Bagh’. The garden has been set up by EcoSikh and it will be inaugurated on Monday.Ravneet Singh, head of EcoSikh’s South-Asia unit, said the ‘Guru Granth Sahib Garden’ is has 58 species of trees and vegetation mentioned in the Guru Granth Sahib. The plants, shrubs, and trees have been meticulously planted with a related reference from Gurbani along with their meaning, he added. “Patto Hira Singh village is believed to have been visited by four Sikh masters — Guru Nanak, Guru Hargobind, Guru Har Rai and Guru Gobind Singh. This unique garden is expected to draw scientists, students, researchers and general masses because of its educational aspects. It will show how the Sikh gurus and other spiritual teachers used nature and its diversity to teach important life lessons,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-a-first-garden-based-on-sikh-scriptures-set-up-at-moga-s-patto-hira-singh-village-101632082142544.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Prepare to tackle third Covid wave, Chandigarh directs private hospitals||The Chandigarh health department on Sunday directed city’s private hospitals to be prepared for a third Covid wave by ensuring adequate supply of oxygen, medicines and manpower.“All private hospitals are advised to install a PSA oxygen plant, and it is mandatory for those with 50 or more beds. A meeting was held on September 10, where all available information about the technology was shared with them. The matter has also been discussed with the UT chief architect and the hospitals have been permitted to install the plant on rooftops,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg. “Each private hospital should have sufficient oxygen cylinders, which is at least three times the daily requirement,” he added.“Oxygen supply pipelines and other equipment need to be tested immediately, and repaired if needed, to ensure there is no leakage. The staff should be trained to use oxygen optimally. Equipment like flow meters and other consumables should be available in sufficient quantity in case of an emergency. An oxygen audit team may be formed to check leakages and other discrepancies in oxygen flow systems and proper record must be kept of oxygen supplies and their utilisation,” said Garg.“As a backup plan and to reduce dependency on oxygen cylinders, there need to be an equal number of oxygen concentrators (10 litre capacity) as there are beds,” he added.“Since oxygen is highly combustible, an adequate number of fire-extinguishers and fire-hydrants should also be available. All private hospitals need to get a fire audit conducted within the next 15 days,” said the health secretary. There should be buffer stock of all critical medicines and a suggestive list may be obtained from the director of health services. “To meet the additional requirement of qualified manpower, tie-ups should be in place with a manpower supply agency,” directed Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prepare-to-tackle-third-covid-wave-chandigarh-directs-private-hospitals-101632082087881.html
20-09-2021||Other||Babus don’t listen to elected representatives, says Pundri MLA Gollen||Claiming that bureaucrats don’t listen to elected representatives, thus affecting the latter’s work, independent MLA from Kaithal’s Pundri assembly constituency, Randhir Gollen threatened to withdraw support to the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party government in Haryana if action wasn’t taken against such officials.During an interaction with mediapersons in Kaithal on Sunday, the first-time legislator said, “I feel the bureaucracy is dominating everywhere (in the government); nobody is ready to listen to elected representations. If they (officers) don’t listen to us, how will we work for the people who have elected us?”Gollen added, “I will take up this issue with the chief minister. If no action is taken against such officials, I will not hesitate to quit.”“I am committed to work for the welfare of my constituency, I don’t have any interest in remaining in the government, if I can’t work for my people,” said Gollen, who is also the chairman of Haryana tourism corporation. The legislator also said there was widespread corruption in police stations and tehsils. In July this year, Randhir Singh Gollen, along with his wife and two sons, was booked for alleged dowry harassment of his daughter-in-law.Gollen was earlier associated with the BJP but had left the party and contested independently from Pundri as the party did not give him a ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/babus-don-t-listen-to-us-says-mla-gollen-threatens-to-withdraw-support-to-khattar-govt-101632082082510.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Charanjit Singh Channi is Punjab’s first Dalit CM||Punjab got its first Dalit chief minister on Sunday, with the Congress electing three-time MLA Charanjit Singh Channi as leader of the legislature party. His name was announced by Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat on Twitter after a series of meetings and direct feedback gathered by central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary from MLAs. “It gives me immense pleasure to announce that Sh. Charanjit Singh Channi has been unanimously elected as the leader of CLP of Punjab,” Rawat tweeted. The new leader was named a day after Capt Amarinder Singh resigned from the post. “My best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi. I hope he’s able to keep the border state of Punjab safe and protect our people from the growing security threat from across the border,” the former CM said, wishing his successor. Channi represents the Chamkaur Sahib constituency in the state assembly. Amarinder’s relations with Channi were uneasy throughout his tenure, and the latter was among the cabinet ministers who rebelled against him. Accompanied by Rawat, central observers and several ministers, Channi met Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Sunday evening at the Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh and staked his claim to form the government. “The oath-taking ceremony will be held at 11am on Monday,” Channi told reporters after the meeting. The Congress has also decided to appoint two deputy chief ministers. The names of Brahm Mohindra, a Hindu face, and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who is a Jat Sikh, are learnt to be more or less final for the deputy CM’s posts. Randhawa is also being considered for home and vigilance portfolios, according to sources. Both were minister in the Amarinder Singh cabinet. Earlier, former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, a key frontrunner for the CM’s post, was also offered one of these slots by two central leaders before the Channi’s name was made public. “First, one of the central observers phoned him to offer the deputy chief ministership, but he refused. Later, an AICC general secretary spoke to him, but the former PCC chief did not budge, telling them that he was not after any post, according to sources. His appointment is being touted by some party leaders as a “strategic move” to counter the attempts of rival Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to woo Dalit voters. The BJP has already declared that if voted to power in the state in next year’s assembly elections, it will have a Dalit CM. The SAD has struck an electoral alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), with the promise to pick a deputy chief minister from the community if they get the numbers to form the government in 2022. At 32%, Dalits constitute almost a third of the state’s population—the highest anywhere in the country. The surprise announcement of Channi’s name came after hours of hectic parleys that saw the scales tilt in favour of different leaders in the party leadership’s quest for consensus, with some party MLAs, at one stage, even declaring cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa as the next CM. The past 24 hours were full of dramatic turns and twists as the name of former state unit president Sunil Jakhar was almost finalized on Saturday evening with the backing of former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi. However, the party did not announce it after some MLAs, who met Rawat and the two central observers on the sidelines of the CLP meeting on Saturday, pushed for a Sikh chief minister. Punjab has never had a non-Sikh CM since the reorganization of the state in 1966. A few others stressed that the new leader should be from among the MLAs. In the morning, Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni emerged as the frontrunner, but she opted out, saying that a Sikh leader should be made the chief minister. After the CLP scheduled at 11 am was cancelled for want of consensus, Rawat and the two observers called up MLAs to know their preference and cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa emerged as the favourite. Before his name was even announced, Congress MLAs had started reaching his official residence to congratulate him. “His name did not go down well with Sidhu who saw him as a competitor in future,” a party leader aware of the developments said. Later, the party leaders declared Channi, whose name was doing the rounds for the post of deputy chief minister, as the new legislature party leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charanjit-singh-channi-is-punjab-s-first-dalit-cm-101632081902941.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding BMW hits bike, two injured in Ludhiana||Two men were injured after a speeding BMW car hit a bike in Phase 2 of Dugri. Though the incident took place on September 14, the victims lodged a complaint on Saturday. The speeding vehicle is registered in the name of Gaurav Sharma of Dugri, Phase 2. The complainant, Kuldeep Singh, 51, of Pasi Nagar, said he was on his bike, with his friend, Kamaljit Singh, riding pillion when the car hit their bike near Dugri Phase-2. In the accident, Kuldeep’s leg was fractured, while Kamaljit also suffered injuries. The accused drove off, but Kuldeep was able to jot down the registration number of the car. Assistant sub-inspector Rajinder Pal Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337( negligence endangering human life), 338 ( grievous hurt), and 427 (damages) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused, who is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-bmw-hits-bike-two-injured-in-ludhiana-101632081662568.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two Chandigarh residents fall prey to financial fraud||Two cheating cases have been reported from Chandigarh. One Pawan Kumar from Sector 28-C stated in his police complaint that ₹1,73,569 has been withdrawn using his credit card through unauthorised transactions. The matter is being probed by the cyber police. In another case, Ashish Sharma of Sector 38 West said that ₹58,652 was stolen from his bank account through a fraudulent link on April 2 this year. Police have registered both cases under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-chandigarh-residents-fall-prey-to-financial-fraud-101632081602873.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Will not move from Singhu border till agri laws are repealed: Balbir Singh Rajewal||Sanyukta Kisan Morcha leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Sunday said that protesting farmers will not move from the Singhu border under any circumstance till the agriculture laws are repealed by the central government. He was speaking during the Kisan Mahapanchayat held in Sector 62, Mohali.Rajewal added that they are not going to lift the blockade from Singhu even if the Apex Court issues the order.He urged residents of cities and villages as well as members of the business community to make the Bharat Bandh called by farmers on September 27 a success. Speaking on the occasion, another farmer leader Sonia Mann said that the central government should not test the patience of farmers and added that women have a special role in making the struggle successful.Vice-president of Kisan Ekta Union (Sidhupur), Mehar Singh Theri, also addressed the mahapanchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-not-move-from-singhu-border-till-agri-laws-are-repealed-balbir-singh-rajewal-101632081187960.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Infighting to polls: Channi faces tall task||Charanjit Singh Channi is the surprise pick of the Congress for the chief minister’s post in Punjab to succeed the party stalwart Captain Amarinder Singh, who has had an unceremonious exit barely five months before the state goes to the polls early next year. The state’s first Dalit chief minister, with a limited mass base and a pan-Punjab appeal, faces a host of challenges that will test not only his political acumen but also his administrative skills as the party races against the clock to offset the political damage ahead of the electoral slugfest, experts say. The aftereffects of a bitter showdown between Amarinder and Navjot Singh Sidhu are already casting a shadow on Channi’s tenure. He takes the onerous charge when incessant infighting – unlikely to ebb in the days to come – has sapped the party’s morale, making a rebound tougher. Working with a fractious frontline leadership, clearly divided between the Captain and Sidhu camps, will be a Sisyphean task, they suggest. Channi knows the challenges ahead only too well. For, he was among the disgruntled Congress leaders who were calling attention to problems, ranging from growing anti-incumbency, non-fulfilment of poll promises and insufficient bureaucratic accountability when Amarinder was at the helm. Channi will have to hit the ground running to fulfil the 18-point to-do list of pending promises that the high command handed to Amarinder three months ago for implementation before the state polls. The pending promises, particularly the delivery of justice in the 2015 sacrilege and police firing cases, action against “big fish” involved in drug rackets, scrapping “faulty” power purchase agreements with private generators – these contentious issues were at the heart of a bitter tussle between Amarinder and Sidhu-led dissenters, including Channi. “Now, the shoe is on the other foot,” said a senior Congress leader who asked not to be named. “The new CM will have to act quickly to turn the tide and avoid being accused of following in his predecessor’s footsteps.” Another challenge before the new CM will be to take everyone in the crisis-ridden state unit along by giving adequate representation to various social groups as well as warring factions who are pulling the party in different directions, in addition, to quickly putting together his team of officers and advisers. Also, he will have to find a way to reach out to his combative predecessor, who is sore over his “humiliation” by the leadership but still holds sway. It is an open secret that the power dice rolled in Channi’s favour after Sidhu backed him as part of the PCC chief’s well-crafted stratagem of edging out the heavyweight contenders Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sunil Jakhar, who could have been potential challengers in the 2022 sweepstakes. Ashutosh Kumar, professor of political science, Panjab University, sees Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s hand behind Channi’s appointment. “It is not a masterstroke as is being made out, but a big gamble as there could be a flip side depending on how the Jat Sikhs react,” he said. “If he wants to do well, Channi will have to be his own man, act decisively and not worry too much about the sizeable egos,” he added. That may be a tall order as Sidhu is set to play a dominant role in the post-Amarinder power politics. Given the overwhelming challenges and expectations after the change of guard, a mild-mannered Channi has a lot to prove.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/infighting-to-polls-channi-faces-tall-task-101632081002477.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Legal clinic started for transgenders||The District Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, in association with Chandigarh State Aids Control Society and its partner NGO, Association of Professional Social Workers and Development Practitioners (APSWDP), has started a legal aid clinic for transgenders, “Samta Nyay Kendra”, at New Indira Colony in Manimajra. The clinic will be functional on Wednesday and Saturday and panel lawyers and paralegal volunteers will be deputed on need-based assignments. Also, paralegal volunteers will be deputed from within members of the transgender community. The clinic was inaugurated on Sunday by Justice Jaswant Singh, judge, Punjab and Haryana high court-cum- executive chairman, State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh. He said that in a case, the apex court declared transgender people as the “third gender”. Hence, it becomes imperative that all efforts be made to ensure that people from the transgender community have access to multidimensional services and feel included as part of mainstream society. He added that there is a need to sensitise all stakeholders including the judiciary about specific needs of the community. Through the clinic, people from the transgender community will be provided legal aid services, legal awareness training, linkages and capacity building services, he added. Gurbir Singh, district and sessions judge-cum-chairman, DLSA, said this clinic is a step towards ensuring that the fundamental rights granted under the Constitution of India are equally applicable and accessible to members of the transgender community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-legal-clinic-started-for-transgenders-101632080824862.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Wrongly parked vehicle snuffs out trucker’s life in Ludhiana||Three days after a biker was killed after he crashed into a wrongly parked stationary truck, another trucker lost his life in a similar manner on the national highway near Doraha on Saturday. The victim, Azad Singh of Fazilka, was going towards Khanna in his truck when he rammed into another stationary truck. The impact of the collision was such that Azad was killed on the spot. The driver of the parked truck, Bhola Singh of Rajasthan, fled from the spot, leaving his truck behind. On the complaint of the victim’s father Balwinder Singh, who was telephonically informed of his son’s death in the road mishap, the accused has been booked under Sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (damages) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wrongly-parked-vehicle-snuffs-out-trucker-s-life-in-ludhiana-101632080584277.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||KMSC announces ‘rail roko’ stir in Punjab from Sept 30||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Sunday announced a “rail roko’ stir in Punjab from September 30 if their demands, including the repeal of three farm laws, are not met.The KMSC has a considerable hold in the Majha region of the state and some districts of Malwa. KMSC’s Punjab president Satnam Singh Pannu said: “We have planned to hold protests outside deputy commissioner offices in Punjab from September 28. If our demands are not met till then, we will be forced to take our protests to the railway tracks from September 30. We will also support the Bharat bandh call on September 27 in Punjab.” Earlier, the KMSC had blocked the Amritsar-Delhi and Tarn Taran-Ferozepur railway tracks for 169 days demanding repeal of three farm laws. The blockade was suspended in March. Besides repeal of farm laws, the KMSC is demanding a law ensuring minimum support price (MSP) of 23 crops, implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report, waiving of farmers’ debt, and government jobs and compensation of ₹5 lakh each to families of farmers who died during the agitation against the three farm laws at the Delhi border. Farmers from different parts of the country have been protesting since November last year against the three farm laws, which the Centre has said are major agricultural reforms. However, the farmers fear that they will do away with the minimum support price or MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government and farmer leaders held more than 10 rounds of talks but have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.Meanwhile, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has issued guidelines for the September 27 “Bharat bandh” against the three farm laws and said it would be peaceful and farmers will ensure that people do not face any inconvenience. “The SKM has asked constituent organisations to appeal to all sections of society to join hands with farmers and publicise the bandh beforehand so that inconvenience to the public may be reduced. The bandh will be peaceful as well as voluntary and would exempt emergency services,” it said in the statement.Central and state government offices, markets, shops, factories, schools, colleges and other educational institutions will not be allowed to function during the Bharat bandh by farmers, which will start at 6am and remain in force till 4pm. Public and private transport will not be allowed to ply on roads, the umbrella body of more than 40 farmer unions said. No public functions will be allowed and only emergency services, including ambulances and fire services, can function during the bandh, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kmsc-announces-rail-roko-stir-in-punjab-from-sept-30-101632080222294.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||AAP’s CM candidate in Punjab will be pride of state: Chadha||The Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab chief ministerial candidate will hail from the state and will be somebody who can be called the pride of the state, party leader Raghav Chadha said.With assembly polls in Punjab set for early next year, the AAP is going all out to win the battle and has already promised free 300 units of power to the people if it forms the next government.Chadha, the AAP’s Punjab co-in charge, told PTI in an interview that people of the state want to give the Arvind Kejriwal- led party a chance in the next polls as the Akali Dal has become “irrelevant”, while the Congress has been the most “nikammi sarkar” (useless government) ever in the history of electoral politics of Punjab. He said the chief ministerial candidate of the party for Punjab will be decided by the political affairs committee in due course of time.3 characteristics of the CM candidateOn chances of AAP’s Sangrur MP and party’s Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann being chosen, he said at this point and time “I can only say three characteristics of the CM candidate of AAP. One is that he will hail from Punjab, he will be from the 2.8 crore population of Punjab and thirdly he will be somebody who can be called the ‘aan baan shaan’ (pride) of Punjab.SAD becoming ‘irrelevant’, Cong in self-destruction modeTalking about the political situation of Punjab, Chadha claimed that the Akali Dal is slowly becoming “irrelevant” because people have “utmost hatred” for the party of Badals. The Congress is on a “suicide mission and on self-destruction mode” and they do not need an opposition, he said. On the impact of the ongoing farmers’ protest on the polls, Chadha alleged that all three parties - BJP, Congress and Akali Dal - have “betrayed” the Indian farmers and “backstabbed” them. The BJP is not even a player in Punjab because of enacting these three laws, he added. Akali Dal is hated because they were the people who brought this law as Harsimrat Kaur Badal being the minister in the Union cabinet proposed this legislation and Captain (Amarinder Singh) is also hated because he was part of the drafting committee of these laws,” he said. Asked if the AAP will be benefited by the vote bank of Akali Dal, he claimed that everyone will be voting for the AAP not just those who are traditionally Akali Dal or Congress voters.Talking about the party’s vision for Punjab, Chadha said reforms that have been carried out in the national capital will also be carried out in Punjab. In 2017, the AAP had emerged as the main opposition party in the state after winning 20 out of the 117 assembly seats. The Congress had won 77 while an alliance of Shiromani Akali Dal and BJP won 18 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aaps-cm-candidate-in-punjab-will-be-pride-of-state-chadha-101632080162430.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure relief to kin of farmers who lost their lives in agitation: Capt to Channi||A day after he resigned as the chief minister of Punjab, capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday said he was sad that he would not hand over appointment letters to the families of 150 farmers “who had lost their lives” in the ongoing agitation against farm laws even though the government led by him had approved it. He said he was sad that the scheduled event to disburse the appointment letters had to be cancelled and hoped that Charanjit Singh Channi, who the Congress picked on Sunday as the next chief minister, will carry out the task at the earliest to provide relief to the affected families. According to a statement, Amarinder urged the CM-designate to ensure that the state government continues to stand with the beleaguered farmers of Punjab “who have sacrificed their lives in our collective fight for justice”. Amarinder made it clear that he would continue to support the farmers “in their battle for survival and justice”. “Every Punjabi, in fact every Indian, is morally bound to stand with the farmers in their hour of despair,” he said, asserting that even though he was no longer holding the state’s reins, his heart remained with the farmers and their families and he would do everything in his power to ensure that they get their due. According to the statement, Amarinder, whose government had also released over ₹14 crore as compensation to the next of kin of 298 deceased farmers, said he would not allow the sacrifices of India’s ‘annadaatas’ to go waste. “It is the responsibility of every government and political dispensation, be it in Punjab or any other state, as well as the Centre, to ensure that the farmers get their due,” he said. Amrinder resigned as the chief minister of Punjab with less than five months to go for the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had said that he felt “humiliated” over the way the party handled the protracted crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-relief-to-kin-of-farmers-who-lost-their-lives-in-agitation-capt-to-channi-101632080042219.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Day after Capt’s exit, advocate general Atul Nanda resigns||A day after Captain Amarinder Singh’s resignation as the Punjab chief minister, state advocate general Atul Nanda also put in his papers on Sunday.On coming to power in 2017, Amarinder had handpicked Nanda, a senior advocate in the Supreme Court, as the state government’s top law officer. Nanda had defended Amarinder in a string of criminal cases registered against him during the Parkash Singh Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP government between 2007 and 2017. “My appointment as advocate general was co-terminus with his (Amarinder) appointment, and also according to constitutional convention, I have tendered my resignation,” a message sent out by Nanda to the state’s law officers’ team said. Tenure mired in controversies Nanda’s stint as the advocate general has been mired in controversies as it was on his watch that the government suffered major legal setbacks on politically-sensitive sacrilege and police firing cases of 2015 and recently in cases against former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini. He was criticised by the ruling Congress ministers and leaders, many of them Amarinder’s detractors, for steering clear of personally representing in the key cases in the Punjab and Haryana high court and instead hiring lawyers from Delhi. Both state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and party’s Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh had demanded Nanda’s resignation, accusing him of shoddy legal defence in critical cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-capt-s-exit-advocate-general-atul-nanda-resigns-101632079923668.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Friends, relatives throng Channi’s residence in Kharar||Family members and friends thronged newly-elected Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence in Kharar on Sunday evening.Relatives and neighbours distributed sweets to visitors and some relatives even rushed to Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh.Channi’s house in ward number 24 had already been decorated with colourful lights and shamiana, as his son Navjeet Singh’s marriage is slated for October 10 and the Akhand Path for it had been organised on Sunday.Kuldeep Singh, a next-door neighbour, said that Channi is the most down to earth human being. “We hope that even after he becomes the CM, no barricades are erected on the road leading to his house, which will inconvenience his family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/friends-relatives-throng-channi-s-residence-in-kharar-101632079742641.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Twilight in the flyover||The rail tracks seem to extend to the point where the earth touches the sky. Though the earth is pitch dark at this moment in the evening. The sky however has disintegrated into various colours, each shade separated from the other, as if arranged one upon another. The dominantly dark blue is upon a band of light blue, blue is upon orange, orange is upon flaming red. And now an express train enters the scene. It chugs along the tracks, towards the elusive horizon, like a man rushing to claim the rumoured pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.Such are the 6.45 pm impressions you might gather while standing on the west side of the Barakhamba flyover in central Delhi. This vantage point directly overlooks the Shivaji Bridge railway station. Down below, you have a clear view of the six pairs of rail tracks approaching the station’s four platforms. This station is among the city’s smaller stops that hosts the suburban trains. Sometimes long-haul expresses are made to stop here until they are designated their arrival platform in the next destination, just a few minutes ahead—the all-important New Delhi railway station.Despite it being the capital’s heart, the perspective is of an open countryside. This feeling of spaciousness is puzzling, since the city here makes no attempt to hide itself. You clearly see the highrises that circle the Connaught Place shopping district, including the giant national flag fluttering in the Central Park. The tall Lalit Hotel looms next to the bridge. The Bhartiya Janata Party’s central office building seems an arm’s reach away. The bridge is a walking distance from cramped Old Delhi. Yet the area feels secluded. All because of the unhindered view of the sky, that lurks beyond the Shivaji Bridge station. The vastness is so huge that it seems to swallow everything into its nothingness.The unfolding twilight is the most dramatic. The sky colors gradually start to drip into each other. It’s like as if some supernatural being is artfully making an abstract painting more abstract by rubbing the wet canvas with invisible hands. Soon, it’s all dark. The city lights, including the red signals on the rail tracks, pale against the sky’s starless blackness. Some minutes later, one more train chugs in. It slowly comes to a halt at the station. The engine gives a long wail. The prolonged sound travels around, and dies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-twilight-in-the-flyover-101632079561835.html
20-09-2021||Other||Lodhi Club catering service: Ludhiana DC resolves matter, awards tender to highest bidder||A week after the deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma issued show-cause notices to the club’s six executive members for bypassing the tender committee’s chairperson and recommending the second-highest bidder for catering services, the DC has awarded the mess tender for the ground floor to M/S CR Hotels, the highest bidder.In an order issued on Sunday, the DC mentioned that on August 23, the club had decided to float tenders for first and ground-floor catering services. A five-member committee, chaired by Neeru Katyal Gupta and consisting of general secretary, joint secretary, mess secretary, and finance secretary, was formed to take requisite measures to float the tenders and recommend the best bidder.The tenders were floated on August 26 and were opened in the presence of the five-member committee on September 6. “Later, on September 8, I received a letter signed by the general secretary, joint secretary, mess secretary, finance secretary, bar secretary, and sports secretary recommending the second-highest bidder M/S Daam Food. Thereafter, I received a note from Gupta, informing me that the mess tender committee had bypassed her while making their proposal, and the recommendation was for the lower bid,” said the DC.He added that thereafter, a show-cause notice was issued to all the six signatory executive members on September 9 to explain why they had bypassed the chairman of the mess tender committee and recommended a lower bid.“The replies were received on September 13, and on the request of most of them, a personal hearing was given on September 16 in the presence of the nominated members of the executive committee,” read the order.The order read that that M/s Daam Foods has given the work experience and financials of M/S Roche for their bid and M/S Roche, which served the club as a caterer from May 3, 2016, to November 10, 2018, and had an outstanding bill of ₹91,000, which was settled in ₹70,000, causing a financial loss of ₹21,226 to the club.As no bid was received for the first-floor catering services, the tender process will be repeated under the same committee. Till then, the existing caterer will continue to provide his services as per terms and conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lodhi-club-catering-service-ludhiana-dc-resolves-matter-awards-tender-to-highest-bidder-101632079441962.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||10 temporary parkings to be set up to beat festival rush in Ludhiana||Parking and traffic woes are a given during the festival season. However, this year the Ludhiana administration and police have decided to set up 10 additional temporary parking lots to beat the festive rush. The temporary parking sites were shortlisted by the police, Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), and municipal corporation (MC) with the help of non governmental organisations and drone surveys. An official, privy to the decision, said temporary parking lots may be set up on vacant GLADA land opposite the Mini Secretariat, near the BL Kapur Memorial Hospital in Daresi, and the vacant GLADA land near the Old Session Chowk. Deliberations are on for the use of the land of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust at the Feroze Gandhi Market, the LIT Complex on Rani Jhansi Road, and the parking area of the LIT Market near Orient Cinema among other sites. Some parking sites are at a distance from the markets, but other means of transportation can be used to reach the shops and visa versa. The decision was taken during the meeting of the local MLAs with the commissioner of police and other administrative officials. Joint commissioner of police (city and traffic) Deepak Pareek said the 10 sites are being cleaned to establish the temporary parking lots. Typically, traffic snarls are witnessed at Model Town, Chaura Bazar, Ghumar Mandi, Daresi and Dugri markets during the festival season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-temporary-parkings-to-be-set-up-to-beat-festival-rush-in-ludhiana-101632079388975.html
20-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: PAC organises tour to Sutlej floodplains, oxbow lakes||The public action committee (PAC), Sutlej and Mattewara forest ,organised a guided tour to the Sutlej floodplains and oxbow lakes near Mattewara forest on Sunday. The tour was organised to raise awareness about river flood plains and oxbow lakes. Apart from the general public and school children, many photographers and video filmmakers of the city also took part in it.Ranjodh Singh of Ramgarhia Education Trust said, “The general public knows very little about such miracles of nature therefore, this tour was organised as part of a series of awareness campaigns run by PAC. Visits to such places provide understanding well beyond books.”Documentary filmmaker Dharmbir Singh expressed his desire to make a documentary film about pollution and encroachment on the rivers of Punjab.“I had a special interest in today’s tour. I arrived here with my equipment and crew very early in the morning. We will make and release a short documentary film on Oxbow lake and Sutlej flood plains soon,” said Dharambir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pac-organises-tour-to-sutlej-floodplains-oxbow-lakes-101632079387791.html
20-09-2021||Other||Contribute towards safety of city, Ludhiana police chief tells architects||Indian Institute of Architects Ludhiana Centre organised a seminar on ‘Role of architects in smart city’ for architects at a private hotel on Saturday evening.Sanjay Goel, director Ludhiana Smart City Limited, and chairman of the Indian Institute of Architects Punjab Chapter, moderated the session.Commissioner of police Naunihal Singh, who was the chief guest, asked architects to contribute towards safety of Ludhiana and making it a smart city.The police chief explained to them how they can play an important role in not only making the buildings safe but also the city. He also explained how different departments can work together for the best traffic management in the upcoming smart city, and roads can be made more user-friendly like they are in Chandigarh. He welcomed ideas given by architects and invited them for future interactions.Deepak Pareek, joint police commissioner, City and Traffic, and Rajeev Sharad, consultant traffic management, Punjab police, were also in attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/contribute-towards-safety-of-city-ludhiana-police-chief-tells-architects-101632079386808.html
20-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Motorcycle rally held to create awareness on prostate cancer||A team of around 100 bikers, including Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur, took out a motorcycle rally in the city to observe Prostate Cancer Month.Starting from Guru Nanak Stadium, the bikers carried out an expedition of around 27km around the city to spread awareness in the community regarding prostate and uro cancers.NK Chand, principal commissioner of income tax, and mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu flagged off the rally. Chand said he was happy to be a part of this campaign, and one should be particular about screening and regular checkups. The participants carried placards with messages on cancer awareness during the rally. Urologist and transplant surgeon Dr Baldev Singh Aulakh informed the public that prostate cancer is the second leading cause of death in men, generally, people get worried when they are diagnosed with cancer but, thanks to today’s technology, cancer patients have a very high survival rate and the journey has become easier. Dr Aulakh added that prostate cancer is one of the common cancers affecting 1 in 8 men above the age of 50, and it affects different patients differently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-motorcycle-rally-held-to-create-awareness-on-prostate-cancer-101632079385644.html
20-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana district table tennis championship: Ishreen, Aryan bag titles in U-17 finals||Clinching an easy victory in the girls’ under-17 final, Ishreen outwitted Sehajpreet by winning three rounds out of the best five on the second day of the district table tennis championship at Shastri Hall.Sehajpreet managed to win only one round.Around 200 players are participating in the ongoing tournament.In a tight U-17 boys’ match, Aryan outplayed Bhavyam by 3-2 and bagged the championship.Meanwhile, Jasmeen and Vihaan emerged victorious in the under-15 championships. In the girls’ category, Jasmeen defeated Sanya by 3-1, and in the boys’ category, Vihaan defeated Aryan by 3-0. In the U-19 girls’ semi-finals, Ishreen beat Hargun by 3-1, and Sehaj beat Aishveer by 3-1. In the U-19 boys’ semi-finals, Gautam beat Gurpreet by 3-1 and Vivek beat Vihaan by 3-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/district-table-tennis-c-ship-ishreen-aryan-bag-titles-in-u-17-finals-101632079384561.html
20-09-2021||Other||PSEB mid-term exams:Teachers irked as question papers used as political tool||Undue political interference in the ongoing Punjab School Education Board midterm exams for Classes 6 to 12 has not gone down well with the Opposition and teachers of the district. After publicising its schemes in question papers ahead of the upcoming elections, the state government has now inserted politico-religious questions in the Class-12 history exam, inviting flak from the Opposition. In the history exam, which took place on September 17, students were asked “Whose forefathers were blessed by Guru Har Rai?” Of the four options, three included the names of former chief minister of Punjab and Congress leader Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, while the fourth option was ‘none of them.Politicians outraged Training his guns at state education minister Vijay Inder Singla, AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said he should tender an apology and the person who formulated the questions should be penalised. Taking a sarcastic dig at the ruling dispensation, the AAP leader asked “Why not ask students, which Congress minister was involved in illegal mining or which Congress women CM was booked in a corruption case?”SAD leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal also condemned the move. “The Congress is now resorting to dirty politics to project a clean image of their leaders, which is far from reality. We will stage a protest against this,” said Grewal. Meanwhile, Dharmjit Kohara, a history teacher at a government school and president of Master Cadre Union, Ludhiana, said, “The question is completely out of syllabus. The history syllabus for Class 12 includes events from 1469 to 1849. Exams should not be used as a political tool”. Govt ads in exam papers Teachers alleged that the state government was using school exams as a platform to further their political interests by printing government advertisements in question papers. Recently, an advertisement printed in a Class-5 Punjabi paper had highlighted the state government’s pension scheme and was followed by questions based on the advertisement. “It is surprising to see the government using education for political benefits. I have never seen such a thing in my career ,” said the head of a primary school. A former DPI, schools on the condition of anonymity, termed the act ‘ethically wrong’. Meanwhile, officials from the education department, including Krishan Kumar, secretary, school education, did not respond to several phone calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pseb-mid-term-exams-govt-using-question-papers-as-political-tool-teachers-irked-opposition-seeks-apology-101632079381537.html
20-09-2021||Bangalore||Inclusion in 2A category of BC list: Panchamasalis threaten to intensify stir||Leaders and influential seers of the Panchamasali, the largest sub-sect of the Lingayat community, on Sunday reiterated their threat to intensify their struggle to be included in the 2A category of the backward classes list to avail of reservation. Vijayananda Kashappanavar, former legislator and one of the leaders of the Panchamasali agitation, said that BS Yediyurappa lost the top chair because of the curse of the seer, Sri Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami of the Kudalasangama, who was made to walk over 700 kms for the demand. Kashappanavar is also the national president of the Akhila Bharatha Lingayata Panchamasali Mahasabha.“This is our final struggle,”Kashappanavar said, adding that the community would gherao or surround the Vidhana Soudha if need be to get the government accept to their demand. Yediyurappa had assured to look into the demands when he was chief minister and had sought time to review the matter. The leaders of the community had given the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government time till September 15 and have now said that the members of the community will intensify their struggle from October 1. The statements add to the challenges to the Basavaraj Bommai-led government who appear to have inherited the burden of promises made by his predecessor and have to now deal with rising tempers and manage expectations. “We will restart our satyagraha,” Kashappanavar said. He added that until now the community has continued its struggle in a peaceful manner. “Now our people should listen to us, no? Not everyone is under our control because they are fed up. We are Panchamasalis; if we lose our heads, then there is no listening to anyone,” he said, adding that the struggle could get more fierce. The reservation row in Karnataka has seen dominant and backward caste groups slug it out to get the government to heed to their demands. The Lingayats and Vokkaligas, believed to be the two dominant caste groups in the state, have demanded that the 2015 socio-economic and educational survey not be released. A newly created forum of the extreme backward classes has demanded that the exercise undertaken by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in 2015 be released and Panchamasalis be not included in the 2A list as it would further deprive marginalized groups of the quota pie. The group already nurses a feeling of neglect after the BJP chose Bommai, from the Sadar Lingayat sub-sect of the community, to replace Yediyurappa. The Lingayats have long stood behind the BJP and Yediyurappa but have now threatened to hold the party to its promises of better reservation status. Sri Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami, the seer of the Kudalasangama, hinted that it was Yediyurappa who deliberately sabotaged the chances of Murugesh Nirani, also a Panchamasali, to become chief minister.Nirani, a loyalist of Yediyurappa, was quick to dismiss the claim made by the seer. “To say that Yediyurappa made me miss a chance to become chief minister is far from the truth,” Nirani said in a post on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/inclusion-in-2a-category-of-bc-list-panchamasalis-threaten-to-intensify-stir-101632078962149.html
20-09-2021||Bangalore||Man travelling with woman of different faith attacked, 2 held in Bengaluru||Two persons have been arrested by Bengaluru Police for allegedly assaulting a bike rider who was carrying a woman of different faith as pillion rider on his two-wheeler, police said on Sunday.“A video of the assault on a bike rider travelling along with a woman from a different faith was viral on social media. In this connection, a case has been registered in SG Palya, Suddaguntepalya police station. Our police swiftly acted on this and arrested two accused within 12 hours. Further investigation is going on,” said Joshi Srinath Mahadev, the deputy commissioner of police (south-east division) on Sunday.In the video, one of the two accused threatens and assaults the biker and the other taunts and humiliates the woman.“Remove your burqa and do whatever you want,” the perpetrator is heard saying.They then force the woman to give them her husband’s mobile phone number and hurl abuses in the husband’s name for shaming the entire “community” by allowing his wife to travel with a stranger.The incident comes at a time when there has been a visible increase in the number of hate crimes and moral policing with vigilante groups often resorting to violence in the name of safeguarding the religion.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that such incidents will not be tolerated and will be dealt with an iron hand.“In connection with the case of assault on a man travelling with a woman of different faith,@BlrCityPolice has acted swiftly, identified, secured 2 accused persons, registered case & legal action is initiated. My Govt deals with such incidents with an iron hand,” the chief minister of Karnataka tweeted from his official handle on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/man-travelling-with-woman-of-different-faith-attacked-2-held-in-bengaluru-101632078904140.html
20-09-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka logs 783 new Covid cases, Bengaluru Urban records maximum at 267||Karnataka on Sunday clocked 783 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to over 2.96 million, while 16 deaths pushed the toll to 37,603, a health department bulletin said.The day also saw 1,139 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to over 2.91 million. Active cases stood at 15,383, the bulletin said.Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 267 cases and seven fatalities, it said.Dakshina Kannada district bordering Kerala remained a major Covid-19 hotspot with 97 fresh infections and one death.Other districts too reported fresh cases with Udupi logging 82, followed by Mysuru (69), Kodagu (41), Chikkamagaluru (36) and Hassan (34).Bagalakote, Koppal, Raichur, Ramanagara and Yadgir reported zero infections and zero deaths.Twenty-five districts reported zero fatalities, the bulletin said. A total of 129,874 samples were tested in the state on Sunday, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 46.3 million.The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 50.2 million, with 58,509 people being inoculated on Sunday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-logs-783-new-covid-cases-bengaluru-urban-records-maximum-at-267-101632078902025.html
20-09-2021||Bangalore||Three held over remarks on Mahatma Gandhi||Mangaluru police on Sunday arrested three persons after a few people claiming to be from the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM) said that ‘they didn’t even spare Mahatma Gandhi to protect Hindus’. “At the moment, three people have been taken into custody, including Dharmendra (the main accused) and an inquiry is being conducted,” N Shashi Kumar, the Mangaluru city police commissioner said. The arrests come a day after a few people, claiming to be from ABHM held a press conference in Mangaluru, about 351 kms from Bengaluru, where they came down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the state for allowing the demolition of Hindu temples. “When we didn’t spare Mahatma Gandhi and killed him to protect Hindus, do you think we will spare you?” Dharmendra, the person who claimed to be the state general secretary of the right-wing group, had said in the address. The statements come days after a video showing the Mysuru district administration demolishing a temple went viral. The Karnataka high court had pulled up authorities for failing to take action against illegal structures built on government land, prompting the Mysuru district administration to act. Kumar said that a person named Lohit Kumar Suvarna had registered a complaint that there were some people who were misusing the name of the right-wing outfit, its letterhead and made controversial remarks against Gandhi and other constitutional authorities. “People who were removed from the group are claiming to be part of the outfit even today and indulging in illegal activities,” Kumar said, referring to the complaint registered by Suvarna. Kumar said that cases were filed under sections 153(A) promoting enmity between groups, 505(2) public mischief, threat to life, forgery, cheating and intent to malign reputation among other serious charges. Even those who attended the press conference would be contacted and their statements will be taken, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/three-held-over-remarks-on-mahatma-gandhi-101632078843764.html
20-09-2021||Bangalore||On viral video, Sadananda Gowda says it's deep fake; complaint filed||Former union minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader DV Sadananda Gowda on Sunday said that his image was morphed into a video that was going viral online. He said he has filed a complaint with the cybercrime police. “Dear well wishers, a morphed (deep fake) video of mine has been making rounds on social media. I would like to inform that, it is not me in the video, it’s created to malign my impeccable image by my adversaries with vested interest,” Gowda said in his post on Twitter. The tweet comes after a video of a person who appears to be Gowda with an unnamed woman over a video call. Gowda, who is the member of parliament from Bengaluru North, is also the former chief minister of Karnataka. The video is the latest to torment the BJP in Karnataka and further entangling the government in a web of complications. Ramesh Jarkiholi, who had served as Karnataka’s water resources minister in the B.S.Yediyurappa-led government, in March resigned from the cabinet a day after allegations of sexual exploitation surfaced against the legislator from Belagavi. Jarkiholi too had secured an injunction from the courts against publishing, distribution and sharing the contents of a video and audio calls even though he had called it fake. In barely a few days of the Jarkiholi video surfacing, at least six ministers who had defected from the HD Kumaraswamy-led Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) coalition secured injunctions against publishing, circulating or sharing any content which were obscene or derogatory. Dr K Sudhakar, one of the six who did secure an injunction, had later drawn ire from all legislators when he, in March, suggested that all 225 members of the legislative assembly face an inquiry into their personal lives. Fire-brand BJP leader Basanagouda Yatna, a fierce critic of Yediyurappa, had alleged that there were “CDs” of the 78-year-old. Even BJP leaders hit out at the suggestion of Sudhakar, further adding to the growing tensions within the party. Gowda was left out of the union cabinet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in July. The former union minister said that he has filed a complaint with the cyber crime police and that he had faith that the culprits would be caught. “Also, as per the injunction order of the court, anyone forwarding/uploading the content will be punishable as per the relevant sections of the law. If you know of anyone doing the same, kindly inbox me,” he said in his post. Gowda had secured an injunction in July. One woman BJP worker had levelled allegations of sexual harassment against Gowda in 2018 at the height of the Me Too movement. Gowda’s son was also accused of rape in 2014 when an actress filed a complaint and a day later stated that the duo had married secretly and that the family accept her as the daughter-in-law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/created-to-malign-image-sadananda-rejects-viral-video-101632078842162.html
20-09-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu government’s preventive measures kept Zika, Nipah virus at bay: Subramanian||Tamil Nadu Health Minister Ma Subramanian on Sunday said as a result of the stringent preventive measures taken by the government, Zika and Nipah virus were not able to enter the state from neighbouring Kerala.With Kerala reporting Nipah virus cases which resulted in the death of a boy, the government has been monitoring the situation by setting up 13 check-posts in Coimbatore district which is close to Kerala on the directives of Chief Minister, M K Stalin, the minister told reporters here.“The stringent preventive measures taken by the Tamil Nadu government, including setting up of check-posts in the border areas with Kerala ensured that Nipah and Zika virus could not enter the state,” he added.Those entering the state from Kerala had to undergo RT-PCR tests and carry vaccination certificates and were sent back if they failed the test and did not carry the certificates, he said, adding despite strict restrictions Kerala was reporting more than 20,000 positive Covid-19 cases each day.Subramanian inaugurated a mega vaccination camp at a government hospital in nearby Pollachi and also opened two oxygen generators-one 1,000 LPM at a cost of ₹1 crore with financial support from the Central government and another 660 LPM with CSR Assistance from ACT Grants.Ruling out the possibility of a coronavirus third wave hitting the state, he said in view of the problems faced during the first wave of Covid-19 the chief minister had taken stringent steps to control the second and stop the third wave.The first dose percentage in India was 62 and 40 per cent in Tamil Nadu before the DMK came to power, which has now gone up to 58 per cent after initiating medical camps, Subramanian said.Over 1.5 million people will be inoculated during the mega vaccination camp in 20,000 camps this Sunday across the State, he said.As far as the last camp on September 12, as against the target of 2 million, the total doses given crossed 28.98 lakh, even as the total number of vaccinated crossed 42 million in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-government-s-preventive-measures-kept-zika-nipah-virus-at-bay-subramanian-101632078602047.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||A grassroots leader who rose through the ranks rapidly||Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi is set to be Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister, barely five months before the state assembly elections are due early next year. The three-time MLA from Chamkaur Sahib constituency is set to be sworn in on Monday morning.Channi was unanimously elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab following a flurry of consultations throughout the day. The development comes a day after Captain Amarinder Singh’s sudden exit from the state’s top post, after months of infighting between him and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Channi was born in Punjab’s Bhajauli village near Kurali in 1963. His family was settled in Malaysia where his father worked, but they returned to India in 1955 and settled in Kharar town of SAS Nagar district of Punjab.A grassroots-level leader, Channi entered politics at the age of 20 and became a councillor for the first time in 1992.“Heartfelt gratitude and thanks to the top leadership for appointing me Chief Minister of Punjab...I will always work for the welfare of the people and to give new energy and momentum to the sustainable development journey of the state,” the 58-year-old said in a Twitter post.His political journey began in 2003, after he was elected as the president of the Kharar municipal council, and has since risen through the ranks. He first contested as an independent candidate in 2007 and won from Chamkaur Sahib assembly constituency. He joined the Congress in 2012 and was re-elected as legislator from the same seat.Channi was the leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly from 2015 to 2016 and was made a minister in the Amarinder Singh Cabinet in March 2017.The Congress’s decision to name Channi, who belongs to the Ramdasia Sikh community, assumes significance as poll-bound Punjab has a population of nearly 31.9% from the community.The Shiromani Akali Dal, which has joined hands with the BSP, has already announced that the deputy chief minister post will be given to a Dalit if it wins the assembly polls.The 58-year-old held the portfolios of Technical Education, Industrial Training, Employment Generation and Tourism and Cultural Affairs in the Singh-led cabinet.Passionate about bolstering his academic qualifications, Channi is currently enrolled for a doctorate course in Panjab University on the Congress party’s history and evolution and holds degrees in LLB, MBA.As a minister, Channi bemused everyone when he climbed an elephant in the courtyard of a government bungalow allotted to him, following the advice of an astrologer. Earlier, before taking over as a cabinet minister, he changed the direction of the entrance of the bungalow.He has also been a vocal critic of the government on the issues related to Dalits like the representation of Scheduled Caste in senior government posts.Channi was the first to articulate the Congress ministers’ grouse about bureaucrats’ dominance in the Amarinder-led government and seek a better representation of elected representatives. Three months ago, when the state’s case on the sacrilege and police firing cases of 2015 during the Akali-BJP rule fell through in the Punjab and Haryana high court, Channi made a common cause with Amarinder Singh’s detractors in the cabinet and demanded action against the perpetrators in the politically-sensitive cases as was promised by the Congress in the run-up to 2017 assembly polls. As the ranks of Amarinder-baiters grew, Channi firmly aligned himself with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who later became Singh’s nemesis and returned the favour by supporting Channi’s name as CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-grassroots-leader-who-rose-through-the-ranks-rapidly-101632078449664.html
20-09-2021||Other||TN vaccinates 1.6 million in a day, halts drive after running out of stock||For the second time, Tamil Nadu conducted a large-scale vaccination camp and inoculated 1.6 million people as of 8 pm, thereby exhausting its vaccine stock with nothing left for Monday. “The vaccines in our hand are over, so tomorrow no facility will be able to conduct vaccination tomorrow,” health minister M Subramanian informed on Sunday evening. “We request that people who have registered to receive a vaccine tomorrow not go to camps so that you aren’t cheated or dejected. We hope we will receive more vaccines from the union government tomorrow, and we will immediately distribute it to re-start vaccination.”In Chennai, vaccination was conducted in streets, beaches, shopping malls and public spaces. Simultaneously home vaccination for senior citizens above the age of 80 and people with disabilities also continued. Stalin inspected the drive in Chennai. Previously on September 12, a Sunday, Tamil Nadu had conducted a 12-hour mega vaccination drive on Sunday that surpassed its target to inoculate 20-lakh people, with 2.9 million people receiving a shot against the Covid-19 disease. At that time, the state had 2.9 million vaccines in hand and had conducted the drive across 40,000 camos. Tamil Nadu had hoped they could pitch this achievement to the union government to increase the supply of vaccines but that did not happen. This time it had only half the number of vaccine doses (about 11-lakh of Covishield and 5-lakh of Covaxin), and the state conducted only 20,000 camps, and the target was to administer vaccines to 1.5 million people. Last week, Subramanian had written to the union health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya seeking additional vaccines. He sought 5 million more vaccines for the past week--five-lakh vaccines a day for six days and 20-lakh for the mega drive on Sunday. The state health department is distributing vaccines to all districts based on their population and vaccination performance indicators. There is also a special focus along the 9 districts bordering Kerala which is seeing a high number of Covid-19 cases and is also dealing with Nipah and Zika, putting Tamil Nadu on alert. Tamil Nadu however is hovering around 1500-1600 new cases of Covid-19 daily but officials do not want to let their guard down. “Vaccination is the only way to prevent a third wave,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “As of today, in September alone we have crossed the milestone of vaccinating one-crore people. Since January, government facilities alone have vaccinated more than 4-crore people, added. “We are slated to receive the next batch of vaccines only on the 22nd, but we have approached the union government to send us supplies immediately tomorrow,” Radhakrishnan told reporters on Sunday. “But this is a good position to be in. From January to March, when we have vaccine stocks, the public wasn’t coming forward to take it. We have also asked for more vaccines based on our higher population as compared to the other states.”Tamil Nadu’s vaccination story started from absolute hesitancy due to fear of side effects, among other factors. The perception began to change only during May and June when the second wave of Covid-19 had peaked, and the state was under duress much like other regions due to a shortage in medical oxygen. But vaccination numbers were still low but this time officials said that it was due to a shortage in supply. But from July onwards, there has been a steady supply of vaccines from the union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tnvaccinates-1-6-million-in-a-day-halts-drive-after-running-out-of-stock-101632078543542.html
20-09-2021||Other||Landslide victory for YSCRP in Andhra local body polls||The ruling YSR Congress party in Andhra Pradesh achieved a landslide victory in the zilla parishad and mandal parishad (block parishads) elections, the counting for which was held on Sunday.The YSRCP won 547 out of the 553 zilla parishad territorial constituency (ZPTC) seats and 7284 out of the 8063 mandal parishads territorial constituencies (MPTC), results for which were declared by 7.30 pm. Counting for the pending 88 ZPTCs and 1504 MPTCs was underway, when the reports last came in, according to the state election commission.The main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) won only three ZPTCs and 675 MPTCs. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its alliance Jana Sena drew blank in zilla parishads, but won 23 and 85 seats in the mandal parishad elections.An official statement from the YSRCP said the results reflected the endorsement of people’s faith in the governance of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy.The party said the ZPTC and MPTC results had also indicated doom for TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu in his assembly constituency Kuppam in Chittoor district. “The YSRC bagged all the four ZPTCs and 62 out of 65 MPTCs in Kuppam. In the gram panchayat elections held in February this year, too, YSRC had won 75 out of 89 gram panchayats,” the official statement said.State panchayat raj and rural development minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said the chief minister had gained the people’s trust once again by fulfilling election promises. “It clearly shows the TDP has lost the people’s support,” he said.However, TDP spokesman and former minister S Chandramohan Reddy ridiculed the claim of the YSRC stating that it had achieved a landslide victory. He reminded that the TDP had boycotted the local body elections after its representation against the election irregularities fell on deaf ears.“It is an open secret that the ruling YSRCP resorted to threats, intimidation and forced unanimous results in many places. They misused the police and the official machinery without any shame,” he said.There are in all 660 ZPTC seats and 10,047 MPTC seats in the state, of which around 126 ZPTC and 2,371 MPTC seats were elected unanimously in March 2020, when the election process to the local bodies commenced.The polling for the remaining seats, supposed to be held in the last week of March 2020, was put on hold by former state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar due to nationwide lockdown owing to the Coronavirus pandemic.The process for the conduct of elections to the remaining seats resumed on April 2 this year, a day after new state election commissioner Neelam Sawhney assumed charge.The polling for 515 ZPTC seats and 7,219 MPTC seats was held on April 8. In all, 12,955,980 voters exercised their franchise. The polling could not be held for eight ZPTC and 355 MPTC seats due to court cases, while it was withheld in 11 ZPTCs and 81 MPTCs due to the death of the candidates.The counting of votes for the ZPTC and MPTC elections was supposed to be held on April 10 but was stalled by a single-judge bench of the state high court acting on a petition filed by the TDP and Jana Sena parties.Later, on May 21, the bench ordered the cancellation of the ZPTC and MPTC, on the ground that the SEC had not followed the mandatory four-week model code of conduct to be in force between the date of announcement of schedule and the conduct of the elections, as per the Supreme Court directions.The SEC challenged the single-judge bench verdict before a division bench comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice N Jayasurya. The SEC argued that the Supreme Court rule for following a four-week model code of conduct cannot apply to the local body elections.It further contended that the four-week rule was not followed for municipal elections and gram panchayat elections held in April this year. For municipal elections, there was a gap of only 22 days and for panchayat elections, it was only 26 days.After hearing the arguments, the division bench of the high court on September 16 struck down the single-judge orders and permitted the SEC to go ahead with the counting of votes for the ZPTC and MPTC elections||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/landslide-victory-for-yscrp-in-andhra-local-body-polls-101632078542123.html
20-09-2021||Other||Petroleum under GST: Panneerselvam slams DMK govt for opposition||The AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Sunday questioned the DMK government’s opposition to bring petroleum products under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), saying it was contrary to the ruling party’s persistent demands for covering fuel under the GST ambit earlier, when it was in the opposition.Chief minister M K Stalin, as Leader of Opposition in the past, had often stressed for bringing petrol and diesel under GST, saying it will enable in reduction of the fuel prices, AIADMK Coordinator O Panneerselvam said.However, the government had opposed any move to bring petrol and diesel under the tax ambit in the latest GST Council meeting on Friday, saying it was a means of key tax revenue for the states, he pointed out.“DMK is known for taking one stand while in the opposition and another when in power, in issues like regional autonomy, NEET cancellation and inter-state river disputes,” the former chief minister said in a party statement.Explaining in detail DMK’s earlier demand for bringing petroleum products under the GST and its Finance Minister P T Palanivel Thiaga Rajan now opposing any such move, he said there was an “apprehension” among the public that the ruling party’s earlier stand was only a “desperate attempt to capture power.” “Therefore, Chief Minister M K Stain should intervene in the matter immediately and in order to lessen the burden on the people, take steps to bring petroleum products under GST and establish DMK’s pre-election stand,” he urged.This will also help in “total” fulfilling of DMK’s poll-time promise of reducing the rates of petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹3, respectively, he added.The DMK government had last month announced a cut of ₹3 per litre in petrol rates.Tamil Nadu on Friday opposed the idea of bringing fuels under the goods and services tax (GST) by saying the petrol and diesel remain one of the last vestiges of a state’s right to manage its own revenue. The GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday had decided to continue to keep petrol and diesel out of the uniform national tax regime, besides taking a number of other taxation related decisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petroleum-under-gst-panneerselvam-slams-dmk-govt-for-opposition-101632078484873.html
20-09-2021||Other||Kerala can become Afghanistan in 10 years, says former minister Alphons||The politics of appeasement has spoiled Kerala and if the situation continues like this the state will be another Afghanistan in 10 years, said former union minister K J Alphons. Speaking to this reporter over the phone from Delhi, Alphons said his observation is nothing to do with the Pala Bishop’s latest statement. “Appeasement politics is at its high in Kerala. Both fronts, ruling Left Democratic Front and opposition Congress-led UDF, turn a blind eye to growing Wahabism and Salafism in Kerala. All are after vote bank. If the situation continues like this little Kerala will be another Afghanistan in a decade or so,” said the bureaucrat-turned politician. He said radicalization of a section of a particular community is sowing seeds of such tendency in other communities also, and it is really dangerous. “Kerala always remained a global example of communal harmony. Different religions lived together for centuries without any rift or tension. But things are not rosy now. ‘We are right others are wrong’ tendency is fast catching up. What is disturbing is that saner elements are being silenced by extremist ideologies in the Muslim community,” he said. “I have many Muslim friends, and my two sons got married from different communities. Marriage is an individual choice. But if you marry girls from other communities feigning love and to push them to war-torn areas, it can’t be called brotherhood or amity, it is terror,” he said adding, he agreed that it is wrong to blame a community for the wrongdoings of a minuscule section. But he said, feigning ignorance and whitewash all such sinister activities are more dangerous. “It is true, Talibanization is taking place in certain pockets of Kerala. Even they changed the dress code of women in north Malabar. I was shocked to hear the way some leaders justified the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan. Nobody is talking about the plight of women and children there. Millions of people are on the verge of starvation,” he said adding major parties are silent over radicalization fearing vote bank. He said when Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallaranghatt said about “narcotic jihad” all were busy attacking him and nobody asked him what prompted him to say this. “It is a fact radicalization assumed a dangerous proportion in Kerala. You can’t turn a blind eye towards it. Instead of addressing this, all are busy shooting the messenger,” he said. Addressing a religious congregation in one of the churches in Kottayam the Bishop had said Catholic girls and youth are becoming victims of “narcotic jihad” and decried authorities for turning a blind eye towards it. The Bishop’s controversial statement has triggered a war of words between different communities and political parties and they are yet to settle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-can-become-afghanistan-in-10-years-says-former-minister-alphons-101632078483512.html
20-09-2021||Other||Kerala reports 19k Covid new cases, to speed up sero survey||The Kerala government on Sunday directed agencies involved in conducting serosurvey to speed up the process after it decided to reopen schools from November 1. The state reported 19, 653 fresh Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate of 17.35 per cent and 152 fatalities, the health ministry said. The state decided to conduct a seroprevalence survey in the first week of August, and samples were collected from all districts to get an indication of the exact population exposed to the virus. According to the earlier survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research, Kerala has the lowest presence of antibodies at 44.4 per cent in comparison to Madhya Pradesh, where it stood at 75.9 per cent. The government has also decided to stop rapid antigen tests for Covid- 19 in private laboratories. They will be allowed to conduct in government laboratories only in an emergency at the discretion of a medical practitioner. The state completed 89 per cent Covid vaccination. “We have vaccinated 89 per cent with a single dose, and 36.7 got the second dose also. We are fast moving towards our goal of cent per cent vaccination,” said state health minister Veena George. A special drive was started on Friday to scout people above 65 years who have not yet been vaccinated. The state health department tested 113,295 samples in the last 24 hours and has 173,631 active Covid cases. With fresh fatalities, the total tally has now reached 23,591. Ernakulam reported the most cases with 2,810 cases, followed by Thrissur 2,620 and Thiruvananthapuram 2,105 cases. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 30,773 new cases and 309 deaths and the active caseload stands at 332,158. Statistics show Kerala continues to contribute a major share of new cases, death and active cases. Experts said the state’s mounting cases will drop by the end of this month. For more than three months, the state remained the pandemic capital reporting around 70 per cent of the total cases of the country. The second stage of infection aggravated after the Onam festival in August- end. Despite high Covid cases, the state reported no health crisis or shortage of oxygen. On Saturday, the government had announced its decision to open schools from November 1 after an 18-month interval. Initially, it will open only higher classes, said education minister V Sivankutty adding preparations are on for this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-reports-19k-covid-new-cases-to-speed-up-sero-survey-101632078482112.html
20-09-2021||Noida||Noida: 19-yr-old held for stabbing neighbour over house’s boundary row||Noida: The Noida police has arrested a 19-year-old, a resident of Block H in Sector 63 - Phase 3, for allegedly stabbing his neighbour’s teenage daughter following an argument over a boundary wall on Friday evening, officials said on Sunday.The suspect, Badal, who is a daily wage labourer by profession, lives with his family in a temporary shanty in the area. Badal, a native of Madhya Pradesh, got into an argument with the other family about the space between the two houses on Friday evening. “Both the families accused each other of encroaching on their space, and started arguing over it. During this, Badal stabbed the neighbour’s 18-year-old daughter in her hands and face with a vegetable knife several times,” said senior sub-inspector Virendra Singh, station house officer (SHO), Phase 3 police station.That is when other neighbours intervened and called the police, said the officials. Badal, meanwhile, escaped. A police team reached the spot and took the victim to a nearby hospital for treatment.A case was registered against Badal under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), and relevant sections of the Arms Act at the Phase 3 police station. The suspect was arrested late Saturday night from Block A in Noida Sector 63 following a tip, said the police, adding that they have also recovered the knife used in the assault from Badal’s possession.The suspect was interrogated and sent to judicial custody on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-19-yr-old-held-for-stabbing-neighbour-over-house-s-boundary-row-101632078421392.html
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: One patient dies, 28 more cases surface in Punjab||The number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab reached 6,01,264 on Sunday, with 28 more people testing positive for the virus. Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Mohali districts reported three cases each, according to a bulletin issued by the state health department.A virus-related death was also reported during the day, taking the number of fatalities in Punjab to 16,468. The active caseload stands at 317, after bumping up from the Saturday’s figure of 316.  With 26 patients being cured and discharged, the total number of recoveries has reached 5,84,479. The recovery rate stands at 97.2% and case fatality rate at 2.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-one-patient-dies-28-more-cases-surface-in-punjab-101632078181973.html
20-09-2021||Noida||IITGL launches industrial plot scheme in G Noida||GREATER NOIDA: The Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Limited (IITGL) launched an industrial plot scheme which will be open for applicants from September 24 to October 16 this year. The well-planned, zero-waste discharge township is located in Greater Noida, along the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor, said officials on Sunday.People can apply for plots under this scheme at www.iitgnl.com, they added.Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO) of IITGL, said, “People can download the application form from the official website and submit it after attaching documents mentioned in it. Eligible companies will get plots following a lucky draw.”Companies getting at least 60 out of 100 will be eligible to take part in the allotment process. The marks will be given on the basis of criteria fixed and mentioned in the brochure. Companies have to fulfill conditions such as financial strength, work experience in industrial projects, net worth, and turn over, among others, said the officials.It is an open-ended scheme and will continue till all the plots are allotted. The allotment process is scheduled from October 1 to October 16, 2021. “Plots allotted from October 1 to 16 will be removed from the list, and the remaining ones will be allotted then on. The scheme will close only after the entire industrial space is allotted,” said an official of IITGNL, requesting anonymity.The scheme has plots of 18,600 square metres X 54,600 square metres. An applicant will have to pay a processing fee of ₹25,000 (non-refundable), and 10% of the total plot cost as security money (refundable). After the allotment is completed, the applicant will have to deposit another 30% of the total plot cost, and the remaining amount later, the officials added.As of now, the IITGL has at least 260 acres of industrial land -- meant for research and development (R&D) units earlier -- which can be allotted for related projects. It is 40 kilometres away from the Jewar airport project site, and the land use change was done from R&D to any kind of non-polluting industrial units in 2020-end.The Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh had formed the IITG in Gautam Budh Nagar in August 2016, and the IITGL started allotting industrial plots in an integrated township spread over 747 acres to the developers from 2017. 50% of the total 747 acres available is earmarked for industrial usage and the remaining for residential and commercial purposes. The authority has already allotted land to several China-based home appliances companies, and they are setting up their units in the township.Mumbai-based developer, Shapoorji Pallonji, will develop the township near the Jewar airport project site. The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), the special purpose vehicle of the state government, is developing the Jewar airport in Greater Noida, and the Switzerland company Zurich AG, the concessionaire of the airport project, is engaged in developmental and operational work of the airport project that is likely to become operational in 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/iitgl-launches-industrial-plot-scheme-in-g-noida-101632077821379.html
20-09-2021||Noida||Row erupts over King Mihir Bhoj’s posters in Dadri ahead of CM visit||Days ahead of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s proposed visit to Gautam Budh Nagar to unveil a 15-foot statue of Mihir Bhoj in Dadri, a row has erupted over the posters of the 9th century ruler erected at various places across the district. A group of men on Saturday allegedly pulled down several such posters, soon after members of the Gurjar community claimed that Bhoj was a Gurjar king but the word ‘Gurjar’ was missing from all posters. Shyam Singh Bhati, GB Nagar president of Akhil Bharatiya Veer Gurjar Mahasabha, said everyone knows that Samrat Mihir Bhoj belonged to the Gurjar community. “There are several schools, colleges, and parks named after him. The UP chief minister is going to unveil a Bhoj’s statue at a Dadri college on Wednesday. But local MLA Tejpal Nagar and other BJP leaders had dropped ‘Gurjar’ from posters to appease a section of other community, who claims Bhoj was a Rajput king,” he said. Some people captured the pulling down of posters on camera and shared the video on social networking sites. The CM is expected to unveil the Bhoj’s statue at Mihir Bhoj PG College in Dadri on September 22.Dadri MLA Nagar has denied the allegations. “The CM will unveil a statue of Samrat Mihir Bhoj, and also lay foundation of a government girls inter college, a science lab at the Dadri college, and a community hall in the neighbourhood. Some people are involved in pulling down the posters. They will only comment on why they are damaging the posters. The statue’s name plate bears ‘Gurjar Samrat Mihir Bhoj’,” he said. Meanwhile, the Dadri police have registered two FIRs for allegedly bringing down the posters which bear photos of Samrat Mihir Bhoj, CM Yogi Adityanath, MLA Nagar, and others. According to Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer (SHO) of Dadri police station, Satyendra Kumar, a resident of Dadri, filed a complaint against a person for damaging the poster outside a school in Dadri on Saturday. Based on the complaint of local residents Lalit Nagar and Ravindra Kumar, another case was registered against five persons, including Shyam Singh Bhati, for damaging the posters, the SHO said, adding that nobody has been arrested.The cases have been registered under sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation, with intent to cause riot), 505 (1)(B) (public mischief) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code. “We are investigating the matter,” Tripathi said. Meanwhile, members of Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena on Sunday held a meeting in Piyawali village in Greater Noida where they claimed that Bhoj was a Rajput king. Sena’s UP unit leader Rana Brajesh Pratap Singh said that they will protest any name change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/row-erupts-over-king-mihir-bhoj-s-posters-in-dadri-ahead-of-cm-visit-101632077645662.html
20-09-2021||Other||Rescued turtles flown back home to Lucknow for rehabilitation||MEERUT For the second time in the state’s history of repatriating rescued wildlife, 266 rescued Indian Tent Turtles (Pangshura tentoria circumdata) and Indian Roofed Turtles (Pangshura tecta) were airlifted from Hyderabad to Lucknow on Sunday, through the joint effort of UP forest department and Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA). These turtles were confiscated and two offenders detained in Hyderabad in early August. The arrested poachers had confessed to have poached these turtles from river Gomti near Lucknow. The recovered turtles were temporarily housed in Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad for safe custody till the legal proceedings got over. Pawan Kumar Sharma, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) of Uttar Pradesh, said that seeking technical assistance of TSA experts, the Telangana forest department was contacted to hand over the turtles to the state so that they could be rehabilitated in the wild without any delay and maximum survival could be ensured. Sharma then directed the chief conservator of forests( Awadh region) RK Singh and divisional forest officer (DFO) Lucknow Ravi Kumar Singh to complete the required paper work between both states, seeking assistance of TSA experts of which further coordinated with Wildlife Conservation Society- India Easternghat. Besides legal proceedings, a rapid health check-up, standard packaging and translocation of turtles were executed under technical supervision of TSA experts and they were airlifted to Lucknow through Air India, which has been the TSA’s trusted partner for translocating endangered wildlife for over 7 years.“Technical experts kept monitoring the health of the turtles during translocation,” shared Sharma. After a journey of 8 hours via Delhi, the turtles were received by Alok Pandey, sub divisional officer, Lucknow, range officer, city and Arunima Singh, biologist of TSA in Lucknow. DFO Ravi Singh shared that the turtles’ health would be assessed and they would be quarantined for 29 days at UPFD/TSA Laboratory for Aquatic Biology at Kukrail Gharial Centre before being rehabilitated at safer locations in the Gomti within Lucknow district in mid October. Dr Shailendra Singh, director, TSA India, Lucknow said that these species of turtles were poached to cater to the demand of illegal pet trade as they looked very pretty and people kept them in aquariums. Both species are sympatric, found in the Gomti river and associated wetlands. One prefers flowing water and the other stagnant pools near and within the river. Arunima Singh said that P tecta belonged to schedule 1 of India Wildlife Protection Act 1972. To note, the first such repatriation by the UP forest department and TSA was in 2015 when both organisations flew over 500 Spotted Pond Turtles from Maharastra for rehabilitation in the wild. Lauding the efforts of all officials, staff of the forest department and TSA experts, Sharma said that “such bold decisions and coordinated efforts between states will set good examples to timely repatriate rescued wildlife where origin is known.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rescued-turtles-flown-back-home-to-lucknow-for-rehabilitation-101632077522370.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||2 of alleged terror module were sent to Pak for training: Probe||Delhi Police officers investigating an alleged Pakistan-backed terror module, which was busted last Tuesday, have said that at least two of the six suspects were chosen for training in Pakistan owing to their good academic background.An officer who is privy to the investigation said Zeeshan Qamar and Osama alias Sami were sent to Pakistan to receive training in handling explosives and planning. Zeeshan was pursuing his MBA in finance through distance learning; and Osama was a final year graduation student at Allahabad University. The other four suspects were school dropouts or illiterates, which would have made it difficult for them to pass off as someone else in disguise, the officer said.On Tuesday, Delhi police announced the arrest six people -- Jaan Mohammad Shaikh (47), Osama alias Sami (22), Moolchand alias Saaju (47), Zeeshan Qamar (28), Mohamed Abu Bakr (23), and Mohammed Amir Javed (31) – and claimed to have averted serial blasts in at least three states and targeted killings. The six men were arrested on Monday from Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.“Only Zeeshan and Osama are educated and could pass off as different persons in disguise. Zeeshan completed his B Com from Allahabad University. He was married recently during the lockdown. Compared to the these two, Jaan Mohammad is Class 5 dropout; Abu Bakr studied up to Class 7; Moolchand failed in Class 12 and Amir Javed studied only Arabic till high school. It appears that these four were to be used merely as foot soldiers. Meanwhile Osama and Zeeshan were trained to make improvised explosive devices, conduct reconnaissance and plan the blasts, the first officer, who asked not to be named, said.Zeeshan’s father, Qamaruz Zaman in his statement to reporters a day after Zeeshan’s arrest denied that his son had gone to Pakistan. He also denied his son’s involvement with Pakistani agencies, and said that nobody in his family has any criminal record.Delhi Police on Tuesday claimed that Zeeshan and Osama were taken to Pakistan from Oman on April 22 via sea route. Police have claimed that the serial blasts were planned by Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence(ISI). Police alleged that the two men were trained in a town called Jioni (near Gwadar port, Pakistan). Police said that of the three men, there were two who wore military uniform.All the six men are currently in 14-days judicial custody. On Monday (September 20), it will be a week since police started questioning the six men.A second police officer, who too asked not to be named, said it appeared Delhi resident Osama is one of the key men among the six.“Osama’s uncle Baidur-Rehman was arrested in Uttar Pradesh. Osama’s father, who is not in India, too is a suspect. It was Osama’s uncle Baidur, who handed RDX to Zeeshan. Baidur and Zeeshan were also partners in the dates business that they had started recently. Osama and Zeeshan were also the only ones to be trained in Pakistan. Another arrested suspect, Amir Javed is also a relative of Osama. We have another week to interrogate them and get more details,” said a second officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/terror-module-two-educated-suspects-were-sent-to-pakistan-for-training-says-delhi-police-101632077405771.html
20-09-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata woman allegedly raped in Patna, says she is getting threats||A woman from south Kolkata has filed a police complaint alleging that she was raped by two men at a luxury hotel in Patna on the night of July 2, officials said.The woman, who is married, has said in her complaint that she went to Patna to work for an event management company that was hired by a client to organize a wedding. “Two men, who had hired the company, committed the crime inside the room of the hotel where I was staying. They came on the pretext of making payment although I had insisted online bank transfer. They consumed some kind of narcotic substance. They threatened me when I tried to call my husband. I returned to Kolkata by train on July 3 and lodged a police complaint the next day,” the woman told the media on Sunday. A case has been registered by the Patna police on the basis of the complaint, an officer from Jadavpur police station said on condition of anonymity. The alleged victim underwent a medical test at a government hospital in Kolkata. The woman said her statement has been recorded by the Gandhi Maidan police station in Patna. “I approached the media because I am constantly getting threats over the phone. I have also been offered as much as ₹2 crore for withdrawing the complaint. I have refused. I want the culprits to be arrested,” said the alleged victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-woman-allegedly-raped-in-patna-says-she-is-getting-threats-101632077403156.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Govt outlines business ideas plan for students in Delhi public schools, part of Entrepreneuship Mindset Curriculum||Nearly two weeks after deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced the Business Blasters programme under the state’s Entrepreneuship Mindset Curriculum (EMC), heads of all Delhi government schools have received guidelines on how to implement the programme for classes 11 and 12 students in their institutions.Launched in 2019, EMC classes allowed students of these classes to develop business ideas and create entrepreneurial ventures using ₹1,000 that each student received from the government as seed money. On September 6, the Delhi government confirmed that it will increase this funding to ₹2,000 per student this year as announced during the state budget in March this year.On Thursday, the state directorate of education (DoE) issued directives for teachers and principals on implementing the programme in the city’s public schools for higher secondary students. “All participating students can receive seed money of ₹2,000 per student. Teams will use this seed money with a clear objective to either earn profit or create social impact,” the department said in its circular.Schools have been asked to ensure that brainstorming, research, presentation of business ideas, and finalisation of projects are done according to the prescribed timetable, since the seed money disbursal process will be completed by October 15. While brainstorming and team formation should be done over one to two periods each, discussing business ideas should be completed in three to four periods, and developing the idea after research should be done in another three to four periods, according to the timetable. The project should be implemented in four weeks of receiving the seed fund.Students have also been asked to define if they are designing a product or a service, decide upon the budget, build the product, create a marketing plan, and prepare a presentation for a school panel.All Class 11 and 12 students will be eligible to participate and pitch their business ideas, after which 1,000 teams will participate in inter-school competitions at the district and state level. “The Top 100 projects are provided an opportunity to showcase their business ideas in an expo style exhibition. The top 10 teams will get to pitch their ideas to potential investors,” the circular added.The education department has also prepared videos to orient the students on different aspects of the programme including developing the business idea, initial presentation, refining and implementing it, and school-level presentation.Sapna Yadav, director of the EMC project, said, “During the pilot conducted earlier this year, we realised students have ideas for business-based profitable ventures and innovative ideas and services for social impact and change. We also saw that students had critical feedback on other projects which encouraged us to go for peer review model for their projects this time. We’ve also made videos explaining the idea behind these exercises and plan to share it with parents as well.”Students can form teams and pool their seed money to start the project. For now, a maximum of 10 students can come together as a team. After formation of team and selection of team leader by the students, these teams will work to come up with one business idea which needs to be “useful, practical, profit or social impact, and growth possible.”“Team will discuss these and shortlist two to three problems or needs, that the whole team would like to pursue. Teams can identify if they have any special talents and business ideas which can be built around them,” DoE circular said.After identifying the problem, students have been asked to identify the target group and “think of solutions (business ideas) to address the problems.” The team members have also been asked to discuss the solutions with the target group before working on it. The directive asks has a list of questions on the target groups and other areas that students need to answer to their teachers to achieve clarity on the project. After finalizing the business idea, students will be required to give a presentation on their idea to the class and receive feedback. Teachers have been instructed to allow two “positive” things about the presentation and “one area of improvement.”Schools have also been asked to ensure safety protocols. “Students should keep their parents and teachers updated about their movements and whereabouts. Students should not go to a stranger’s house or any other closed unfamiliar space. Limit your meetings to a public or familiar location,” the DOE directive stated.Heads of schools are also asked to orient parents on the programme and obtain NOCs from them by October 15. Principals can also rope in local entrepreneurs, alumni, and students pursuing management or entrepreneurship courses for their higher education as business coaches to guide the students||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-outlines-business-ideas-plan-for-students-in-delhi-public-schools-part-of-entrepreneuship-mindset-curriculum-101632077341985.html
20-09-2021||Other||NEET solvers’ gang: Varanasi police identify mastermind||Varanasi police have identified the alleged mastermind of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) solver gang, said police commissioner A Satish Ganesh. According to the police commissioner, the real name of the alleged kingpin, who always used initials ‘PK’ to conceal his identity, is Nilesh Singh. The police officer said Nilesh, a resident of Chhapra in Bihar, lived in a four-storey building in Patna. He, along with his family, is allegedly on the run. The police commissioner said people in the colony where Nilesh lived knew him as a doctor. He further said Varanasi police had contacted Tripura police and that in near future some more people connected with the gang could be arrested. He said anyone having any information regarding Nilesh could inform police on 9454401645.On September 13, two members of a solver gang, including a woman and her mother, were arrested from a NEET examination centre at St Francis’ Xavier School, Tadia Sona Talab in Varanasi’s Sarnath, said police. The woman identified as Julie Kumari and her mother Babita Devi were arrested from the spot, while one of their accomplices Vikas Kumar Mahto managed to flee, police had said. A case was registered against the three accused under sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471, and 34 of the IPC. The mother and daughter were sent to jail and raids were on to arrest the third accused, said A Satish Ganesh, commissioner of police, Varanasi. A day after, accused Osama Shahid and Abhay Kumar were arrested. Osama appeared in the final examination of the fourth year of MBBS from KGMU Lucknow. He used to take contracts to help candidates pass NEET examination.Two more persons were arrested in connection with the case in Varanasi on Saturday. The accused identified as Vikas Kumar Mahto and Raju Kumar were arrested from near DUDA office, police said. “Some documents, a laptop, a mobile phone, entrance cards and photographs have been recovered from their possession,” said Varanasi commissioner of police A Satish Ganesh while confirming the arrests. In all, six people had been arrested in this case so far, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/neet-solvers-gang-varanasi-police-identify-mastermind-101632077281934.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Vehicle owners have to carry PUC certificate or face punitive action: Delhi transport department||As agencies in the national capital gear up to prepare pollution-mitigation plans ahead of the winter, the Delhi transport department on Sunday asked vehicle owners to carry valid pollution-under-control (PUC) certificates to avoid punitive action, which can include a person’s driving licence being suspended for three months.If caught without a valid PUC certificate, vehicle owners may be imprisoned for up to six months or fined up to ₹10,000, or both. They will also be disqualified to hold their driving licence for three months, said a public notice issued by the transport department on Sunday.“The Transport department, Government of NCT of Delhi, in its ongoing efforts to control pollution and improve air quality in Delhi, requests all motor vehicle owners in Delhi to ply their vehicles ony with valid pollution under control certificate,” it said.Vehicles are periodically tested for their emission standards for various pollutants such as carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide after which they are given PUC certificates.“All registered vehicle owners are requested to get their vehicles checked from the pollution checking centres authorised by transport department to avoid any penalty/ imprisonment/ suspension of driving licence,” stated the public notice.There are over 900 pollution checking centres authorised by the transport department in Delhi, set up at petrol pumps and workshops spread across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vehicle-owners-have-to-carry-puc-certificate-or-face-punitive-action-delhi-transport-department-101632077162163.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Lenovo Smarter Ed Conclave: Technology a great enabler, will change education: Union education secretary Amit Khare||The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on education, the role played by technology in aiding learning, challenges of digital divide, and the changes envisaged by the National Education Policy (NEP) — these were some of the key issues that thought leaders, policymakers, educators, and industry experts deliberated upon during a two-day education conclave that ended on Friday. Focused on the road map for the future of learning with technology and the new order of education, the conclave saw wide-ranging discussions on a gamut of issues pertinent to the country’s education landscape. Presented by Hindustan Times, the Lenovo Smarter Ed Conclave saw discussions on the New Education Policy (NEP), the digital divide brought to the fore by the shift to online learning during the pandemic, developments in education technology, upskilling teachers, and encouraging interactions with decision-makers across schools and institutions of higher education. Policymakers and educators also discussed government policies, as they emphasised the need to focus on upgrading the education sector with innovative tools and ideas. Amit Khare, secretary, Union ministry of education, on Friday, said that the spread of technology usage during the pandemic had coincided with the introduction of the NEP and together, the two would aid the shift to a technology-based learning experience. Calling NEP a forward-looking policy, he said that it was being implemented gradually to avoid disruption, and would be rolled out based on the accreditation of universities and credential of institutes. “NEP came into action in July 2020, the pandemic was in the air, and a large wave of technology took over. Due to the pandemic, the use of technology has spread at a much faster rate. It’s a positive development and needs to be leveraged. NEP is bringing the government and the private sector together and is enabling teachers to adapt to technology,” he said. Khare said that while there were issues pertaining to the digital divide and the lack of devices, technology was a great enabler and would change the face of education. Calling NEP a transformative policy, Khare said that it encouraged critical thinking with a focus on employability and entrepreneurship. “Over the next few decades, the landscape will keep changing. The skills that we impart today may not remain relevant in the next decade. Therefore, a spirit of critical thinking is required and that is what the policy brings about. It will encourage innovation,” he said He said that the policy will empower citizens and while the results will take a few years to show, the policy was forward-looking. He said that the government was implementing NEP in a phased manner because it did not want disruptive change. Karnataka is the first state in India to implement the National Education Policy (NEP). State’s higher education minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said that the policy facilitates effective integration of technology in pedagogy. He said that while there were challenges, the state was well placed particularly after the Covid-19. “In the backdrop of emerging technologies and bridging digital divide, NEP was much awaited for the country and system, particularly to have a better future in the 21st century. There is a lot of lacuna in learning, because it is working in silos and we are not trying to integrate with the industry. There’s a disconnect between academics, industry and a complete mismatch particularly with regard to research and innovation. Probably, the one way it can happen is through education, innovation and technology,” said Narayan. While laying emphasis on the future of education, Richard Henderson, director, Global Education Solutions, Lenovo, said virtual education will be a key component of learning in future. He said that the remote and blended learning model required technology and thus, it was crucial to build tools that allowed continuous learning. “Immersive learning is here to stay and helps in engaging students. We need to re-train teachers and students to use different tools focused on education continuity,” said Henderson. Dr Rukmini Banerji, CEO, Pratham Education Foundation, said that besides technology-driven engagement in urban elite schools, it was important to increase engagement between parents and teachers in public schools and built a personal connection. Pointing out to the different experiences of teaching in private and government schools, she said that it was important to look at the present and the future simultaneously while taking cognizance of the challenges of the digital divide and accesses to devices. “We need to think about the issues of connectivity and devices in a more coherent manner as a country. In our experience, we have seen positive results where groups of children or communities have shared devices. In the future, we could imagine a library of shared devices which groups of children can access,” said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lenovo-smarter-ed-conclave-technology-a-great-enabler-will-change-education-union-education-secretary-amit-khare-101632077102110.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Key suspect arrested in murder of former J&K legislative council member Tarlochan Singh Wazir||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Sunday said they have arrested one of the two key suspects in connection with the murder of Tarlochan Singh Wazir, 67-year-old former member of Jammu & Kahsmir (J&K) legislative council and a senior National Conference leader from Jammu.Harmeet Singh,61, was arrested by the Delhi Police’s special cell from Jammu on Sunday morning. The officers said the other key suspect, Harpreet Singh Khalsa, is still at large. One pistol and a cartridge were recovered from Harmeet. The police also recovered a pen that Harmeet used to write a suicide note allegedly under pressure from Harpreet, the police said.Earlier, the police arrested two persons –Balbir Singh alias Billa,67, and Rajender Chaudhary alias Raju Ganja, 33, in connection with the murder of Wazir, whose decomposed body was found in Harpreet’s rented flat at Basai Darapur near Moti Nagar in west Delhi on September 9. All the three arrested men are from Jammu, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav.Although the motive behind Wazir’s murder is still unclear, and could be ascertained only after the arrest of Harpreet, initial interrogation of Harmeet has revealed that he was instigated by Harpreet to kill Wazir. Harpreet told Harmeet that Wazir planned to kill his son and other family members, and that he had already dispatched gangsters from Punjab and Haryana to Jammu to murder his kin. On Harpreet’s instigation, Harmeet shot Wazir in his head in the Basai Darapur flat. The gun used in the crime was also supplied by Harpreet, said DCP Yadav.Police said the murder took place on September 3, the day Wazir was scheduled to board a flight to Canada to attend a family function. He came to Delhi on a flight from Jammu on September 2, and was staying at Harpreet’s flat. Wazir’s decomposed body was found in the locked flat on September 9, after his family members in Jammu received a call from his mobile phone number with the caller claiming that he has killed the former politician. Thereafter, Wazir’s phone was switched off and its last location was traced to Delhi. Wazir’s family approached the Jammu police, who informed their counterparts in Delhi.A murder case was registered and the investigation was handed over to the crime branch. Since Harpreet was missing, he was on the list of suspects. The police spotted Harmeet, Balbir and Rajender in the CCTV footage from around the flat. .On Sunday, the special cell team stationed in Jammu got information that Harmeet will meet someone near the Jammu border. The team reached there and caught him. He is being brought to Delhi, officers said.Three years ago, a police officer said quoting Harmeet’s disclosures, differences arose between Wazir and several members of a local gurdwara over a calendar, which was slated to be launched with the photograph of Guru Naka Sahib. Harmeet was an office bearer, but was removed on recommendation of Wazir. This led to an enmity between Wazir and Harmeet, the officer said.On August 22, Harmeet came to Delhi to get his son’s Canada visa and stayed at Harpreet’s flat. Eight days later, Wazir called Harpreet and told him about his Delhi visit on September 2. Harpreet asked Harmeet to shift to a nearby hotel as Wazir may not like to live in the same flat with him.On September 3, Harpreet went to the hotel room and told Harmeet about Wazir’s plan to kill his son and other family members in Jammu. Harpreet said Raju Ganja heard Wazir planning the murders. Harpreet instigated Harmeet again the same evening, said DCP Yadav.“Both left the hotel room and reached the flat, where Harmeet hid inside a room. The other two men also arrived there. Wazir was sleeping when Harpreet gave Harmeet a pistol, and the latter shot him in the head. Thereafter, they locked the flat and fled,” added the DCP.On September 9, Harpreet and Harmeet reached Gurdwara Fatehgarh. Harpreet forced him to write a three-page suicide note, sign it and put a thumb impression. Next day, they reached Jammu, where Harpreet posted the note on Facebook, before they parted ways, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/key-suspect-arrested-in-murder-of-former-j-k-legislative-council-member-tarlochan-singh-wazir-101632077041962.html
20-09-2021||Other||Kerala tops in tracking criminals through fingerprints||For criminologists and police, fingerprints are the most valuable evidence in cracking crimes and Kerala police ranked first in the country in tracking offenders through the scientific kit, according to the report of the Central Finger Prints Bureau (CFPB) 2020. Last year Kerala was ranked second after Andhra Pradesh. According to the report of the CFPB, the state fingerprint bureau cracked 675 criminal cases followed by Karnataka 517 while Andhra Pradesh stood third with 412 cases. The report also carried a special mention about the brilliant work carried out by the state fingerprint bureau and police in cracking the sensational snake bite murder in Kollam in south Kerala last year. “It is ample proof of the hard work of the state fingerprints bureau backed by technology leveraged effectively for crime prevention and detection. Officers of the bureau assisted by the AFIS software put up a stellar performance in becoming the first,” said state additional director general of police Manoj Abraham, an expert in cyber security. The country has a Central Finger Print Bureau and every state has its state bureaus that help in the investigation process by using fingerprint science. Fingerprint evidence are most scientific and foolproof. The job of a fingerprint expert is to develop chance prints left by criminals at the crime scene and to match them with the fingerprints in the database of convicts. When the investigation begins at a crime scene, a finger expert is first to visit the spot to closely observe the site. The expert then develops the chance prints left by criminals at the scene. The collected chance fingerprints are then matched with the fingerprints database. This helps identify if the crime was carried out by someone who is already in the records of the bureau. There is also a National Automated Finger Prints Identification System (NAFIS) to streamline the countrywide process for the database. The report carried a special mention about the way the police team cracked the sensational murder of 25-year-old Uthra in 2020. Initially, it was dismissed as a mere snake bite case but police and parents got suspicious as this was the second snake bite that proved fatal. She received the fatal bite when she was undergoing treatment for the first bite. Later, police arrested her husband P Sooraj and a local snake handler who provided a cobra to him. During the investigation, it was found that Sooraj had bought a cobra from the snake handler after paying him ₹10,000. He also got the necessary training from the handler. He reportedly took it to Uthra’s house in Anchal, where she had been undergoing treatment at her parents’ place since the first incident. The police said after Uthra fell asleep, Sooraj allegedly took out the snake from the bottle and threw it on her. He kept awake all night to ensure that it did not bite him. He left the room in the morning and started reading a newspaper in the verandah. Uthra’s mother found her daughter unconscious in the morning. She was rushed to a hospital where doctors said she died of a snake bite. The case is on trial stage and police recreated the entire incident through digital and dummy presentation. The cracking of theft in India’s first indigenous built aircraft carrier INS Vikrant two years ago also found mention in the report. The accused, two painters working in the ship, were netted after matching their fingerprints taken at the time of employing them. The National Investigation Agency arrested them last year from north India. First three in 2019: Andhra Pradesh: 512 Kerala: 402 Karnataka: 399 First three in 2020: Kerala: 675 Karnataka: 517 Andhra Pradesh: 412||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-tops-in-tracking-criminals-through-fingerprints-101632076983024.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||NCRB report: Delhi registered most fraud cases, charge sheets in nearly half||Delhi registered the maximum cases classified under the economic offences such as forgery, cheating and fraud in 2020 among 19 metropolitan cities that have a population of more than two million, according to the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau.The report, Crime in India 2020, was released last week on Tuesday.According to the NCRB data, Delhi reported the maximum 4,445 cases in the economic offences category, followed by Mumbai with 3,927 and Jaipur 3,217 cases. However, the rate of such crime (cases per million population) was the highest in Jaipur at 10.4. Delhi and Mumbai had a crime rate of 2.72 and 2.13 respectively. Patna, Lucknow and Hyderabad also reported higher rate of economic offences than Delhi and Mumbai --- 4.97, 7.67 and 4.42 respectively.
20-09-2021||Gurugram||Naidu in Gurugram: Farming is backbone of our country, culture||There is a need for a continuous dialogue between the farmers and the government, and the interests of the agriculturists should never be mixed with politics, Vice-President (VP) M Venkaiah Naidu said during the launch of a set of works on the life and writings of prominent Haryanvi farmer leader, Sir Chhotu Ram. Naidu credited Ram for major agricultural reforms in the erstwhile province of Punjab. Referring to Sir Chhotu Ram’s contributions, Naidu said that he was instrumental in making laws that freed farmers from the exploitation of moneylenders, and vicious debt cycle. He also got the mandis formed at the local level so that farmers could set the right price for their produce, Naidu said. Naidu released five volumes, titled Sir Chhotu Ram: Writings and Speeches, brought out by the Haryana Academy of History and Culture, at the Apparel House in Sector 44. Addressing a gathering of around 300 people, due to restricted entry, Naidu said there is a need to develop an open market system to stop the exploitation of farmers. “We need to develop an integrated approach towards rural economy to ensure income security for everyone,” he said. Naidu also said that agriculture in India is not treated as a business, but as the basis of Indian culture and that the government is taking effective steps in the interest of farmers. “Farming is the backbone of Indian economy and if the villages remain underdeveloped, the country cannot progress,” he said. Naidu also said that Sir Chhotu Ram played a key role in setting up the Bhakra and Nangal dams, which have had a transformative effect on agriculture in this region. He also said that many freedom fighters and great leaders did not get due recognition and called for more efforts to spread their work. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, speaking at the event, said that to realise Sir Chhotu Ram’s dream of upliftment of farmers and poor, the Prime Minister has resolved to make agriculture profitable and make farmers prosperous. Sir Chhotu Ram’s grandson and former union minister, Birender Singh and former CM Om Prakash Chautala also attended the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/naidu-in-gurugram-farming-is-backbone-of-our-country-culture-101632076566716.html
20-09-2021||Gurugram||NH-48 in Gurugram: Over 3,000 truck drivers penalised for not adhering to lane driving||Over 3,000 truck drivers were penalised between September 3 and 18 in a special drive held by the Gurugram traffic police to enforce lane driving on National Highway-48 (NH-48) and ensure that heavy vehicles are driven on designated lanes, officials said. The drive was held on a 40-kilometre section of the highway, between Sirhaul toll and Bilaspur Kalan.Police officials said that this is the first such drive conducted to check lane driving.The deputy commissioner of police (DCP) for traffic, Ravinder Singh Tomar, said that the drive was held after it was observed last month that heavy vehicles, allowed to ply between 10pm and 6am, caused traffic jams on the highway by plying on all lanes of the main carriageway.According to Tomar, “practically, none of the heavy vehicle drivers were abiding with the left lane driving rule.” A violation of the rules invites a penalty of ₹5,000.“Our marshalls on ground realised that trucks, dumpers, mixtures and buses were not driving on the left-most carriageway as they do on the NH-48 part falling under Delhi. This was resulting in accidents and congestion. We first started with an awareness programme, erecting signs across the highways, after which the heavy vehicle drivers were penalised starting September 3, to ensure they maintain lane discipline in future,” Tomar said.Tomar said that the main rationale behind the drive was to check accidents, haphazard driving and ensuring traffic moves in a streamlined manner.“Since the launch of the drive, the situation on NH-48 has improved drastically. There has been 70-80% improvement in traffic movement. In the pilot phase of the drive, we are only covering the NH-48 stretch as it has the highest movement of heavy vehicles. From next month, we will cover other major roads across the city,” Tomar said.Tomar said that on all national highways, the leftmost lanes are reserved for the heaviest and slowest moving vehicles, the middle lanes for movement of light vehicles, while the rightmost lane is used for speeding vehicles and for overtaking.Around 12,000-15,000 heavy vehicles cross the Kherki Daula toll every day.Sewa Ram, an associate professor and urban transports systems design expert with the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi, said that to implement lane discipline, it is vital that road markings are proper and light vehicles taking a left turn, during the movement of heavy vehicles, are also aware of this rule.“For effective enforcement, the lanes should be properly painted, road signage properly erected, and not obstructed by trees and poles. Further, traffic police also need to educate and spread awareness among light vehicle drivers that the left-most lane carriageway is reserved for heavy vehicles, and they shouldn’t unnecessarily occupy that carriageway. Further, awareness will also assist light vehicle drivers in being wary, while taking a left cut on the highway,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nh48-in-gurugram-over-3-000-truck-drivers-penalised-for-not-adhering-to-lane-driving-101632076565681.html
20-09-2021||Gurugram||AIIMS, health department to ascertain visual impairment causes through survey||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, along with the Gurugram health department, will start a five-day joint survey from Monday to understand causes of visual impairments in the district, officials of the health department said on Sunday. The pilot survey aims to find out causes for blindness among different age groups, starting from school-going children to senior citizens. Virendra Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said that 30 clusters have been identified in the district for the survey. This survey will also help to identify the number of people suffering from visual impairments in the district, he said.“In the country, it is believed that cataract is the primary cause of blindness in senior citizens, but there are several other causes for visual impairments that develop from childhood, due to lack of nutrition or other reasons. In this survey, named Rapid Assessment of Avoidable Visual Impairments, our teams will reach out to 1,200 people daily and cover a total of 6,000 people in the survey,” the chief medical officer said. He said that each team, including ASHA and ANM workers, would go door-to-door in the identified areas to get questionnaires related to visual impairment and blindness filled and conduct eye tests for residents. This data will be uploaded on a mobile application, RAA-VI, which has been specifically developed by AIIMS for the survey. Yadav said that after Gurugram, the survey will be conducted in other parts of the country. However, it is not known whether the results will be shared individually or together. Meanwhile, Covid-19 vaccination continued in the district on Sunday, with 19,341 people vaccinated at 88 vaccination centres. On Monday, vaccination will be held at 39 centres in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/aiims-health-department-to-ascertain-visual-impairment-causes-through-survey-101632076564415.html
20-09-2021||Gurugram||Naidu in Gurugram: Paralympians felicitated, youngsters urged to make sports a ‘way of life’||India has a young population and it must take inspiration from the players who participated and won gold medals in the recently concluded Paralympics and Olympics, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu said at an event organised at Northcap University in Sector 23 to felicitate Haryana’s medallists as well as participants in the Tokyo Paralympics 2020.Naidu, calling upon youngsters to make physical fitness and sports a way of life, distributed prize money of ₹27 crore among 19 medallists and participants. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was also present with Naidu at the event.Naidu said that the performance of players from the state was “phenomenal” and the contribution of such a small state in the medal tally was “unbelievable”. He also said that winning in Tokyo was not easy as the Olympics and Paralympics were organised in unusual circumstances and the training of players was also interrupted. “Achieving such a historical success in sports is not very easy. It is the continuous practice, dedication, and hard work a player puts during the process which makes them achieve the planned goal,” Naidu said. Addressing the gathering, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said that the government is committed to supporting sportspersons by providing all the necessary help and development of sports infrastructure. “We have ensured that prize money reaches the sportsmen and there is no delay. We are also developing a Paralympic sports complex in Faridabad and it will also have a hostel,” he said, adding that more sports nurseries and stadiums will be developed across Haryana. Khattar also said that Haryana is the first state in the country to give maximum cash prizes to sportspersons who have won medals in the Olympics and Paralympics. In the Olympics and Paralympics, a cash prize of ₹6 crore was awarded to gold medallists, ₹4 crore to silver medallists and ₹2.5 crore to bronze medallists. Apart from this, ₹15 lakhs is also provided to each participant, Khattar said.Speaking on the occasion, Haryana sports minister Sandeep Singh said that these players have brought laurels to the state and the nation with their exemplary performances in the Tokyo Paralympics. “Our target would be to send 100 players to the next Paralympics and win more medals,” he said. Sportspersons from the state, Harinder Singh, Singhraj Adhana, Yogesh Kathunia, Manish Narwal, Sumit Antil, Tarun Dhillon, Navdeep Singh, Vinod Kumar, Aruna Tanwar, Deepak Saini, Rahul Jakhar, Jaideep Deswal, Ranjit Bhati, Rampal, Dharambir Nain, Amit Kumar Saroha, Tekchand, Arvind Malik and Ekta Bhayan, were felicitated for winning medals and participating in the Paralympics. Olympic gold medallist in javelin throw, Neeraj Chopra, wrestling silver medallist, Ravi Kumar Dahiya, and Sumit, a member of the men’s hockey team that bagged the bronze medal, were also felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/naidu-in-gurugram-paralympians-felicitated-youngsters-urged-to-make-sports-a-way-of-life-101632076563478.html
20-09-2021||Gurugram||Bandhwari landfill: Leachate spills again, pollution board collects samples||Following repeated complaints from residents and environmentalists of leachate spill in the forest areas adjoining the Bandhwari landfill, officials from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board visited the site and collected samples on Friday. A team from the wildlife department also visited the area for an inspection and found that leachate was getting mixed with water in a watering hole set up for animals in the forest area. “The condition there is very bad, with dirty leachate water spilling into forest areas. There was leachate spilt in large quantities on the kuchha road (on the side of the landfill) that leads to the villages inside, through the forest area. Samples have been collected by the pollution control board, after which we will prepare a report and take action accordingly,” a wildlife official said, requesting anonymity. Vaishali Chandra, a city-based environmentalist, said, “Time and again, leachate is released into the forests near the landfill, polluting the soil and their drinking water sources. We found two pondages formed behind the landfill site filled with leachate and a third was a watering hole for the wildlife. If the wildlife is drinking water from there, their health will also get affected.” Kuldeep Singh, the regional officer of HSPCB, Gurugram North, said, “We have collected samples from three sites which have been sent for analysis. We will be taking action against the authorities concerned after the report is released within two weeks, combined with the findings of last month’s report.”Meanwhile, officials of Ecogreen Energy, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s concessionaire for waste management at the Bandhwari landfill, said that they would have to check if the water released is leachate or dirty water. Sanjeev Sharma, the spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, said, “In our knowledge, there is no spillage of leachate from the landfill; we will have to see if it is dirty rainwater or leachate. The pollution control board can collect samples anytime, we do not interfere with that.” In the second week of August as well, the HSPCB had collected samples of leachate from the Bandhwari landfill, an analysis of which revealed that it contained chemicals over the permissible limits as well as toxic substances. According to the report, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), zinc, chloride, fluoride were all found to be significantly higher than permissible norms. The BOD level of the samples collected from a pond inside the forest area was 540 mg/l, while the COD was 1680 mg/l, chloride was 420mg/l and fluoride was 1mg/l. Experts had then said that elements such as fluoride, even in minuscule quantities, can be harmful as it affects bones in the human body. According to Central Pollution Control Board norms, BOD for a river or waterbody should be less than 30mg/l and COD should be less than 250 mg/l.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bandhwari-landfill-leachate-spills-again-pollution-board-collects-samples-101632076561917.html
20-09-2021||Other||Prayagraj: 68% candidates stay away from UPPSC’s lecturer recruitment exam||A total of 3,33,961 candidates amounting to around 68% gave lecturers recruitment exams, conducted by Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) for filling up vacant posts in Government Intermediate Colleges of the state, a miss on Sunday. The exam was conducted in 16 districts of the state including Prayagraj for filling up 1473 posts and for which a total of 4,91,370 candidates had registered but a mere 1,57,409 (32.03%) appeared in it, informed UPPSC officials. Though officials did not cite any reason officially for such a large number of candidates giving the recruitment exam a miss, aspirants pointed to exam centres being allotted away from their home districts as the main reason for it. For the exam, the UPPSC had allotted exam centres in different districts based on the subjects of the aspirants. For example, Prayagraj was made the centre for Hindi, Jaunpur for Geography, Sitapur for Education, Meerut for Biology and so on. Earlier, the commission had always been allotting home district or a nearby district for most candidates, especially women aspirants, claimed Avnish Pandey, president of Pratiyogi Chatra Sangharsh Samiti, a body representing students vying for government jobs. However, some officials of the commission cited poor preparation by aspirants for the recruitment exam as a possible reason for their skipping it. UPPSC official Jagdish said that the recruitment exam was conducted peacefully at 1055 exam centres from 11am to 1pm. Jaunpur district witnessed a maximum of 44.50% (10,625) of the total registered 23,875 candidates for Geography appearing in the exam. Sitapur that was the centre for Education subject saw the lowest presence of registered candidates with a mere 2420 (17.80%) of the total registered 13,593 for the subject appearing in the exam appearing in exam, he added. In Prayagraj, out of the total registered 52,057 candidates for the Hindi subject, just 21,857 (41.99%) appeared in the exam, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-68-candidates-stay-away-from-uppsc-s-lecturer-recruitment-exam-101632076442588.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt names two roads in Patparganj after personalities from Uttarakhand||The Delhi government has named two roads in east Delhi’s Patparganj assembly constituency after Shaheed Kesari Chand, a freedom fighter from Uttarakhand, and Hir Singh Rana, a folk singer from the hill state. The announcement came on Sunday when chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal was visiting Uttarakhand ahead of the assembly polls scheduled to be held next year. Kejriwal announced that if elected to power in Uttarakhand, AAP will ensure employment in every household of the state (Har Ghar Rozgar) and provide ₹5,000/monthly stipend to unemployed youth. He also announced that AAP will provide 100,000 government jobs within six months of coming to power in the state.Patparganj is the assembly constituency of deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. Around 20% of the 240,000 voters in the assembly segment are migrants from Uttarakhand.“Two roads have been named in honour of two famous personalities of Uttarakhand -- Amar Shaheed Kesari Chand and famous folk singer Hira Singh Rana in Patparganj constituency. Famous folk singer Hira Singh Rana used to encourage people to face every challenge with bravery through his songs and would inspire generations to come,” said Sisodia in a press statement issued after an event organised in the assembly constituency.He further said, “The songs of Hira Singh Rana not only present the beauty of Kumaon, but also presents the struggles of life in the mountains. Saluting the brave fighter and soldier of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s Azad Hind Fauj, Amar Shaheed Kesari Chand sacrificed his life for the freedom of the country at the age of just 24. Amar Shaheed Veer Kesari Chandra Marg will inspire patriotism in the youth,” said the deputy chief minister.In July this year, Kejriwal had demanded that noted environmentalist from Uttarakhand Sundarlal Bahuguna -- who died of Covid-19 earlier this year -- be awarded the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award in the country. Later, the Delhi Assembly, which has 62 MLAs of the AAP and eight MLAs of the BJP, passed a resolution in this regard. Over the next few months, the Aam Aadmi Party will be contesting assembly elections in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-names-two-roads-in-patparganj-after-personalities-from-uttarakhand-101632076204591.html
20-09-2021||Other||7 deaths in Agra due to high fever, 61 dengue cases so far||Agra The district witnessed seven deaths due to high fever in September, though the medical authorities did not confirm any death due to dengue, which wreaked havoc in the nearby district of Firozabad, just 60 km away. There have been 61 confirmed cases of dengue in Agra district and 41 out of them recovered while 20 are still undergoing treatment at various hospitals. “The peculiar feature in the viral deaths is the short duration that we are getting for treatment. This may be because of mutation in the virus causing fever. Patients complain of high grade fever coupled with nausea, vomiting and pain and succumb,” said Dr AK Srivastava, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Agra. “We have asked residents to not waste time and contact the nearest community health centre, district hospital or SN Medical College immediately in case of fever,” he said. “A teenager died in Chachia village of Pinahat block followed by two deaths in Rasoolpur village in Fatehpur Sikri block of Agra district. Two deaths were reported due to viral fever in Tedi Bagia area and one in Khadia village of Khandoli area,” said the CMO. “The deaths are not confined to rural areas. One death occurred in Nunhai area of Agra city, taking the toll to seven in the district within a fortnight,”” he said. “Fortunately, there has been no death due to of dengue in Agra district,” he said. The CMO claimed that required measures were being undertaken to contain the spread of dengue and fogging, testing and health camps, spray of chemicals, measures to end larvae were underway.. Cops donate blood Agra police led by SSP Agra Muniraj G donated blood to meet the crisis arising out of rising cases of viral fever and dengue in Agra district. On Sunday, 80 cops assembled at police lines and donated blood and jumbo pack of platelets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-deaths-in-agra-due-to-high-fever-61-dengue-cases-so-far-101632076202112.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Drug peddler at large for nine years arrested in Delhi||The Delhi Police’s narcotics cell arrested one of the most wanted drug traffickers of Bareily, Taimoor Khan alias Bhola (37), who was wanted in nine cases, from north-east Delhi’s Seelampur on Thursday, bringing down the curtain on a nine-year-long search operation that was spread over several parts of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, said senior officers of the narcotics cell on Sunday. The special cell and the crime branch of the Delhi Police conducted multiple raids in the past nine years to arrest Bhola, who carried a reward of ₹1.5 lakh on his arrest. Because of his Robinhood image among the people of his village (Behra in Bareilly) and the areas surrounding it, locals used to give him prior information about police movement, said deputy commissioner of police (narcotics cell) Chinmoy Biswal.“Bhola donated money to needy people with an open heart to gain their support. He had garnered such a strong support in 10-15 surrounding villages that if anyone noticed a vehicle bearing the registration number of Delhi or Haryana around his village, he used to get the information immediately and ample time to flee. Children in his village used to play a game named “Bhola bhaag gaya” by making two teams – one of narcotics cell and the other of special cell, as both the teams regularly conducted raids,” said Biswal.Around three months ago, the narcotics cell mapped the drug prone areas of Delhi and identified 14 hotspots, where sale and use of drugs were maximum. A crackdown followed and the interrogation of the arrested drug peddlers revealed that their source of heroin/smack was from Bareilly, Badaun, and Rampur in Uttar Pradesh. Total eight Bareilly-based drug suppliers were arrested. The last man to be arrested was Shahid Khan alias Chote Pradhan, who is the head (pradhan) of Padhera village in Bareilly. Bhola worked closely with Pradhan in the drug trafficking ring, said police. On September 16, the narcotics team received information that Bhola was coming to Seelampur in search of a safe hideout since he feared all his hideouts were exposed after Pradhan’s arrest. The team laid a trap and caught Bhola near Seelampur metro station. He was arrested for his involvement in a drug peddling case registered in 2018, in which 700 grams of heroin was seized from a drug peddler in Delhi identified as Vinod, who named Bhola as the supplier of the contraband, said the DCP. During interrogation, police said, Bhola revealed that after completing his graduation from Bareilly college, he took admission in a private university to pursue MBA as he aspired to work in a multinational company. However, because of financial crisis, he quit the course and joined a drug supplier in his village in 2007, who made him his carrier of the contraband. Bhola was paid ₹1,600 per trip for the carrying drugs to Delhi. He was first arrested with 670 grams of smack in Delhi in 2008 and remained in jail for seven months, after which he was acquitted in the case.After his release from jail, Bhola continued his illegal work as a drug carrier. He later formed his own gang of suppliers, carriers and clients. He also learnt the art of manufacturing heroin using crude opium top extracts and chemicals, whose supply was done by his contacts in Jharkhand, West Bengal and Manipur., said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-peddler-at-large-for-nine-years-arrested-in-delhi-101632076024116.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||AAP MLA Raghav Chadha inaugurates drainage, road revamp plan||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Rajendra Nagar constituency Raghav Chadha on Sunday inaugurated a drainage and road development project which are likely to reduce waterlogging and congestion-related issues in the area.“MLA Raghav Chadha inaugurated one of the biggest projects in Rajendra Nagar constituency for betterment of drainage systems and re-construction of roads for the convenience of the residents. The problems regarding damaged drains from Naraina Vihar to Naraina village have persisted for decades; Naraina being the priority zone for development got the biggest sanction of approximately ₹4 crore to complete the work of drainage management and road restoration thereafter,” Chadha’s office said in a statement.“Being my maternal home, I am emotionally attached to the area. With time, the situation got worse on the stretch, but I will see to it that the residents of Naraina face no more problems,” Chadha said, according to the statement.“Development at Naraina had been my priority and it’s also my responsibility that those who elected me don’t face problems. A proper drainage system, smooth and safe road management and clean potable water supply is a must for everyone. With the laying of drains from Naraina Vihar to Naraina village, the drainage system will undergo significant improvement. It will also reduce the issue of waterlogging. Reconstruction of roads will also be ensured in a time bound manner,” Chadha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-mla-raghav-chadha-inaugurates-drainage-road-revamp-plan-101632075781615.html
20-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government’s report card a pack of lies: Opposition||The opposition parties in the state attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in UP as the government and the party celebrated completion of four-and-a-half years in power on Sunday.The attack started soon after chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a press conference and enumerated the achievements of his government. Responding to CM’s statement that he had full confidence that his government would retain power as the BJP would win over 350 seats in 2022 assembly polls, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav in a tweet in Hindi said: “BJP is done”.Akhilesh tweeted twice in the day wherein he said: “In UP, the BJP government has published a 16-page booklet all of which is an absolute lie...It looks as if the BJP has published a textbook for its ‘international lie training centre’. But the BJP’s ambassadors of lies will be able to run the textbook in their ‘online classes (social media)’ because they have no face to go among the people.”In another tweet, Akhilesh said: “Fifty-four months have lapsed, six are left of this arrogant government that did atrocities on farmers, poor, women, and youth and of the government that misled on employment, price-rise, economy; and the government of deception, betrayal, and rhetoric”. He ended the tweet with “Nahin chaahiye thug ka saath, thug ka vikas, thug ka vishawas, thug ka prayaas (Don’t want the government of cheats, progress of cheats, trust of cheats and efforts of cheats...BJP is done.”Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national president Mayawati in her tweet in Hindi said: “The advertisement and claims of ‘4.5 years of change’ of BJP government in UP are all baseless and are far from the ground realities. It is well known that because of the vast difference in BJP’s words and deeds, people are distressed under poverty, unemployment and price rise”.UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu tweeted: “Enough of tall claims...But the BJP government was least bothered about people dying of illnesses--be it encephalitis, Covid, or mysterious fevers...This government hovers helicopter (all over the state), gets photo-ops and hides accountability by lying.”In more tweets, Lallu attacked the state government on “farmers, unemployed, crop loss and damages, cane farmers’ dues, suicides in Bundelkhand”. The party’s UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in her tweet in Hindi rated the UP government as “Number one in malnourishment, crime against women, kidnappings and abductions, murders and crime against Dalits”.In another tweet, she said that on completion of 4.5 years, the government should have replied to peoples’ questions but instead of that the government “lied, lied and only lied”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-government-s-report-card-a-pack-of-lies-opposition-101632075665540.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi agencies work on preparing action plans to limit pollution||With a day to go for the Delhi government’s deadline for agencies in the city to submit their individual pollution management action plans, the departments concerned said they were ‘prepared’ with their recommendations and reports to prevent a repeat of the Capital’s annual pollution problem, said officials on Sunday.Senior officials from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), which is the nodal agency overlooking the pollution control measures taken by the three municipalities, said that municipalities have identified vulnerable spots for open garbage burning, have prepared mechanical sweepers and identified routes for them to operate every night.“We have prepared a list of hot spots where garbage is burnt regularly, and have asked teams to keep a close watch on these spots. We will also ensure roads are regularly swept using machines. A timetable of water sprinkling for areas across the city depending on their pollution levels at a given point of time are also being prepared,” said a senior SDMC official.East Delhi mayor Shyam Sundar Agarwal said the corporation is conducting regular meetings to come up with a plan on effectively controlling pollution in the region this year.“We are trying to come up with an innovative and effective plan this time so that pollution levels can be kept to a minimum this winter,” he said.State environment minister Gopal Rai in a meeting with all government agencies in the city last week, set a deadline for September 21 to submit individual action plans and recommendations based on which a consolidated winter action plan will be prepared by the government ahead of the pollution season, and released by September 30. This action plan promises to focus on ten key areas that are the largest contributors to winter pollution. These include, stubble burning, garbage burning, vehicular emissions, dust pollution etc.Every year starting October, Delhi witnesses an annual repeat of a steep spike in pollution levels, exacerbated by crop stubble burning in neighbouring Punjab and Haryana, the city’s local pollution sources and cracker bursting during Diwali. As the temperatures become more frigid and winds change direction and slow down, the condition becomes worse, pushing the city’s air quality to hazardous levels.Apart from the municipalities, other agencies that participated in the government’s meeting last week are working to ensure that any pollution source that gets triggered within their jurisdiction is controlled.Delhi traffic police officials said that they are preparing a list of all congestion hot spots in the city, where snarls could possibly lead to higher vehicular emissions. Along with this, the department is also repairing all traffic signals that were identified as non-functional.“We regularly update the list of congestion points across the city for our own use, so that we can manage traffic in these areas. For this season, we are evaluating the stretches afresh and will submit a list of roads where holdups tend to happen consistently, and the waiting time is over 20-25 minutes,” a senior traffic police officer said.The official said that the department is also identifying all the major stretches where roads are unpaved or ridden with potholes, which lead to dust pollution and also slows traffic down.“We will put forward our suggestion that the agencies concerned fix these roads ahead of the pollution season,” the official added.Rai said that Delhi’s environment department has been appointed the nodal agency to oversee the city’s winter action plan and has been tasked with coordinating with various agencies and communicating with the governments of neighbouring states to keep a check on the impact of stubble burning in Delhi.“Once the agencies present their plans we will have a larger winter action plan. However, the progress on these individual action plans will also be tracked simultaneously. We will be taking regular action-taken reports from all of these agencies once the winter season begins and pollution levels start rising,” a senior official of the environment department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-agencies-prepared-to-meet-sept-21-deadline-for-individual-pollution-action-plans-101632075422069.html
20-09-2021||Other||ATS arrests woman mastermind of fake currency racket||Lucknow : The Uttar Pradesh Anti Terrorism Squad arrested a woman, who was the mastermind of an international fake currency racket, from West Bengal on Sunday after a hunt of around 12 months, officials said. She was carrying a reward of ₹50,000 on her arrest. The accused Mumtaz Bano was in hiding in Bali Banga area under Kaliachak police station of West Bengal. Her name cropped up as the mastermind of the racket following the arrest of two other accused, Tahsin Khan and Mohammad Wasim, by the ATS in September last year. According to a press statement issued by the ATS, the duo informed that Mumtaz Bano, a resident of Madhya Pradesh, ran the fake currency racket in several states of the country. “The fake currency notes were smuggled into India from Bangladesh and routed to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana on the directions of Mumtaz Bano. She ran the entire operation with help of operatives spread across theses states,” read the press release. Reportedly, Bano took over the operations from her husband Sadar Ali who was arrested by the ATS a few years ago, also in connection with the fake currency racket. Sadar Ali is currently lodged in Lucknow jail. After the arrests made by ATS last year, Bano (who till then ran her racket from Madhya Pradesh), shifted her base to West Bengal. There she changed her name and took over a false identity. ATS officials got a tip-off from local intelligence that she was currently living with her son Kabir under a false name and operating from West Bengal. Acting on this intelligence input, the ATS team managed to arrest Bano. She was presented in a local court in Malda by the ATS, seeking transit remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ats-arrests-woman-mastermind-of-fake-currency-racket-101632075192102.html
20-09-2021||Kolkata||Babul Supriyo doesn’t want to campaign for Mamata Banerjee in bypoll||A day after joining the Trinamool Congress (TMC), former Union minister Babul Supriyo on Sunday said he would not like to campaign for chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the September 30 assembly bypoll in Kolkata’s Bhawanipore.Asked whether he would campaign against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate, lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal, Supriyo, said at a press conference that he will request the TMC leadership not to put him in an embarrassing situation.“I know Priyanka’s family very well. She handled the cases filed against me. I found her to be a good lawyer. Mamata Banerjee does not need me to campaign for her. I will request the party not to put me in an embarrassing position,” Supriyo said in the presence of TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and the party’s leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien. The latter, said Supriyo, worked as a catalyst in his joining the TMC.Reacting to Supriyo’s decision to stay away from campaigning in Bhawanipore, Tibrewal said, “A brother has responded to the wishes of his sister. Relationships come before politics.” Banerjee is facing the polls as she lost to her protege-turned-adversary, BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari, at Nandigram in East Midnapore district. Throughout the press conference, which was held at a hotel, Supriyo maintained that he would not say anything offensive against the BJP leaders who have targeted him since Saturday.Asked whether he wants to see Banerjee topple the Narendra Modi government in 2024 and become the next prime minister, Supriyo said, “In 2014, Modi was the hope. The massive mandate people of Bengal ensured for her (in the recent assembly polls) has a great value. There is no doubt that Mamata Banerjee is in a great position. That is why she and leaders of other opposition parties are in touch with each other.”“I want to see the most popular person as the PM and there is no doubt that Mamata Banerjee is one of them. There is no doubt that she will be at the top of the list of hopefuls,” he added.Asked whether he felt bad that no BJP Lok Sabha member from Bengal was ever made a cabinet minister, Supriyo, who served as minister of state despite winning the Asansol seat twice since 2014, did not give a direct reply.“The question has the answer,” he said.“It is natural that the BJP will now call me a traitor. Even the TMC and CPI(M) called their leaders traitors after they switched sides. In reply to (BJP leader) Tathatagata Roy’s tweet, I wrote he has the right to disagree with someone’s decision but he must respect that person and his decision. I don’t want to make any unsavory comments,” said Supriyo.“I am honoured to be a part of a team. What happens in future will unfold in time,” he said, ducking questions on whether he would like to be nominated to the Rajya Sabha seat recently vacated by TMC’s Arpita Ghosh.He said he will go to Delhi on Wednesday and tender his resignation from the Asansol Lok Sabha seat.“When I was in the BJP, I gave a lot to the BJP and worked for Bengal’s development,” Supriyo said.“I always want a level playing field. Future will show what I will give to the TMC. People can write on Facebook whatever they want,” he added.Asked about the allegations TMC national general secretary and the chief minister’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee and he exchanged in recent years and also during the March-April state polls, Supriyo said, “Abhishek attacked me too. We will return to each other the boxes of letters we wrote. Just because I have changed parties does not mean the grammar of politics will change. I will not delete my old social media posts.”“In politics, even the fiercest rival is not your enemy. I am not creating any history by changing parties. A lot of people are ridiculing me. I was aware that this would be coming,” said the singer-turned-politician. He said if the situation demands, he will meet BJP MPs from Bengal.“Babul is welcome to our family. I have seen him in Parliament for seven years. I am a fan of his songs. His joining has enthused our workers. He is easily accepted by Bengalis. Mamata Banerjee will meet him tomorrow,” said Saugata Roy.“In the next couple of months, I want to meet people in the districts. I will study the party’s structure and meet workers at the grassroots level,” Supriyo added.While campaigning for Tibrewal in Bhawanipore, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, “He is a political tourist. He left because he was not made a minister once again.”Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya described his party’s tryst with Supriyo as a “closed chapter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/babul-supriyo-doesn-t-want-to-campaign-for-mamata-banerjee-in-bypoll-101632074882559.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s shop owners struggle to get ownership rights||Two years after the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) decided to adopt the Delhi Apartment Ownership Act, 2009, to facilitate conversion of commercial properties from leasehold to freehold, shop owners in commercial complexes developed by private builders on land auctioned by the land-owning agency in Nehru Place, Dwarka, Pitampura and in a host of other areas are still struggling to get ownership of their properties. Inder kohli, a shop owner in Nehru Place and a member of the Nehru Place Welfare Association, said, “We have been running from pillar to post for the past two years to get ownership of our property. The government has simplified the process of giving ownership to those living in unuauthorised colonies. But, we are still struggling, despite buying the property legally . We can’t take bank loans against our property. Several shop or office space owners have applied for freehold, but no application has been processed till date.”Sewak Ram Nautiyal, who owns an office space in Nehru Place, said, “I applied for conversion in December last year. But I’m yet to hear from DDA about the status of my application.”DDA officials said that in several cases, lease of the buildings (in which shops are located) have been cancelled due to misuse. “We can’t initiate the freehold process of shops if the lease of the building has been cancelled. We have to first get the lease restored and then process the applications for freehold,” said an official aware of the development.In the last four decades, the land-owning agency has auctioned thousands of plots in Nehru Place, Rajinder Place, Dwarka, Pitampura, Janakpuri etc for development of planned commercial centres. But since the DDA sold these plots on leasehold basis, the builders could sell the shops and office spaces on sub-lease under a builder-buyer agreement. The builder had to maintain a record and inform the DDA every time a property transaction took place, said a DDA official.DDA officials admitted that there have been several cases where the developers of the buildings are missing or not helpingshop owners get their property converted. This is why the DDA revised the policy for conversion of such commercial properties in 2019. It adopted the Delhi Apartment Ownership Act, 2009, for commercial complexes to allow owners of shops or offices spaces to get freehold rights over their properties. Vice-chairman of DDA Anurag Jain said that the conversion of commercial property from leasehold to freehold is slightly complicated. “In cases where the lease of the building has been cancelled, shop owners’ application for freehold of their individual units can’t be processed until and unless the lease is restored. If there is misuse of property or illegal construction, then the penalty has to be paid either fully by the builder/lessee or the shop owners/space buyers on a pro-rata basis for his/her unit. We are in the process of further simplifying the process.”Jain said processes of citizen centric services, like conversion, have been computerised end to end. “Ever since we have made the conversion process online, the number of applications we have received is manifold. Now we are getting about 600-700 applications every month against 1,500-2,000 we received in a year.”Property owners want the DDA to expedite the process and simplify it further. Robin Sharma, president of Dwarka Vyapar Mandal who has been pursuing the matter with DDA since 2004, said, “The DDA should accept our property documents and not ask for additional papers. The process should be expedited. This will help DDA earn a lot of revenue from conversion charges.”The land-owning agency is making efforts to streamline the process. Jain said in the housing department, DDA has achieved the benchmark of keeping no case pending for more than two months, barring those where discrepancies have been communicated to the applicants.“Now, efforts are being made to expedite the conversion process of commercial properties and ensure that no conversion case remains pending for more than three months. We are expecting to achieve this benchmark by the end of September this year ,” said the DDA vice-chairman. In 1994, the then urban development ministry started the property (both commercial and residential) conversion process in Delhi. For this, it had set up the Urban Development Fund (UDF) for collection of proceeds from one-time conversion charges.Shop owners also demand that cases where the property has been sold multiple times should also be considered for freehold. Yashpal (identified by a single name), executive member of the DDA Market Joint Action Committee, said, “As these markets were developed in the past four decades, the shops have been sold multiple times. But DDA is not accepting applications where there have been multiple transactions. The people, who are currently occupying the properties in the buildings, are its rightful owners. Currently, they are not allowed to apply. We want the DDA to recognise all such property owners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-shop-owners-struggle-to-get-ownership-rights-101632074701809.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: BJP expels 3 councillors over ‘excess financial corruption’ for 6 years||The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday expelled three municipal councillors from the party’s primary membership for six years over complaints of “excessive financial corruption”, seven months ahead of the crucial municipal elections in the national capital.Hours after the expulsion letters were made public, one of the three councillors, Pooja Madan, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) that launched a scathing attack on the BJP and demanded why it did not order a proper investigation into alleged corruption charges against the councillors.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta expelled councillors Rajni Bablu Pandey (New Ashok Nagar ward in East Delhi Municipal Corporation), Sanjay Thakur (Said-ul-Ajaib ward in South Delhi Municipal Corporation) and Pooja Madan (councillor from Mukherjee Nagar ward under North Delhi Municipal Corporation).In his letters to the councillor, Gupta wrote, “Due to several complaints of excessive financial corruption from the people, you have been suspended from Bharatiya Janata Party’s membership for a period of six years.”Gupta said these people were informed about the complaints and told to take corrective measures. But as there was no improvement, the party decided to expel them, he said in the letter.Municipal elections are due to be held in Delhi in April next year. Currently, the BJP rules all the three civic bodies -- EDMC, SDMC and North DMC -- with the AAP as the main opposition in all the three corporations. The AAP has been carrying out a persistent campaign against the BJP’s rule in the three civic bodies, alleging rampant corruption and financial mismanagement in the corporations -- charges that the BJP has consistently contested and denied.Saurabh Bharadwaj, AAP’s chief spokesperson, on Sunday asked what was the BJP waiting for despite getting complaints against the three councillors, as mentioned in the expulsion letter issued by Gupta. “What’s worth noticing is that the letter which Adesh Gupta has written to EDMC’s Ragini Bablu Pandey and SDMC’s Sanjay Thakur stated that they have received multiple complaints of financial corruption against the councillors. Also, they were warned but since they were not complying, they were expelled from the party for six years. When Adesh Gupta had complaints of financial corruption against these councillors, what were they (BJP) waiting for? The BJP has CBI, ACB, Vigilance department of the MCD, the entire central government and even the LG. Even then, they haven’t submitted even a single complaint to the authorities. Even today, the BJP is sitting as a mute spectator and not complaining against them. After five years of governing the MCD, the BJP is now initiating a cosmetic action against these councillors which is a farce. They are deceiving the people of Delhi. A real action would constitute getting them investigated.”Pandey and Thakur said they will take up the matter with senior party leaders, but Madan said that she was expelled because she had decided to quit the party.Madan said, “If the party thinks I am corrupt, why senior BJP leaders have been calling me for the past two or three days. They expelled me as they got to know about my decision to join the AAP. I wanted to work for the people, but the local BJP unit was just not supportive, and it had become impossible to get work done in the corporation.”Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor has said that Madan’s inclusion in the AAP has exposed the “dual standards” of the ruling party on corruption.“For last three months Delhi BJP was receiving complaints of corruption against Madan and she was repeatedly warned. The party at last had to expel her. Soon after her expulsion from BJP, the AAP admitted her into their party fold and it seems AAP has a washing machine to wash and purify tainted councillors. Soon, we may see AAP admitting the other two tainted councillors, who were expelled from the party along with Madan.”Thakur and Pandey refuted reports of them joining the AAP, and said that they are trying to talk to senior BJP leaders to address the issue.Thakur said, “I got to know about it from social media, though I’m yet to receive an official communication from the party. I have worked very hard to get where I am today. I have actively worked for the party. I will take up the matter with party seniors. I am not joining the AAP. This is a rumour.”Rajini Pandey said that there has been a misunderstanding. “I will always remain with the party (BJP). I will meet party leaders tomorrow to discuss the matter. There has been some misunderstanding. But I will accept whatever the party decides.”With municipal elections scheduled early next year, senior BJP leaders said that this will send a strong message to party members and people that the party will not tolerate corruption.Jai Prakash, former mayor of the North corporation said, “We are here to work for the people and this decision shows that we have a zero-tolerance policy for corruption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-expels-three-councillors-over-excess-financial-corruption-for-6-years-101632074342608.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s revamped Chandni Chowk holds different meanings for its many residents||Rida Ansari , a resident of Ballimaran in the walled city is a diabetic. Her doctor recommended an hour’s daily walk , but she failed to follow his advice for years because she says, she had no place to walk in the congested old Delhi. But two months back, she decided to explore if she could go for a walk in the revamped Chandni Chowk. Now, every day the 48-year old, can be seen taking a stroll both in the morning and the night , along with her friends, in the redeveloped Mughal-era market .“These regular walks have made a great difference to my life. Earlier I was just confined to my home the whole day and felt suffocated, now I feel better mentally and physically. You have to have lived in the walled city to understand what the revamped Chandi Chowk means to hundreds of women like me here,” says Ansari.But Anil Pershad, 77, whose family has lived in Chandni Chowk for over 175 years in Chunnamal haveli, the most famous residence in the walled city today, says that the 9am to 9pm ban on motorised vehicles has only complicated life for him and his family. “There should have been a provision for parking for at least the residents of Chandni Chowk. I have a knee problem and it is unfair to expect me to first walk and then hop onto a cycle rickshaw every time I need to venture out of my home,” says an agitated Pershad, sitting in the grand high-ceilinged drawing-room of his haveli.The redeveloped Chandni Chowk, which was inaugurated by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on September 12, mean different things to different residents of the walled city. There are hundreds of people living in the congested old Delhi, who say that revamped Chandni Chowk has changed their lives for the better. Every day close to mid-night , it is festival-like atmosphere in the market, with hundreds of men, women and children, all locals, taking a stroll, cycling, playing badminton, having leisurely conversations over ice creams. But then there are many others like Pershad also who feel that redeveloped Chandni Chowk has only added to their problems.Pershad’s daughter-in-law describes the revamped Chandni Chowk as a “theatre of the absurd”, its cast of characters changing throughout the day. “Early in the morning, you can see children skating on the broad footpath in front of our house; around 9am there is a scramble among the vehicles to move out. Around noon shopkeepers and shoppers take over. In the night, you can see a lot of vehicles parked on the roads and labourers sleeping on the new footpaths, ” says Swetcha Pershad, a life coach, standing in the balcony of her grand haveli, pointing to the spot where children come for skating—and where the labourers sleep in the night.In fact, one can also see children skating on a stretch near Ballimaran and quite a few cyclists too in the middle of the night. “ Earlier, we would cycling at Rajghat with friends, now many prefer Chandni Chowk, ” says Abdullah Saad , 24, a local resident. Our conversation is interrupted by a loud squeal from a group of children playing badminton on the footpath, their mothers engaged in conversation.Muhammad Naeem, a local resident and civil society leader, says the walled city has been a ‘disabled city’ because of the absence of any civic infrastructure, and the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk, has given the residents a reason to cheer. “While revamped Chandni Chowk has not solved most of our problems, it has given people here a bit of reprieve from the claustrophobia of the congested lanes they live in. Lakhs of people sold their homes and left the walled city over the years because of the chaos created by crass commercialization and unauthorized construction,” says Naeem.In the 1980s, many residents started leaving the walled city areas such as Sitaram Bazar, Nai Sarak, and Chandni Chowk. “Those who were rich moved to Civil Lines; others moved to Patparganj, and Daryaganj and other places,” says Ashok Mathur, a walled city resident, who lives in his ancestral haveli on Nai Sarak.Mathur says that the walled city has witnessed a big demographic shift over the decades. “Those who came here in the 1940s post- Partition integrated well with local culture. But most of those who bought their houses here in the past three decades only had commercial objectives, and no interest in preserving the heritage and culture of the walled city,” he says.Sudhir Nigam who left his ancestral house in Sitaram Bazar in 2016, agrees. Old havelis and houses, he says, have been destroyed to make flats, godowns and shops, without caring for provisions such as lack of parking space. “ The builders are irreversibly changing the character of the place. We left because of the chaos caused by crass commercialization,” says Nigam, who shifted to Indirapuram in Ghaziabad. He recently visited Chandni Chowk after many months. “ It was quite an experience walking in the middle of Chandni Chowk without worrying about being hit by vehicle. But I am not sure if this change is enough to stop the exodus of old residents or bring back those who left, ” he says.Abu Sufiyan , a local who runs, Purani Dilli Walon Ki Baatein, a digital platform, which has over 200,000 followers and aims to tell lesser-known stories about the walled city, its people and culture, says that being able to walk leisurely in the redeveloped Chandni Chowk offer many hidden benefits.“In the past couple of months while walking in Chandni Chowk I have discovered some buildings with heritage facades that I never spotted before. Earlier, the maddening traffic chaos here did not allow that , ” says Sufiyan. “I think revamped Chandni Chowk will lead to a better appreciation of the walled city’s heritage and a desire to preserve it. Already, many local youngsters are planning to open cafes with interiors in sync with the heritage of the walled city.”Mathur says he would like to wait and watch before commenting on the impact of the revamped Chandni Chowk’s on local residents’ lives. “It has certainly given breathing space to people, but it is too early to assess its real impact. I hope that traffic in internal roads such as Nai Sarak and Ballimaran is not barred permanently. It will cause a lot of hardships to the residents,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-revamped-chandni-chowk-holds-different-meanings-for-its-many-residents-101632073925425.html
20-09-2021||Delhi||Railways job scam: EOW arrests man from Greater Noida||The Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has arrested a 43-year-old man from Greater Noida last week, for his alleged involvement in a job scam, in which he and his associates allegedly duped more than 40 job aspirants of around ₹2.44 crore by promising them jobs in the Indian Railways.Police said the members of the gang issued fake appointment letters to the candidates, conducted their medical examinations and organised a three-month long job training in Uttarakhand’s Dehradun to make the entire selection procedure look genuine. Two members of the racket--Brij Kishore (34) and Sachin Kumar (36)--were arrested last month in the case. “One of the two posed as a senior IAS officer and claimed of having links in the railways recruitment board to win the confidence of the candidates,” said additional commissioner of police (EOW) R K Singh.The EOW, Singh said, received complaints from job aspirants, who alleged that after completing the training at Dehradun, when they went to their first posting at a railway office in Jharkand’s Jamshedpur, they were told that the railway board had not released any advertisement about vacancies. A case was registered with the EOW in January this year based on the complaints of the job seekers--many of whom are from villages around Agra and Hathras in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar’s Patna.“Since most of the victims come from very humble backgrounds, they were examined for the job at their respective villages only. The victims had no idea about the whereabouts of the suspects. They only had their phone numbers. They used to meet the suspects at hotels in Paharganj and near Rail Bhawan. We identified two suspects with the help of manual and technical investigation and arrested them in August,” said Singh.During interrogation, police said, the suspects named one Mohammad Raghib Firoz, a resident of Greater Noida, who was absconding. The investigating team collected information about Firoz’s whereabouts and nabbed him from Greater Noida last week. Firoz is a post graduate in psychology and also holds a diploma in mass communication and journalism, said police. “In the present case, Firoz coordinated all the activities, including collecting money from the candidates, filling various forms related to their appointment and training, apart from managing other affairs in the commission of the economic offence,” said Singh.Police said the suspects did not publish any advertisement regarding the job vacancies. They spread information through word of mouth that they had solid links in the railways department through which they can secure jobs for interested candidates.“We have learnt that the number of victims is not less than 100. While 40 of them have been identified and approached, efforts are on to find others,” said an investigator, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/railways-job-scam-eow-arrests-mastermind-from-greater-noida-101632055619604.html
20-09-2021||Dehradun||Central Zoo Authority seeks report from over illegal felling in Corbett||The Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has issued notice to the chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand on allegations of illegal cutting of thousands of trees in the Corbett Tiger Reserve in Kalagarh division for the Pakhrau Tiger Safari. The development follows legal notice sent by Gaurav Kumar Bansal, wildlife activist and advocate of Supreme Court, in which, he urged the CZA and National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to withdraw their “approval” for the establishment of the tiger safari in Gujjar Sot, Pakhrau Block, Sonanadi Range, Kalagarh Division in Corbett Tiger Reserve. Bansal said in his notice he has stated that the Forest Advisory Committee of the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change had recommended the proposal only after the written assurance from Uttarakhand forest officials that only 163 will be felled for the setting up of the tiger safari. “However, in contrast to its undertaking, forest department officials have uprooted nearly 10,000 trees in the area,” he said. Sonali Gosh, Deputy Inspector General of Forests at Central Zoo Authority in her September 17 letter to the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) and chief wildlife warden Uttarakhand asked them to verify facts and submit their response for further necessary action. Bansal said even the director of CTR has sought a report from divisional forest officer Kalagarh on the illegal felling of trees for setting up the Tiger Safari. The legal notice states that “grievance which applicant wishes to highlight is that illegal felling of trees in the name of establishment of Pakhrau Tiger Safari and that too within Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is one of the best and oldest National Parks in the country, is not only against the statutory approvals granted by the National Tiger Conservation Authority, Central Zoo Authority and Forest Advisory Committee but also contempt of the order dated 09/04/2001 issued by Supreme Court of India in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 47 of 1998 titled as ‘Navin M Raheja Vs. Union of INDIA and Others’ wherein the apex court expressly observed that no tree whatsoever shall be felled in the Corbett Tiger Reserve by the State or anyone else”. When contacted, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Rajiv Bhartari said he had directed PPCF wildlife JS Suhag to give a status report on the allegations based on which the response will be sent to CZA. Rahul (who goes by his first name), director CTR, rubbished the allegations that 10,000 trees have been cut for the safari project. “Prima facie there are no irregularities in the construction of the tiger safari. We have all the required permissions. But still, I have sought a status report from DFO Kalagarh in the matter. This tiger safari project was conceived during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Corbett in February 2019,” he said. According to the minutes of the meeting of the forest advisory committee (FAC) held on September 21, 2020, the proposal for seeking prior approval of the Central government under Section 2 of Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 for non-forestry use of 106.16 hectares of forest land Compartment No. 3 and 8 of Kalagarh Tiger Reserve Division of Pakhro Range, Pakhro Block of Pauri Garhwal district for the establishment of Tiger Safari was discussed in the meeting. The FAC recommended the proposal on certain conditions that all conditions in the statutory approvals obtained from NTCA and CZA would comply and the state government would ensure the infrastructure of the tiger safari is created mainly from bamboo and other natural materials. The minutes stated that statutory approvals from the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) have been obtained for the proposal, compensatory afforestation has been proposed over 16 hectares of non-forest land which is equal to 15 per cent of the forest land proposed for diversion. The minutes also noted that as the construction activity over 4000 square metres is carried out under the project, the proposal does not require environment clearance and consequent wildlife clearance from the standing committee of the National Board for Wild Life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/central-zoo-authority-seeks-report-from-over-illegal-felling-in-corbett-101632053701524.html
