22-09-2021||Other||Before suicide, Mahant Narendra Giri’s last thoughts were about Math, temple||PRAYAGRAJ: The purported suicide note found near Mahant Narendra Giri’s body not only indicates the mental stress he was undergoing in his final days but also his concern towards his Baghambari Gaddi Math ashram and his disciples. Although the suicide note is still being examined by a forensic team to establish its authenticity, a copy of it went viral on social media platforms on Tuesday evening. IG of Prayagraj Range KP Singh said that the eight-page suicide note expressed the feelings of Mahant Narendra Giri and contained his will for the Akhada and his disciples. However, he said that the suicide note would be examined by forensic and handwriting experts to establish if it was actually written by Mahant Narendra Giri himself. The suicide note written on Mahant Narendra Giri’s letter pad also mentions the date of suicide which was September 20. At the starting of the note, Mahant Narendra Giri said that he was writing the letter of his own will, without any pressure. The Mahant said that he was living under immense mental pressure since his disciple Anand Giri had levelled baseless and fake allegations against him. “Whenever I am alone, I feel I should not live anymore. Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari betrayed me and tried to kill me. Anand Giri defamed me through social media platforms and other sources by making false allegations against me. I will not lie as I am going to commit suicide—I have no relations with my family and have not given money to my kin. Instead, I have used the money for development of the temple and ‘Math’. All my devotees are aware that since I took charge in 2004, I have worked for development of the Math and temple. Anand Giri’s allegations have disgraced me, the Math and the temple. I am deeply hurt and have decided to end my life for which Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep are responsible,” the letter said. In the purported suicide note, Mahant Narendra Giri admitted that he had planned to commit suicide on September 13 but changed his mind at the last moment as he could not muster enough courage. “However, today I have received information from Haridwar that Anand Giri may release a tampered photograph in a day or two, showing me in a compromising state with a girl. I cannot give clarifications everywhere and I will surely be disgraced if any such photograph is made viral. The post on which I am is a respected one and although people will learn about the reality later, at present I will be defamed. Anand Giri says how much and to whom Mahant Narendra Giri will give clarifications. It is better to die than live with disgrace in society. Anand Giri has also released an audio to defame me earlier,” the suicide note said. In the suicide note Narendra Giri also requested the police and administrative officials to take action against Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and Sandeep Tiwari so that his soul may get peace. In his will mentioned in the suicide note, Mahant Narendra Giri expressed his wish to make Balbeer Puri the Mahant of Bade Hanuman Temple and Baghambari Gaddi Math. Addressing Balbeer Puri, Mahant Narendra Giri said in the note that “You will succeed me as the Mahant of Bade Hanuman Temple and Baghambari Gaddi Math. Take care of the temple and Math as I have done in my lifetime and also be good towards my disciples Mithilesh Pandey, Ramkrishna Pandey, Manish Shukla, Shivek Kumar Mishra, Abhishek Kumar Mishra, Ujjawal Dwivedi, Prajjawal Dwivedi, Abhay Dwivedi, Nirbhay Dwivedi and Sumit Tiwari. All my disciples are favourites but Manish Shukla, Abhishek Mishra, Shivank Mishra are special. Moreover, Sumit Tiwari took good care of me when I was infected with Covid. I have registered the flower shop’s rent agreement in Sumit’s name while Hanurupa Emporium has been given on rent to Mithilesh Pandey while the sweet shop has been given to Manish, Shivesh and Abhishek Mishra.” Moreover, in his suicide note, Mahant Narendra Giri asked seers Ashutosh Giri, Nitesh Giri and others to cooperate with Balbeer Puri and requested Mahant Hargovind Puri to appoint him ( Balbeeer) as the Mahant of the Math and the temple. “Mahant Ravindra Puriji you have always supported me and now you should support Balbeer Puri after my death,” the note said. Finally, in the letter Mahant Narendra Giri requested his disciples and Panch Parmeshwar to make his ‘samadhi’ near the lemon tree in the Math besides his Guruji.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/before-suicide-mahant-narendra-giri-s-last-thoughts-were-about-math-temple-101632335198511.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Sero type 2 dengue on the rise? Complicated, multi-organ involvement dengue cases reported in Pune||Pune: With more complicated and multiple organ involvement dengue cases coming up among confirmed Dengue patients, city doctors believe that this could be because of the Sero type 2 dengue which is a more serious strain than the other variants of the virus. In the past two months, city hospitals are seeing more dengue patients who present serious symptoms including multiple organ involvement, longer hospitalisation and also severity in the symptoms. Earlier, the state had warned the district administration to prepare for Sero type 2 dengue cases which are on the rise. This type of dengue leads to serious cases as compared to Sero type 1 and 3 dengue cases, which is affecting kids and adults alike. Dr Parikshit Prayag, intensivist at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said, “We are now seeing more serious dengue patients being reported in the city. In the past two months, I have had more than 10 serious dengue patients admitted in the ICU and are reporting severe dengue with brain involvement, shock syndrome, low platelet count and bone marrow suppression. Although we do not type the variant, the symptoms look like Sero type 2 variant. The severity of symptoms could also be likely in other types as well, but they are more likely in Sero type 2.” Dr Reema Kashiva, general physician at Noble Hospital said, “There is a definite surge in the numbers and that too with varied presentations. Initially dengue used to present with only fever and rashes, but now the presentations are much severe and include convulsions, paralysis and bleeding. The severity of the symptoms are equal in kids and adults, we recently had a 17-year-old kid with right upper limb and left lower limb paralysis along with dengue. The presentation is not like classic Sero type 1 so it looks like it is Sero type 2 dengue cases. The symptoms now include vomiting, very high fever, dehydration and the hospital stay has also increased and also multiple organ involvement.” Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad said, “Last Saturday, the governments of India and Maharashtra had issued a warning across the state for Sero type 2 dengue and instructed us to undertake intensive activities. Since carrier mosquito is the same for dengue, zika and chikungunya, we are redoubling our efforts and reissuing orders that has been appreciated by several authorities.” Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said, “Sero type 2 dengue causes more severe and complicated symptoms in patients compared to other variants and we have instructed officials to undertake the necessary steps to control the surge in cases. Up to September 7, 2021, we have collected 56,075 serum samples from suspect cases for dengue testing and total cases reported from the state include 6,374. For Sero sampling, the samples are sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune.” Among kids also there has been a surge in the number and the complications related to dengue cases. Dr Sagar Lad, paediatrician and consultant working with three city hospitals said, “There has been a surge in the numbers this year and we are getting more complicated cases as well. Dengue with multiorgan involvement like involvement of the heart, liver and brain. In a week we are getting at least 2-3 cases in the past two months. In the last one month I have seen at least 20-25 serious dengue patients in the three hospitals that I work with.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sero-type-2-dengue-on-the-rise-complicated-multi-organ-involvement-dengue-cases-reported-in-pune-101632334778725.html
22-09-2021||Noida||Traders complain of open electric cables, feeder pillars in Noida market||A number of open feeder pillars, boxes and open cables at the Noida Sector 18 market continues to pose a threat to people and animals, according to the market association. Shopkeepers said that the issue has not been fixed despite complaints and they have had to take to social media to raise the issue. Pointing out that a stray dog was electrocuted a few days ago due to one of these corroded old cable panels that have exposed wires, traders said that many of these open wires, transformer covers and feeder boxes are located right outside shops or in the proximity of pathways that can lead to accidents during the rain.“There are a number of feeder boxes, cable and connection which are exposed and open across the Sector 18 market area. The boxes are unlocked and open. A few days ago, a dog was electrocuted. The market is usually busy--who would be responsible if any untoward incident takes place? There are so many exposed wires and feeder boxes, including one in a park. In case of waterlogging, the threat of a mishap increases. Officials should look into it,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 market association.He added that the issue had been raised multiple time but to no avail.“We did raise the issue with officials, but nothing has been done,” added Jain.Pallavi Dar, a resident who feeds stray dogs in Sector 18 and found one electrocuted last week, said that she has been raising the issue on social media.“It is so shocking that there are so many high voltage cables in the boxes and they are all open. That too in one of the most posh markets of the city in front famous food joints. I understand that many people don’t care about animals but what if a child touches it? It’s such a dangerous thing and officials seem least bothered,” said Dar.Officials said that they will inspect the entire area, adding that a lot of old cable feeders and chambers are being replaced in different sectors.“We will inspect the entire area and get the issue fixed. There are many panels and feeder boxes in the city which have become old. The work is already underway to change the old setups and install new ones. Till then, we will get the issue fixed at Sector 18 soon,” said VN Singh, chief engineer, Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL), Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traders-complain-of-open-electric-cables-feeder-pillars-in-noida-market-101632334421312.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Private bank employees booked for defreezing account of GST evasion accused||PUNE: Employees of a private bank were booked for allegedly helping a man booked for Goods and Services Tax (GST) evasion worth over ₹126 crore by de-freezing the accounts that the government had frozen. A transaction worth over ₹126 crore was made after defreezing the account between July 27 and July 29, according to the police. As a result of it, a case was registered at Baramati police station against the bank employees as well as the man booked for GST evasion. The accused were identified as Sudhir Dhananjay Sarode, and five others, according to the police. “These other accused are bank employees. We are investigating their role in the case,” said assistant police inspector Palve of Baramati police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the case was lodged by Subhash Murlidhar Shingare (39) an inspector at Matunga police station in Mumbai. The Matunga police station officials had issued an order on January 4 to freeze the account. The bank employees were found to be in violation of the order. The account was then used to transfer the evaded GST amount. The GST department accounts were credited with ₹126,88,24,800, according to the police. A case was registered under Sections 188, 409, 420, and 34 of Indian Penal Code at Baramati city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-bank-employees-booked-for-defreezing-account-of-gst-evasion-accused-101632334180309.html
22-09-2021||Other||Wildlife SOS holds fruit feast for rescued elephants in Mathura||Agra Wildlife SOS hosted its annual ‘Jumbo Buffet’ at the Elephant Conservation and Care Centre (ECCC) in Mathura, to mark the Elephant Appreciation Day on Wednesday. Trumpets of joy echoed throughout the Centre, as Wildlife SOS veterinarians and caregivers put together a special feast for the elephants under their care. As the elephants departed for their morning walks, the dedicated staff set up a grand buffet of green fodder, corn, watermelons, bananas, pumpkins and papayas. Every year the Wildlife SOS staff puts in a lot of effort to come up with innovative ideas to make the feast more enjoyable for the pachyderms. This year the fruits were stacked one on top of another to allow the elephants to topple over the fruits as they dived headfirst into the feast! On returning from their walk, the elephants rushed towards the mouth-watering meal, gobbling up all the delicious fruits. This annual jumbo feast was the first-ever for newly rescued elephants Nina and Emma, who thoroughly enjoyed the preparations done for them. Nina and Emma had been reduced to mere commodities, being worked to a breaking point in spite of suffering from a host of serious diseases. Earlier this year, they were rescued by Wildlife SOS and the Uttar Pradesh forest department and are currently undergoing specialised medical care and treatment at India’s only elephant hospital. India is home to over 50% of the population of Asian elephants in the world, making it the last strong-hold of Asian elephants. Yet, elephant populations continue to face various threats like habitat encroachment, poaching, and captivity in tourism and begging industries. Wildlife SOS established Elephant Conservation and Care Centre, Mathura in 2010 and the Elephant Hospital in 2018 in collaboration with the Uttar Pradesh forest department. With state-of-the-art veterinary facilities, the hospital cares for geriatric or injured elephants. Presently the centre is treating over 25 elephants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wildlife-sos-holds-fruit-feast-for-rescued-elephants-in-mathura-101632334179074.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Pune fire brigade team saves worker trapped in debris||Pune: A Pune fire brigade team from Yerawada fire station rescued a labourer who got trapped in debris at a construction site at Kalyaninagar on Wednesday. The worker fell during renovation of a building in Kalyaninagar and soon got covered in debris. His co-workers tried to rescue him for two hours but their efforts went in vain. Later, they alerted the Pune firebrigade. A team from Yerawada fire station rushed to the spot and rescued him. According to the fire brigade officials, the incident took place during renovation of the Sugra Terrace building. The earth caved in and the worker got buried. The fire brigade personnel rescued him and shifted him to hospital for treatment. The rescue team included Ganesh Parate, Vasant Kad, Sunil Kharabi and Ratan Raut. Fire brigade chief Prashant Ranpise said, “We reached the spot and immediately started the rescue operation as per our saving lives protocol. We used special digging equipment to excavate the debris and saved his life. Our entire team put in their best efforts for the successful rescue mission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-fire-brigade-team-saves-worker-trapped-in-debris-101632333758534.html
22-09-2021||Noida||Gurjars protest against Dadri MLA for dropping caste name from plaque||As Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath finished his speech and left the degree college in Dadri after unveiling a statue of the ninth-century king Mihir Bhoj, some members of the Gurjar community started shouting slogans against Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar for “dishonouring” their community. However, a heavy deployment of policemen at the venue prevented the protesters from entering the area housing the statue.Later, several men from the community gheraoed the MLA’a residence. Several members of the Rajput and the Gurjar communities have been protesting over the past few days, each claiming that the king belonged to their caste. Organisers said they removed the name of the caste on the plaque installed below the statue after they realised that including either of the castes would lead to protests.However, some members of the Gurjar community, who were also part of the group responsible for organising the event, added the name of their caste to the plaque on Wednesday morning before the chief minister arrived at the venue. But the organisers again removed the name of the caste.At the event, the chief minister unveiled the statue, inaugurated a higher secondary school and a road, a drain and other projects in Dadri before addressing the audience. As he left the venue, members of the Gurjar community realised the word “Gurjar” had been removed from the plaque. They then started shouting slogans against MLA Nagar.“They are doing politics and vitiating the atmosphere,” said Nagar before leaving the venue.Later, Dadri police station house officer Pradip Tripathi tried to calm the protesters down, but failed. He then deployed several policemen in the area.“Tejpal Nagar fears the government so much that he removed the Gurjar name just before the CM arrived. He has insulted our pride. We will teach him a lesson in the upcoming 2022 assembly elections. Why can’t we write Gurjar on the plaque when he was our king?” said Praveen Gujar, one of the protesters.Meanwhile, Rajput community members said Gurjars were wrongly interpreting history. “Pratihar Samrat Mihir Bhoj was a Rajput king and the word Gurjar refers to a place, not caste. They should understand this fact. We are happy that the CM made it clear that great people do not belong to any particular caste. We will continue to fight for our history to preserve it and we will not let anyone write the name of a caste before Mihir Bhoj,” said Rishipal Parmar, national president of Akhil Bharatiya Kshatriya Mahasabha Trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gurjars-protest-against-dadri-mla-for-dropping-caste-name-from-plaque-101632333518755.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Four North MCD officials get clean chit in Sabzi Mandi building collapse probe||The report on the inquiry into the Malkaganj building collapse near Sabzi Mandi area has provided a clean chit to the four supervising officials, including the deputy commissioner and the three engineers. The collapse on September 13 led to the death of two children, aged 7 and 12 years, and caused injuries to a 72-year-old shop owner. According to the report, which was submitted to the municipal commissioner on Tuesday, the inquiry found that the collapsed building was not in a dangerous state and no complaint was filed about it to the corporation’s control room. Locals informed the inquiry committee that some kind of demolition work was being undertaken at the site on the night of September 12, 2021. Jogi Ram Jain, standing committee chairman of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said he has not studied the report as yet. “The clean chit has been given to the officials concerned but I will go through the report and we will explore the possibility of re-examining it,” Jain said. North Delhi mayor Raja Iqbal Singh said he had visited the collapse site and preliminary findings show that it was a fault of the owner’s that led to the collapse.Meanwhile, a resurvey of the area in the wake of the collapse has identified at least 18 high-risk structures, which are 50 to 60 years old, in Malkaganj municipal ward. Mayor Singh said all dangerous buildings identified in the resurvey will be evacuated to protect human lives. Building collapses during the monsoon season have become an annual phenomenon in Delhi. In the past too, municipal corporations have failed to fix accountability in such cases. In the capital’s biggest such case, a five-storeyed building collapsed in east Delhi’s Lalita Park area in November 2010, killing at least 67 people and injuring 77 others. Almost eight years after that tragedy, a paltry fine of ₹21,000 was imposed on the junior engineer concerned.The issue of Sabzi Mandi collapse and dangerous buildings was also raised in the north corporation house meeting on Wednesday. Vikas Goya, leader of the opposition, demanded that a dedicated engineering wing for identifying dangerous buildings be set up and compensation be provided by the civic body to parents of the deceased children. KS Mehra, former municipal commissioner of erstwhile unified MCD, said in the Walled City, areas around Malkaganj, and in special areas, a door-to-door exercise is needed to scientifically examine the structural strength of buildings. “We had initiated a programme in this direction. The cost of examining the building strength can be levied from owners. People may resist it but it should be done since so many lives are involved,” he said. Mehra added that as a long -term solution, corporations should focus on ensuring the compliance of completion certificates. “Compliance is still low and this is the only point of intervention which can lead to long-term safety of buildings,” he said. As of now, the dangerous building survey comprises visual surveys by the junior engineer of the area and if the engineer notices structures that are bent or show signs of cracks, then (s)he inspects the structure from the inside. “A notice to get the building repaired is issued to the owner if the building can be retrofitted,” a municipal official said, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-north-mcd-officials-get-clean-chit-in-sabzi-mandi-building-collapse-probe-101632333398506.html
22-09-2021||Noida||No riot in 4.5 years, women are safe in UP, says CM Yogi Adityanath||Amid a row between the Rajput and Gurjar communities over the caste of king Mihir Bhoj, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday unveiled a 15-foot statue of the ninth-century ruler at Mihir Bhoj Degree College in Dadri.Addressing a crowd at the college, Adityanath said that king Mihir Bhoj fought bravely against “Arab invaders” for many years to protect his motherland. “Similarly, our government has ended lawlessness that earlier prevailed in the state and provided a safe environment to all, particularly to our daughters, in the last four-and-a-half years of our rule. Also, no riot took place in our rule,” the CM said. Adityanath first visited Greater Noida’s Expo Mart at 10am to attend an event and then reached Dadri. He also inaugurated a higher secondary school and a “sadbhav mandap” (community centre) before leaving for Dhaulana in Hapur to inaugurate multiple development projects there.In his 24-minute speech, the CM tried to woo Gurjars by praising their leaders. He claimed that king Mihir Bhoj won Kabul in the ninth century. “He (king Bhoj) was so brave that invaders did not dare to attack our land during his reign. And today there is a complete lawlessness in Afghanistan. Similarly, some elements want to create lawlessness in our state. They want to divide our society on caste, language or region’s lines to rule over us,” said the CM.He also appealed to the people to rise above the barriers of caste or region that divide the society. “All communities and organisations need to join hands and work together,” said the CM, in a veiled reference to the dispute between Rajput and Gurjar communities over the caste of king Mihir Bhoj. “This generation should be presented with correct facts about freedom fighters and great personalities. They did not fight for caste, village or a region but for the country,” said Adityanath.The two communities -- Rajput and Gurjar -- are fighting over the roots of king Mihir Bhoj. Rajputs have maintained that he was a ‘Pratihar Rajput king’ while Gurjars claim he was a Gurjar king. On Monday, some members of the Rajput community announced that they would protest against Adityanath during his visit to Greater Noida’s Dadri. But the event took place peacefully due to heavy police presence on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-riot-in-4-5-years-women-are-safe-in-up-says-cm-yogi-adityanath-101632333278468.html
22-09-2021||Noida||Man held for abducting minor girl in UP’s Greater Noida||A man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly abducting a 14-year-old girl in Dankaur on Saturday. The suspect and the girl live in the same neighbourhood, said police. The suspect appears to be 18 or 19 years old and police are yet to establish his age.The girl’s father, in his complaint, said that on September 18, the suspect and his two accomplices abducted his minor daughter from their home. “We chased them but they managed to escape,” he said. The girl is a student of Class 9.The complainant said that the suspect would intercept the girl on her way to school and threaten her with a countrymade gun. Arvind Pathak, SHO, Dankaur police station, said based on the complaint, a case was registered against the suspect and two unknown accomplices under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code. “We found the girl and arrested the main suspect from Delhi. They will be sent for medical examination. We will take action based on the medical report. The suspect’s age has not been ascertained yet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-abducting-minor-girl-in-up-s-greater-noida-101632333158431.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Mega PTM increased parent participation in child’s learning, finds SCERT survey||The Delhi government’s mega parent-teacher meeting (PTM) initiative helped sensitise parents towards their children’s education and increased their participation in learning, found a survey conducted by State Council of Educational Research And Training (SCERT) Delhi.According to the survey, whose research report was handed over to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday, during the mega PTM, almost 70% of parents discussed the regularity of their children attending school, academic activities at school and home, improvement in the child’s learning level, children’s health and hygiene, home environment, and activities of children.The survey also found that 97% of parents agreed that the mega PTM should be organised more frequently to improve participation of children in the class, the government said in a press release on Wednesday.While appreciating the efforts of the SCERT, Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said the mega PTM was launched by the government in 2016 and has led to increased engagement of parents with teachers. “In the last several years, the role of SCERT has been more prominent in the field of training and the field of research could not receive due attention. However, now SCERT Delhi has demonstrated that it is prepared to work in the field of research,” said Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-mega-ptm-increased-parent-participation-in-child-s-learning-finds-scert-survey-101632333039725.html
22-09-2021||Noida||New master plan promises 4% increase in urban area in Ghaziabad, activists demand more green cover||The Master Plan 2031 of Ghaziabad aims to increase urban cover in the city from 36% to 40%--an increase of about 20 square kilometres (sqkm)--while the corresponding growth in green cover will be about 15%, which is 3.02sqkm. Worried environmentalists said more spaces should be brought under the green cover given the high pollution levels in the city. The increase in urban area in Ghaziabad means that its share will increase from 187.92sqkm to 208.8sqkm while the corresponding green area will increase from 28.18 sqkm to 31.2sqkm. The preparation of the GIS-based Master Plan 2031 is in full swing and is likely to be finalised in a month. Officials of the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) said of the 522sqkm land in the city, around 40% will be urbanised once the master plan rolls out. “The geographical area remains the same but the proportion of urban area has been increased from 36% to 40%. This will pave way for more housing and civic infrastructure, among other facilities. According to norms, 15% of the land will have to be reserved for green cover,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, GDAs’ chief architect and town planner (CATP). A master plan is a broad layout of a city and clearly defines different areas according to different land-use such as residential, commercial and industrial, among others. “The Master Plan 2031 includes plans for Modinagar (including Muradnagar), Loni and Ghaziabad city. The plan will be finalised within a month and will be taken to the GDA board for approval,” said Shivpuri. However, environmentalists said the city should have more areas under green cover in the new plan, which will come into effect from next year. The current master plan will be in place till this year. “There is an urgent need to increase the green cover in the city, which is already reeling under high pollution levels. A separate plan, like the master plan, should be prepared for the entire city rather than developing green areas randomly,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer. “Moreover, efforts should be taken to find out how much of the 15% green area chalked out in the previous master plan was utilised. Considering the encroachment and vacant land, it is very likely that the green cover may not have been utilised fully,” said Vashishtha. “If it is found out the previous 15% limit was not achieved, the area should be compensated for in the new master plan,” he added. In terms of pollution, Ghaziabad city is listed among 16 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh with high pollution levels. Cities are declared non-attainment if over a five-year period, they consistently do not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for PM 10 (particulate matter that is 10 microns or less in diameter) or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide). According to Forest Survey of India’s State of Forest Report, 2019, Ghaziabad district witnessed a decline of 0.78% in forest area in 2019 compared to 2017. The total forest cover in 2019 stood at 25.22% of the district’s total geographical area of 1,179 sqkm as compared to 26% in the previous forest report released in 2017. “Developing dense forestry on areas marked as green is the need of the hour. Encroachment is rampant and there has to be strict enforcement; otherwise the city will continue to experience high levels of pollution as it comprises major industrial areas,” said Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/master-plan-2031-new-plan-promises-4-increase-in-urban-area-in-ghaziabad-activists-demand-more-green-cover-101632333038559.html
22-09-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad: Govt officials will not use vehicles on Wednesday, says DC||Officials of the Faridabad district administration cycled to their office on the occasion of World Car-Free Day on Wednesday, with deputy commissioner Jitender Yadav saying that all government officials will be asked not to use vehicles on Wednesday.Yadav said that officials have been asked to use public transport, cycles or walk to offices every Wednesday, and that the move may gradually be expanded to cover private companies and institutions. “There are around 1,000 vehicles arriving at the Mini Secretariat daily and a majority of these belong to government officials. We have decided that every Wednesday, officials will come by cycle, public transport or on foot,” Yadav said. To make the initiative a success, government officials will not hold any meetings on Wednesday, except in emergency cases, and officials will be allowed to leave offices at 4.50pm. “This day can be used to focus on clearing pending files and other works that need to be attended to. Officials can also meet people and attend to public grievances. Work can be completed efficiently and people also need not spend extra time in the offices,” Yadav said. Officials of Faridabad district administration said that since the entire building will be empty and free of cars, it would be easier to complete repair works and undertake maintenance of the office premises. “We will later expand the reach of this initiative to public, as it will help in cutting pollution and reduce expenditure on fuel,” Yadav said. On Wednesday, Yadav said that government officials fully supported this movement and there were few vehicles at the Mini Secretariat. “Directions in this regard have been issued to all department heads and hopefully, the compliance will remain high,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-govt-officials-will-not-use-vehicles-on-wednesday-says-dc-101632332978390.html
22-09-2021||Gurugram||Light rainfall brings down day temperature in Gurugram||An overcast sky and light rainfall in some parts of the city on Wednesday kept the mercury levels at bay, with the maximum temperature dropping six degrees below normal. According to a bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Centre, Chandigarh, the city received 12mm rainfall till 5.30pm on Wednesday.The maximum temperature on Wednesday was recorded at 29.1 degrees Celsius (°C), six degrees below normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature, however, remained in the usual range, with a reading of 23.4°C. The IMD has further issued a yellow alert for the city till Friday, predicting heavy rainfall in Gurugram and adjoining districts of south Haryana this week. “In south and southeast Haryana, thunder or lightning at isolated places is likely on Thursday and Friday. A good spell of rain is likely to take place over Gurugram on Sunday. With this, temperature may go down further in the region,” an official from IMD Chandigarh said. On Wednesday, light rainfall was reported from localities of South City, DLF Phase-3, newer sectors (89-115) of Gurugram and stretches of the National Highway-48 (NH-48).According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers are likely in the city till Sunday. Over the next four days, the maximum temperature in Gurugram is likely to be between 30-32°C, while the minimum temperature is likely to be around 25°C. Meanwhile, with frequent rainfall, the air quality in the city remained in the satisfactory zone of the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality bulletin for the fifth consecutive day on Wednesday, with an air quality index (AQI) of 74. The air quality in Delhi and the National Capital Region is likely to remain largely in the satisfactory category over the next five days, according to a bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/light-rainfall-brings-down-day-temperature-in-gurugram-101632332918480.html
22-09-2021||Gurugram||MCG demolishes illegal structures in areas under 900-metre radius of IAF depot||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Wednesday carried out an anti-encroachment drive in areas falling under the 900-metre radius of the Indian Air Force (IAF) ammunition depot in Sector 14 under heavy police protection.Continuing a drive that started on Tuesday, the MCG demolished eight under-construction structures in Satguru Enclave and Noble Enclave over the two days, a release issued by the civic body on Wednesday stated.On Wednesday, MCG officials also carried out an extensive anti-encroachment drive on the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road in Bandhwari, demolishing at least 50 illegal structures that included eateries, tin sheds, workshops, vends and courtyards. “All three drives were carried out under heavy police protection. However, no resistance by locals or any untoward action was reported in any of them. All the structures were demolished with earthmovers and the MCG’s anti-encroachment drive will continue throughout this week in various corners of the city,” SS Rohilla, the public relations officer (PRO) of MCG, said.On Monday, the MCG conducted an anti-encroachment drive in Nathupur village, near DLF Phase-3, and reclaimed 70 square yards of civic land by demolishing illegal temporary structures, slums, and junk and building material shops. MCG officials said that while the drive in Nathupur was in response to a complaint lodged with the CM Window, the other drives were based on tip-offs. They said that a building plan has to be approved for any new construction within MCG limits, and if the same is not procured, the civic body will either seal or demolish the structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-demolishes-illegal-structures-in-areas-under-900-metre-radius-of-iaf-depot-101632332805463.html
22-09-2021||Gurugram||Banquet halls: MCG committee to conduct survey, issues notices for regularisation||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) constituted a four-member committee for surveying the total number of banquet halls in the city and subsequently, issuing notices to regularise them.According to the MCG records, there are at least 76 banquet halls in the city, of which only one banquet hall is registered with the authorities. MCG officials said that the committee was formed on the directions of the MCG commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, on Monday.After a survey, MCG will issue notices to banquet hall owners, giving them a month to regularise their building, failing which the civic body will start sealing their properties from November, which is usually the peak wedding season.“Preparations for the survey have been started. I have set a month’s deadline for officials to compile a report on the findings from the survey and submit it. After that, notices will be issued to banquet hall owners to regularise their buildings as per the policy, failure of which will lead to sealing of their structure,” Ahuja said.Ahuja said that the survey was initiated based on the observations of the Haryana Lokayukta that banquet halls need to be regularised. He said that regularising such properties will ensure that banquet halls adhere to safety norms, crowd capacity, adequate parking space, and other such measures, besides providing an increase in the revenue collection of the MCG for the issuance of licences.Non-adherence to safety norms has been a matter of concern for the MCG, especially in regards to fire safety, since an incident in November 2018 wherein a banquet hall in Sector 9 caught fire. Although the intensity of the blaze was small, it took fire tenders nearly 25 minutes to access the site of fire as the entry of the banquet hall was narrow.Regularisation of banquet halls was first initiated in 2014, when a solitary banquet hall was regularised. Since then, the MCG has regularly conducted drives, sealing 10 banquet halls in March 2018 in the latest one, for operating without licences. In March, the MCG House also approved the regularisation of banquet halls in the city.Anil Rao, the president of the Haryana Party Lawns’ Association, said that banquet hall owners will approach the MCG with their concerns about the existing policy.“The main issue with the current policy is that it asks one-time payment of nearly ₹1 crore for regularising a banquet hall. Instead, the MCG should adopt the policy on the lines of Rajasthan, where the policy is renewed on an annual basis through the payment of ₹2-3 lakh, depending on the size of the banquet hall. This is far more economically viable and the preferred option for most banquet hall owners,” Rao said.Rao said that representatives of the association will meet MCG officials to reach an agreement on the matter so that there are no hurdles during the peak wedding season in November and December, which accounts for around 70% of their annual income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/banquet-halls-mcg-committee-to-conduct-survey-issues-notices-for-regularisation-101632332804028.html
22-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination: Health workers to contact people who are due to take second dose||The Gurugram health department on Wednesday identified 54,000 people in the district who have missed their 84-112 day deadline to take their second dose of the Covishield vaccine and asked workers concerned to contact each beneficiary individually, officials familiar with the developments said.The exercise is being undertaken to ensure total vaccination for every eligible person in the district, officials said.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said that a list of such people has been shared with all health centres for contacting them and ensuring the completion of the vaccination schedule.“We have found that there are 54,000 people in the district who have taken the first dose of Covishield and their second dose is due. We have made a list of such people and it has been given to the 36 institutions in the district that are managing vaccination process. From these lists, ASHA and ANM workers will contact the beneficiaries individually to follow up on their vaccination status,” Yadav said.Officials also said that they are working to find out why people are not coming forward to take the second dose of vaccination despite reaching the due date. While contacting these beneficiaries, health workers will also take feedback on why they are yet to take their second vaccine dose. After reviewing the reasons, possible changes will be made in the system, if required, they said.On Wednesday, 25,645 people were given the Covid-19 vaccine in the district, according to the health department data, with 11,761 doses were administered as the first shot and 13,884 as the second shot. Almost 75% (19,284 doses) of the total inoculations took place at government vaccination centres and the remaining at private hospitals.Gurugram has now vaccinated over 2.95 million people in the district since January 16, when the vaccination process started.On Tuesday, the district task force also decided that vaccinations will be undertaken at religious places, markets, post offices and banks from next month to cover the maximum number of people. The health department will also be coordinating with 1,221 residents’ welfare associations in the city to conduct vaccination camps.Meanwhile, on Wednesday, five new Covid-19 cases and six recoveries were also reported from the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-health-workers-to-contact-people-who-are-due-to-take-second-dose-101632332802738.html
22-09-2021||Gurugram||Dwarka Expressway: Contractor pulled up over concrete span collapses in March 2021||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) issued a show-cause notice to the contractor of phases three and four of Dwarka Expressway in connection with the collapse of two concrete spans on March 28 this year. The notice, issued on the basis of two committees’ findings, cited lack of coordination, lack of workmanship and substandard quality concrete in some segments of both the spans for the incident.“Accordingly without prejudice to rights and remedies as are available to authority under the said contract agreement dated 23/10/2018, this notice is served to Larsen and Toubro Limited to show cause as to why you should not be debarred for an appropriate period to be decided by NHAI from further participation in future projects apart from levying penalty, owing to omissions and commissions on the part of the contractor,” the notice, issued on September 16, stated.On March 28, two spans between pillars 107, 108 and 109 under the third phase of the under-construction project collapsed. Following the incident, both the NHAI and the ministry of road transport and highways formed individual committees that submitted their reports recently. The notice (a copy of which is with HT) stated that the contractor had made haphazard use of precast segments already used for three spans for the affected two spans, which was “tantamount to non-adherence/non-compliance of standard procedure.” “It also appears that destressing of cables and lowering of segments were done in a ‘hush hush’ manner without analysing the root cause of the failure,” the notice stated. RK Mishra, project director, L&T, Dwarka Expressway, did not respond for comment despite repeated calls and messages. A senior NHAI official, who is not authorised to speak to the media, said, “The notice was issued on the basis of findings of the committees, and the contractor will now have to submit a detailed reply after which necessary action would be taken.”NHAI officials, however, said that it was the first time that an eight-lane elevated road on a single pillar was being erected in this project, and such incidents can happen as construction is a dynamic process. The 29-kilometre Dwarka Expressway is being constructed in four phases, of which the first two phases are in Delhi.The ₹10,000-crore project will connect Kherki Daula and Mahipalpur in New Delhi on NH-48 and also provide access to the IGI Airport. This road is among the first ones in the country to have eight lanes on a single-pier flyover.The notice also stated faults in compressive strength value, as core tests were found unsatisfactory. “There have been some important issues concerning lack of workmanship, which has been admitted by contractor during casting, compaction of concrete mix, shuttering reinforcement congestion leading to failure,” the notice stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dwarka-expressway-contractor-pulled-up-over-concrete-span-collapses-in-march-2021-101632332801469.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Pune hospitals report a surge; PMC confirms 242 dengue cases in three months||Pune: Since the past three months city hospitals have witnessed a surge in the number of confirmed dengue positive cases, as each hospital is attending to at least 2-3 confirmed cases in a week since July. However, as per the PMC health department records, the city has reported only 242 confirmed dengue cases from May to September 18. The rural administration is also fighting this vector-borne virus as in the past three months 174 confirmed cases have been reported As per the PMC records, the city had reported 22 confirmed dengue cases in January after which the numbers fell to single digits between February and April and zero cases in May and June. However, a sudden surge was reported in the number of confirmed cases since July (86), August (86) and until September 18, 70 cases have been confirmed with dengue infection. Also, over 1,853 suspected dengue cases have been reported. However, this might be a far lower number than what city hospitals are reporting. Dr Rohidas Borse, professor of medicine at the state-run BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital said, “In August we saw a drastic surge in the number of dengue cases. We had reported almost 9-10 new cases everyday for three weeks which means we had seen more than 150 dengue cases in our hospitals. The surge in dengue cases had also led to a much higher demand for platelets. Now the situation is much better than what it was during the final weeks of August.” Dr Reema Kashiva, general physician at a private hospital said, “We have reported over 50 confirmed dengue cases in the past one month alone. There is a big surge in the numbers and with much severe complications. On an average, we have had 2-3 dengue cases every week and so in the past three months more than 50 patients have been treated at our hospital alone.” A doctor from Bharati Hospital requesting anonymity said, “In the past 2-3 month, we are getting a lot of dengue cases in adults and kids. Adults who are getting complicated and getting admitted in the ICU, they have a lot of organ involvement and some bleeding tendencies as well. Usually this could also be due to reinfection of dengue and some patients do tell us that they had a history of dengue infection.” Another doctor from Deenanath Mangeshkar also said that the hospital has reported over 50-60 dengue cases in the past three months. Multiple city hospitals have reported a surge in the number of confirmed dengue cases in the past three months. As per the PMC data, the city saw its highest number of dengue cases being reported in July and August, 86 each, and 70 as on September 18. A case is considered as confirmed only if the test results are conducted through IgM and not NS1 which is as per the government protocols. The NS1 is an antigen test and are included as suspected dengue cases. As of September 18, the city has reported 1853 suspected dengue cases. In the city, Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward has reported the highest spike with 46 confirmed cases of the 273 cases of dengue reported in Pune followed by Dhole Patil ward which has reported 42 such cases. The maximum number of suspected dengue cases, 141 were reported from Ghole Road-Shivajinagar wards, followed by Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar wards with 140 suspected cases and Aundh-Baner with 139 suspected cases. Along with dengue, 111 confirmed cases of chikungunya have been reported in Pune city. In rural areas too there has been a rise in the number of cases as 174 confirmed cases of dengue have been reported and 295 suspected cases. Also, 257 confirmed cases and 363 suspected cases of chikungunya were reported from the rural areas and the Cantonment Board areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-hospitals-report-a-surge-pmc-confirms-242-dengue-cases-in-three-months-101632332738530.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Indian cities may struggle to meet new WHO pollution standards, experts say||The revised pollution guidelines by the World Health Organization (WHO), tightening the acceptable levels of pollutants might be a difficult feat to achieve for Indian cities, considering geographical and meteorological factors, but it draws attention to the high level of exposure to hazardous particles and gases that residents in Delhi face,environment and health experts said on Wednesday. They added that with Covid-19 pandemic posing a public health hazard, the agencies should intensify action to combat air pollution. The World Health Organization has tightened its air quality guidelines bringing down the annual PM 2.5 (respirable pollution particles) guideline from 10 micrograms per cubic metres to 5 micrograms per cubic metres and the 24-hour PM 2.5 limit from 25 micrograms per cubic metres to 15 micrograms per cubic metres. It has also tightened norms for five other pollutants based on recent evidence of health impacts associated with them, a WHO report released on Wednesday, said.Experts said the new levels show how even the slightest increase in pollution levels in a city can impact the health of its residents, especially the vulnerable sections. “By reducing the ambient levels of PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) and PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) under the new air quality guidelines, WHO has re-emphasised the need for putting in more efforts to control particulate matter concentration in air. Though it would be a huge challenge to achieve those levels, but it should be taken as a wake-up call. Efforts by all stakeholders needs to be intensified in order to control pollution levels,” said Dr Arun Sharma, director, National Institute for Implementation Research of Non-Communicable Diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Releasing its revised air quality guidelines, the WHO in a statement highlighted that in recent years several studies have established how even a slight increase in pollution levels in a region can adversely impact the health of its residents. A 2013 assessment by WHO’s International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) highlighted that outdoor air pollution is carcinogenic to humans, with the particulate matter component of air pollution most closely associated with increased cancer incidence, especially lung cancer. An association also has been observed between outdoor air pollution and an increase in cancer of the urinary tract, the 2013 report said. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said that while it might be tough to conform to the new WHO guidelines for a city like Delhi, where even the baseline pollution levels are just short of meeting the national annual standards of 40ug/m3, it is important to scale up action to reduce pollution levels as much as possible. “What we saw during the Covid-19 lockdown, when all pollution sources in the city were shut, there was a reduction of 40-45% in pollution levels. This was a little close to our own pollution standards. While the WHO standards are tough to meet but we need to come up with tighter and stricter action plans for pollution management. Action should not just be localised, we need regional action plans as well,” Roychowdhury said. Delhi, because of its landlocked geography and its weather conditions, faces a year-long pollution problem that reaches emergency levels every winter. Delhi’s baseline pollution study, the minimum pollution when major polluting sources are shut, which was conducted by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) during the Covid-19 pandemic last year shows that the baseline levels of PM10 and PM2.5 were found to be 38ug/m3 (+/- 8) and 22ug/m3 (+/- 6) respectively. The baseline value of NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) was found to be 8 parts per billion (+/- 3), which is also considered to be very high. Dr Arvind Kumar, founder, Lung Care Foundation and chairperson of Institute of Chest Surgery (chest onco-surgery and lung transplantation), said all possible efforts should be made to resolve the crisis. “As doctors, we see the effects of air pollution on people every day. This is a public health emergency, impacting the lives of people but its worst impacts are seen in South Asian countries like India. For the sake of our future generations, we need to commit to doing anything and everything it takes to solve this crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/indian-cities-may-struggle-to-meet-new-who-pollution-standards-experts-say-101632332318339.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||DoE to hold orientation session for teachers to prepare them for Virtual School||In preparation for the Delhi Model Virtual School (DMVS), the Directorate of Education (DoE) will on Thursday begin conducting orientation sessions for computer science teachers of government schools. The two-day orientation will mainly cover discussing the teaching modules and patterns of the virtual school with the teachers.“We plan to start admissions for the virtual model school this month. We are still in the planning stage and will release detailed information on the mode of assessment, academic cycle, and admission process by next week. For now, we have just started the process of getting our teachers acquainted with the learning model,” said a senior official in the education department.The virtual school is one of the flagship projects of the Delhi government which aims to facilitate easy learning for students who want to benefit from the “Delhi model of education”. The setting up of the school was announced in March this year during the annual budget.The model virtual school will be governed by the Delhi Schools of Specialized Excellence Society and will be affiliated to the newly formed Delhi Board of Secondary Education (DBSE), which has collaborated with the International Baccalaureate as a knowledge partner for its curriculum framework.“It will function for classes 9-12. For the year 2021-22, the school shall offer admission to students in Class 9 and 11,” said a DoE circular signed by deputy director education (schools).In August, HT had first reported that DMVS will cater to students interested in studying from home, such as sportspersons, artists or school dropouts,and will admit students in classes 9 and 11 within Delhi. DMVS plans to expand to other parts of the country later.On Tuesday, DoE released a circular saying that an orientation session will be conducted for computer science teachers in 10 batches between Thursday and Friday. The Core Academic Unit, which helped conduct online classes during the pandemic, will also play a key role in developing content and working on its delivery across schools.“In these sessions, participants will be briefed about the modalities of the virtual school and various aspects of teacher and student selection. This will be followed by answering their queries and collecting their feedback,” DoE said.The department has also asked mentor teachers and computer teachers in these schools to conduct an outreach event on DMVS for other teachers of their schools. “They [computer teachers] will also identify and reach out to potential students (and their parents, if possible) who could be part of DMVS, especially those who have dropped out of Directorate of Education schools and are eligible for studying in Class 9 or 11,” the circular stated.Mentor teachers said that computer science teachers were picked for the training first due to their technical skills and the readiness to replicate the learning modules among other teachers. Under DVMS, the evaluation of learning goals will be conducted through “technology-assisted assessments” via a unique learning management system or designated assessment centres. “Modes of assessment will vary from quizzes, assignments, live assessments, and proctored examinations,” stated a document on the planning of the school.The learning management system will host several functions, including live streaming of sessions, act as a virtual library, assign and evaluate paperless assignments, maintain class calendars, conduct virtual conversations, and set up an artificial intelligence-based interface to create a personalised learning flow according to the level of each student.Reflecting on the plans, mentor teacher Poonam (who goes by her first name) said, “Though online classes have been going on for over a year now, not all our teachers are 100% tech-savvy. So we decided to start with computer teachers because the virtual model school will involve more tech-based activities such as creating quizzes or polls according to a student’s learning level. The computer teachers can adopt these practices and later train other teachers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doe-to-hold-orientation-session-for-teachers-to-prepare-them-for-virtual-school-101632332198853.html
22-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow saw 150 dengue cases in Sept; next 15 days crucial: Experts||LUCKNOW With over 150 cases of dengue reported in September, the total number of cases this year crossed the 230-mark in Lucknow with experts saying that the next 15 days were crucial. Uttar Pradesh had reported at least 4,500 cases of dengue this year and patients with fever were continuing to throng OPDs of different hospitals. “This year dengue has struck earlier than usual and the period till October 15 is crucial. Hence, we need to continue preventive activities,” said Dr Awadhesh Kumar Yadav, joint director (malaria), in the state health department. Dengue and viral fever showed symptoms such as sudden onset of fever, malaise and throat problem. These were almost common and hard to differentiate, said Prof Kauser Usman, HoD, geriatric medicine at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU). “September has been crucial with majority of the dengue cases reported in this month. As extended rains continue in the region, the threat of mosquito breeding remains with stagnant water in unused items such as old tyres, broken cups and empty cans,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association on International Doctors. “We have intensified preventive measures and door-to-door checking is being carried out to check if conditions favourable for mosquito breeding exist in homes. In September till now, over 150 notices have been served to owners of houses where stagnant water or other favourable conditions were found,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, CMO, Lucknow. Doctors advised that one should not go for self-medication in case of fever. “Antibiotics should never be started without doctor’s advice as diagnosis might become difficult once antibiotics are started,” said Prof Usman. BOXWHAT RESIDENTS CAN DO # Ensure there is no stagnant water inside the room, balcony or on the rooftop. # Wear full sleeves shirt and trousers, particularly when going out of the house. # Make children wear socks when they go out or even while playing in the open area. # Look for broken cups, unused bottles and bottle caps in the corners of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-saw-150-dengue-cases-in-sept-next-15-days-crucial-experts-101632332019587.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi simplifies rules for surviving spouses to avail of coronavirus financial assistance||The Delhi government on Wednesday said a surviving member certificate will no longer be needed to claim financial assistance under a scheme concerning the death of a spouse due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The financial assistance scheme for Covid-19 deaths was notified on June 23 this year, after the second wave of the pandemic took a heavy toll in Delhi. It covers a one time assistance of ₹50,000 for each Covid-19 death in the family and a monthly assistance of ₹2,500 for families that lost their primary breadwinner and also for children orphaned by the viral disease.The government has so far received around 11,000 applications for financial assistance, of which around 8,500 applications pertain to the one-time assistance of ₹50,000. The remaining are for monthly assistance of ₹2,500 over the death of the breadwinner of the family. Of the total applications received, around 7,800 have been approved, said a senior official in the government.Delhi has recorded around 25,100 Covid-19 deaths so far, according to the state health bulletin figures.Earlier, for applying under the death of a spouse scheme, one had to approach the offices of the revenue department concerned and obtain a document called the surviving member certificate, and the whole process took around a week or more, what with applications piling up at the offices of tehsildars and subdivisional magistrates. “This certificate requirement has now been done away with in cases in which the claimant is a spouse. The move is expected to reduce the paperwork burden significantly,” said the official mentioned above, asking not to be named.For all other claimants, such as mother/father or children, a surviving member certificate is necessary, the official clarified.Also, of the total applications received for financial assistance so far, the government did not share a break-up of how many of these were from married persons.“Revenue minister Kailash Gahlot chaired a high level meeting (on Wednesday) with department officials to review the ‘Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Parivar Arthik Sahayata Yojna ( the chief minister’s Covid-19 financial aid for families scheme)’... During the meeting, it has been decided that under this yojna there will no longer be a need for obtaining a surviving member certificate (SMC) from the applicant in cases where one of the spouses is alive,” the government said in a statement on Wednesday.It further said, “However, the requirement of a surviving member certificate will remain in force for the grant of ex gratia for other applicants. In cases where the deceased was a single parent, the surviving children are entitled to the ex gratia, equally distributed among all children. But for that, the name of the applicant should be reflected in the SMC. Similarly, if the deceased is unmarried or is a minor son/daughter, the father or mother of the deceased will get relief under the scheme subject to their name appearing in the SMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-simplifies-rules-for-surviving-spouses-to-avail-of-coronavirus-financial-assistance-101632332018492.html
22-09-2021||Other||Pollution action plan: Delhi civic bodies suggest 24x7 patrolling for waste burning,portal for dust management||New DelhiThe three municipal corporations have submitted their action plans to control air pollution in the city before the annual winter spike, said officials of the civic bodies. Largely similar, the three action plans to curb pollution from waste burning and dust focus on intensive patrolling, increased mechanical sweeping, targeted operation of GPS monitored water sprinkling tankers and a new portal, being developed with the help of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to monitor large construction sites. Shyam Sunder Agarwal, mayor of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) said the civic body will once again focus on deploying water sprinklers and mechanical sweepers and is likely to broadly replicate last year’s plan.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) action plan said it will procure four new electrical road sweepers that can cover inner colony roads, and added that a dashboard has been set up to monitor in real-time the operations of 24 mechanical road sweepers and 83 water sprinklers that will be pressed into action. A senior official from the north corporation overseeing the formulation of the plan said the municipal corporations will, with DPCC, develop a common portal, on which it will be mandatory to register all construction sites above 20,000 sqm area. The civic body will also deploy 48 patrolling teams to check instances of waste burning in the city. “Earlier, the patrolling teams operated at night, but we have decided that they will now function round-the-clock over the coming months. We have kept the target of planting 20,000 trees and 30,000 shrubs, of which 17,098 trees and 25,493 shrubs have been planted till August 31,” the official said.The north MCD has also set up a separate dust control and management cell headed by its chief engineer. “We have also separately asked for ₹224.18 crore for dust pollution mitigation, under the National Clean Air Programme,” the official added.SDMC has informed that they are using dust suppressants at the Okhla landfill as a pilot project, and added that an anti-smog gun has been permanently deployed on the garbage mound. However, data from the civic body shows that SDMC is currently processing only 50% of the municipal waste being produced in its areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pollution-action-plan-delhi-civic-bodies-suggest-24x7-patrolling-for-waste-burning-portal-for-dust-management-101632331658441.html
22-09-2021||Other||CAQM to “strictly” monitor winter action plans prepared by states||To control the pollution levels caused by crop stubble burning this winter season, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and the adjoining areas will monitor “strict implementation” of action plans prepared by Punjab, Haryana and other agrarian states. In a statement released on Wednesday, the CAQM said Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh among other states have prepared detailed action plans for controlling stubble burning this year, based on the framework made by the commission. The commission said governments have been directed to implement these individual plans based on framework, such as in-situ and ex-situ crop residue management, prohibition of stubble burning, effective monitoring and enforcement and plans to reduce the generation of paddy straw. “Directions have been issued for adopting a standard protocol developed by ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) for recording and monitoring fire counts owing to stubble burning. With regard to promotion of the use of bio-decomposer technology developed by IARI (Indian Agricultural Research Institute), as part of in-situ crop residue management, the commission has been informed that the Pusa bio-decomposer has been planned for application of 6 lakh acres in U.P, 1 Lakh acres in Haryana, 7,413 acres in Punjab and 4,000 acres in Delhi respectively,” the statement released by the CAQM said. The statement also said the state governments have also been informed to take measures for the abatement of road dust through a “dust control and management cell’’. “Activities identified for effective road dust management include optimum utilisation of mechanized sweeping of roads, scientific disposal of dust collected in designated sites or landfills, sprinkling of dust suppressants and water on roads and open areas, proper maintenance of roads, paving and greening of non-paved roadsides, greening of central verges, preference to cemented roads over bituminous roads, especially in industrial areas, monitoring and compliance of dust control measures and plantation of trees/greening on a large scale,” said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/caqm-to-strictly-monitor-winter-action-plans-prepared-by-states-101632331298262.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||DTU’s Yogesh Singh appointed 23rd Vice Chancellor of Delhi University||New Delhi: President Ram Nath Kovind appointed Yogesh Singh, head of the state-run Delhi Technological University (DTU), as the 23rd vice-chancellor (VC) of the Delhi University (DU) on Wednesday. Singh succeeds Yogesh Tyagi who was suspended by the union education ministry in October last year over the charges of “non-performance”. The Centre pointed out several shortcomings in the functioning of the university under Tyagi’s tenure. PC Joshi, who was the pro-vice chancellor, had been serving as the acting vice-chancellor till now.Singh, 55, is considered close to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-backed teachers’ group Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal. Officials at the education ministry confirmed to HT that although five candidates were shortlisted by the search-cum-selection committee, only Singh’s name was sent for the final nod from the President-- who is also the Visitor to all central universities.The Union education ministry, in a letter, on Wednesday informed the DU Registrar about the new appointment. “The President of India, in his capacity as the Visitor of the University of Delhi, has been pleased to appoint professor Yogesh Singh, Vice Chancellor of Delhi Technological University, Delhi, as the Vice Chancellor of Delhi University for the period of five years from the date on which he enters upon his office,” the letter signed by PK Singh, under secretary, education ministry, said. Prior to joining DTU in 2015, Singh served as the director of Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology (now known as Netaji Subhas University of Technology) between 2014 and 2017. Between 2015 and 2017, he handled the charges of both DTU and NSIT. He also served as the vice-chancellor of Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda in Gujarat, between 2011 and 2014. Officials in the ministry said the Gujarat government under then chief minister Narendra Modi had extended his tenure for the second term. “But he moved to Delhi due to some reasons in 2014, and joined NSIT,” an official said.Singh, who hails from Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Aligarh, did his M Tech in electronics and communication engineering from National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra, Haryana. He also completed his PhD in computer engineering from the same institution. Calling it a “privilege” to be selected as the vice-chancellor of DU, Singh said, “It’s a great opportunity and a matter of pride for me. DU is one of the best institutions in the country and it will be my privilege to serve as the VC of this institution. It becomes even more special that I have been selected as the VC of DU in its centenary year.”“I am a team player. I will work taking all stakeholders together and take all necessary steps for the further growth and development of the institution,” he added.When asked about his purported association with the RSS-backed teachers’ body, he said, “It doesn’t make any difference. I have been given a responsibility to serve an institution, and I will do my best to fulfil that.”Meanwhile, the President also appointed Neelima Gupta as the Vice Chancellor of Dr Hari Singh Gaur Vishwavidyalaya in Madhya Pradesh. She is currently serving as the VC of Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University in Bihar.The appointment process of vice chancellors is still pending in at least eight other central universities, including the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dtus-yogesh-singh-appointed-23rd-vice-chancellor-of-delhi-university-101632331058482.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 8 districts report Covid positivity rate higher than state average||Maharashtra has witnessed a drop in daily Covid-19 case load, test positivity and growth rates in the past few days. However, eight districts have reported positivity rate higher than the state average. As per data, none of the districts have a test positivity rate over 5% mark, which has happened after a long time. The state on Wednesday recorded 3,608 new Covid cases and 48 deaths, taking tally to 6,531,237 and toll to 138,664. Mumbai reported 486 new cases and four deaths, pushing tally to 739,361 and toll to 16,063. The day also saw 168,317 tests while the number of recoveries clocked 4,285.The weekly positivity rate of Maharashtra is 2.28%, though eight districts have a higher positivity rate. Positivity rate is the percentage of positive cases against tests conducted. The districts with high positivity rates are Ahmednagar (4.78%), Pune (4.62%), Sangli (3.97%), Sindhudurg (3.46%), Osmanabad (3.40%), Nashik (2.94%), Palghar (2.56%) and Satara (2.37%),According to Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid task force and director of critical care, Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said the situation was under control. “We are in a much better situation compared to previous weeks. We have stepped up surveillance in areas where cases are high and are concentrating on bringing the numbers down,” said Dr Pandit. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed district administrations to ramp up vaccination. “The state has a stock of around 3.6 million doses available for inoculation. The districts with the poor rate of vaccination should ramp it up. Vaccines tend to blunt the severity of Covid-19 and death rate among fully vaccinated people is less. Though Covid cases have dropped in the state, authorities should not lower their guard,” he said. Meanwhile, 10 districts in the state have weekly Covid-19 growth rate higher than the state average of 0.052%. These include Ahmednagar (0.202%) Solapur (0.116%), Satara (0.094%), Sangli (0.082%), Ratnagiri (0.080%), Osmanabad (0.078%), Raigad (0.073%), Pune (0.066%), Mumbai (0.060%) and Sindhudurg (0.058%).Weekly data of the state government has revealed that 10 districts have reported 73.3% of the total active cases in the state. These include Pune, Thane, Ahmednagar, Mumbai and Satara. Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said both authorities and citizens are responsible for this impasse. “Districts like Ahmednagar, Pune and Sangli have been witnessing surge from the very beginning and the authorities are unable to rein in the virus. Citizens, too, flout Covid-19 norms,” said Dr Gilada.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 39,984, of which Pune tops with 11,344 patients followed by Thane with 5,507 active patients and Ahmednagar with 5,100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-8-districts-report-covid-positivity-rate-higher-than-state-average-101632330398219.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet clears plan for multi-member wards in urban civic bodies, excluding Mumbai||The state cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal reverting to the system of electing multiple councillors or corporators from every ward in all municipal corporations and municipal councils in the state, excluding Mumbai. The state government will promulgate an ordinance to make the amendment. Through the decision, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is expected to gain in the local body polls to be held later this year and early next year.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is governed by an independent Act — the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, will continue to elect one councillor in every ward in the city, which is scheduled to go to polls in February 2022.In the new system, voters will elect a three-member panel in each of the wards in municipal corporation areas. In municipal council areas, voters will elect a panel of two members. In a single-member ward system, a voter votes for one candidate, like it is done in Mumbai civic body.Once formalised by way of an ordinance, the decision will come into effect for municipal corporations of Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Thane, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Panvel, Mira-Bhayander, Solapur, Nashik, Malegaon, Parbhani, Nanded-Waghala, Latur, Amravati, Akola, Nagpur and Chandrapur, which go to polls in February-March 2022. Over 50 municipal councils including Baramati, Digras, Kandhar, Indapur, Kannad, Lonavala, Buldhana, Udgir, Paithan, Alibag, Beed, among others, are scheduled to go for polls between January and March 2022.A month after coming to power, the MVA government, in December 2019, had reverted the decision on the four-member councillor ward which was brought in by the erstwhile Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in May 2016. Then the state had contended that the amendment was necessary to bring accountability to each councillor as well as avoid conflicts among councillors elected from a single ward.However, the decision on Wednesday was made stating that civic issues can be resolved appropriately with collective representation in the wards. “The chief minister and deputy chief minister have finalised a three-member panel in municipal corporation areas. In municipal councils, there will be two members. This will make the development work in the wards easier and faster. The nagar panchayat, which is smaller in area, will have one member. The decision will be beneficial for citizens,” State urban development department minister Eknath Shinde said after the cabinet meeting.Politically, the multi-member ward is beneficial to the ruling party. Shinde added, “The government has kept the welfare of the citizens before them while making this amendment... It will be beneficial for MVA in the upcoming local body polls. It will be helpful in accomodating everybody, besides that, the new system will help in getting development work faster.”Each of the three parties will be able to field candidates in each electoral ward since multiple councillors will have to be elected. This would avoid dispute between the three allies if they contest the coming elections as a coalition. State minority affairs and skill development minister, Nawab Malik, added that the decision will help field a woman candidate, one candidate from Other Backward Classes (OBC), and a candidate from the open category in the pane. “With this decision, one woman, one OBC and one open category candidate can be [in the panel] so that there will be no injustice to anybody, and nobody will be impacted due to reservation in any particular ward. All sections will get justice through the decision to form a three-member panel,” he said.According to a cabinet minister, there was division in the number of panel members during the cabinet meeting. The urban development department headed by Sena minister Eknath Shinde had put a proposal to have a four-member panel, similar to what was done in 2016. “Some cabinet ministers said that the four-member panel will be huge and the three-member panel will be useful for the development of the wards,” the minister later said.The chief minister’s office, in a statement, said, that the decision was made also considering the issues observed while handling the health situation due to the pandemic. “Considering the issues observed while handling the health situation due to Covid-19 and the facts pointed out by the elected representatives, it was felt that to address the civic issues and to fulfil the responsibilities, the collective leadership (multi-member ward system) will be more appropriate. Hence, it was decided to reintroduce the multi-member ward system for the municipal corporations and municipal councils,” said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-clears-plan-for-multi-member-wards-in-urban-civic-bodies-excluding-mumbai-101632330098464.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||In a year, Delhi to get eco park to manage e-waste||In about a year, Delhi will have an e-waste management eco park, which will be the first of its kind in the country, lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal’s office said on Wednesday. The idea to build such a park was finalised in a meeting chaired by the L-G on Wednesday, even as its location and model is yet to be decided. The meeting was attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, urban development minister Satyendar Jain and environment minister Gopal Rai, apart from top officials of the Delhi government, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the municipal corporations. “Such a park is needed for scientific and environmentally safe dismantling, refurbishing, recycling and disposal of electronic waste in the city. It is estimated that Delhi generates about 200,000 tonnes of e-waste annually that comprises electrical appliances, electronic items, computers, accessories and mobile phones, among others. This waste is potentially hazardous to not only the environment but also to human health,” the L-G’s office said in a statement issued after the meeting. Baijal directed officials to devise a system at the earliest for the sustainable disposal of e-waste. “Setting up of the e-waste management park, which will be a first of its kind in the country, will serve this purpose and also provide an example for the rest of the country. After detailed discussions, it was decided that the park will be set up in a timebound manner with various committees looking into identification of suitable land in conjunction with the DDA,” the L-G’s office said.Chief secretary Vijay Dev was directed by Baijal to constitute a steering committee at the earliest for the selection of a consultant to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) of the e-waste park and to oversee the entire process till the park is made operational. “Latest technology and integration of the unorganised sector comprising waste collectors should be thought of. Also, a suitable model for maintenance and viability of the park should be kept in mind. The committees will have representation from the ministry of electronics and information technology and the office of the Prime Minister’s scientific advisor, apart from other stakeholders from the Delhi government, DDA, pollution control agencies and the urban local bodies. The L-G reiterated the need for integrating the informal sector and making the common citizens of the city stakeholders in the project for it to succeed,” the office statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-a-year-delhi-to-get-eco-park-to-manage-ewaste-101632329921917.html
22-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh power engineers’ body warns of strike against harassment by UPPCL management||UP Rajya Vidyut Parishad Abhiyanta Sangh on Wednesday warned of a statewide strike against the alleged harassment of engineers by the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) management. The threat came amid the ongoing work boycott by power engineers under the Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL) against transfer of 23 junior engineers, many of them from Noida and Greater Noida, to Purvanchal without serving any notice to them. “State’s power engineers will be resorted to go on the statewide strike if UPPCL management does not roll back the transfer of 23 engineers,” UPRVPAS general secretary Prabhat Singh said. Singh said that if 23 transferred engineers committed any irregularities in giving temporary power connections, the management should get the issue probed and then act accordingly. “But it is not fair to punish and harass them without a probe,” he said. He claimed that the ongoing boycott by engineers had started affecting maintenance of power supply in cities and villages under the MVVNL. UPPCL director, personnel and appointment, AK Purvar, however, dismissed the Abhiyanta Sangh’s charges terming these as bogus. “All the 23 engineers were transferred after a probe committee under a UPPCL chief engineer found massive irregularities in issuing temporary power connections in the Gautam Buddh Nagar district. “Now, a charge sheet will be served to all the accused who will be given an opportunity to be heard before a penal takes action against them,” he said. Meanwhile, a six-member delegation of the UP Power Officers’ Association on Wednesday met energy minister Shrikant Sharma and supported department’s policy of zero tolerance against corruption. The delegation led by the association working president Awadhesh Kumar Verma said that Dalit and backward caste engineers that the association represented would work one hour extra every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-power-engineers-body-warns-of-strike-against-harassment-by-uppcl-management-101632329918187.html
22-09-2021||Other||ED inquiry against Pankaj Gupta part of BJP conspiracy: AAP MLA Raghav Chadha||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday said the enforcement directorate (ED) inquiry against party national secretary Pankaj Gupta was part of a BJP conspiracy in view of the growing popularity of AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal in states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party. “Today, I stand in front of the enforcement directorate office with the national secretary of AAP. We will most certainly cooperate with these agencies and let me tell you that all these agencies, for the last eight years, have looked into every book of accounts of the AAP. Not even a single year has passed by when we have not received these assessment notices. CBI has raided the chief minister, deputy chief minister, health minister and AAP’s 21 MLAs were booked under fabricated cases and arrested. About 20 of our MLAs were disqualified from the assembly and the Shunglu committee was incorporated to look into 450 administrative files of the Delhi government. In each of these enquiries, the AAP has received a clean chit. This is because we are upright and committed to the betterment of the people of this country,” AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said while talking to reporters outside the ED office. The AAP leader, who is also an MLA from Rajendra Nagar in Delhi, said the party will not be deterred by these “threats” by the BJP. “AAP enters the political scene in Uttarakhand and the BJP is compelled to replace its chief minister on more than one occasion. The AAP wins 27 seats in the Surat municipality in the BJP fortress of Gujarat, subsequently, the BJP is compelled to remove its chief minister there as well. AAP goes to Goa, decimates Congress and emerges as the principal opposition to the BJP and now the BJP stands rattled. AAP goes to Punjab and every opinion poll in the country is showing that AAP is likely to form a government in Punjab with a thumping majority. It’s the growing popularity of AAP that has made these love letters being sent to us,” Chadha said. The Delhi BJP said Kejriwal should first focus on providing employment to the youth in Delhi before making “tall promises” in poll-bound states such as Uttarakhand, Punjab and Goa. “Kejriwal is busy touring these states and doing election stunts. He should first tell people how much allowance he has given in the past seven years to the 1.4 million unemployed people in Delhi who are registered on the government’s portal. In the last two years, only 28 and in the last seven years of AAP’s rule, only 404 people were given jobs,” said Adesh Gupta, Delhi BJP president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-inquiry-against-pankaj-gupta-part-of-bjp-conspiracy-aap-mla-raghav-chadha-101632329678175.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||BJP-ruled states see more crimes against women than Maha: Congress||A day after Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari asked the state government to hold a two-day session to discuss atrocities against women, the Maharashtra Congress has hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), pointing at the high number of such cases in the BJP-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Citing the National Crime Records Bureau data released recently, the Congress has also said that the number of cases of crime against women was more during the five-year rule of Fadnavis government until October 2019. Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary Sachin Sawant said the BJP-ruled Assam is at the forefront of atrocities against women with 154 cases per lakh population. He said that UP has been at the top in 2020 in murders and gangrape, while the state registered 59,445, 59,853 and 49,385 cases of atrocities against women in 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively. Maharashtra has reported 35,497; 37,144 ad 31954 cases in three years respectively, Sawant stated. Sawant also pointed at the Fadnavis government claiming between 2015 and 2019 the number of cases were more in those five years against the MVA rule since November 2019. “The Fadnavis government’s stint was a dark era for women. In the five years of the BJP-led government’s rule, 31,216, 31,388, 31,978, 35,497 and 37,144 cases of women atrocities were reported in five years from 2014 to 2019. The number rose from just 26,818 cases in 2014, when the Congress-led government was in power. In 2020, after the MVA took over, 31,954 cases of crimes against women were registered. In 2019, the last year of Fadnavis government saw as many as 47 cases of gangrapes, which were the highest in the country,” he said. On Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray wrote back to governor BS Koshyari pressing for a special four-day session of parliament to discuss atrocities against women in the country. He also said the BJP-ruled states like UP, Gujarat were witnessing more atrocities than in Maharashtra. It was a reply to the governor, who had directed the CM to hold a 2-day session to discuss the atrocities against women in the wake of the Sakinaka rape and attack case. BJP’s vice-president Chitra Wagh said that instead of pointing fingers at Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the state government should concentrate on the law and order in Maharashtra. “The cases of atrocities in Maharashtra have gone up after the MVA government came to power. We have demanded a special law on the lines of the existing Act for atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes,” Wagh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjpruled-states-see-more-crimes-against-women-than-maha-congress-101632329319974.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Smog tower in to be made fully functional by October 1, says Gopal Rai||New Delhi: The state government’s first smog tower, in central Delhi’s Connaught Place, will be completely operational from October 1, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Wednesday. He said that the trial of the tower, at Baba Kharak Singh Marg in Connaught Place, has been completed and added that a team of experts from the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) in Mumbai and Delhi as well as the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has also been constituted to monitor its functioning. “The trial for the smog tower has been completed. This will start functioning in its complete capacity from October 1. For its monitoring a team of scientists from IIT-Bombay, IIT-Delhi and DPCC is ready,” Rai tweeted on Wednesday. Rai said that the structure will help filter air and help Delhi in its fight to reduce the pollution levels. This is part of a slew of measures taken by the Delhi government to manage the city’s deteriorating air quality, which tends to worsen every year during the winters. The government has also announced the formulation of a detailed winter action plan for Delhi this season, for which they have roped in all state agencies in the city, with an aim to check local pollution sources. The CP smog tower, which is a 24-metre-high structure, was inaugurated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on August 23 this year. It has 40 fans and 10,000 filters developed by experts from the University of Minnesota in the United States which also helped design a 100-metre-high smog tower in Xian, China. The tower cost the government ₹20 crore and has been designed to purify air in a 1km radius around it at a rate of 1,000 cubic metres of air per second. Earlier this month, another smog tower was also inaugurated at Delhi’s Anand Vihar, which was installed under the supervision of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-smog-tower-in-to-be-made-fully-functional-by-october-1-says-gopal-rai-101632329138690.html
22-09-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Eight idols stolen from century-old temple||Eight ancient idols were stolen from a temple in the Ayodhya district of Uttar Pradesh in the wee hours on Wednesday, police officials said. The local police have lodged a case and initiated the investigation. Confirming this Ayodhya’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sailesh Kumar Pandey said, “The idols were stolen from a temple under Haidergarh police station. Initially, it was said that nine idols were missing but one of the idols was recovered from the temple premises. We have lodged a case of theft and initiated investigation.” According to police sources, the temple is built on the private property of one Anand Kumar Singh, who is a descendent of a royal family. The temple was under a private trust named Ram Janki Trust. The temple was built by Singh’s ancestors over a century ago. The temple has several idols kept inside. The priest of the temple, on Wednesday morning, found the lock on the inner gate of the temple broken and idols’ missing. “The missing idols were made of metal and were three to nine inches tall and were over a century old. We have formed two teams to track the thieves. We are taking help from the dog squad, forensic unit and local intelligence,” said Satyendra Bhushan Tiwari, Circle Officer, of the area. “The temple has no CCTV camera or security guard. A priest takes care of the temple and locks it in the night,” he added. As per residents, some idols were stolen from the same temple over 15 years ago. A case regarding that matter was lodged but the idols were never recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-eight-idols-stolen-from-century-old-temple-101632328958334.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||CR to hold 10-hour mega block between Kalwa and Mumbra on Sunday||The Central Railway (CR) has announced a mega block of 10 hours between Kalwa and Mumbra railway stations on the mainline from 8am to 6pm on Sunday. The block is being undertaken for construction work of the fifth and sixth railway line between Diva and Thane stations. The block will result in cancellation of nearly 90 suburban local train services. CR will also undertake more blocks of five hours in October and 10 hours in November, December and January to complete the construction of railway lines and connection works with Thane and Diva railway stations.Once completed, the new railway lines will enable segregation of outstation and local trains on Central Railway till Kalyan. After completion of the railway line and segregation of outstation trains at Kalyan yard, 100 new local train services are likely to be introduced on CR mainline between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan railway stations. “Up slow and semi-fast services leaving Kalyan from 7.27am to 5.40pm will be diverted on up fast railway line between Diva and Mulund stations. All local trains leaving CSMT between 8am and 5pm and arriving at CSMT between 9am and 7pm will arrive at the destination 10 minutes behind schedule,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway. Central Railway has written to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) asking them to provide 100 additional buses during the period of the block on Sunday. Passenger associations have asked the Maharashtra government to operate additional buses between Thane and Diva railway stations to reduce passenger inconvenience. “The state government should operate buses between railway stations that would help passengers to commute during the block,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cr-to-hold-10-hour-mega-block-between-kalwa-and-mumbra-on-sunday-101632328838742.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Chandiwal commission re-issues bailable warrant against Param Bir Singh||The inquiry commission headed by retired Bombay high court (HC) judge, justice (retired) Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal has re-issued a bailable warrant against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh for not appearing before it on Wednesday. The commission earlier this month had the first time issued a bailable warrant against Singh. Singh’s was not available for comment as his phone was switched off.“The state crime investigation department (CID) team that went to three of his (Singh’s) known residences in Chandigarh and Mumbai did not find him there and could not serve the warrant. And as he also failed to appear before the commission, the commission re-issued the bailable warrant against him,” said commission’s lawyer Shirish Hiray. Earlier during the hearing, Anil Deshmukh’s lawyer had demanded before the commission that a non-bailable warrant be issued against Singh and his properties be confiscated. However, Hiray opposed the same saying that Singh should be given fair opportunities to present his side before the commission and even after that, if he fails to show up before the probe commission, then the commission may think of taking stern action. “The commission felt that Singh is a senior police officer and should be given another chance to appear before the commission, hence re-issued a bailable warrant (and not a non-bailable warrant). The next hearing of the matter is on October 6,” Hiray said. The justice Chandiwal committee was constituted by the Maharashtra government to look into the allegations of corruption levelled by Singh against the state’s ex-home minister Anil Deshmukh. The commission earlier had imposed a fine of ₹50,000 on Singh twice for not appearing before the commission. In past, Singh had opposed the very formation of the commission through his lawyer saying that it is doing the same thing that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is already doing in Deshmukh’s matter. The commission had then observed that the commission’s work is different from that of CBI, and it would make recommendations to the government after completing the inquiry. Singh is already facing five FIRs in Maharashtra and a look-out circular (LOC) has also been issued against him. Apart from this, two open inquiries have also been initiated against him by the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) pertaining to corruption allegations made against him by two serving police inspectors. Complaints started piling up against Singh after he wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray this year alleging that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh asked Mumbai Police officers to collect ₹100 crore every month from the bars and restaurants. The letter prompted a CBI probe against Deshmukh and forced the former minister to resign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chandiwal-commission-re-issues-bailable-warrant-against-param-bir-singh-101632328659769.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||OBC quota: Maharashtra govt to resend ordinance to governor Koshyari for approval||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has decided to resend its ordinance, for providing reservations to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in the rural local bodies’ elections, to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The state cabinet on Wednesday decided that there is no need to take prior permission from the Supreme Court (SC) for promulgating the ordinance as OBC reservation will not exceed 27% and the total reservation quota in any of the districts will not breach the 50% cap determined by the Apex court.The decision was taken in response to the query raised by the Governor, who refused to clear the ordinance saying that the state government should inform the Apex court in advance, as the reservation of the OBC community was scrapped by it.The state government has also decided to provide up to 27% reservation to the OBC community in the urban local bodies (ULBs) such as municipal corporations, municipal councils and nagar panchayats. The state urban development department will promulgate another ordinance to this effect. With the ordinance, it will make amendments in three legislations — Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act and Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayats and Industrial Townships Act.The hearing on a petition filed by the state government for OBC reservation is also scheduled for September 23 (Thursday). The state government has filed a writ petition in the Apex Court seeking Socio-Economic Caste Census, 2011 data from the Centre for providing reservation to the OBC community.The state government has recently sent the ordinance to provide reservation to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in the rural local bodies elections to the governor seeking his approval. The ordinance can be promulgated only after the governor’s approval.“The OBC reservation in local bodies was scrapped following the SC verdict. As an interim provision, the state government has decided to provide up to 27% reservation to the OBC community and the total reservation quota (combined quota of Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST) and OBC will also not violate the 50% quota set by the Supreme Court. The ordinance will be issued following the SC judgement thus there is no need to take its permission once again,” stated a release issued by the chief minister office (CMO).“We have decided to resend the ordinance back to the Governor (Bhagat Singh Koshyari) with a decision that the state will inform the Supreme Court once it is issued. The Governor is of the view that the SC should be informed before issuing the ordinance as it is an Apex court’s decision. I am confused about the stand taken by him as he would have directed us to inform SC soon after the ordinance is promulgated,” said Hasan Mushrif, rural development minister.“Instead of supporting the move taken by the state government, he (Bhagat Singh Koshyari) is creating fresh issues. As an alternative to the problem of OBC reservation, the state cabinet decided to bring an ordinance. It will help in providing reservation to the community in the local bodies’ elections except for four-five districts, which is far better than depriving the entire community of reservation benefits in the local bodies polls,” he commented.Last week, the state government decided to promulgate an ordinance to make amendments in the legislation to provide reservation to the OBC community in rural local bodies without breaching the 50% reservation cap mandated by the SC.The decision was taken after the state election commission declared bypolls in six district councils (zilla parishads) on October 5.An ordinance is a temporary law approved by the governor (on the advice of the state government) when the state legislature is not in session. An ordinance becomes a permanent Act (the law of the land) on being approved by state legislature within six weeks, if not then it is bound to lapse.On March 4, the SC ruled that the reservation in favour of the OBC in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in reservation quota mandated by it. It has directed the state government to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which, the reservation quota of the community be fixed and also allowed the state election commission to hold local bodies polls without having reservations for OBCs.This could prove politically damaging for the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government and hence it was decided to take the ordinance route to save the OBC reservation.“If the governor did not sign the ordinance, then it will send a wrong signal in the OBC community. If the governor did not approve the ordinance, then the state government will be left with no other option but to wait for the empirical data to be collected, which will take some time,” the rural development minister said.According to the cabinet decision, the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities will continue to get the reservation quota based on their population but the OBC community will get the remaining percent within the 50% ceiling. With the ordinance, the state rural development department will make amendments in two legislations — Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 and Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for zilla parishads, panchayat samiti and gram panchayats.After the amendments, the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities will continue to get the reservation quota based on their population in the local bodies but the OBC community will get the remaining per cent within the 50% ceiling and that too not more than 27%.The state government believes that they will be able to secure around 90% seats of the OBC community with the ordinance.Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis defended the governor and claimed he returned the ordinance in the interest of the state and OBC community. “The law and judiciary department opined that the matter is pending before the SC and before its permission ordinance should not be promulgated. The opinion can be set aside by seeking the views of the advocate general (AG) else it can be stayed immediately in the court of law. But the state government decided to overlook the law and judiciary department’s opinion and sent the file to the governor for final approval. The governor pointed out the opinion of the law and judiciary department and sought clarification,” Fadnavis told reporters.Ulhas Bapat, a constitutional expert said that the provisions of the ordinance cannot be implemented in the bypolls declared by the state election commission and even the court cannot interfere during the election process. “In my view, the state election commission will not accept it as they have already announced bypolls. It has all the rights and the state government can’t interfere. Even the court cannot interfere in the election process once it is declared. After the bypolls, its validity can be challenged in the court of law,” Bapat said.“Due process such as empirical data, approval of the state backward classes commission etc. is expected to be followed before providing reservation to a community. In its absence, the ordinance can easily be challenged in the court of law and hence I don’t see its future,” Bapat opined when asked if the amendment can be implemented for the local bodies’ election due early next year.More than 15 municipal corporations (including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane), 29 of 36 district councils and over 90 municipal councils will go for polls over the next one year. The election bandwagon to these local bodies in such a huge number is considered as the ‘mini assembly polls’.Koshyari and the MVA government have been locked in a bitter tussle for quite some time. The governor is yet to clear the 12 names approved by the state cabinet in November last year to be appointed as the members of the legislative council. Every six years, 12 members are nominated to the Upper House of the state legislature by the governor on the recommendation of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obc-quota-maharashtra-govt-may-resend-ordinance-to-governor-koshyari-for-approval-101632328538188.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||PMLA court grants bail to MIAL MD Sanjay Reddy, six others||The special PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) court on Wednesday granted bail to GV Sanjay Reddy, managing director (MD) of Mumbai International Airport Pvt Ltd (MIAL), and six others named by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case, on provisional cash security of ₹5 lakh each. ED had filed a detailed charge sheet in the matter in the last week of August naming seven accused and 14 companies.Special PMLA judge MG Deshpande, who had taken cognisance of the ED charge sheet, had issued process against all the accused and asked them to be present before it on September 22. The accused were represented by advocates Vijay Aggarwal and Rahul Aggarwal who sought bail for the accused and pointed out that ED has not arrested them in the case.The court then granted bail to Reddy along with Raghuram Kesaram, Sudhindra Kumar, Krishnam Raju, Jagan Mohan Rao, Anicattulssac George and Chandra Mouli Yarra — officials of MIAL and GVK Airports Developers Ltd.The court asked them to deposit their passports with the agency and asked to attend trial. It has also asked the accused to not tamper with evidence.Apart from the seven individuals, ED has named 14 companies including MIAL, GVK Airport Developers Ltd, GVK Developers Project Pvt Ltd, and GVK Energy Ltd.The Airports Authority of India (AAI), which managed the city airport, had entered into an agreement with MIAL in 2006, allowing them to operate, manage and develop Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA). Accordingly, MIAL was to share 38.7% earnings with AAI and keep the rest for modernisation and extension of the airport.ED had alleged that MIAL inflated expenditure by paying GVK employees’ salary from its revenues. IT allegedly also rented out premium retail areas in Mumbai airport to family members, relatives and employees of GVK at very low rates, thereby reducing revenues. In this way, ₹705 crore were fraudulently siphoned off from MIAL, resulting loss to AAI and corresponding wrongful gain to GVK Airports Holding Ltd.The agency has alleged MIAL had allegedly entered into bogus contract of ₹310 crore during 2017-2018 with nine firms/companies, but against the same, no work was executed.In addition, overdraft facility against surplus funds totalling ₹395 crore were remaining with MIAL after sharing revenue with AAl and deducting expenses kept as fixed deposit receipts (FDR) with public sector undertaking (PSU) banks, which it diverted to other group of companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmla-court-grants-bail-to-mial-md-sanjay-reddy-six-others-101632328478234.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||64,866 FYJC aspirants allotted seats in special admission round||Around 64,866 first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants were allotted seats in the special admission round conducted by the office of the deputy director of education (DYDE) on Wednesday. They had received 73,000 applications for the special round for nearly 190,000 vacant seats across junior colleges this year.“Of the total seats allotted in the third merit list, 38,871 students have been allotted colleges of their first preference, 10,041 students have been allotted seats in the second preference college and 5,159 students have been placed in colleges of their third preference,” said an official statement released by the office of DYDE, Mumbai region, on Wednesday. The statement also highlighted that of the total allotment in the third round, 5,279 students were allotted seats in arts stream, 37,485 in the commerce stream and 21,479 in the science stream.Top colleges had very few or no seats to offer in popular courses for this special round. HR College in Churchgate, NM College in Vile Parle had no seats left to offer in the third merit list. Similarly, St Xavier’s College had no seats left to offer in the arts stream for the special round. Surprisingly, RA Podar College in Matunga, which had no seats left to offer in the third merit list, witnessed a few withdrawals, making way for few more students to get through the institute in the special round.Other colleges witnessed a nearly 10-15% drop in cut-offs across streams. At Jai Hind College in Churchgate, arts cut-off dipped by 9% and commerce cut-off by 4%. The cut-off for science dipped by nearly 19% at the institute. At KC College in Churchgate, the overall cut-off dipped by 10-12%. At Mithibai College in Vile Parle, cut-off for arts and commerce went up by 1-2% while the science cut-off dipped.While the number of vacant seats is on the higher side, this is not the first time that the authorities are conducting special rounds to fill up unoccupied seats in FYJC. In 2018, DYDE conducted nine rounds of admissions, after which nearly 72,800 seats still remained vacant. Similarly, in 2019, seat vacancy stood at around 130,000 after three rounds of online admissions, forcing authorities to conduct a special “first come, first serve” round.117,883 FYJC aspirants were allotted seats in the first merit list on August 27, however nearly 50% students out of these did not confirm admissions. Similarly, 60,037 students were allocated seats and only 21,116 (35.17%) of those confirmed admissions. In the third round, 39,964 seats where allotted of which less than 25% students confirmed admissions this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/64866-fyjc-aspirants-allotted-seats-in-special-admission-round-101632328298255.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||No material to suggest Pankaj, Sameer Bhujbal intended to cheat flat buyers, says Mumbai court||The sessions court, while discharging food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal’s son Pankaj and nephew Sameer, observed that from the material available on record it cannot be inferred that the accused wanted to cheat flat buyers. The hearing took place on September 8 but the order was made public on Wednesday.A case was registered against the Bhujbals and others in 2015 on a complaint of a Chembur resident who claimed that the company had planned to sell 2,344 flats and had collected ₹44 crores but had not developed the project. Navi Mumbai police booked the accused for cheating, breach of trust and under the Maharashtra Ownership Flats Act (MOFA).Additional Sessions judge HS Satbhai allowed the discharge application of Pankaj, Sameer, Rajesh Dharap and Satyen Kesarkar — directors of Devisha Infrastructure Private Limited. Bhujbals and the other two applicants were represented by advocate Sajal Yadav and Sudarshan Khawase, who argued that Alibag magistrate court, after going through the documents, had said there is no prima facie evidence to infer that since the date when the accused’s company started receiving booking amount, there was an intention on the part of the accused to cheat the informants and witnesses. They also argued that to charge a person for cheating there has to be any intent, but in this case the directors had no fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of making the promise. The inability of fulfilling contractual obligations due to reasons beyond the control without culpable intent is not an offence.The lawyers argued there was no intent to cheat the flat buyers and added that the project slowed as the MMRDA had cut its road and later the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had attached the land. They further informed the court that money of more than 200 flat buyers was returned.After taking account of the materials made available on record and hearing the submissions, the court observed, “From the material of the charge sheet, prima facie it cannot be inferred that there was an intention of directors of Devisha Infrastructure Pvt Ltd to cheat the informant or any other flat purchasers the.” Judge Satbhai further observed that there is no material to satisfy the offence of criminal conspiracy, since there was no misrepresentation to flat buyers.“The provisions of criminal law cannot be invoked for breach of contract, when there has been a culpable intention absent on the part of the defaulting person. The lodging of FIR by the informant prima facie appears to be an attempt to resolve the civil dispute by giving it colour of criminal offence. No fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of accepting the booking amount from the customer is seen,” the court noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-material-to-suggest-pankaj-sameer-bhujbal-intended-to-cheat-flat-buyers-says-mumbai-court-101632328118088.html
22-09-2021||Lucknow||Akhada to take final call on Mahant Giri’s successor||PRAYAGRAJ A decision on who would head the Baghambari Gaddi Math is eagerly awaited even as a probe is on into the death of Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri. Though Giri, in his purported suicide note, named his disciple Balbeer Puri as his successor, many top seers raised doubts over the authenticity of the letter while maintaining that the Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani, to which Narendra Giri belonged and was its secretary, would take a final call in this regard 16 days after Giri’s death. Whoever heads the Baghamabri Gaddi Math automatically gains control over property of the math worth crores. “The math was earlier part of Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani and its funds were used in upkeep of the Bade Hanuman Temple near Sangam. Later, Narendra Giri fought a legal battle following which the math was separated from Niranjani Akhada and it evolved as a separate entity. He later became the Pithadhishvar of the math and Bada Hanuman temple,” informed a senior seer of the akhada. He said the math owns huge plots (around 30 acres) in Manda tehsil besides around 25 acres in Shankargarh in Prayagraj. “It is said that land at Shankargarh produces silica sand, which is used in manufacturing of glass,” he added. The math, located in Allahpur locality of the city, is spread over an area of around 10 acres. It also has Mahant Vicharanand Sanskrit Mahavidyalay, a gaushala, open field and a fleet of vehicles. It is said that a few years back, Giri had sold some 20 bigha land of Bhardwaj Puram and developed the math, said another saint of the monastic order. The math has a long history of controversies and some of the Pithadhishvars and office bearers had also died under mysterious circumstances earlier. These include Mahant Vicharanand, who had played a crucial role in protecting the land of Bade Hanuman temple and had purchased the land for Baghambari Gaddi through contributions and donations. He was found dead while travelling on a train to Haridwar in 1980.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhada-to-take-final-call-on-mahant-giri-s-successor-101632327818168.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC may re-tender 30 road projects in Mumbai that were flagged over concerns of quality||After doubts were raised over the quality of work in the wake of the contractors bidding up to 30% less than the estimated cost, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is likely to re-tender 30 road repair projects worth over ₹ 1,000 crore in the city. The re-tendering may lead to delay in starting road repair works. The final decision in this regard is expected in a day or two after consultation with municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal.On September 13, additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu had sought justification from the deputy municipal commissioner of infrastructure on how the quality will be maintained amid the contractors quoting around 30% less than the estimated cost. “I have received 30 tender files on the road works in city, eastern and western suburbs. It is surprising to see most of the tenders are quoted very much on the lower side. The department needs to explain how it intends to maintain the quality under control. When road supervision of 100% is not possible during execution at senior level, how will the quality of execution be ensured by the road department,” his letter read. Following this, the road department was asked to submit a reply to the additional municipal commissioner who, in consultation with Chahal, is likely to take a final call.A senior BMC official requesting anonymity said, “We had submitted the proposal after taking justification for quoting below the estimation and there is no question of going back to the contractors. We have now submitted our response and the final decision on whether to re-tender will be taken by the BMC chief.”The deadlock over whether to re-tender or go ahead with the same tenders is expected to delay the starting of road repair works, which usually start in October, by a month.Corporators have demanded that the road projects be re-tendered to ensure quality of the roads. Congress corporator and BMC’s leader of opposition Ravi Raja said, “Roads in the city are very important for citizens considering it also involves taxpayers’ money. If the contractors have quoted below the estimation and there is suspicion about the quality, there should be re-tendering. We need to understand that ultimately timely completion is only worth it if the quality of the road is good. We do not want a scenario where there will be potholes on the road within six months.’BMC maintains around 2,055km of roads in the city. All major and minor roads are to be improved by way of resurfacing or repairing them using asphalt or concrete cement from the existing paver blocks.BMC in the ongoing fiscal had curtailed its road improvement and repair targets by almost 45% compared to the last fiscal. According to estimates presented in budget 2021-22, BMC proposed to improve 157-km road network in the city and suburbs during 2021-22, which is less than the target of 289-km in 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-may-re-tender-30-road-projects-in-mumbai-that-were-flagged-over-concerns-of-quality-101632327698193.html
22-09-2021||Lucknow||BJP’s Uttar Pradesh poll team holds discussions with Yogi, others||The new election panel appointed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership for poll-bound Uttar Pradesh arrived in Lucknow and straightaway got down to business, holding meetings with top party leaders, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the party’s state unit office here on Wednesday evening. The Uttar Pradesh assembly election is due early next year.The election panel comprising Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur, along with other leaders, held the meetings in which top ministers and deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were also present. “Now, we will also see regular visits by top leaders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be in USA, but the party has begun giving finishing touches to Modiji’s visits as well as that of Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda (to the state). Defence minister Rajnath Singh is an MP from Lucknow and hence an integral part of the party’s UP campaign. So, from chief ministers of BJP ruled states to others, we would see regular visits by top leaders now,” said a BJP leader. While Pradhan’s choice makes it obvious that the BJP would focus on non-Yadav OBCs, the BJP has only recently appointed Baby Rani Maurya, a Dalit woman leader from Agra, as the party’s national vice-president. Maurya was till recently the Uttarakhand governor until her surprise decision to quit her post, two years before the formal close of her five-year gubernatorial term, indicating that the party would use her in 2022 UP polls. “The BJP is all set for Mission UP. We are confident that our government’s various welfare activities, our top leadership’s appeal and concern for the common man and our party’s micro, booth level planning would lead us to win. The misinformation campaign against us by the Opposition parties would be exposed and we would win with an even better margin than before,” said a UP minister who was part of the meeting at the party office. While Pradhan, a prominent OBC face of the party who has been the party’s election in-charge of other states like Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh, is heading the election panel for UP, the seven co-in-charges include minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur, minister of state for parliamentary affairs Arjun Meghwal, minister of state for agriculture and farmers’ welfare Shobha Karandlaje, minister of state for education Annpurna Devi, former national general secretary Saroj Pandey; MP Vivek Thakur and former Haryana minister Captain Abhimanyu. After this meeting, the election panel would travel to Gorakhpur on Thursday and return again to hold another round of meetings in the state capital before leaving for Delhi. “Before arriving in Lucknow, BJP’s UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh and election in-charge Dharmendra Pradhan had held discussions in Delhi. So, in a sense, the election panel has arrived in UP after doing its homework,” party leaders said. “Let’s see. It should be clear in a day or two,” a party leader said when asked if the election panel’s deliberations and several rounds of meetings would also lead to the much-delayed announcement about four MLCs and some clarity on whether Adityanath government’s much speculated expansion of the ministry would happen. The BJP has also appointed six regional in-charges to shore up the organisational strength and help with the campaign. They are Lok Sabha MP Sanjay Bhatia (west UP), Bihar MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia (Braj), BJP national secretary Y Satya Kumar (Awadh), national co-treasurer (Kanpur-Bundelkhand), national secretary Arvind Menon (Gorakhpur) and Sunil Ojha (Kashi).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjps-up-poll-team-holds-discussions-with-yogi-others-101632327580838.html
22-09-2021||Ranchi||J’khand: After its discontinuation in 2014, CM relaunches dhoti-saree scheme||Jharkhand chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren on Wednesday relaunched an ambitious scheme to provide dhoti and saree, a part of traditional Indian clothing, to the poor for just ₹10. The scheme will benefit over 57 lakh families covered under the Food Security Act in the state. The scheme was first launched in 2014 when Soren was in power. However, it was soon discontinued when BJP’s Raghubar Das became the CM the same year.Under the scheme, each ration card-holding family would be given a set of dhoti/lungi and saree for ₹10 twice a year. The scheme will be implemented by the civil and food supplies department, that also overseas the implementation of Food Security Act. “In 2014, we had launched this scheme when I became the CM. However, the subsequent government discontinued it (scheme), which was basically aimed at helping the poor. Besides filling the belly of the poor (through the public distribution system), we are now also providing clothing to them. We have made a provision of ₹500 crore for the scheme,” said the CM, while launching the scheme from Dumka in the tribal-dominated Santhal Parganas, the traditional stronghold of the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM). The political significance of the ambitious scheme was viable with the presence of political heavyweights of the state at the event. Those in attendance included JMM patriarch and Rajya Sabha member Shibu Soren, his younger son and Dumka legislator Basant Soren, finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, besides other elected representatives.Similar events were held in other districts for distribution of the entitlement to beneficiaries.To begin with, 57.17 lakh ration card holders in the state would be benefitted under the scheme. Finance minister Oraon, who also holds the charge of the civil and supplies department, said more people would be brought under the scheme eventually. “We are adding 15 lakh more people, who were left out of the public distribution system in the state, and providing them green cards. Around 4 lakh persons have already been given green cards. With the CM’s approval, we would include them in the scheme within the coming 2-3 months,” said Oraon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-after-its-discontinuation-in-2014-cm-relaunches-dhoti-saree-scheme-101632327518601.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 770 new Covid cases, 1 death; 62, 593 beneficiaries vaccinated on Wednesday||PUNE Pune district reported 770 new Covid-19 cases and one death on Wednesday, as per the state health department. This took the progressive count to 1.13 million, out of which 1.10 million have recovered, 19,741 deaths have been reported, and 11,344 are active cases or patients who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.Also, 62, 593 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Wednesday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 428 new Covid-19 cases, which took the progressive count to 355,713, and the death toll stood at 6,758 as one more death was reported.Pune city reported 182 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 515,960, and the death toll stood at 9,140.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 160 new Covid-19 cases, and the progressive count went up to 265,595, and the toll stood at 3,494.The district also saw 62, 593 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard. So till September 22, at least 99,65,336 beneficiaries have been vaccinated. Out of which 69,12,501 are first doses and 30,52,835 are second doses.A total of 581 sites saw vaccination on Wednesday out of which 348 were government centres and 233 were private centres.Blood donation drive in ZPOn Wednesday, the Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) also conducted a blood donation drive in the rural areas of the district. This drive was conducted in collaboration with private blood banks and as of 5 pm, a total of 1,428 units of blood was collected from all the 13 blocks of rural Pune.The highest collection was from Khed taluka which contributed 416 units of blood followed by 159 units of blood collected from Indapur.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune ZP, said, “Each drop of blood counts and at a time when we are facing a shortage of blood and platelets, the drive can be called as a huge success. No such drives have resulted in a flood of blood on a single day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-770-new-covid-cases-1-death-62-593-beneficiaries-vaccinated-on-wednesday-101632327459515.html
22-09-2021||Patna||Bihar mulls rural development institute on lines of NIRDPR, IRMA||The Bihar government has decided to set up a rural development and management institute on the lines of National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRDPR), Hyderabad, and the Institute of Rural Management Anand (IRMA) in Gujarat.Bihar’s education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said a national-level institute of this kind was a requirement in the state in view of the rapid rural development and expansion of rural economy.“A proposal in this regard will soon be taken to chief minister Nitish Kumar for approval. He has been instrumental behind setting up several reputed institutions in the state, which had none prior to 2005, and the rural development and management institute will be another extension to it to and will a quality opportunity for Bihar students,” he said.Though Bihar has Rural Institute of Higher Education, at Birauli in Samastipur, which was founded in 1955 on a sprawling 30-acre campus with the purpose of providing opportunities in rural development and management, it has ended up being yet another general college struggling with faculty shortage and erratic studies. It is affiliated with the Lalit Narayan Mithila University and has over 6,000 students, but only three teachers.The minister said he was highly disappointed about the present status of the college in his home district, as it had completely deviated from the objective it was set up with.“Chairing the governing board meeting of the college, I shared my concerns about the college, which was set up nearly 65 years ago with some clear objectives. However, it seems to have nothing in order despite having a big campus. The institute was meant for studies on rural development and management,” Choudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-mulls-rural-development-institute-on-lines-of-nirdpr-irma-101632327458153.html
22-09-2021||Patna||Bihar: Oppn cries foul as Dy CM’s kin, aides get contract of schemes worth ₹53 crore||The opposition parties on Wednesday cornered the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government on the corruption issue, alleging that the kins and aides of deputy chief minister and BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad were offered contracts for tap water supply schemes worth ₹53 crores in violation of the set norms. Demanding a high-level inquiry into the role of the deputy CM, opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav alleged that those in the power were indulging in looting the government’s treasuries and thereby depriving the poor of their right in the government schemes. “There is corruption from top to the bottom,” alleged Yadav. Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra too lashed out at the state government for large-scale irregularities in the execution of the various schemes. “It is a matter of inquiry as to how the contract of a majority of schemes are given to the relatives or close aides of the ministers and ruling party legislators,” he said. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) spokesman Asit Nath Tiwari alleged that Prasad used his influence to award a Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal scheme worth ₹1.60 crore to his daughter-in-law Puja Kumari, who is a registered contractor of the PHED. Prasad’s brothers-in-law Pradip Kumar Bhagat and Sajal Kiran Bhagat’s company Deep Kiran Infrastructure Private Limited managed to get the work of ₹3.60 crore from the PHED. Tiwari further alleged that the Jivanshree Infrastructure Private Limited, a firm of personal aides of the deputy CM Prashant Chandra Jaiswawal, Lalit Kishore Prasad and Santosh Kumar, was given the contract for the biggest tap water supply scheme in Katihar worth ₹48 crore. Katihar is the home constituency of the deputy CM Prasad. Yadav, who is also a former deputy CM, taunted Nitish Kumar, his former boss, over his alleged inability to act against the current deputy. “He (Nitish) will not dare speak or act against Tarkishor Prasad. He cannot run the risk of Srijan scam files being reopened,” remarked the RJD leader. Prasad could not be reached out for his comments despite repeated tries. Leaders close to him, however, rubbished the allegations of corruption and claimed that the firms of the deputy CM’s relatives got the contract based on their qualifications..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-oppn-cries-foul-as-dy-cm-s-kin-aides-get-contract-of-schemes-worth-53-crore-101632327218147.html
22-09-2021||Patna||Bihar cabinet meeting: No attendance bar for financial incentives this year in view of Covid||Students of government schools or studying in the aided and affiliated institutions of the state would get financial benefits of the education department’s schemes like scholarships, cycle, uniform and other schemes without complying with the mandatory 75% attendance, the state cabinet decided on Wednesday. The cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar has done away with the compulsory provision for 75% attendance for financial incentives in view of the impact of Covid-19 pandemic. All the schools, from primary to high schools, remained closed to curb spread of the pandemic. This was among the 21 proposals approved by the state cabinet. An official of the education department said this was one-time arrangement for the current fiscal and the mandatory provision for attendance would be restored once the normal school classes are resumed. Nearly 1.50 crore students, enrolled in the government’s primary, middle and high schools, government aided schools of the same grades and recognised schools, would qualify for the financial incentives given through the direct benefit transfer schemes. In another important decision to improve the quality of education, the cabinet approved the education department’s proposal to recruit at least one physical training instructor in all 8,386 primary schools. The teachers would get ₹8000 as monthly remuneration with ₹200 annual increment. Education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary said it was a major decision to get the students of primary schools exposure to physical training. “Those physical instructors, who had qualified for recruitment in 2019, would be accommodated against the vacancies forthwith,” said Chaudhary, while thanking the CM for approving the proposal in the light of the department’s assurance in the state legislature. An official said nearly 3,700 physical training instructors, who were declared qualified in 2019, would be absorbed in the job soon, while recruitment for the rest of instructors would be done in the coming months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cabinet-meeting-no-attendance-bar-for-financial-incentives-this-year-in-view-of-covid-101632326978280.html
22-09-2021||Patna||Lalu hints at EVM rigging, asks RJD workers to be alert||Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad on Wednesday said his party could have lost the 2020 Bihar assembly elections due to manipulation of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and asked party workers, especially polling agents, to be alert. “Our polling agents wake up at 8 am, after the polling starts, whereas polling personnel start putting the EVMs from 4 am. There is a mock poll done before the actual polling and EVM. If we are not alert, there is always a possibility that some EVMs could be ‘loaded’ with votes before polling. So, one should first check the EVMs and count if there are any votes already registered in the ballot machines. These are technical things but we all should understand this and be alert,” Prasad, who has been recuperating from his long illness in New Delhi, told his party’s block presidents at the concluding day of the two-day training programme for party workers through video conferencing. In the 2020 polls for the the 243-member Bihar Assembly, the RJD-led grand alliance had won 110 seats, just 12 less than the simple majority figure of 122.During his 20-minute speech, Prasad also spoke about economic contraction in the country after the Covid pandemic, galloping inflation, unemployment and reiterated his demand for caste census. Prasad favoured “breaking” the 50 per cent ceiling on reservations if the population of SCs, STs and OBCs was found to be more than half the total. “Quotas have been decided taking into account the Census conducted before Independence. We must have a fresh estimation of the population of different social segments,” the RJD chief said.He said his health had improved and that he would soon be coming to Patna. “I will be visiting all districts and meet you all soon,” he said. The former Bihar chief minister was full of praise for his younger son and leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for having organised the training programme. “Tejashwi has become an acceptable leader in Bihar and everybody says he will go far. Such training sessions should be held more regularly as it gives opportunity to young leaders to hone their skills,” he said. The RJD chief said his party workers must learn from the disciplined and committed cadre based organizational structure in left parties. He also suggested that party workers should wear a gamcha and green topi (small cap) for their identity as an RJD worker, as is prevalent in parties like Samajwadi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-hints-at-evm-rigging-asks-rjd-workers-to-be-alert-101632326858193.html
22-09-2021||Other||Red-faced LNMU sacks staffer who stole rail ticket of guest professor for refund||A computer operator working on daily wage contract at LN Mithila University (LNMU) in Darbhanga was dismissed Wednesday after it was found that he allegedly stole the railway ticket of a retired professor on Tuesday and pocketed the cash refund after getting it cancelled, even as the unsuspecting professor had to disembark from a New Delhi-bound train, university authorities said. The incident came to light on Tuesday when professor BN Singh, travelling in Sampark Kranti Express, was asked by a travel ticket examiner (TTE) to vacate his seat as his ticket was cancelled on Tuesday. An embarrassed professor had to get down at Muzaffarpur railway station, after which he reported the incident to LNMU authorities.An LNMU staff member made enquiries and managed some leads, after which the Government Railway Police (GRP) searched the CCTV footage that showed computer operator Krishna Kanhaiya Choudhary at the ticket booking counter on Tuesday evening. Further investigations revealed that earlier on the same day, the professor, who was invited by the LNMU to conduct viva of a PhD researcher, had submitted his ticket to the university for reimbursement. Kanhaiya allegedly stole the ticket and handed him a copy instead, a source said. Kanhaiya, who gave a written confession to the university that he received ₹1100 as refund, later denied his involvement on camera saying he had gone to the railway station’s booking counter to enquire about a rail ticket.LNMU spokesperson Chandrabhanu Singh, in a press release on Wednesday, said Kanhaiya has been removed from his job as his misdeed has put university administration to shame.Vijay Kumar Yadav, head of the post graduate department of economics at the LNMU, meanwhile, submitted a written complaint against the accused at the LNMU police station. “He stole a confirmed rail ticket of external examiner Professor B N Singh, who was here to conduct viva of a PhD researcher,” the complaint states.Police said they are probing the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/redfaced-lnmu-sacks-staffer-who-stole-rail-ticket-of-guest-professor-for-refund-101632326798102.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 360 cases of dengue, up from 129 last year||The city has recorded 360 cases of dengue this year, a rise from 129 cases recorded last year. The death toll of the mosquito-borne stands at three. Doctors across the city are also seeing an acute surge in cases, with many patients requiring hospitalisation.Doctors said patients are reaching hospitals with extremely low platelet counts and require anywhere between five to 15 days of hospitalisation. “There definitely seems to be more awareness and patients are coming in early,” said Dr Nitin Karnik, head of medicine at the civic-run LTMG Hospital in Sion. In his practice alone, Karnik estimated about 10 to 15 dengue-related hospitalisations every day. “Most patients have extremely low platelet count, however, not many have required platelet transfusion,” he said. LTMG hospital’s paediatric department has also recorded a spike in dengue-related hospitalisations. Compared to 47 hospitalisations in 2020, the department has recorded 102 admissions this year as of September 22. “We have had children coming in with dengue shock syndrome and multi-organ dysfunction, but we have managed to pull them out of the complications,” said Dr Radha Gulati Ghildiyal, head of paediatrics at LTMG Hospital. Dengue is spread by the female Aedes aegypti mosquito that breeds in clean water and is known to be a day-biter. Often known as breakbone fever, dengue leads to fever, sometimes in two phases, joint pain, severe body ache, rashes, persistent vomiting, nasal bleeding, among other symptoms. There is no direct treatment for dengue and most interventions are for symptom relief. “It’s hard to pinpoint what is causing the surge,” said physician Dr Hemant Gupta, who practices in south Mumbai. During his daily consultations, Gupta has been seeing six to seven confirmed cases of dengue every day and about two to three require hospitalisation. “I have seen more dengue cases and hardly any Covid-19 cases this month,” he said. The dengue spreading mosquito is known as a ‘shy mosquito’ which flies away easily, and therefore may bite 20 to 25 people for feeding. Dengue cases are therefore often seen in clusters. “With many people working from home and schools yet to open, the spread of dengue becomes easier if there is an infected mosquito,” said Gupta, adding the dengue-spreading mosquito mostly breeds indoors and people should thus take precautions to avoid breeding in their homes. Some of the measures could be to removing stagnated water from windows, flower pots, changing water from decorative plants and covering water containers. A civic official said that most cases in September have been recorded from E (Byculla), G South (Lower Parel) and G North (Dadar) wards. The pest control department has inspected over 400,000 houses and destroyed more than 4,100 dengue breeding spots this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-360-cases-of-dengue-up-from-129-last-year-101632325718004.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi hotel says it allows saree after video goes viral, claims guest slapped manager||After a short clip of a woman getting stopped at the entry of a Delhi restaurant apparently for wearing a saree, the restaurant on Wednesday issued a statement and refuted the allegations. The official handle of the restaurant posted videos of several saree-clad women arriving in the hotel and said that the video which has gone viral is misleading as it only shows 10 seconds of what unfolded in an hour. The restaurant authorities also posted CCTV footage of the woman 'slapping' the manager.The incident took place on September 19. On September 20, the woman posted a video on her social media platform where a woman staff of the hotel can be heard saying, "We only allow smart casuals and saree does not come under smart casuals". Tagging women commission, Amit Shah, Hardeep Singh Puri, the video was posted. "Saree is not allowed in Aquila restaurant as Indian saree is now not a smart outfit. What is the concrete definition of a smart outfit? Plz tell me," the woman wrote.
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt to set up Guru Ravidass Chair in Jalandhar||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced setting up of Guru Ravidass Chair over 101 acres of land in Jalandhar to perpetuate the philosophy and teachings of the saint, during his maiden visit to the district after assuming office. The chief minister, who paid obeisance at Dera Sachkhand Ballan along with deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Congress MLA and general secretary Pargat Singh, said the chair will be set up adjoining the Dera and will be managed by it. He said the government will ensure operation and maintenance of the chair for the coming 10 years. Channi said he is fortunate to have got an opportunity to offer prayers at this sacred land, which has always been a source of inspiration for millions of followers of Guru Ravidass who had preached the lesson of egalitarian society to entire humanity. The chief minister also said he will lay the foundation stone of a museum dedicated to Dr BR Ambedkar at Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University in Kapurthala on Thursday. A management college in Dr Ambedkar’s name will also be set up in the state, he said, adding that the government will focus on imparting quality education to citizens instead of giving freebies. CM visits Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s villageAfter Jalandhar, Channi accompanied Randhawa to pay tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh and his father Kishan Singh at their ancestral village of Khatkar Kalan in SBS Nagar. He said that the life and sacrifice of these legendary martyrs are source of inspiration for all of us. “It is a matter of great pride for us that Punjabis have played a leading role in the national freedom struggle.The entire nation will ever remain indebted to these national heroes for their contribution in making India an independent and sovereign nation, said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-to-set-up-guru-ravidass-chair-in-jalandhar-101632325178007.html
22-09-2021||Pune||66% Pune parents okay to offline school classes: survey||Pune: Around 59% parents in Pune feel their children suffered learning loss due to the Covid pandemic, while 66% parents are willing to send their children back to offline school, a survey carried out by education technology firm LEAD. The survey was conducted amongst 10,500 metro and non-metro parents whose wards study in classes 1-10. Over 440 parents from Pune responded to the survey. While 66% wanted their children to return to schools, rest of the 34% parents are apprehensive about sending their kids back to school right away considering safety and health concerns. The survey was conducted amongst parents of students studying in affordable private schools across Class 1 -10. Keeping in mind the health and safety of children, LEAD’s survey indicated that for 22% of parents nationally, vaccination of school staff is a top priority. Besides, 55% of metro parents rated social distancing as most critical, followed by healthcare facilities (54%); whereas parents from non-metros said sports and social distancing were equally important (52%). Voicing challenges faced by children and parents during the pandemic, recalled how they used to juggle between ‘work from home’ and ‘school from home’ in the initial days. The study found that 47% of metro parents spent between 3-4 hours a day in their children’s school as compared to 44% in non-metros. Further, the survey indicated that majority of parents (63%) feel that engagement in a physical classroom leads to better social interaction amongst children. LEAD co-founder and CEO Sumeet Mehta said, “The last year and a half has not been easy for teachers, principals, schools and most importantly students. Children belonging to the lowest income strata faced the maximum learning loss due to inaccessibility of data and devices. Our survey clearly shows 66% Pune parents say yes to sending their children back to school. So, let’s listen to parents, while enabling online learning for the 34% who are not ready. Schools need to be treated as essential utilities and parents must send their children back to school with a positive and open mind. Let us prepare to welcome them back to school by undertaking all the necessary precautions and safety measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/66-pune-parents-okay-to-offline-school-classes-survey-101632324637186.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Man arrested for beating wife to death in Yerawada||PUNE: A man was arrested by the Pune police on Wednesday for beating his wife to death with his bare hands at their house Lakshminagar area of Yerawada on Tuesday night. The suspect was identified as Kishor Shirsath while the deceased was identified as Jayashree Shirsath, both of whom lived with their three children, according to the police. “We have arrested him. He is a habitual drinker and was trying to escape,” said police inspector (crime) Vijaysingh Chouhan of Yerawada police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the woman’s younger brother Rohit Waghmare (23), a resident of Ashoknagar in Yerawada. The police suspect that the man used water and mop to clean the blood that spilled from the injuries that he caused her. He allegedly kicked and punched her in the chest, head, and back multiple times until she fell. “Her brother tells us that the suspect used to beat her up for minor reasons. They lived in the joint family with their children and his parents,” said PI Chouhan. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of Indian Penal Code at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-beating-wife-to-death-in-yerawada-101632323917302.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Organ donations give new life to five, fourth heart transplant in Pune||Pune: On September 21, the relatives of a 46-year-old Pune resident, who consented to donate the organs which gave a new lease of life to four patients. The retrieved organs included heart, liver, lungs and both kidneys. It is the fourth heart transplant in the city and the first for DY Patil Medical College. The lungs were allocated to a hospital in Secunderabad, Telangana. The donor hailing from a rural area had suffered from Basilar stroke while undergoing treatment at Sahyadri Hospital, Ahmednagar road. Basilar artery strokes are mostly caused by hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis) or clots. Following his death, the patient’s relatives consented to donate his organs. His lungs, kidneys, liver and heart were retrieved and allocated to needy patients. Dr Aarti Gokhale, the transplant coordinator at ZTCC said, “The lungs were allocated to a patient in KIMS, Secunderabad. This is the fifth lungs donated through State Organ Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) and National Organ Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO). The lungs were successfully transplanted in a 65-year-old male recipient.” The liver was transplanted to a 44-year-old man who was suffering the end stage of liver disease. One of the two kidneys was given to a 34-year-old female in Sahyadri Hospital, Ahmednagar road and second kidney was transplanted in a 50-year-old male at Sahyadri Hospital, Deccan. Both of the patients who were suffering from renal failure, according to the hospital authorities. This was the first heart transplant for DY Patil Medical College and fourth this year for the region. A green corridor was created for the heart to reach from the donor hospital to the recipient hospital. Dr Anurag Garg, head of the cardio vascular thoracic department at the hospital said, “The recipient was a 33-year-old male patient who is a father of two and was critically ill since the past two months. The patient’s heart had failed completely and thanks to the heart that we got on time we could save the patient. The patient is now stable.” Dr Bipin Vibhute, head of the liver and multi-organ transplant department at Sahyadri Hospital, said that the transplant was successful. “The patient was a resident of Punjab and was suffering from end-stage liver disease. Currently, the patient is stable and is under observation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/organ-donations-give-new-life-to-five-fourth-heart-transplant-in-the-city-101632323437158.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Versova bridge to be closed for repairs for 3 days||Motorists from Ahmedabad and Mumbai will have to face traffic snarls as the 50-year-old Versova bridge, built over the Bhayander creek on the Mumbai Ahmedabad National Highway number 8, will be closed from Thursday. The bridge is slated to reopen on 25 September. The two-lane Mumbai-bound bridge will remain operational during the period.The 50-year-old bridge was first repaired in May 2017 and periodically inspected for further wear and tear. In March 2020, the bridge had undergone repairs and was shut for vehicles for a few hours.Vijaykant Sagar, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar Commissionerate, said traffic police have been deputed on the bridge to reduce the chaos, as motorists have been complaining of massive traffic snarls, especially during monsoon.“Heavy vehicles including multi-axle, trucks buses and others heading towards Gujarat will have to take the Ghodbunder Road and proceed towards the Mumbra-Kharegaon toll plaza,” said Sagar. The heavy vehicles on the bridge have been banned since Tuesday.According to NHAI figures, more than 50,000 vehicles use the 49-metre bridge built over the Versova creek daily.The government had undertaken an inspection of all bridges following the August 2016 Mahad bridge tragedy, in the Raigad district, which claimed 20 lives, after the bridge constructed over the river Savitri collapsed.___________||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/versova-bridge-to-be-closed-for-repairs-for-3-days-101632323197746.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||India’s indigenous air quality forecasting model gets international peer-review||The first official, indigenous framework to forecast air quality in four Indian metro cities, namely Mumbai, Pune, Ahmedabad and Delhi by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), was published in the international peer-reviewed Elsevier Journal of Environmental Modelling and Software on Tuesday, September 22. Experts say this could give a significant boost for installing this framework other non-attainment cities under the Centre’s National Clean Air Program (NCAP), which itself mandates that cities have a pre-emptive air quality forecasting mechanism.Dr Gufran Beig, founding project director at SAFAR, described this framework as a single-window solution for forecasting bad air days, to inform mitigation measures and develop “micro-specific air action plans”. “SAFAR’s forecasting model is comparable to the framework by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (US-EPA),” he said.SAFAR’s methods were presented as part of a study titled ‘India’s maiden air quality forecasting framework for megacities of divergent environments: The SAFAR-project’ and was led by researchers at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) in Pune, in collaboration with the India Meteorological Department and Bhubaneshwar’s Utkal University.The forecasting model consists of six different verticals, which include the Observational Network for Air Pollution and Weather Parameters, Quality Control and Quality Assurance, Inventory of Emissions (to monitor the source of emissions), SAFAR’s own Air Quality and Weather Forecasting Model, followed by “data-to-information translation” in the form of the air quality index (AQI) component which can be used by researchers, policymakers and citizens. Finally, there is a sixth component under the banner of ‘Technology and Outreach for Product Development and Dissemination’.“SAFAR uses round-the-clock air quality and weather parameter measurements, scientific analysis to improve forecasting capabilities with basic research, which can be disseminated to as many stakeholders as possible, including government agencies, educational institutes, and the general public, to ensure maximum,” said Dr Beig, adding that this model may well be scaled up to all other 128 non-attainment cities listed under the NCAP, which do not meet Centrally prescribed standards of air pollution.India currently has 132 non-attainment cities under its NCAP program, which aims to reduce particulate matter (PM) pollution by 20 to 30% by 2024 (the base year 2017).Using this forecasting model, Urban Local Bodies (ULB) will also be able to issue timely health advisories publicly, to alert citizens on days when the regional AQI touches hazardous level, thereby helping vulnerable groups to minimize exposure to air pollution and attendant severe health impacts. The recent Air Quality Life Index (AQLI) 2019, published by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC), had estimated that around 40% of Indians’ life expectancy will reduce by as much as nine years due to exposure to PM, which are fine respirable particles that remain suspended in ambient air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indias-indigenous-air-quality-forecasting-model-gets-international-peerreview-101632323138086.html
22-09-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Akhara Parishad to also undertake internal probe into Narendra Giri’s death||PRAYAGRAJ: Even as the investigation by an 18-member special investigation team (SIT) is underway into the death of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri, the ABAP has also decided to initiate an internal probe by confidentially appointed probe committee that would look into all aspects related to the untimely demise of Giri, head of the Baghambari Gaddi Muth. This panel would submit its findings to ABAP, the apex decision making body of the country’s 13 Hindu monastic orders, which would then share it with the public, said chief patron of Juna Akhara and general secretary of ABAP, Mahant Hari Giri here on Wednesday. “It is not the first time that a seer, associated with the Muth has been murdered, it has to be probed whether these incidents are related to property of the Muth or is there someone who wants that the Muth be acquired by someone else,” questioned the office bearer of ABAP. He further said that he had discuss untimely death of Mahant Narendra Giri with all the prominent leaders of all the 13 Akharas and the members of Niranjani Akhara after which ABAP has decided to set up a parallel probe into the death of the seer. He also informed that at present all the 13 Akharas were with Shri Panchayatu Akhara Niranjani in their moment of sorrow and “once this Akhara comes out of the mourning, we would sit together and discuss the further course of action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-akhara-parishad-to-also-undertake-internal-probe-into-narendra-giri-s-death-101632321277829.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Defence canteen automobile agent booked for duping car showroom of ₹53 lakh in Pune||PUNE: Three persons were booked for duping a car dealer of ₹53 lakh by allegedly showing fraudulent sale of high-end cars, according to the police. The 30-year-old general manager of the Krishom Automotive LLP Company located in Vimannagar lodged a complaint after she found that the company was missing funds from sale of five cars. One of the accused works as an automobile agent for the Canteen Stores Department (CSD) under the Ministry of Defence. The man allegedly took help from the other accused to pose as customers wearing masks, face shields and created false identities for taking delivery of the cars. The deliveries were taken between July 1 and September 15 from the showroom. The five cars collectively cost ₹52,96,854, according to the complaint. “When the showroom officials went to the Army canteen to submit the purchase order, the canteen officials said none of their members placed these orders. Later, it was found that the man had made fake identities through forged documents and taken deliveries. The showroom has four purchase orders and the purchase order for one car is missing. It is possible that they have taken money from genuine customers and duped them too. The showroom officials ignored physical verification protocol by blindly trusting him,” said sub-inspector SA Jadhav of Vimantal police station who is investigating the case. The police are on a lookout for these men. A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468, 471 (forgery), 408, and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vimantal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/defence-canteen-automobile-agent-booked-for-duping-car-showroom-of-rs-53-lakh-in-pune-101632318517662.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Man in Panvel dies after touching live electric wire||A 36-year-old man from Kanpoli village in Panvel died after he touched a live electric wire on Monday.According to the police, Somnath Patil used to run a wheat-grinding machine near his residence. The machine had developed some technical glitches and he accidentally touched a live electric wire while trying to fix it. He lost consciousness on the spot. “He was rushed to MGM Hospital in Kamothe and the doctors declared him dead there. After receiving the medical reports, we registered an accidental death case on Tuesday,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-in-panvel-dies-after-touching-live-electric-wire-101632317137918.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||MNS organises photo contest to highlight potholes in Ulhasnagar||To draw attention of the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) to the increasing number of potholes in the city, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has organised a Best Pothole Photography Contest in the city. The best photos will be exhibited outside the UMC headquarters and will also be awarded a cash prize.“We have already received around 500 photos of potholes from across the city. This is the only best way to make the civic officials realise how bad the roads are and they need to be repaired. We will invite the mayor and UMC officials to the exhibition. They should see the state of the roads of the city through these photographs,” said Bandu Deshmukh, city president, MNS, Ulhasnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mns-organises-photo-contest-to-highlight-potholes-in-ulhasnagar-101632316777626.html
22-09-2021||Bangalore||Eyes on polls? Karnataka CM Bommai directs completion of Bengaluru phase-2 metro work by 2024||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that he has instructed the officials of the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRCL) to complete the phase 2 work of the Namma Metro by 2024 instead of 2025, news agency ANI reported citing the state government.Notably, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled state is set to go into polls in 2023, and the next Lok Sabha elections is slated in 2024.His statement came soon after a tunnel boring machine (TBM) named ‘Urja’ got a breakthrough at the end of Shivajinagar station – when Bommai and his cabinet colleagues were present at the scene. The TBM completed 855 metres of tunnelling after commencing the work at the Cantonment station last year in the presence of former chief minister of Karnataka BS Yediyurappa, BMRCL said in a statement.As many as nine TBM are currently in the process of tunnelling for underground construction of the Pink Line, and Urja is the first one to have achieved breakthrough, the Hindu reported.Also Read | Bengaluru Metro looks to cut inter-train interval to 3min on Phase-I linesBMRCL managing director Anjum Parwez said that another TBM namely Vindhya, which has been tunnelling on a parallel route on the Pink Line, will achieve breakthrough in the next 20 days.He added that all the nine TBMs have collectively completed drilling of 3,842 metres, with up to 40 metres of tunnels being built every day.
22-09-2021||Pune||Man duped using remote access application in Pune||PUNE: A 54-year-old man from Karvenagar fell prey to an online cheating by using mobile mirroring application by callers who pose as service provider officials. The fraudulent transaction happened on July 16 around 3pm when the complainant was at home. The callers told the man that his SIM card was going to stop working lest he gets it verified. The complainant told the police that the caller called multiple times to warn him against the fake failure of SIM card. The man eventually fell for it and asked what needed to be done for the verification. The caller asked him to download an application called “Teamviewer Quick Support”, a phone mirroring application, on to his phone and make a transaction of ₹10. When the complainant did so, the callers got access to his payment and bank details after which he lost ₹49,950. A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c), 66 (d) of Information Technology Act at Warje Malwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-duped-using-remote-access-application-in-pune-101632316357619.html
22-09-2021||Pune||300 bodies found on Pune railway tracks in past three years remain unidentified||Pune: The railway police have recorded around 300 unidentified bodies found on the tracks in the past three years. In 2021, 132 cases of accidental deaths have been reported and of that 30 bodies are yet to be identified. The figure of unidentified bodies in 2020 was 79 in the 250 accidental death cases and it was 191 unidentified bodies of 206 accidental cases in 2019. “It is a major challenge to identify mangled bodies. Most of the cases are related to suicides. Sometimes the victims’ personal belongings that could help in identification are stolen by the time the police are alerted. Hence, it becomes difficult to term the death as suicide or accident or murder in case of such cases,” said railway police station incharge Maula Shaikh. During the investigation, the police gather clues like birthmark, scar, tattoo, tailor mark on the clothing of the body. According to the railway police, the number of accidental deaths has dropped due to the Covid lockdown period wherein there was no rail travel. Amongst the reasons for accidental deaths include crossing the tracks, losing balance, and falling on tracks after losing balance from a running train. The police are also following the court directives of taking immediate efforts for the collection of viscera samples from unidentified bodies for DNA test as and when required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/300-bodies-found-on-pune-railway-tracks-in-past-three-years-remain-unidentified-101632315697555.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Won’t appoint new SPP in Khwaja Yunus case till Oct 14, Maharashtra govt tells Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday adjourned hearing on the petition filed by Asiya Begum, mother of custodial death victim Khwaja Yunus, till October 14, after the state government informed the HC that it would not appoint a special public prosecutor (SPP) until then. Begum had approached the HC challenging the 2018 decision of the state to remove the then SPP Dhiraj Mirajkar who represented the state in the lower court without assigning a reason. The division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice Nitin Borkar, while hearing the petition by the mother of Khwaja Yunus, a suspect in the 2002 Ghatkopar blast, who died in police custody in 2003, was informed by senior advocate Mihir Desai that the petition challenged the government’s decision to remove SPP Dhiraj Mirajkar from the trial. Desai also informed the bench that the petition also sought action against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, as he had defied an earlier HC order to conduct an inquiry against the officers who were accused in the custodial death of Yunus by reinstating them without conducting the inquiry. The four suspended policemen accused of the custodial death of Yunus included Sachin Vaze as well. While referring to the hearing of the trial in the sessions court, Desai submitted that after the sessions court rapped the state and crime investigation department (CID) for the slow progress in the trial, the government lawyer had informed the sessions court that a proposal to appoint a new prosecutor has been approved by the additional chief secretary (Home) and was now placed before the law and judiciary department.Desai referred to and submitted that during a hearing of Begum’s petition challenging the removal of Mirajkar in HC in July 2018, advocate general (AG) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni had made an oral statement that the state would not appoint a new SPP till the petition was heard. However, the state was in the process of appointing a new SPP thus going back on its statement. Mirajkar was appointed on September 2, 2015, and then removed in 2018. Additional public prosecutor (APP) Sangeeta Shinde informed the bench that the AG wanted to address the court and hence sought an adjournment. After hearing the request, the bench asked, “Can you tell us that till we hear AG Kumbhakoni, you will not make any hurry in appointing SPP? This is what the court wants so that we will not permit a sudden change.” On instructions from the AG and the law and judiciary department, APP Shinde stated that no new SPP would be appointed till the next hearing, which was accepted by the HC. The next hearing will be held on October 14. Khwaja Yunus, a 27-year-old software engineer, was arrested in December 2002 for his alleged role in the Ghatkopar bomb blast case and was last seen alive by his fellow accused on January 6, 2003. Though the police claimed that Yunus had died after he tried to escape while being ferried by a team led by Vaze, one of the accused had stated that Yunus was brutally assaulted in custody. Thereafter, the CID had booked the four policemen including Vaze for Yunus custodial death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wont-appoint-new-spp-in-khwaja-yunus-case-till-oct-14-maharashtra-govt-tells-bombay-hc-101632315457494.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Friends for lifetime: Ming, Singh and dumb charades||Have you ever met with a stranger and connected with him/her instantly? Human bonding is a continuous process that starts right from childhood when we connect with playmates in the neighbourhood, moving on to schoolmates, college friends, co-workers, friends’ friends; and the chain keeps on growing. There is always a thread of mutual connectivity that runs through all these relationships. But the most beautiful bond is the one we can form with a stranger instantly. At times you come across a person while travelling, or waiting in the airport lounge, looking for a book in a book shop, trying to pick up the same book at the same time, or meeting during a buffet breakfast in a hotel; and after a little conversation, you hit it off and become friends for life. A very special one has been that of my husband’s connection with a Taiwanese young man, Ming Tsai, whom he met while travelling to New Delhi on the Shatabdi Express a few years ago. Sitting in the middle seat, he found this young man across the table who, with a broad smile on his face and curious flitting eyes, was trying to observe and absorb the glimpses of Indian life around. A casual conversation that started with “I am Ming” and “I am Singh” moved on to Indian food, religion, and whatnot, concluding with an exchange of emails on paper napkins. About four years later, Ming announced that he was visiting India with some of his relatives and would like to visit Patiala. Anxiety and nervousness kept me on my toes for days together, as I made arrangements for a comfortable stay for these unknown guests without knowing much about their culture as well as their personal choices. On top of that we found on their arrival that of our guests, comprising Ming, his maternal aunt, her son, and daughter, only our friend could speak and understand English. For the next two days, all I did was wear a broad smile on my face and bow to them every five minutes as they did. When the two ladies came to the kitchen to help me, I was completely at a loss for words and did not know how to explain things to them. Then started a full-fledged show of dumb charades, with all three of us trying to communicate through gestures amid guffaws. We could understand each other only partially, though at times Ming, with whom we had long discussions about our diverse cultures, played the interpreter. Ming and his relatives enjoyed vegetarian Indian food, as well as a visit to the tourist landmarks around. While leaving, they bowed repeatedly, expressing their gratitude, and I am sure they carried a pleasant impression about Indians and Indian hospitality. Even today, I get so overwhelmed reminiscing those two days when a piece of sunshine from a distant land descended on my heart! njkaur1953@gmail.com The writer is a Patiala-based retired associate professor in English||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/friends-for-lifetime-ming-singh-and-dumb-charades-101632315397346.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court temporarily restrains new Sai Baba Sansthan committee from functioning||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday restrained the state-appointed committee for management of the Shri Sai Baba Sansthan, Shirdi, from taking any policy decisions, sanctioning expenditures, making appointments or inducting new members till the HC heard the civil application filed in public interest litigation (PIL), which challenged the appointment of the committee. The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Sanjay Mehere, while hearing the civil application filed by Uttamrao Shelke in the PIL through advocate Pradnya Talekar, was informed that the state government had appointed a new committee which is chaired by the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) member of legislative assembly (MLA) Ashutosh Kale and the committee had taken charge on September 17. Talekar further informed the bench that the new committee had scheduled a meeting on September 26, the agenda of which pertained to huge financial transactions. She also submitted that as the HC had appointed a managing committee in 2019, based on an order of 2012, to oversee the day-to-day working and financial affairs of the Sansthan, the state government could not have appointed a new committee without prior permission or approval of the HC. The committee comprised of a principal district judge, collector of Ahmednagar, CEO of the Sansthan, and a delegate not below the rank of the assistant charity commissioner, Nashik. The civil application challenged the constitution of the committee on the ground that it violated the Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust Act by inducting political personalities without following any transparent procedure. The application also stated that the appointment of members from socially and economically backward classes, as well as specialised backgrounds like public health and business management, were also flouted to allow politically motivated appointments. Additional government pleader SG Karlekar for the state and advocate AS Bajaj for the trust sought time to file replies to the civil application. After hearing the application the bench observed, “We have no doubts that the state government is empowered to appoint the managing committee for Shri Sai Baba Sansthan, Shirdi. However, the peculiar circumstances in which we had passed an order on October 9, 2019, we had thus empowered the Committee to administer the Sansthan and the committee was performing its functions under the orders of this court passed in the PIL from time to time.” The bench also noted in its order, “...Prima facie, no other managing committee could have dislodged the committee that we had constituted, on the plea of the government has declared the formation of the new committee. In short, the new committee could not have taken charge without obtaining orders from this court as we would then be required to discharge the committee that we had constituted.” The court while posting hearing of the application to September 23 said, “Until then, the new committee, which is alleged to have taken charge by dislodging the committee that we had constituted, shall refrain from taking any policy decision, sanction expenditure and shall also refrain from making any appointments or inducting any new members, if any, until further orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-temporarily-restrains-new-sai-baba-sansthan-committee-from-functioning-101632312697107.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||To counter mining mafia, Punjab to cap sand price at ₹9/cubic ft||Swinging into action to check the soaring prices of sand, the Punjab government will cap sand and gravel prices at ₹9 per cubic feet, including loading charges at mining sites. This will be done by implementing a provision of the existing mining policy passed by the Captain Amarinder Singh cabinet in 2018 but never implemented. The decision will help the government check the mining mafia. A proposal in this regard has been finalised and will be announced after the next cabinet meeting, an official source said, requesting anonymity. This is one of 18 points on the agenda set by the Congress high command. Also read: ‘What is the problem if a poor man takes a jet ride?’: Channi after backlash“It’s not a new proposal. The mining policy of 2018 has a provision to cap the mining of sand and gravel at ₹9 per cubic feet. However, it was not implemented since the mining auction of 2019. Everyone knows who’s the culprit as the mining mafia was operating like in the previous regime. Except the increase in the government revenue from ₹30 crore to ₹270 crore, nothing changed. There was no relief for consumers,” said the official, who made the proposal. What the 2018 mining policy says The mining policy approved in 2018 by the cabinet states that both sand and gravel shall not be sold by the concessionaire at the mining site at more than ₹9 per cubic feet and this includes the cost of loading the vehicle. The maximum rates linked to the distance that can be charged per cubic feet for transportation of sand and gravel will be notified. The maximum rate of sand and gravel chargeable from the customer will not exceed the sum of the above stated two rates. The concessionaire will despatch sand and gravel through only those transporters who agree to transport it at the notified or less rates. Any violation will result in the cancellation of the agreement and forfeiture of the security amount, the policy says. Price capping provision However, government officials in league with mining contractors never implemented these provisions. After assuming charge, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa asked for a survey of the prices of sand; and how to provide the sand at cheaper rates. “When the policy was studied, we found the price capping provision. The survey found the prices of sand is anywhere between ₹25 to ₹35 per cubic feet for consumers, which defeats the purpose of the policy. If prices are capped, there will be no mafia, as it mints money by increasing prices,” said an official dealing with issue. He said that to provide relief to consumers, Channi, during the first cabinet meet, decided to allow landowners to do mining in their respective areas. “A draft has been prepared and it will be sent to the chief minister to put it before the cabinet. It has decided to strictly cap the prices according to the policy to provide relief to the common man,” said the official. Principal secretary, mining, Sarvajit Singh didn’t respond to phone calls to answer why the price capping was not implemented since 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/to-counter-mining-mafia-punjab-to-cap-sand-price-at-9-cubic-ft-101632311976955.html
22-09-2021||Patna||Arsenic from irrigation water entering food chain in Bihar: Study||Arsenic from irrigation water is entering the food chain in the arsenic-affected villages of Bihar. This has resulted in food with higher arsenic content than drinking water, a study by British Council and Union science ministry has found. It is the first time a study has found arsenic in locally grown food items – rice, wheat and potato – even though the presence of the chemical in groundwater was known for years. As many as 22 of the 38 districts in the state have an arsenic level above the World Health Organisation (WHO)’s permissible limit of 10 micrograms/ litre.Bihar is the second most affected Indian state with arsenic contamination after West Bengal. Arsenic is naturally present in groundwater. In all, nine states in India are affected by arsenic groundwater contamination.“The findings are alarming,” said Ashok Kumar Ghosh, chairman of the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) and a member of a 12-member team that conducted the study.Also Read | Two more beaches in India awarded prestigious ‘Blue Flag’ tag, details hereHe said for the first time, they have evidence that there is arsenic in food and its quantity was higher than that found in drinking water. Such is the vicious circle that water used to cook food adds to arsenic content resulting in cooked rice having higher arsenic than in raw paddy.“We all have been focusing on the presence of arsenic in groundwater. Irrigation water was hitherto untouched. But our study has confirmed the presence of arsenic in the food chain in Bihar through irrigation water,” he said.The reason for arsenic in food is that irrigation is dependent on shallow tube wells hardly 30-70 feet deep. Arsenic is present more in shallow water. Arsenic in water used by Shivshankar Prasad, a farmer of Bichoo Ka Dera village of Buxar district, is 336.2 micrograms/litre. In the case of fellow villager Kamlesh Yadav, it is 574.6 micrograms/ litre. The reason for this difference is that Yadav’s handpump is shallower than Prasad’s. And that is the reason Ghosh said that the only solution to the problem is deeper tube wells.Quoting the study, he said, rice, wheat and potato have elevated levels of arsenic that can increase the disease burden of the exposed persons.The study was conducted in 19 villages of arsenic affected districts. Ghosh said the study was exhaustive and is based on the detailed dietary assessment and estimation of arsenic in drinking water, cooked rice, wheat flour and potato collected from 91 households covering 19 villages. If the study is implied to all arsenic impact areas, around 10% of the state’s population may be consuming arsenic-contaminated food.The study was funded by British Council and was recently published in the journal Science of the Total Environment.Ghosh said that the study found that the presence of arsenic in the food chain was more pronounced in districts situated on the southern bank of Ganga such as Buxar, Bhojpur, Patna and Bhagalpur than those situated on the northern bank such as Vaishali, Naugachia, etc.According to the study, the effects of high arsenic content is an increase in lifetime cancer risk, skin diseases like Keratosis, Melanosis and Bowen’s disease, etc.“We focused on rice, wheat and potato because cereals, followed by vegetables and milk, form a staple diet of the rural Bihar. This is the first study where a detailed dietary assessment was conducted on arsenic exposed populations of Bihar to estimate the arsenic exposure from the three major staple foods,” he said.The study also found that at least 77% of the surveyed households had an arsenic concentration in drinking water below the WHO guideline value of 10 micrograms/ litre. At least 37% of households reported some form of improved water for drinking, indicating that a significant proportion of drinking water in the studied population may have had arsenic levels lower than 10 micrograms/ litre, the study said.In the homes, where arsenic in drinking water was within the WHO limit, the study found that the overall arsenic exposure was 36%, showing that the source of the chemical was water used for irrigation. The study concluded that arsenic in food was higher than in drinking water.Ghosh said that although there is no fixed WHO guideline on the normal value of arsenic in food, the food had more arsenic content than drinking water. He said this was even when arsenic levels in drinking water were above the WHO provisional guide value of 10 micrograms/ litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/arsenic-from-irrigation-water-entering-food-chain-in-bihar-study-101632311857153.html
22-09-2021||Jaipur||Seven-year-old raped, killed in Rajasthan’s Nagaur; neighbour arrested||A 20-year-old man has been arrested for the rape and murder of his seven-year-old neighbour in Rajasthan’s Nagaur district. The court remanded the accused to police custody on Wednesday. Police said the girl was last seen playing near her home on Monday. When they realised she was missing, the family informed the police by 9pm after searching for her. Her body was found in nearby fields at 3am. Police caught the accused as he was last seen with the girl by some villagers. They said the accused, known to the girl, abducted her. He then took her to a secluded place and raped her. Also Read | Kerala HC to aid of another minor rape survivor; allows pregnancy terminationPadu Kalan station house officer Ashok Bishu said the man was booked for kidnap, rape and murder. He was drunk when he was arrested. Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal has demanded strict action against the accused. “Merta legislator Indira Bawri met the aggrieved family... We stand with them for justice and action against the accused. May God give peace to the departed soul,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/sevenyearold-raped-killed-in-rajasthan-s-nagaur-neighbour-arrested-101632311556819.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai locals to have more AC coaches after survey shows commuters prefer them||The Western Railway (WR) is planning to scale up the number of air-conditioned coaches on the Mumbai suburban rail network, after a recently conducted survey revealed that passengers in Mumbai want to travel on such trains, news agency ANI reported.The survey was conducted with a total of 20 questions, WR general manager Alok Bansal told ANI, of which, 70% of the passengers urged authorities to increase the number of air-conditioned coaches on the Mumbai suburban train network.“We’re working towards more AC local services and we’re in continuous talks with Maharashtra government’s Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP) and central government’s Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC),” he added.Although Bansal clarified that non-AC coaches are not going to be off the tracks, he pointed out that going ahead, most of the trains will have air-conditioning.He further said that the Western Railway authorities are planning to introduce hybrid local trains, which will comprise both AC and non-AC coaches. “We expect in the coming few years, all locals will have AC coaches along the [the] present non-AC coaches. We are conducting a feasibility test for the same,” Bansal was quoted as saying by ANI.He also noted that the Western Railway is in talks with the Indian Coach Factory (IFC) for the technical elements associated with connecting AC and non-AC coaches, besides others.Mumbai local trains – which is the lifeline of the financial capital of India — was reopened for the public amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic on August 15, given that commuters are fully-vaccinated. While announcing, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray clarified that there must mandatorily be a gap of 14 days between the date of availing of the local train services and the administration of the second dose of the coronavirus vaccine.Following the resumption of the services, passenger footfall witnessed an increase with nearly 1.3 million passengers travelling on the Western Railway in September as opposed to 1.1 million in August. The same rise was noticed on Central Railway as well with nearly 2.2 million people commuters this month as against 1.5 million in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-locals-to-have-more-ac-coaches-after-survey-shows-commuters-prefer-them-101632307591173.html
22-09-2021||Lucknow||ATS arrests cleric from Meerut over conversions to Islam||Uttar Pradesh’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested a Muslim cleric from Meerut on Tuesday in connection with a case of religious conversions. Additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said Maulana Kaleem Siddique was allegedly linked to an “illegal religious conversion network” spread across the country. “He has claimed to have converted thousands of people to Islam. We have found he ran a foundation that took foreign funding. The funding was used to support illegal conversion activities.”Police said they came to know about Siddique’s alleged role in the conversions during the investigation that followed the arrest of Umar Gautam and Jahangir Alam, both residents of New Delhi’s Jamia Nagar, in June for their alleged involvement in “illegal conversions”. “Siddique was in contact with Gautam who was involved in religious conversions. Siddique ran Jamia Imam Waliullah Trust which collected donations from the country and abroad to fund their illegal conversion racket which was the largest such racket in the country,” said Kumar. He added there was an unaccounted transaction of ₹3 crore involving the trust. “The money was used to fund conversion activities... 1.5 crore of this money was sent from Bahrain in violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act.”Also Read | Couple found dead in Meerut home; police suspect relativeKumar said Siddique also secured a funding of ₹57 crore from UK-based organisation Al Falah and that the accused were unable to share details about the expenditure of this fund.Kumar said Siddique, 53, who is from Muzaffarnagar, appears to have been attracted towards fundamentalist Islam during his college days. “...he started practising hard-line Islam and began converting non-Muslims to Islam.”The ATS has over the last two months arrested 10 people in connection with alleged “illegal conversion” and has booked them under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion) 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship). They have been also slapped with charges under Uttar Pradesh’s Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act.ATS officials have claimed that the arrested accused were involved in the conversion of over 1,000 people including specially-abled children. They have refused to provide details about those converted. “Considering the safety of people who have been converted to Islam by the accused and to maintain the sanctity of the ongoing investigation, we are not divulging the details of those converted,” said ATS chief GK Goswami.The ATS has formed six teams to investigate the conversions. “We have managed to collect strong evidence against the accused in the conversion racket. This is proved by the fact that none of the 10 arrested accused have been able to secure bail,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ats-arrests-cleric-from-meerut-over-conversions-to-islam-101632307656451.html
22-09-2021||Kolkata||‘Clear support for BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal in Bhabanipur’: Union minister Puri||Days after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Priyanka Tibrewal filed her nomination for the by-election to the Bhabanipur assembly seat in West Bengal, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday that there is ‘clear support’ for the party in the area. The by-elections in Bhabanipur is scheduled on September 30.Puri, who is on a visit to West Bengal, tweeted on Wednesday that he interacted with the residents of Mohan Dutta Road in the Ray Street area of Bhabanipur where they shared their issues and concerns."But there is clear support for the BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal," Puri said. The Union minister added that there is disillusionment among people about the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the constituency, and predicted this will be reflected in the by-election results if people vote freely.In Bhabanipur, the BJP has fielded Priyanka Tibrewal against chief minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee. The TMC had won the constituency in the assembly elections held earlier this year.A lawyer by profession, Priyanka Tibrewal had represented the BJP in the Calcutta high court (HC) regarding the alleged post-poll violence in the state.Upon filing her nomination on September 13, she described her battle against Mamata Banerjee as a fight against injustice. “This is a fight for justice, for the people of West Bengal. I would like to tell the people of Bhabanipur that they've received a big opportunity, they should come forward and make history,” Tibrewal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Tuesday, the BJP leader entered into a squabble with police as she was denied door-to-door campaigning by security forces. “The police stopped me from interacting with voters. I will move the Election Commission soon against this conduct of the police,” Tibrewal said and also requested the election panel to not keep the officer-in-charge of the Bhabanipur police station on the day of the by-election.The police, meanwhile, said on Tuesday that Tibrewal was not told to be accompanied by a large number of people due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, but “she kept on arguing with the personnel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/clear-support-for-bjp-s-priyanka-tibrewal-in-bhabanipur-union-minister-puri-101632302542082.html
22-09-2021||Patna||Madhubani to return rapid antigen kits that gave false Covid positive results||Authorities in Bihar’s Madhubani district have decided to junk the entire batch of the rapid antigen detection (RAD) kits that falsely detected 25 swab samples of train passengers as positive, triggering concern about a possible wave of fresh infections.A total of 76 passengers on long-distance trains arriving at Madhubani railway station were found to be Covid-19 positive in tests conducted by RAD kits in the last few days. Suspicious of the high number of positive results, authorities sent fresh samples of 148 passengers including the 25 who had tested positive for retesting using real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests late Tuesday evening. To everyone’s relief, all the samples have tested negative.“The result of all the 148 samples sent for (RT-PCR) test yesterday (Tuesday) has come. I spoke to the Madhubani district magistrate, and he said that all reports are negative. After cross-checking, there is no positive case there,” Mangal Pandey, Bihar’s health minister said in Patna on Wednesday. The district health authorities have decided to probe possible lapses, leading to the erroneous result and return the entire batch of allegedly faulty RAD kits to the Bihar Medical Services Infrastructure Corporation Limited, which had purchased them through empanelled private vendors. “I am recommending a probe, not to penalise anyone but to correct lapses, if any, in our system of testing and reporting Covid-19 cases at the district level. The probe committee will include two senior doctors, two laboratory technicians and an officer from the administrative side,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Jha, Madhubani’s civil surgeon. Efforts to reach Madhubani district magistrate Amit Kumar proved futile as he did not respond to calls or text messages. “The medical officers ought to be more responsible in reporting such cases, especially when the prevalence of the disease has come down. They need to be careful of false positive cases before reporting them. Similarly, laboratory technicians, who collect swab samples, should also keep two separate batches of rapid antigen detection kits to check for inconsistency in results,” said another official, who did not wish to be named. As many as 76 samples collected from among 148 train passengers from Delhi and Mumbai were found positive in testing by RAD kits at the Madhubani railway station between September 17 and 20.Dr Jha said that about 22 passengers, who had tested positive in the rapid antigen test, are still untraceable as they had given incorrect addresses and mobile numbers. Their samples can be retested only after they are located. Fresh samples of the remaining 29 people who had returned positive results in RAD testing will be sent for confirmatory RT-PCR tests today, he said.The prevalence of coronavirus has dropped significantly with Bihar reporting 59 active cases on Tuesday evening. Madhubani and Patna, at 15 each, have the highest number of active cases. Bihar has reported 725,907 Covid cases and 9,659 related deaths so far ever since the first case was reported in the state on March 21, 2020. With 716,188 people having recovered, the state has a recovery rate of 98.65%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/madhubani-to-return-rapid-antigen-kits-that-gave-false-covid-positive-results-101632305556262.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Mother-daughter duo held with 4.9kg heroin at Mumbai airport||Mumbai airport customs arrested two passengers for smuggling of 4.9 kg heroin on Sunday night. The narcotic drug is valued at ₹24.76 crore. It was concealed inside cavities of a trolley bag of the passengers who arrived from Johannesburg via Doha.The mother-daughter duo, Vaidya Vay Kuchete and Annie Kuchete, from Republic of Malawi flew to Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International (CSMIA) on September 19 via Qatar Airways flight QR 558 that landed at 8.45pm.Sources from the Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) of Mumbai airport customs confirmed that the two were caught on the basis of a tip off. “We caught them after they cleared the green channel. They were arrested after we found heroin in their trolley bag,”said a Customs official.Also Read | Mystery of snake venom smuggling persists: Red Dragon Code 6097The duo was sent to judicial custody at Arthur road jail on Monday evening. “The duo has been remanded in custody till October 5,”the official added.“We are investigating their travel details to understand if this was their first smuggling attempt or if they have smuggled in the past,” said a senior airport customs official close to the case.This comes days after 3,000kg drugs worth ₹21,000 crore were seized at Gujarat port. The consignment, reportedly the largest of Afghan heroin held at Mundra port till date, was shipped to Gujarat via Iran’s Bandar Abbas Port. It was hidden inside the containers of semi-processed Afghan talc.A Chennai-based couple was arrested and several Afghan nationals from the Delhi-National Capital Region were detained in the matter and are being interrogated for possible Taliban-ISI link.“Drug smuggling has begun with ease in restrictions by the country.There is no doubt that with the Gujarat port case, authorities across all entry points need to be on alert,”said the senior customs official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/motherdaughter-duo-held-with-4-9kg-heroin-at-mumbai-airport-101632305196111.html
22-09-2021||Bhopal||Sharp rise in leopard deaths in MP, many being poached for occult practices||56 leopards have been found dead in Madhya Pradesh in the first eight months of this year, already past the average number of big cats killed in the past five years. Of these, carcasses of at least 26 leopards were found without whiskers, teeth and nails, a clear sign of poaching for use in occult practices, a forest department official claimed. Activists in the state also said that the growing number of leopard deaths was a consequence of lack of conservation efforts for other wildlife with the system focussed solely on tiger conservation. Madhya Pradesh has the highest number of leopards in the country and a report called “Status of Leopards in India” 2018, putting the number at 3,421, close to double of its nearest rival Karnataka, which has 1,783. Official data shows that in the past five years until 2021, 255 leopards were found dead in Madhya Pradesh, an average of 51 deaths a year. Of these, 53 were killed in accidents, 29 in territorial fights, and 75 due to natural causes. However, in 2021, until August 31, 56 leopards have already been found killed. Of the 56 leopards found dead this year, 26, or 46% have been found without body parts indicative of poaching or use in “occult practices”. Over the past five years, the corresponding number was 98 from a total 255 deaths, just over 38%. Senior officials said the Special Task Force of the forest department has arrested more than 45 people in the past eight months, accused of killing leopards by electrocution. The past five years saw 110 arrests for the same offence. Investigations have revealed that villagers and poachers along the forested tracks have been involved in selling leopard body parts as those of young tigers’, a senior officer of the STF said. The deaths are largely caused by the use of electrified live wire. “These occultists then sell the body parts to people that believe in these customs for anywhere between ten thousand rupees to two lakh rupees, depending on the rituals being conducted,” the officer said.However, wildlife activists have accused the forest department of focusing solely on the conservation of tigers, and therefore putting other animals at risk. Ashu Agrawal, an environmental activist, said, “Leopards are being killed in large numbers in MP but the forest department is not paying any attention as their focus is on tiger conservation only. That’s why they are not organising any special programmes for saving leopards.” Another wildlife activist Ajay Dubey said he had written many times appraising the forest department of the situation. “I even met forest officials and the department said leopard deaths were not a matter of concern because MP has almost 40% of the total population of leopards in India. But they should understand that such a high percentage was being killed for occult practices and in accidents. If this continues, commercial poachers will head towards Madhya Pradesh soon,” said Ajay Dubey, wildlife activist. A Jabalpur-based activist Manish Sharma has also filed a petition in Jabalpur bench of the state high court on rampant poaching of leopards, after which the court on July 26, asked the petitioner to provide additional details and supporting evidence. However, forest officials said they were indeed monitoring the deaths of leopards. “Most of the deaths are happening due to electrocution. Many times, villagers lay traps for wild boar and spotted deer but leopards and tigers get trapped in the wire. After the death, they took their claws, whiskers, teeth and nails. We are arresting them and also creating awareness among villagers,” said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife). The PCCF also dismissed claims that there was laxity in the conservation of leopards, compared to the tigers. “We are not holding any separate campaigns for conservation of leopards because the population is not under threat. They are in large numbers in MP but as a department we are taking care of every animal in the forest and that is why poachers have been arrested by STF for killing leopards,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/sharp-rise-in-leopard-deaths-in-mp-many-being-poached-for-occult-practices-101632301895911.html
22-09-2021||Patna||Boy, girl found hanging in Bihar, police say they were in a relationship||The bodies of a teenaged girl and a boy were found hanging from a tree in a forest in Bihar’s Jamui district on Tuesday with police saying the former’s family allegedly killed the two as they did not approve of their relationship. This is the second such killing in Jamui in six months. Police said the boy and the girl belonged to the same community and were in a relationship.Jamui police superintendent Pramod Kumar Mandal said they have arrested the girl’s father while other accused were absconding. He cited preliminary investigation and said it suggested the girl’s three brothers-in-law with criminal records were involved in the alleged murders. Mandal said the accused did not plot to kill the two. “It was a case of sudden provocation as the girl’s father and others got agitated on seeing her with the boy and the girl with vermilion marks on her head at a temple,” Mandal added.Also Read | Girl found dead in Bihar’s Champaran, suspected to have been raped, murderedPolice said the two had gone to the temple to get married. They added some villagers noticed this and informed the girl’s father. The father and other relatives got enraged over this, dragged them to a field, and allegedly strangled them before hanging their bodies from the tree.The two cleared their board examination this year. They left their homes on Monday and were found hanging by the same cloth from the tree a day later. The girl’s mother said her daughter had left home for some work while the boy’s grandmother said she had sent him to purchase sugar before he went missing.Police were deployed in the area as villagers observed a bandh on Wednesday demanding the arrest of all the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/boy-girl-found-hanging-in-bihar-police-say-they-were-in-a-relationship-101632301655984.html
22-09-2021||Patna||Girl found dead in Bihar’s Champaran, suspected to have been raped, murdered||A 35-year-old neighbour allegedly raped and murdered a seven-year-old girl in Bihar’s East Champaran district on Tuesday. The girl’s family alleged the accused took her away on some pretext and killed her after allegedly raping her. “She had gone to watch TV at a neighbour’s place,” said the girl’s uncle.Akhilesh Kumar Mishra, a local police officer, said prima facie, it looks to be a case of rape and murder. “... circumstantial evidence (also) points to the same. This will be confirmed after the post-mortem report arrives.”He said the girl’s body has been handed over to her family after autopsy.Also Read | Minor raped in Zirakpur hotel: Mother among seven bookedThe girl’s grandfather said, “Around 9pm, we came to know that she (the girl) left for home after electricity went off in the village at around 7.30 pm.” The accused, who is a father of five, was on the run. The police have booked him under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 376 (rape), 302 (murder), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. “The accused has not been arrested as yet. Raids are on to nab him,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/girl-found-dead-in-bihar-s-champaran-suspected-to-have-been-raped-murdered-101632299495695.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu's close aide becomes Amritsar Improvement Trust chief, replaces baiter||A day after bringing in major changes across the state bureaucracy, the new Punjab government replaced the chairman of Amritsar Improvement Trust with a close aide of state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu.Damandeep Singh Uppal was made the chief of the trust in place of Dinesh Bassi, a known baiter of Sidhu.Uppal’s name was announced during newly appointed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s visit to Amritsar along with Sidhu and team earlier in the day.Also read | 'Well done, Rahul': BJP's 'Me Too' swipe over Charanjit Singh ChanniThis was Channi’s first visit to Amritsar after taking the reins of the state. He paid obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Besides Sidhu, he was accompanied by his two deputies -- Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni. Meanwhile, a major bureaucratic reshuffle was effected on Tuesday, a day after Channi took oath as the chief minister replacing Amarinder Singh, who resigned on Saturday citing humiliation over the past two months. The Punjab Congress had been reeling under a months-long factionalism and dissent over a power-sharing tussle between Singh and Sidhu.Also read | In Amritsar, Punjab CM makes a brief stopover at tea stall, recites poetryTransfer orders were issued for nine IAS and two PCS officers, posting three more officers in the new chief minister’s office.The government also transferred three police commissioners during the day. Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, who was recently made the deputy inspector general of police, Jalandhar, became the Ludhiana police commissioner in place of Naunihal Singh with the latter now becoming the Jalandhar commissioner.Meanwhile, Vikramjeet Duggal was removed as the Amritsar police commissioner and replaced by Sukhchain Singh Gill.There were also reports of replacement of the Batala Improvement Trust chairman. Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa is said to have appointed a close associate of his as chairman, replacing a loyalist of Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cong-chief-sidhu-s-close-aide-becomes-amritsar-improvement-trust-chief-101632297321821.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Chef’ snatched gold chains to pay off debts, arrested||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Wednesday said they have arrested a 35-year-old man, who used to cook in a kitchen maintained by a five-star hotel that supplied flight meals, for allegedly snatching gold chains of morning walkers in south Delhi, a police officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the accused, Harish Chauhan, worked in the kitchen that is maintained by the Oberoi and is located near the Aerocity. He told the police that he cooked meals in the Oberoi flight services kitchen, near Indira Gandhi International Airport, the DCP said. “After graduating from Delhi University in 2006, Harish did a three-year hotel management course and started working as a ‘chef’ at the kitchen two years ago. He started gambling through online apps and lost money leading to a huge debt,” Thakur said.Based on a tip off, Chauhan was arrested from Neb Sarai area on Tuesday evening where he had allegedly gone for snatching gold chains, he said.A police officer said the jeweller, who would allegedly buy the stolen items from the chef has also been arrested. Police identified the jeweller as Rajender Aggarwal, 60.An official from the Oberoi Hotel clarified on Wednesday that Chauhan was not a hotel employee. He said that Chauhan was not even a chef, as he was claimed to be in some news reports. Chauhan worked at the Flight Catering Unit, the official said. “As mentioned by the police, Harish Chauhan does not work for the Oberoi Hotels, but at the flight catering unit. We have a kitchen near Aerocity, where Chauhan worked as a cleaner, and did cleaning and mopping. We have been in touch with the police on why they have made such claims, and legal action will be taken in this regard,” the Oberoi official said. DCP Thakur said it was not the police, but Chauhan, who claimed that he was a chef. Police said most of the alleged snatchings were reported from near Saket Metro station, an adjoining park, and a bus stand. “He mostly targeted women on morning or evening walks or those heading office during the morning and evening hours.”Also Read | Man involved in over 100 cases of robbery in Delhi held after evading arrest for 10 yearsTo repay his debts incurred during gambling, Chauhan chose soft targets to snatch valuables. “He runs like an athlete, and is an extremely fast runner. He was quick at committing the crimes, and operated alone. After FIRs (First Information Reports) were registered, a team was constituted,” Thakur said. He added Chauhan was arrested following a month of relentless search and scrutiny of CCTV footage.The police were on Tuesday tipped off about Chauhan’s plan of snatching. The informers told the police that he always carries a gun with him. “We laid a trap on the MB Road and arrested him from there. He tried to take out his countrymade pistol, but we overpowered him,” Thakur said. A pistol with live cartridge, four snatched mobile phones, and four gold chains were recovered from his possession.Thakur added that Chauhan told them that he sold three snatched gold chains to Aggarwal, who runs a jewellery shop in Neb Sarai. “We have solved 15 cases so far after arresting him and further investigations are on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-5-star-hotel-chef-held-for-resorting-to-snatching-to-pay-off-debts-101632297515266.html
22-09-2021||Other||Andhra HC stays appointment of 52 invitees to Tirupati temple Trust Board||The Andhra Pradesh high court on Wednesday stayed the appointment of 52 persons as special invitees to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), along with 24 regular members for the trust board that manages the country’s richest temple of Lord Venkateshwara in Chittoor district.Acting on two separate public interest litigation (PIL) petitions filed on Monday, a division bench of the high court comprising chief justice Aroop Kumar Goswami and justice N Jayasuriya issued interim orders suspending the two government orders (GO No. 568 and 569) for a period of four weeks while it hears the arguments in detail.The petitions have sought to know how these many special invitees could be appointed by giving them all the privileges on par with regular members of the TTD Trust Board regarding darshan, and their tenure.They said the GOs were illegal, arbitrary and also contrary to the section 96 of Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Acts, 1987, and also violation of Article 25 of the Constitution of India.In the GO, principal secretary to endowments department Vani Mohan said the scope of TTD administration spans across development works, engineering, finance and accounting, marketing, media and publication, forestry, water supply and human resource management. “The scale and scope of these activities necessitates inclusion of special invitees who are experts from various fields,” it said.“Tirupati being the most visited place in the state by domestic tourists attracting over 36 million worshippers annually, shall vastly benefit with the addition of eminent personalities as special invitees to the TTD,” it said.The GO added that all the special invitees would enjoy the privileges given to regular members, except voting rights in the trust board meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-hc-stays-appointment-of-52-invitees-to-tirupati-temple-trust-board-101632297095763.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Cops assaulted in road rage incident at Goregaon, 3 arrested||Three men were arrested for assaulting cops and a city resident in an incident of road rage at Mumbai’s Goregaon West during early hours on Monday, police said. Accused Kiran Kasbe (25), Mala Chinras (25), and Prakash Singh (26) were arrested by Bangur Nagar police station personnel following the assault.Police said the incident took place at 1.45 am on Monday at the Goregaon Link Road when Prakash Singh’s auto rickshaw was involved in a crash with a bike, resulting in injuries to motorcyclist Shehbaaz Ayub Shaikh. After the accident, Singh and other two accused, who were travelling in the auto rickshaw, allegedly assaulted Shaikh.However, a nearby police patrol van soon reached the spot after receiving information about the incident. Police presence didn’t stop the three accused, who smashed the front windscreen of the police van and assaulted the constables on duty. A passerby who tried to help was also abused by the trio, police said.Soon Bangur Nagar police arrived to back up the mobile unit and managed to arrest Kasbe from the spot, but the other two managed to flee. They were arrested later in the day from their residences.“We have arrested all the three for assaulting government officials, and threatening and criminal intimidation under sections of the IPC,” said a police officer from Bangur Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-assaulted-in-road-rage-incident-at-goregaon-3-arrested-101632294215193.html
22-09-2021||Noida||Indian member of Nigerian cybercrime gang held by UP police||The Uttar Pradesh police has arrested a Bareilly resident who was allegedly part of a Nigerian gang that duped a Kanpur-based firm of ₹2.5 crore through email spoofing, officials said on Tuesday. Accused Rukhsad Hussain, 26, was held by sleuths of Cyber Cell, Special Operations Group and the local Faridapur police station in Bareilly and ₹27 lakh cash was recovered from his possession, the officials said. Bareilly Senior Superintendent of Police Rohit Singh Sajwan said the cyber gang's Nigerian leader was arrested on August 25 in the district after he was found living in India without any passport or visa. “It also transpired that a Nigerian gang was active that duped people by email spoofing (creation of email messages with a forged sender address). This gang had recently duped a Kanpur-based firm of ₹2.5 crore and transferred the money into various bank accounts opened on forged documents,” Sajwan told reporters. “The gang also had some Indian members whose job was to create the bank accounts on forged documents in which the money would be transferred. These members would then withdraw the money and get a share for their work,” the officer said. Hussain, who is primarily a Zari worker, had got ₹35.85 lakh for his role in helping withdraw the money earned through the fraud, he said. Of the total amount, ₹27 lakh has been seized while Hussain said he has spent the remaining sum, he added. SSP Sajwan said the Bareilly police had earlier got ₹30 lakh of the duped money frozen in a bank account and arrested some other members of the gang. An FIR has been lodged at the Faridpur police station in Bareilly and further legal proceedings are underway, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/indian-member-of-nigerian-cybercrime-gang-held-by-up-police-101632292391753.html
22-09-2021||Kolkata||For the first time, West Bengal to count big herbivores during tiger census||West Bengal for the first time will count big herbivores such as deer and elephants while undertaking the tiger census this year, a senior forest official said on Wednesday.Earlier, the tiger census was done solely focussing on the big cats but from this year, the population of big herbivores will be included in the count as stipulated by the All India Coordinated Tiger Census, Chief Wildlife Warden Debal Roy told PTI."Herbivores are important to the ecosystem inhabited by tigers. Thus, it is imperative to know how many herbivores are co-existing with tigers in a forest area," he explained.Deer, antelopes, gaurs, rhinoceroses and elephants will be counted depending on the region, Roy said.While the 2019-2020 census put the number of tigers in Sunderbans at 95, the Forest Department is hopeful the upcoming census that will begin in December and continue till January will throw up higher figures."Apart from camera trapping technique, other statistical models will be used to arrive at the most probable figure and minimum probable figure," Roy said.The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) will analyse the data, following the census, he said.Sundarbans National Park, Buxa Tiger Reserve, Gorumara National Park, Jaldapara National Park and Chapramari National Park will be covered during the exercise, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/for-the-first-time-west-bengal-to-count-big-herbivores-during-tiger-census-101632292732556.html
22-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal ramps up vaccine drive in rural areas ahead of festive season||With the festive season around the corner, the West Bengal government has ramped up its Covid-19 vaccination drive in rural areas. “The focus has shifted over the last one month or so. At present 60%-70% of the daily doses are being given in peri-urban and rural areas, while only around 30%-40% are being given in urban areas,” said an official of the state health department.Between April 1 and September 18, around 20.3 million doses were given in rural areas while 10.8 million in urban areas. Nearly 85%- 90% of the urban population has received the first dose. People in peri-urban and rural areas are now flocking to the city hospitals to receive the first jab.“While on one hand, the infrastructure is more in the cities compared to the rural and peri-urban areas, these people usually come to the city for health check-ups in state-run hospitals,” the official said.Also Read | More rainfall in West Bengal ahead of Durga Puja? Here’s what IMD saysTo date, around 50.2 million people have received doses in West Bengal. While 30.7 million have received their first dose, 15.2 million have got their second.“Since September 1, on three days at least, we have been able to cross the one-million mark. On September 18, we gave 130,28,64 doses which is the highest given in one day in the state till date,” said another official.Even though the five-day Durga Puja starts from October 11, the festival extends for over a week every year. Mahalaya this year would be held on October 6 and the immersion process would continue till 17.Thousands of people would be flocking to Kolkata and Salt Lake from the peri-urban and rural areas for pandal hopping. The shopping spree ahead of the festive season has started.According to a study commissioned by the state government in 2018, the value of the creative industries that crop up around the Durga Puja – the biggest festival in West Bengal – is worth ₹32,377 crore.At least 36,000 community pujas are held across the state. This includes 2,500 in Kolkata alone. Pujas are held in housing societies and residences as well. Around 1,500 pujas are organised by women only.In 2020, the Calcutta high court banned the entry of visitors into puja pandals. A cap was put on the number of committee members, local residents, and drummers who could enter a pandal as part of the celebrations. Last year, the puja was celebrated in a muted manner which prevented a major spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-ramps-up-vaccine-drive-in-rural-areas-ahead-of-festive-season-101632291214841.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC to beautify all bridges, flyovers with theme-based artwork||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to give a makeover to all the bridges and flyovers in Mumbai with theme-based paintings, murals, and 3-D images on their girders, slabs, parapet walls, and anti-crash barriers. The civic body has recently floated tenders for the 18-month project with an estimated cost of ₹8 crore. All work will be done on weekends, holidays, and at night to ensure that traffic movement is not hampered. A senior civic official of the bridges department said, “Themes for this art work on bridges will be based on the uniqueness of the bridge’s location. For example, if it is close to a heritage structure, we can paint that on it. If it is close to a business district, or a local market, we can have designs depicting those.”The contractor selected for the project will appoint an architect for the design and conceptualisation of the art work. The theme for each artwork will first be approved by the BMC, either via the bridges department, or through a committee set up for approval.The officer said, “The contractor will have to ensure that the safety and structural stability of the bridge is not hampered by the work. All existing traffic signages, signboards, blinkers, warnings, and signals for traffic will have to be maintained in their original spots, and should be visible as per the specifications of the traffic police; the art work should not camouflage the safety signs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmcto-beautify-all-bridges-flyovers-with-theme-based-artwork-101632290914600.html
22-09-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies | Detailing the wonders of fermented pickles, drinks||How many times have you shelled out ₹300 for a bottle of kombucha and wondered why there was no Indian equivalent? Where were all the gut-friendly, probiotic fermented drinks (and foods) in Indian cuisine?Of course, there are. As with anything in India, every state has its own variations. In Kerala and Tamil Nadu, soaking day-old rice overnight, letting it ferment and then drinking it like porridge the following day with pickles is a common practice. Not only does it taste delicious and refreshing, it also fills you up without making you feel bloated or heavy.North Indian kanji too, is a delicious winter drink. Made from black carrots (kaala gajar), which sadly are not to be found here in Bengaluru, this drink too involves natural fermentation for a few days. Nisha Madhulika’s popular Youtube channel has the exact recipe. My version here in Bengaluru comes from my friends, Kavita Gupta and Raj Himatsingka. It was in Raj’s house that I had my first taste of beetroot kanji. Made with sliced beetroots instead of the dark carrots, the kanji is made with yellow mustard seeds powdered with some black salt, asafoetida, pepper and mixed with the beets or carrot. You then pour water and allow it to ferment for 3-5 days. By then, the water is infused with a beet red colour and the sour flavour of the yellow mustard seeds, all of which warm you up for the winter.A more local version is the karindi chutney. I had it first in Sirsi district in the Uttara Karnataka, one of the most beautiful and verdant places in the state. Cleaved by rivers with poetic names such as the Aghanashini and framed by the Western Ghats, Sirsi is where new frog species, flora and fauna are found. It is where school girls with twinkling eyes use giant colocasia leaves as umbrellas as they walk home from school. In this budding blossoming generous land, medicinal herbs sprout from the red red under the pouring rain every few steps. Some tender touch-me-nots shrink as you step on them.Modest homes cook up nourishing simple healthy dishes. Karindi is one of them. The base is flaxseeds, called agase in this state. High in Omega 3 fatty acids, these seeds are left out in the sun or gently roasted. There are several recipes online for karindi. The one I make has equal quantities of the following ingredients: flax seeds, green chilies and garlic. I grind these three together along with 1 teaspoon of salt, fenugreek seeds, cumin/jeera, black mustard seeds. In the end, throw in a handful of fresh coriander leaves and curry leaves. The paste will end up in a rich green colour. Empty into a pickle jar. Separately, cut one cucumber and carrot in small pieces. Fold the vegetables into the paste. Add a bit of water so that it becomes like a porridge. Cover with a piece of cloth, cover the pickle bottle and leave out in the sun for 5 days so that it ferments nicely. The heat of the green chilies goes down as it ferments. So depending on your spice tolerance you can adjust the number and size of the green chilies. Remember, the fatter the green chilly, the less hot it is.Karindi is used a lot by the Veerashaiva community who often eat it with jolada-rotti or jowar rotis. It is kept outside in the kitchen shelf-- not the refrigerator-- and served with everything including hot rice. If you pour a little ghee or coconut oil over it while serving, this adds to the taste. I store it in a earthen pot and have it everyday with pretty much everything. You can smear it over bread for a taste that is akin to English mustard but more nuanced. It can fare really well in a panini because it has girth from the green paste and crunch from the cucumber and carrots.Recently, I found a win-win recipe which incorporates two of the culinary world’s current darlings: millets and fermented foods. The fermented food in this combination is the karindi. The other part of this handshake comes from my neighbouring state of Tamil Nadu. Go to Madurai in the summer and many homes will begin their day with Samai-arisi-kanji. Made from cooked little millets, this too is mildly fermented. What you do is cook a tablespoon of little millet or samai and mash till it is soft. To this add buttermilk and stir in a glass till it become like a porridge. Finally, make a seasoning to sprinkle on top. Heat oil on a pan, add black mustard seeds, cumin, salt, asafoetida, and curry leaves-- also diced garlic if you want to amp up the immune-boosting properties. Add this to the porridge, stir and leave overnight. The heat of Madurai makes this dish ferment nightly. In Bangalore, particularly in September, when the temperature is cool, fermentation is more gentle. In the morning, drink the little millet kanji with a teaspoon of karindi like a pickle. Your stomach will thank you.Shoba Narayan is Bangalore-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-detailing-the-wonders-of-fermented-pickles-drinks-101632285214441.html
22-09-2021||Patna||Reserve EVMs to stay closer for faster replacement in Bihar panchayat polls||Ahead of the first phase of Bihar panchayat polls, the State Election Commission (SEC) has formed clusters at the gram panchayat level to store reserve electronic voting machines (EVMs) for faster replacements if a technical snag hits the ballot machines at polling booths.The clusters would be manned by sector magistrates and one voting machine engineer, an official aware of the developments, said. “The idea of forming reserve clusters of EVMs at the gram panchayat level is to ensure that any faulty EVMs are replaced at a faster speed so that there is less disruption of polling during the voting day,” said one SEC official.This time, EVMs are being used to register votes for 4 posts in the 3 tier local bodies and voting for the remaining two posts in gram kutcheries will be done on ballot papers.The first phase of panchayat polls in the state will kick off from September 24 in 12 blocks spread over 10 districts. This time, the SEC has adopted the biometric system for verifying the identity of voters.Biometric devices, along with a tab and authentication machines, will be installed at all booths for voters to first give their thumb impression and get a photograph clicked. ₹28 crore is likely to be spent for the project being handled by a public sector enterprise.The SEC has already issued guidelines to all district election officers and polling personnel to ensure strict compliance to the biometric authenticity process for voters.On Tuesday, the SEC held a review meeting with officials and police personnel on the election preparedness and security arrangements. Officials aware of the developments said each booth will be manned by three constables and one officer, while in highly sensitive booths and extremist hit areas, the strength will be doubled at every alternate booth. District armed police (DAP) will mainly man the booths while home guard jawans will also be used for election duty, officials said.The campaign for the first phase of panchayat election is ending today. Total 15,300 candidates are in the fray for the six posts in the three-tier local bodies and gram kutcheries for the first phase of polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/reserve-evms-to-stay-closer-for-faster-replacement-in-bihar-panchayat-polls-101632284376044.html
22-09-2021||Patna||Non-teaching staff appointment in Bihar varsities through commission: Minister||Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Tuesday said that recruitment of non-teaching staff in state universities will be done through staff selection commission or a separate commission.“There are vacancies in universities both in teaching and non-teaching positions. While the Bihar state university service commission will carry out appointments of assistant professors, the recruitment of non-teaching staff will be done through another commission. Now, there is a separate portal for non-teaching employees, providing a clear picture of vacancies and the number of sanctioned posts,” Choudhary said.The minister was speaking at the launch of portals for aided-affiliated colleges and also non-teaching staff in the state universities. Later, a training session was also organised for the university officials to smoothly run the portal.All universities in Bihar have huge vacancies for teaching and non-teaching staff. Even Patna University is working at less than 50% of the sanctioned strength due to delayed appointment processes, which run for years. Since 2005, the appointment of teachers in the universities has been done only once by the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC), and the process took nearly four years, while the second round of appointments is presently being done by the Bihar state university service commission.“By the time one round of appointment is completed and fresh inductions are made, even more teachers retire, making the universities perennially short of teaching staff. There is no mechanism to fill the vacancies as and when they occur. For the non-teaching employees and lab technicians, mostly the appointments have not been carried out, leaving it to the universities to manage things on an ad hoc basis. In many universities huge sums are spent on outsourcing of staff and private security guards every month,” said an official, who didn’t wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nonteaching-staff-appointment-in-bihar-varsities-through-commission-minister-101632281493802.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Light to moderate rainfall in Delhi-NCR today: IMD||Delhi-NCR is likely to witness light to moderate rainfall along with thunderstorms on Wednesday, officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.On its Twitter handle, the IMD posted the locations where rainfall is expected today. Along with Delhi, many areas in the National Capital Region (NCR) are also expected to witness thunderstorm with moderate rain.“Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, NCR ( Loni Dehat, Hindon AF Station) Kaithal, Narwana, Karnal, Rajaund, Assandh, Safidon, Barwala, Jind, Panipat, Hissar, Gohana,” the IMD said in a tweet on Wednesday morning.Also Read | Manali: Delhi woman, son swept away in Beas while taking selfieThe department warned of possibility of waterlogging and disruption of traffic in these areas.About Delhi, the IMD said in an early morning tweet that thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur in Safdarjung, Vasant Kunj and Palam. In NCR, Ghaziabad, Chhapraula, Noida, Dadri and Greater Noida are expected to receive rain.The weather department has issued an “orange” alert for Wednesday and a “yellow” alert for Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. For Friday, it has issued a “green” alert.The IMD uses four colour codes - “green” means all is well, “yellow” indicates severely bad weather and that the weather could change for the worse, causing disruptions in the day-to-day activities, an “orange” alert is issued as a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply and “red” is when extremely bad weather conditions are certainly going to disrupt travel and power and pose significant risk to life.Delhi this year has seen an erratic monsoon, with the season being one of the wettest since IMD started maintaining weather records. In the month of September, Delhi also recorded eight rainy days, which is unlikely for this time of the year. Usually, the rainiest months of the season is August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-to-moderate-rainfall-in-delhincrtodayimd-101632279993504.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sacrilege cases: Will ensure justice, says Channi at Golden Temple||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi paid obeisance at the Golden Temple, the holiest shrine of the Sikhs, in Amritsar early on Wednesday and announced that he will ensure justice in the sacrilege cases of 2015. Accompanied by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chief minister arrived at 4am and shouldered the Palki Sahib (palanquin carrying Guru Granth Sahib) and attended the kirtan at the sanctum sanctorum in Darbar Sahib for an hour before speaking to the media briefly. Also read: Punjab CM Channi takes chartered flight to Delhi to meet bosses, kicks up row“I assure you that there will be justice in the sacrilege cases,” Channi said, referring to the series of desecration incidents of ‘birs’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib after the incident at Bargari in Faridkot district in June 2015 and subsequent protests that left two followers dead in police firing at Behbal Kalan in October 2015 during the Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP rule. Six years after the incidents, the delay in action was one of the reasons for the rebellion within the Congress against former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Five months to go for the assembly elections, the Congress leadership, at the instance of Sidhu, had asked Capt Amarinder to fulfil the pre-poll promise of bringing the perpetrators of the sacrilege and police firing cases to justice. Seconding Channi’s resolve, Sidhu said: “Sacha Sikh woh hota hai jo haq aur sach ki baat karta ho (A true Sikh is one who talks of rights and the truth).” Deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were also present. They did the parikarma (circumambulation) of Darbar Sahib with Channi and Sidhu amid tight security as devotees watched from a distance. After paying obeisance at Golden Temple, the chief minister and his deputies along with the state Congress chief went to Durgiana Temple and Ram Tirath Temple. Later, they took a stopover at a local tea stall and interacted with local residents.Channi, his two deputies and Sidhu reached Amritsar on Tuesday night from Delhi where they had gone to discuss the expansion of the new state cabinet with the party’s central leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sacrilege-cases-will-ensure-justice-says-channi-at-golden-temple-101632279513225.html
22-09-2021||Kolkata||More rainfall in West Bengal ahead of Durga Puja? Here's what IMD says||West Bengal has been experiencing heavy rainfall since the beginning of the week; however, the MeT department in its latest forecasts indicated that a respite from the downpour may not be on its way anytime soon despite the state preparing to hold the much-awaited Durga Puja festival in the upcoming month. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted more rainfall till Wednesday morning, which may well extend into later in the day throughout south Bengal, including in Kolkata, where several low-lying localities and metropolitan streets still lay waterlogged on account of the incessant showers over the past couple of days.Also Read | Trains delayed, roads submerged as heavy rain pounds Kolkata; commuters stuckThunderstorms with lightning, along with heavy rain, may lash all districts of south Bengal today, with coastal South 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur, and its neighbouring Paschim Medinipur likely to receive heavier downpour. According to the weatherman, there is also a possibility of a cyclonic formation intensifying over the area on Saturday, which may bring torrential rainfall on the weekend. Coastal areas of the state, including the districts of South 24 Parganas and Midnapore, may experience an increase in the downpour on Sunday.The storm circulation, with its associated low-pressure area, still persists, the IMD said; the formation had originally accumulated over the southern parts of Gangetic Bengal and adjoining Odisha, and extended up to 5.8km above mean sea level. However, there is also the possibility of the cyclonic formation changing its direction from Odisha, which might spare Bengal any further rainfall, according to reports citing the weather forecasters at the Alipore MeT department.Also Read | Rain, floods killed 6,800 people in India in last 3 yrs; Bengal tops listNotably, Kolkata had logged 142mm of rainfall in a span of 24 hours till 8.30am on Monday, the highest in a single day in September since 2007, according to the MeT department. Waterlogging caused by torrential rain for several hours since early Monday in the metropolis and surrounding localities, including Salt Lake and New Town, threw life out of gear, as people remained stuck at home and those outside experienced a hard time reaching their destinations. Similar scenes were witnessed in Sonarpur, Baruipur, Midnapore, and Haldia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/more-rainfall-in-west-bengal-ahead-of-durga-puja-here-s-what-imd-says-101632276055127.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Bike rider crashed to death while avoiding potholes on Thane road||A 23 year-old Mumbra resident died on Tuesday afternoon after his bike crashed while trying to avoid potholes near Gaimukh junction on Ghodbunder road in Thane district of Maharashtra. Mohammed Badwale received serious head injuries in the crash and died during treatment at a nearby hospital the same evening, police said. Police said that Badwale’s bike skidded after it hit the second pothole on Ghodbunder road while trying to avoid the first one as he rode towards Thane city in the course of his work.“The accident happened near Gaimukh junction when the bike rider was trying to avoid one pothole and his bike skidded due to another pothole ahead.He was thrown off the bike and suffered serious head and leg injuries,” an officer from Kasarvadavali police station said on condition of anonymity. The officer added that Badwale was immediately taken to Civil Hospital, where he died within a few hours. They officer said they have requested Thane Municipal Corporation to fill up the potholes on the stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bike-rider-crashed-to-death-while-avoiding-potholes-on-thane-road-101632277053047.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||'Bad weather' forecast for Delhi: Areas to avoid based on IMD tweet||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a warning for bad weather in Delhi on Wednesday with the possibility of waterlogging and disruption of traffic. On its Twitter handle, the IMD posted the locations where rainfall is expected today. Along with Delhi, many areas in the National Capital Region (NCR) are also expected to witness thunderstorm with moderate rain."22/09/2021: 07:10 IST; Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, NCR ( Loni Dehat, Hindon AF Station) Kaithal, Narwana, Karnal, Rajaund, Assandh, Safidon, Barwala, Jind, Panipat, Hissar, Gohana," the IMD said in a tweet on Wednesday morning.22/09/2021: 07:10 IST; Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi ( ), NCR ( Loni Dehat, Hindon AF Station) Kaithal, Narwana, Karnal, Rajaund, Assandh, Safidon, Barwala, Jind, Panipat, Hissar, Gohana,Gannaur, Hansi, Sonipat, Hodal (Haryana) Bijnaur, Sakoti Tanda, Hastinapur, Chandpur, Baraut, Daurala, Bagpat, Meerut, Khekra, Modinagar, Kithor, Amroha, Garhmukteshwar, Pilakhua, Hapur, Gulaoti, Siyana, Sikandrabad, Bulandshahar, Jahangirabad, Anupshahar, Shikarpur and Khurja are also expected to receive rain on Wedneday morning, it further said.About Delhi, the IMD said in an early morning tweet that thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur in Safdarjung, Vasant Kunj and Palam. In NCR, Ghaziabad, Chhapraula, Noida, Dadri and Greater Noida are expected to receive rain.The weather department has issued an "orange" alert for Wednesday and a "yellow" alert for Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. For Friday, it has issued a "green" alert.The IMD uses four colour codes - "green" means all is well, "yellow" indicates severely bad weather and that the weather could change for the worse, causing disruptions in the day-to-day activities, an "orange" alert is issued as a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply and "red" is when extremely bad weather conditions are certainly going to disrupt travel and power and pose significant risk to life.On Tuesday, rain caused waterlogging and traffic snarls in a few areas in Delhi.The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 3.6 mm of rainfall till 5.30 pm. Lodhi Road, the Ridge area, Noida and Pitampura recorded 1 mm, 17.6 mm, 2 mm and 7 mm of rainfall respectively between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, has received 1161.1 mm of rainfall this season. It had gauged 1,155.6 mm of rainfall in 1975 and 1190.9 mm in 1964.The all-time record is 1,420.3 mm rainfall in 1933.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bad-weather-forecast-for-delhi-areas-to-avoid-based-on-imd-tweet-101632276413501.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Surya Kiran air show at Chandigarh's Sukhna Lake today to mark 50th year of victory in 1971 war||The Chandigarh Air Force Station will be organising in association with the administration of the Union territory an air show on Wednesday (September 22) evening at the Sukhna Lake. The hour-long event, being held on the occasion of the Swarnim Vijay Diwas (50th year of victory) of the 1971 India-Pakistan war, will see the participation of the Surya Kirans and other aircraft to observe the country's historic victory on the battlefield. In the coming days, celebrations and air shows will be held across other parts of the country as well, according to a report.Also Read | Ludhiana: Surya Kiran show as IAF remembers its PVC awardee SekhonThe 12 Wing Air Force Station in Chandigarh has over the years become one of the most significant bases of the Indian Air Force (IAF), equipped with the latest fighter jets and other aero-warfare gear. The Surya Kiran Aerobatic Team – formally known as the ‘Formation Aerobatics Units’ of the IAF – is equipped with state-of-the-art Hawk aircraft built by the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL).The Surya Kiran aerobatic team, which carries the motto “Always the best”, will be undertaking low-level displays over the Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh this evening; the event is scheduled to begin at 4:30pm. Earlier last week on Saturday, the Surya Kiran team held similar displays over Jalandhar, and is also slated to carry out another show at Srinagar on September 26 (Sunday), as well as over the Hindon airbase and Pune on October 16.Also Read | India's next Air Chief Vivek Chaudhari flew missions during 1999 Kargil warSpeaking to Hindustan Times, officials familiar with planning the mega-event informed last week that the programme on Wednesday will be free of charge and open to all. Although people are being cordially invited to witness the event from the walking track of Sukhna Lake, no admission will be provided without face masks; in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols currently in place across the country. People have also been advised to witness the show from their rooftops, wherever possible.The Chandigarh Police have been instructed to strictly enforce Covid appropriate behaviour during the event. The air show can also be viewed @suryakiran_iaf on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/surya-kiran-air-show-at-chandigarh-s-sukhna-lake-today-to-mark-50th-year-of-victory-in-1971-war-101632267600334.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Traders stage protest; Jammu to observe ‘bandh’ today||Traders and various political parties’ activists on Tuesday staged separate protests against the proposed opening of 100 Reliance retail stores in Jammu, a claim which the company said is “completely untrue”. However, the Jammu and Kashmir High Court Bar Association and different political parties in J&K extended their support to the ‘Jammu Bandh’ call for Wednesday. Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry had given the bandh call to protest against government’s move of opening 100 Reliance retail stores in Jammu and other “anti-trade decisions” of the BJP government. It will be the first ever bandh by the traders since the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A on August 5, 2019. “The Jammu Chamber of Commerce of Industry along with other business and trade organisations has given a call for Jammu bandh on Wednesday to draw the UT administration’s attention towards the hardships faced by them on account of some faulty policies,” read an official statement issued here. “It is hoped that L-G Manoj Sinha and his administration will take note of the problems being faced by Jammu region, in particular by the lawyers, traders, businessmen, farmers, unemployed youth, and also the civic and infrastructure deficiencies, and address the same to make life easier for the people,” it added. The National Conference, the Congress, the Panthers Party, the CPIM, the AAP, and the Apni Party have supported the bandh call. Federation of Retailers Association Jammu, Dogra Front and Shiv Sena, J&K, All J&K Banquet Halls Association and Jammu Muslim Front (JMF) have also extended their support. J&K Congress Committee has announced its support to the bandh call of Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said its chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma. “The Congress had been opposing the anti-people policies of the Modi government and now each and every section of the society feels the pain of the wrong economic policies of the BJP. The BJP is only encouraging and promoting crony capitalism,” he said. “The NC has all along stood for safeguarding the interests of Jammu and Kashmir and will continue so with a sense of commitment,” said a party spokesperson in a statement issued here. Panthers Party president Bhim Singh said the entire Jammu province will protest against the government decision to open 100 Reliance stores. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traders-stage-protest-jammu-to-observe-bandh-today-101632267691463.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||BJP has put J&K on sale, made Jammu a lab: Mehbooba||The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president and former J&K chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti, on Tuesday said that the “BJP government has put Jammu and Kashmir on sale”. She also accused the BJP government of communalising the atmosphere in Jammu and Kashmir, along with the country, to further its agenda. “Jammu and Kashmir has been put on sale by the government for the people from outside. They want us to become so poor that we become totally dependent on other states,” she said at a press conference here. “Jammu was a meeting point for different religions and ethnicities. Secularism was our identity and Jammu was the only place in India where one can see people from every religion, but it is being attacked. If the people of Jammu do not unite with Kashmir, then we will be wiped out,” she said. The PDP chief added, “The biggest problem of J&K is unemployment, which has shot up to 18%, highest in the country.” ‘For them, Sikhs are Khalistanis and we are Pakistanis’She also accused the BJP government of being bereft of any vision for Jammu and Kashmir. “Those in Delhi are using Jammu as a laboratory. Nehru and Vajpayee had a vision for Jammu and Kashmir, but the BJP is bereft of it. BJP’s vision is only to divide and rule, how to make people fight against each other and how to sell our resources to outsiders. For them, Sikhs are Khalistanis and we are Pakistanis,” she added. She also criticised the BJP-led government at the Centre for renaming roads and schools in J&K after soldiers killed in action. “They (BJP) don’t have anything to do. Will changing names generate employment for the youth? They are doing so because they have nothing to show. In the past seven years, they have sold big assets of the nation to corporate houses,” Mehbooba said. In August 2021, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had announced that the government schools would be renamed after bravehearts. Jammu divisional commissioner had sent letters to the DCs of Doda, Jammu, Reasi, Poonch, Rajouri, Samba, Kathua, Kishtwar and Udhampur districts to identify government schools in villages and municipal wards that can be renamed. The PDP chief also lashed out at the Centre’s delimitation exercise. “The delimitation exercise is being done haphazardly and hurriedly,” she said. Mehbooba claimed that the BJP government had no plans to bring the nation out of the “morasses of economic crisis” and said that “they talk about Taliban, Afghanistan but not about farmers and unemployment”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-has-put-j-k-on-sale-made-jammu-a-lab-mehbooba-101632267211517.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||263 more Covid cases detected in HP||Himachal Pradesh recorded 263 fresh Covid infections on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 2,17,403 while the death toll mounted to 3,639 after two patients died of the contagion. Of the new cases, 69 were reported in Kangra, 66 in Mandi, 63 in Hamirpur, 21 in Shimla, 17 in Una, 12 in Bilaspur, seven in Kullu, four in Chamba, two in Solan and one each in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti. The active cases have gone up to 1,715 while recoveries reached 2,12,033 after 162 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,491 cases reported to date followed by 30,663 in Mandi and 27,073 in Shimla.145 test positive in J&KJammu and Kashmir recorded 145 fresh coronavirus infections and two deaths on Tuesday. Both the fatalities were reported from Jammu division.There were 121 cases in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 24 infections. The summer capital Srinagar witnessed 56 cases.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 154 with active cases reaching 1,450.The overall number of people who have recovered mounted to 3,22,345 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.22%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3, 28,214 and the death toll stands at 4,419.Officials said with 56 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by Baramulla with 14 and Budgam with nine fresh infections. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,143 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 838 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/263-more-covid-cases-detected-in-hp-101632266851396.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||In brief: HP seeks central support for FPOs||HP’s urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj met the Union home minister, Amit Shah, on Tuesday and urged him to extend the scope of coverage of central schemes of Farmer Produce Organisation (FPO) as cooperative societies in the Himachal irrespective of whether they have been covered under ICDP or not. The minister said Himachal is formulating a policy to promote FPOs in cooperative sectors in the state. The minister apprised the Union minister of Himachal’s target of registering 100 FPOs in one year and reaching out to a minimum 10, 000 farmers through them. He said the FPOs in the cooperative sector will strengthen the post-harvest management infrastructure in the state.He also requested to earmark funds for training of management committee members as distinguished from the training of secretaries. 
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Manali: Delhi woman, son swept away in Beas while taking selfie||A 37-year-old woman and her son died after drowning in Beas at Bhang village, about four-kilometre uphill Manali, police said on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Preeti Bhasin and her son Pulkit Bhasin, 12. Both were residing at Hotel Legrand. The mother-son duo had gone to the riverside to click photographs. The two fell into the river while clicking selfies on a rock. A hotel employee, Ravi, who saw the two drowning, jumped into the river to save them but in vain. Ravi has also sustained injuries. The hotel staff informed the police, who along with locals launched rescue operations. The tourists had arrived from Delhi on Tuesday morning. The bodies were retrieved from the river 4km downstream. Sanjeev Kumar, subdivisional police officer, said the bodies were sent to a hospital in Manali and would be handed over to the victims’ family after the autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manali-delhi-woman-son-swept-away-in-beas-while-taking-selfie-101632266193005.html
22-09-2021||Other||174 dengue cases detected in Mohali in three weeks||As many as 174 dengue cases have been detected in Mohali in the last three weeks, prompting the health department to increase surveillance and testing. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said, “Since September 1, we have collected around 640 samples, of which 174 have tested positive for dengue. Around 60% of the cases are from Phase-7 of Mohali while the rest are scattered throughout the district.”Dr Kaur said, “We observe Friday as a dry day and our teams carry out inspections to check for stagnant water.”The health department has urged residents to take precautions. They said the Aedes aegypti mosquito, which causes dengue, breeds till the end of November. They warned people to watch out for water-borne diseases such as diarrhoea, cholera, typhoid, hepatitis A and E and avoid drinking contaminated water. The civil surgeon said dengue patients have high fever for five to six days. Platelet count may drop after the fever recedes. “We have asked private hospitals to report any suspected or confirmed dengue cases to the health department and send suspected samples immediately so that confirmatory tests could be done and remedial steps can be taken,” she said, adding, “Dengue testing and treatment are available free of cost in government hospitals across the district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/174-dengue-cases-detected-in-mohali-in-three-weeks-101632261016334.html
22-09-2021||Other||2009-batch IAS officer Isha Kalia is new Mohali DC||Isha Kalia, a 2009-batch IAS officer, has been appointed the new deputy commissioner (DC) of Mohali, in place of Girish Dayalan whose posting orders are yet to be issued.While assuming the charge on Tuesday at the district administrative and court complex in Sector 76, Kalia said there will be special emphasis on grievance redressal mechanism.She added that every district requires a different approach and she will prioritise matters accordingly to redress the problems of the people. She added that all officers will be held accountable for their work.Prior to this, Kalia was posted as the director general school education (DGSE). She has also served as special secretary, department of health and family welfare, and as the deputy commissioner of Hoshiarpur, Fazilka, and Bathinda and special secretary, water supply and sanitation, and additional chief executive officer, Punjab bureau of investment promotion, and member secretary, Punjab state women commission.Kalia has received a guard of honour by a contingent of Punjab Police and she inspected the parade at the district administrative complex. Her husband Sumeet Jarangal, also a 2009-batch IAS officer, was posted as the director information and public relations on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2009batch-ias-officer-isha-kalia-is-new-mohali-dc-101632260716144.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhna floodgates opened as water level touches danger mark||Following showers in the catchment areas, one of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake had to be opened for around four hours on Tuesday. This is the third time this season that the lake’s floodgates had to be opened.As per UT administration officials, the water-level of Sukhna Lake had gone upto 1,163 feet, which is the danger-mark, prompting them to open the floodgates.The last two times when the gates were opened, the water-levels had remained below the danger-mark.The gate was opened around 10:30 am and closed around 3:00 pm. A warning was also sent out to the Punjab government about this, however, since only one gate was opened, there weren’t any incidents of flooding or waterlogging along the Sukhna Choe. Last year, the water-level had risen to 1,163.4 feet and two of the three floodgates had to be opened. This led to flooding along Baltana. Before this, one of the three floodgates had to be opened on August 9 and on August 14 this year.Chances of light rain to continue in cityMeanwhile, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), 6.8mm of rain was recorded at their Sector 39 observatory, including 1.2mm rain till 8:30am on Tuesday, and 4.6mm till 5:30pm. At the airport, 9mm rain was recorded. Chances of light to moderate rain will continue in the coming days as well due to a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal.Due to rain during the day, the maximum temperature of the city slipped from 34.4°C on Monday to 30.4°C on Tuesday. The minimum temperature dipped from 27.2°C on Monday to 25.2°C on Tuesday. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 29°C and 32°C while the minimum temperature will remain around 24°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhna-floodgates-opened-as-water-level-touches-danger-mark-101632260055894.html
22-09-2021||Other||Udhampur chopper crash: Neighbours remember Major Anuj Rajput as a ‘polite, perfect child’||Major Anuj Rajput, who was among the two young pilots of the Army Aviation Corps killed in a chopper crash in Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur district on Tuesday, was the only child of his parents.The 28-year-old, who had got engaged just a few months ago, was set to get married soon.A pall of gloom descended his neighbourhood in Sector 20, Panchkula, as news of the tragedy spread. His parents --KS Arya, a former commercial pilot and now an advocate, and mother, Usha, a government school teacher – have left for Udhampur. Capt DK Uppal, one of the neighbours of the family, said, “Anuj was a very polite, obedient and loveable young fellow. We had never seen a child like him. Perfect is word for him.”Coming from a family of pilots, Major Rajput had been passionate about flying since a young age. “He was only 18 when he joined the NDA and became a commissioned officer. He was promoted to the rank of major only a month-and-a-half ago. His received many awards during his service. Visit his house and you’ll see the walls filled with awards and accolades,” said Capt Uppal.An alumnus of St John’s Chandigarh, the officer had got engaged to a teacher this July and the families were in process of finalising the wedding date when tragedy struck.Capt Uppal revealed that Major Rajput had survived another accident about a year ago. “A Cheetah helicopter had got stuck in a high-voltage wire. Anuj was lucky as the power had been switched off at the time due to repair works. Sadly, he could not survive this crash,” said Capt Uppal.As per information, Major Rajput and his partner Major Rohit Kumar of Ace City, Noida West in the NCR, were on a training sortie when their Cheetah helicopter crash landed in Shiv Garh Dhar area near Patnitop tourist resort in Udhampur district. The two pilots were injured in the mishap and evacuated to a hospital, but could not survive. A video clip of the incident purportedly shows villagers trying to retrieve the injured personnel from the badly mangled chopper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/udhampur-chopper-crash-neighbours-remember-major-anuj-rajput-as-a-polite-perfect-child-101632259516008.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh has no plans to extend lal dora limits in its villages||Laying to rest all speculations about the extension of lal dora — the red line that separates village habitation from adjacent agricultural land—in UT villages, adviser Dharam Pal said there are no such plans and illegal constructions outside the limit will have to be demolished, “preferably” by the violators themselves as the administration prepares to roll out a land pooling policy and village development plan.The adviser clarified, “At the moment there is no plan to extend the lal dora. It is not under consideration.” The speculation had gained momentum in the past few months after the administration started working to formulate a policy for regularisation of illegal constructions outside lal dora. In January this year, former UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had directed UT officials to bring a comprehensive policy on the issue. The administration has roped in the Indian Institute of Human Settlement (IISH), Bengaluru, to formulate a land pooling and aggregation policy. In a recent meeting with the IISH representatives, the first draft of the policy was discussed. During the meeting, the adviser directed the UT urban planning department to devise a plan for village development. In addition to it, to bring more clarity on lal dora, the deputy commissioner’s office was directed to provide demarcated lal dora areas to the planning department.Political parties and village residents have been consistently asking for the extension of lal dora and regularisation of constructions outside it. Architects and city’s heritage conservationists are demanding that these illegal constructions should be removed to protect the city’s character. Hundreds of cases are pending in the high court and SDM courts on the issue. With municipal corporation elections a little over two months away, the lal dora extension will be a key issue as villages’ votes are likely to make difference for a party to cross the winning seat marks in the MC House. Regularising illegal constructions The Punjab New Capital Periphery Control Act restricts constructions in the periphery of around 16km (controlled area) of the city, which covers the areas outside the lal dora. Punjab and Haryana high court has also imposed restrictions on construction for protection of Sukhna Catchment Area. The planning department has consistently flagged large-scale illegal construction and colonisation in villages of Chandigarh. Administration recently authorised three sub divisional magistrates (SDM) to demolish any new construction outside lal dora. But constructions continue to crop up in most villages such as Kishangarh-Manimajra, Hallomajra, Maloya, areas around Bapu Dham near Sukhna Choe, Khuda Ali Sher and Kaimbwala etc. For instance, in Khuda Ali Sher village, even advertisement boards can be spotted offering land for sale. Walled bifurcated plots are available with internal roads, drinking water supply, sewerage, and electricity connections. Most of these advertisements are for farmhouses. But overtime, land is bifurcated multiple times to form smaller plots. Also, small hutments get converted into bigger houses gradually, say local residents. On the regularisation of large-scale illegal constructions outside the lal dora, the adviser, said, “After the administration finalises the village development plan and land pooling policy, the violators will have to go as per that plan. They will have to first demolish their unauthorised constructions, and get their new constructions, if permitted, as per the plan.” “Once land pooling policy comes into force, people may pool their resources and demolish unauthorised buildings and go for authorised ones. After leaving space for parks, roads, etc, people will be allowed to create residential and commercial spaces. That will be a huge incentive for people to go for legal structures and demolish illegal ones,” said Pal. The draft land pooling policy is expected to be ready in a month’s time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-has-no-plans-to-extend-lal-dora-limits-in-its-villages-101632259035843.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gurpreet Bhullar is new Ludhiana police commissioner||Barely a month after his posting, Ludhiana commissioner of police Naunihal Singh was transferred on Tuesday.  Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, a 2004-batch IPS officer, will replace him as the new Ludhiana commissioner of police. He was earlier the deputy inspector general (Ludhiana range). The transfer orders were issued following change in the top political echelons. Naunihal had assumed charge as Ludhiana commissioner only last month, on August 21. He has now been transferred to Jalandhar as commissioner of police . Soon after joining, Naunihal had kept the forces on their toes round the clock by calling meetings at odd hours, sometimes as early as 3am. He had also exhibited a propensity for conducting surprise checks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurpreet-bhullar-is-new-ludhiana-police-commissioner-101632258975865.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||In Ludhiana, it’s risky ride on bumpy roads||Commuting in torrential rainfall on flooded roads can be brutal. However, the pothole-riddled roads are adding to commuters’ woes as they are being subjected to a rather bumpy ride. The state of the roads remains deplorable, despite municipal corporation officials’ extravagant claims and promises. Recently, in response to an RTI (Right To Information Act) petition, the civic body had claimed that ₹212 crore had been spent on repairing roads between 2015 to 2020.However, as matters stand at present, deep craters pockmark the roads on Gill Road, Ferozepur Road, Jagraon Bridge, BRS Nagar, Model Town-Jawaddi Road, Haibowal, and Model Town Extension among other areas. Streets in residential areas such as Sarabha Nagar, Model House, Field Ganj, and the Dugri area are also in a bad state.With the civic body reluctant to carry out repairs in the monsoon season, councillors and residents have sought an alternative to the problem.Oppn slams MC Lok Insaaf Party councillor Swarandeep Chahal said he had taken up the matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu on Tuesday and had demanded that the MC start the repair work with ready-mix concrete or other alternative material. “The roads are in bad shape and the commuters are a harried lot. Rather than waiting for the end of monsoon season, we need to chalk out a solution,” he said. Slamming the ruling party, MC leader of Opposition Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “Not a single road in the city is in good condition and the MC is turning a blind eye to the plight of the people.” Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Patchwork cannot be done during the rainy season as the hotmix plant cannot function in the rain. Experts say that it will stop raining after Friday,and we will start repair work soon after that.” Residents decry ‘double standards’ Pointing out that come rain or shine, the civic body had repaired roads ahead of housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shaker Mishra’s visit to the city, residents slammed the MC for not showing similar initiative when it came to the residents’ issues. MC teams were seen repairing roads in Sarabha Nagar, and the Civil Lines among other areas, ahead of Mishra’s visit on September 17. Repair work was again put on a halt after his visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-ludhiana-it-s-risky-ride-on-bumpy-roads-101632258678100.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police honoured for solving Sector-27 robbery||UT director general of police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan on Tuesday honoured the team that solved the case in which a model-turned-actor was held captive in her house and robbed in broad daylight at knifepoint in Sector 27 on September 7. The cops who were honoured are deputy superintendent of police Gurmukh Singh, station house officer of Sector 26 police station Jasbir Singh, Bapu Dham police post in-charge Rohtash Yadav and their team members and operation cell in-charge Amanjot Singh and his team. PU prof on review panel of Pakistani journal Coordinator of Panjab University’s Urdu department, Ali Abbas, has been picked up as a member of the editorial, advisory board and manuscript reviewer for Pakistan Journal of Media Sciences. This research journal is being published under the Society for Social Science and Research Association, Karachi, Pakistan. Swavavlamban Mela held at Home Science CollegeGovernment Home Science College, Sector 10, organised a one-day swavavlamban mela on the theme earn while you learn. UT director of higher education, Palki Arora, was the chief guest at the event. Budding entrepreneurs of the college set up stalls showcasing their products at the event. Principal Sudha Katyal congratulated the students for putting up a great show and showcasing their expertise.Bicycle rally held to promote women’s rightsTo celebrate International Day of Peace, Yuvsatta, an NGO, in collaboration with Afghan Students Unity Group in Chandigarh, St John’s High School, Sector 26 and St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, organised a bicycle rally in support of girls and women’s rights in Afghanistan. The rally was flagged off from parade ground in Sector 17 and culminated at Gandhi Bhawan, Sector 16.MC staffers to cycle to work todayAfter the UT administration decided to observe World Car Free Day, MC commissioner Anindita Mitra has directed all officials and employees of the civic body and Chandigarh Smart City Limited to use bicycles to come to office on September 22.PU enactus team launches cloth-based sanitary napkins for the underprivilegedEnactus team of Dr SS Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (SSBUICET), Panjab University, in collaboration with Developing Indigenous Resources-India (DIR) and Versatile Group, Ludhiana, have launched reusable, cost-effective and eco-friendly cloth-based sanitary napkins under Project Uday, at an event held on Tuesday at Janata Colony, Nayagaon. Sanitary napkin kits were distributed among 30 slum women of Janta Colony.PGIMER to organise conference on tobaccoThe department of community medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, will hold a three-day virtual 5th National Conference on Tobacco or Health (NCTOH) between September 25 and 27. Dr Sonu Goel, the organising secretary and professor at PGIMER, said, “The conference is likely to cover emerging and re-emerging issues in tobacco control which is likely to promote academics and research for their translation into effective policy and practice.”UT to focus on top rank in Amrut 2.0, Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0Focusing on attaining a top rank in AMRUT 2.0 and Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0, Chandigarh will complete fecal sludge management, wastewater treatment, source segregation of garbage, reduction in single-use plastic, reduction in air pollution by effectively managing waste from construction and demolition activities, and bioremediation of all legacy dump sites.Virtual International Symposium on Sikh Architecture concludes
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||September brings 100% surplus rain to Ludhiana||Making up for the deficit rainfall in August, the city has so far received 100% surplus rain in September, and still more downpours are expected in the course of the month. On Tuesday, the city received 16.4mm rainfall, taking the gross rainfall this month to 199.4 mm, which is 97.6mm more than the average rainfall of 101.8mm. As has been the trend for the last three years, monsoon withdrawal has been delayed and is now expected to commence in October. Around 250mm rainfall was witnessed in September 2019. As per experts at Punjab Agricultural University’s department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, monsoon withdrawal normally begins in mid-September. However, since 2018, the withdrawal has had a delayed start in October, due to a change in the pattern of monsoon. For the last few years, Ludhiana has been reporting deficit rainfall. However, excess rainfall was witnessed this year. PAU principal agrometeorologist KK Gill said, “In August, Ludhiana only received 108mm rainfall, against the normal of 190mm. Earlier, at 271mm, excess rainfall was recorded in July against the normal of 217mm.” However, the showers were much needed. PAU department of climate change and agricultural meteorology Dr Prabhjyot Kaur said the rainfall being witnessed in the city nowadays is good for recharging groundwater. “There are run-off losses during heavy rainfall. However, light rainfall allows water to percolate and recharges the groundwater reserves,” said Sidhu. The PAU experts also said that light to moderate rainfall being witnessed at most parts of the state was good for the paddy crop.The maximum temperature in Ludhiana was 27.4°C, while the minimum was 24.4°C on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/september-brings-100-surplus-rain-to-ludhiana-101632257657523.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Expect low-pressure water supply in evenings on Sept 22, 23||On September 22 and 23, water supply will have a low pressure in the evenings, the MC officials have said.“There will be a shutdown on September 22 and 23 for 24 hours for the connection of the inlet line of 20MGD water treatment plant being constructed by GMADA with 2,200mm diameter rising main of Phases 5, 6, 7 and 8, Kajauli,” said a MC spokesperson.Due to the shutdown, there will be no pumping of raw water from Jandpur pumping station under MC to Sector-39 waterworks. Supply will be at full pressure in the morning from 3.30am to 9.30am. On both the days, water supply in the evening from 6pm to 8pm will be at a low pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-expect-low-pressure-water-supply-in-evenings-on-sept-22-23-101632257295464.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity sees 17 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||The tricity recorded 17 new Covid cases on Tuesday, of which the maximum, eight cases, were detected in Mohali. The district also reported one death on the day.The latest casualty is a 44-year-old woman from Kharar, Mohali, who had tested positive on Monday and was admitted to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. The other two jurisdictions in the tricity area did not report any Covid death.Chandigarh reported seven new infections while Panchkula saw two cases. The fresh infections in UT were detected in Sector 14, 18, 31, 38 and Manimajra while in Panchkula, the new cases came from Sector 2 and Sector 16. In Mohali, four cases were reported from Kharar, one from Dera Bassi, while three surfaced in Mohali.Chandigarh currently has the highest number of active cases at 44, followed by Mohali with 38 and Panchkula with 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-sees-17-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101632256815371.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two labourers held for snatching gold chain in Manimajra||Two men working as labourers were arrested for gold chain snatching in Manimajra, the police said on Tuesday.The accused were identified as Ashu, alias Nata, 21, hailing from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, and Nitin, 18, hailing from Mubarikpur, Mohali. The police have recovered the motorcycle used in the crime; it was stolen from Zirakpur. The accused were produced before a court on Tuesday and remanded to one-day police custody.The police have also recovered a gold chain, a mobile phone and two more stolen motorcycles from the duo.The two labourers were arrested on the complaint of one Savitri Devi of Dadumajra Colony, who works as a house cook in Sector 38. On September 17, when she had gone to Manimajra market, an unidentified person had sneaked up on her and snatched her gold chain. She added that an accomplice of the accused was waiting at a distance on a motorcycle.A case under Section 379A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code was registered on September 20, and after the arrest, Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) was also added to the FIR.Police said Ashu criminal cases were registered against him in different police stations in Chandigarh and Nayagaon in Mohali of theft and robbery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-labourers-held-for-snatching-gold-chain-in-manimajra-101632256515303.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Golf Club: JS Bakshi emerges winner at monthly tournament||JS Bakshi ended up with the best gross score of 71 points to emerge as the winner of the three-day monthly medal round tournament held at the Chandigarh Golf Club greens, which concluded on Tuesday.Playing in the 0-6 handicap category, Paramjit Arora emerged as the champion with 37 points while Tejinder Grewal was runners-up with 37 points. In the 7-10 handicap category, MS Pooni won with 40 points while Brig HPS Dhillon came in second with 39 points. Capt GS Ghuman won in the 11-14 handicap category with 41 points while Ankush Garg was runners-up with 40 points.PDS Bajwa with 39 points won in the handicap 15-18 category while VK Singh was the runners-up with 37 points. In the 19-24 handicap category, Binny Bath emerged champion with 33 points and Harpreet Bath was the runners-up with 29 points. As many as 212 members participated in the tournament. The prizes were given away by Chandigarh Golf Club president Ravibir Singh, Captain Arvind Bajaj and chairman, tournaments, GS Bakshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-golf-club-js-bakshi-emerges-winner-at-monthly-tournament-101632256276794.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi takes chartered flight to Delhi to meet bosses, kicks up row||Chandigarh  Barely hours after he profusely thanked the Congress high command for picking an “aam aadmi” (common man) for the top post, new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other Congress leaders on Tuesday drew flak from the opposition parties for taking a chartered flight to Delhi. Channi, his two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu travelled from Chandigarh to Delhi in the chartered plane to meet the central leaders for a discussion on cabinet expansion. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) questioned the use of the chartered flight by the CM and his deputies. “After saying that they stand with the common man, INC leaders take private jets to travel just 250km from Chandigarh to Delhi. Are there no normal flights or cars that can be use? Or is this chest thumping aimed at propagation of Gandhi family’s Delhi Darbar culture?” the SAD said in a tweet, taking a dig at the Congress leaders. AAP MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the Congress leaders cannot give up their royal habits. “No one becomes a common man just by saying. Their real faces have been exposed,” he said, asking Channi, Sidhu and Randhawa whether the chartered plane was rented from the state exchequer or the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee would bear the cost. The controversy started after Sidhu tweeted a photo in which he was seen with Channi and Randhawa beside the chartered plane in which they travelled to Delhi. Capt Amarinder Singh’s former media adviser Raveen Thukral also took digs at them, questioning their decision to rent a 16-seater to ferry four people to Delhi. “Wow…what a ‘gareeban di sarkar’! A 16-seater Learjet to ferry four people when a 5-seater official chopper was available,” he posted on Twitter. In another post, he said: “Wonder who’s paying for such luxury – the state govt or @INCPunjab? Can’t be @sherryontopp or @CHARANJITCHANNI or @Sukhjinder_INC or #OPsoni for sure. Though eventually I guess it’s the common man who’ll end up footing the bill for their pleasures!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-takes-chartered-flight-to-delhi-to-meet-bosses-kicks-up-row-101632255795158.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh theft : ₹30,000, CCTV camera stolen from medicine shop||Two thefts have been reported from different parts of the city. The owner of a medicine shop in Sector 24, Chandigarh, reported ₹30,000, a CCTV camera, DVR and documents stolen. The victim, Rajiv Kumar Pusri, a resident of Sector 15, Panchkula, stated in his complaint that his shop remains closed on Sunday. When he returned on Monday, he found the back door of the shop open and the items and cash stolen. A case has been registered under Section 380 of Indian Penal Code at the Sector 11 police station. Laptop stolen under garb of helpA laptop was stolen from a resident of Sector 56 by three unidentified men on the pretext of offering help. The victim, Anoop, told the police that he works as photographer and was covering a function in Morni from 7.30pm to 11pm. He was on his way back home in his scooter, when the vehicle ran out of fuel near Shahpur Chowk. Three unidentified men offered their help. One of them sat pillion on the scooter, while the other two pushed it till Sector 39/40 lightpoint, from where they all left. Anoop said that after they left, he found his laptop missing from his bag. Based on his complaint, a case under Section 379 of IPC was registered at Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-theft-30-000-cctv-camera-stolen-from-medicine-shop-101632255556068.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man, two-year-old son killed in road mishap||A man and his two-year-old son were killed in a road mishap after an SUV hit their motorcycle near Budhel-Suheli Chowk in Sudhar on Monday. The victims have been identified as Parminder Singh, 24, of Abbuwal village and his two-year-old son, Jaspinder Singh. Their 17-year-old relative Sukhjot Kaur of Boparai Kalan was critically injured in the accident. The SUV driver, Ajitpal Singh of Ghumman village, has been booked on the complaint of Sukhdev Singh, the father of the victim, Parminder Singh. Parminder said the three victims were travelling to Abbuwal village from Budhel when their bike was hit by the SUV. The impact of the collision was such that Parminder Singh and Jaspinder Singh died on the spot.Sub-inspector Nirmal Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (endangering others due to rash or negligent act), 338 (cause grievous hurt) , 427 (damages) and 304A ( Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused car driver. Tractor trolley crushes couple, woman killed A 40-year-old woman was killed while her husband was seriously injured after a tractor trolley mowed them down in Pamal village on Monday.The victim, Balwinder Kaur of Dolo Khurd village, and her husband, Ram Pyara, were on their way to pay obeisance at a shrine when the tractor trolley hit their bike. The couple was thrown on the road, but instead of stopping the tractor driver sped up and ran over the prone couple. While Balwinder was killed, her husband Ram Pyara, sustained multiple fractures and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (endangering others due to rash or negligent act), 338 (cause grievous hurt) , 427 (damages) and 304A ( causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against unidentified driver of the tractor-trolley at the Jodhan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-two-year-old-son-killed-in-road-mishap-101632255135485.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Class 11 admissions in Chandigarh: 4,081 students apply for migration in 2nd counselling||The second counselling for admission to Class 11 at government schools in Chandigarh has concluded and 4,081 students have applied for migration and 1,112 new students have registered for admissions as per data available with the Chandigarh education department. The final list for admissions will now be displayed on September 23.Students who are migrating include those who have already gotten admission after the first counselling, but want to change their school or stream. New students were also allowed to enrol for the second counselling and humanities remained their stream of choice with 748 students applying for it, 151 applied for sciences, 122 for vocational courses and 91 for commerce.As per data uploaded by the department on its website, there are 2,409 vacancies after the first counselling. There are 310 seats vacant for commerce out of 3,900 seats, 322 for sciences out of 3,080; 1,238 for humanities out of 6,600 and 539 of 1,775 are vacant for vocational courses. Earlier 18,703 students had applied for the first counselling for a total of 15,355 seats. The final list for the second counselling will be displayed on September 23 from noon onwards on the department’s website http://www.chdeducation.gov.in/. Selected candidates will have to deposit the fees and their documents for inspection between 1pm on September 23 till 11.45pm on September 26. In previous years. a third counselling was also held and the same is likely this year too. Meanwhile, the academic session for Class 11 students had started from September 4 onwards. Non-compulsory offline classes and online classes are being held.Box: New applicants for 2nd counselling Overall, there are 2,409 vacant seats.Humanities: 748 Sciences: 151 Vocational courses: 122 Commerce: 91||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/class-11-admissions-in-chandigarh-4-081-students-apply-for-migration-in-2nd-counselling-101632255017056.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh road accident: Woman dies after being hit by MC truck||A woman succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday, a day after her scooter was hit by a municipal corporation garbage pick-up truck. The deceased has been identified as Kajal, 28, a resident of Maloya Colony, Chandigarh.A case has been registered against the driver of the truck, Satwant Singh, 34, a resident of Chunni Kala village in Fatehgarh Sahib under Sections 279, 338 and 304A of Indian Penal Code at Maloya police station.The deceased’s husband, Bunty, 33, told the police that he works as a private security guard and he and Kajal were going to Sector 22 in their scooter on Monday. He said that as he took a right turn from Sector 25/38 lightpoint, the truck, that was on his left, tried to cross and hit his scooter. Owing to the collision, Bunty and Kajal fell on the road and Kajal sustained injuries to her head, face and nose. After the accident, the driver of truck apologised to Bunty and admitted that the accident was a result of his mistake. Kajal was rushed to PGIMER in an autorickshaw where she died during treatment. Biker hit by SUV succumbsA Dadumajra Colony resident succumbed to injuries on Tuesday, a day after his bike was hit by an SUV. The deceased has been identified as Vishal, 28. In his complaint to the police, Akash, 23, Vishal’s younger brother, said that at around 12.30am, Vishal was on his motorcycle and he was following him on his motorcycle. He said that as Vishal was crossing the Sector 25/38 lightpoint, a Scorpio coming from the Dhanas side jumped the red light and hit his brother. Vishal’s motorcycle got stuck in the vehicle and he was dragged along with the motorcycle for few metres. The SUV’s driver stopped at a distance and pulled out Vishal before driving off. Vishal lost consciousness and was rushed to PGIMER by a police control room vehicle, as a passerby had called the police. Based on Akash’s complaint, police registered a case under Sections 279 and 337 of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 39 police station and later added section 304A of IPC to the FIR after Vishal died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-road-accident-woman-dies-after-being-hit-by-mc-truck-101632254966920.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Robbery bid at Panchkula jewellery shop: Case will be solved soon, says police commissioner||Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta reviewed the progress in the recent robbery bid at Maa Luxmi Jewelers in Sector 8 with senior police officers at PWD Rest House in Sector 1 on Tuesday.Police commissioner Saurabh Singh stated that police teams have been formed to nab the robbers. He added that they have got many important leads in the case and will nab the criminals soon.Police have released more footage of the accused and urged people to reach out to them in case they get any clues. He also directed the police department to chalk out an effective strategy to prevent such incidents from occurring again.Deputy commissioner of police Mohit Handa, non-official member of the district grievance redressal committee, BB Singhal and representatives of the Panchkula Jewellers’ Association were also present at the meeting.Gupta said that that an attempted robbery in broad daylight at a peaceful city like Panchkula is a matter of concern. He added that the courage shown by Sandeep Verma, owner of Maa Luxmi Jewelers, who foiled the robbery attempt, is commendable.Gupta added that the police’s main aim is to create a sense of security among the people, so that they can move anywhere without fear. Keeping this in mind, he directed the police department to set-up a beat box at every market in Panchkula, where two police officers should be deputed.Arms licene to be given to jewellers Gupta said that considering the threat to jewellers, arms licenses should be given to them in a time bound manner. He said that the police should ensure that the licenses are issued to the applicants within a stipulated time period after applying and submitting the required documents. Also, the process of applying for arms license should be further simplified. The Haryana speaker also appealed to the representatives of the Jewellers’ Association to make adequate arrangements for installation of high resolution CCTV cameras at the entry and exit points of markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robbery-bid-at-panchkula-jewellery-shop-case-will-be-solved-soon-says-police-commissioner-101632254654854.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Race for new Punjab DGP: Of caste angle, dark horse and more||Caste angle and differences between key players in the state’s new dispensation have surfaced amid suspense over the appointment of a new director general of police (DGP) in Punjab. According to some senior government officers, the issue came up for discussion during an informal meeting of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his deputies and officials on Monday evening, in which the names of IPS officers Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota (1988 batch), S Chattopadhyaya (1986) and BK Bhawra (1987) were discussed. A senior officer privy to the developments said Sahota appears to have the backing of the CM’s office, whereas a group in the new Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) team headed by Navjot Singh Sidhu is strongly pushing for Chattopadhyaya for the post of the top cop. However, according to highly placed sources in the Congress’ national leadership, BK Bhawra can be the dark horse in the race, as the group supporting Chattopadhyaya has made him the alternative candidate.Amid Sahota emerging as the strongest contender with the CMO’s apparent backing, a WhatsApp message was widely circulated in the media and inner circles of the Congress, claiming that the seniority principle is being ignored again (as was done in the case of DGP Dinkar Gupta) and also gave it a caste twist.“If Sahota is appointed (as the DGP) when the chief minister (belongs to the SC community) and his principal secretary (Hussan Lal) is also from the same caste, it will send a wrong signal,” reads the message. Both Sahota and Chattopadhyaya were not available for comment. However, a former Punjab DGP said it was unfortunate that the caste angle was coming into play. “It is the state government’s prerogative to select the new DGP who suits it the most. There have been various examples when Jat Sikhs were chosen as DGPs when a Jat Sikh was the chief minister and had another Jat Sikh as the principal secretary. All these considerations in appointments are unfortunate,” he said, while requesting anonymity. Legal aspects being looked intoIt is also learnt that Channi has tasked his confidants to discuss legal aspects of removing Gupta from the post, in view of the Supreme Court judgment (of 2018, amended in 2019) for appointment and removal of DGPs. A senior home department functionary said Gupta can be removed from the post as he has completed two years of service (one of the conditions laid in the apex court ruling). The legal wing of the government is also taking into consideration the procedure followed by Haryana in the appointment of a new DGP. When the previous DGP, Manoj Yadav, wanted to return to the Intelligence Bureau, he had to wait till his successor was selected through a panel received from the Union Public Service Commission. Giving heed to the apex court ruling, Haryana did not appoint a caretaker DGP till the regular appointment.Meanwhile, commenting on Bhawra’s chances, a senior Congress leader at the helm of affairs said: “Chattopadhyaya’s candidature was rejected by the UPSC when Dinkar Gupta was appointed the DGP. Keeping in mind various factors and the Supreme Court guidelines to appoint the DGP, the new Punjab Police force head can be a surprise pick.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/race-for-new-punjab-dgp-of-caste-angle-dark-horse-and-more-101632254596134.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||DSGMC urges Delhi govt to stop painting Golden Temple on underpass walls||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) outgoing chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Tuesday wrote to public works department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain requesting him to stop painting Golden Temple on the walls on an under-construction underpass at Ashram Chowk in Delhi.Sirsa also termed the act as “disrespectful” to their religion according to the Sikh code of conduct. “We would like to draw your kind attention to the painting work of Sri Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) that is being carried out by the PWD on the side walls of an underpass being constructed at Ashram Chowk, New Delhi.“For your information, as per the Sikh code of conduct, it is not permissible and considered disrespectful to our religion. Delhi Sikh Sangat is taking serious objection to it,” the letter read.“You are requested to kindly issue the necessary orders for immediate stopping of the painting work,” it added.Sirsa also shared the letter in a Twitter post.“Painting Darbar Sahib on the walls of underpass at Ashram Chowk is highly objectionable. We urge @SatyendarJain Ji to immediately pass the order of stopping this painting work,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dsgmc-urges-delhi-govt-to-stop-painting-golden-temple-on-underpass-walls-101632254536138.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Road rage: Sanitary worker assaulted 4 days after spat in Ludhiana||Ten men cornered and assaulted a sanitary worker with sharp-edged weapons at Gol Market, Jamalpur, on Sunday, four days after his bike brushed past one of the accused at a rally in Dugri. While seven of the assailants remain unidentified, three of them have been identified as Sahil of Lohara village, Lakha of Daba Colony and one Gaurav. In his complaint, Ashok Kumar, the father of the victim, said that his son, Abhishek, 25, of Harkrishan Nagar, who works as a contractual sanitary worker, had gone to Dugri on September 15 to take part in a rally, where his motorcycle had accidentally brushed past, Sahil, after which the two had a heated spat. “Sahil had threatened my son with dire consequences and even followed him home, where he had issued the same threats to us. We had lodged a complaint against Sahil, but later withdrew it after a compromise was reached,” said Ashok, who works as a sanitary worker at the municipal corporation. “On Sunday, the accused and nine of his accomplices, cornered my son at Gol Market in Jamalpur and assaulted him with a sharp-edged weapon before fleeing,” the complainant said, adding that his son was admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital.Assistant sub-inspector Sohan Lal, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 148 ( Rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 ( unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at the Focal Point police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/road-rage-sanitary-worker-assaulted-4-days-after-spat-in-ludhiana-101632254534981.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t use word ‘Dalit’ to identify a person: Punjab SC panel||Taking notice of use of word “Dalit” for newly appointed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in social media pages, print and electronic media, Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur on Tuesday issued instructions to not use the nomenclature to mark identity of any person belonging to Schedule Castes. Kaur said the nomenclature “Dalit” does not find mention in the Constitution of India or any statute and moreover, the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment has already directed all chief secretaries of the state governments and Union Territory administrations regarding the same. She said that the high court of Madhya Pradesh, Gwalior bench, passed an order on January 15, 2018, “that the Central government/state government and its functionaries would refrain from using the nomenclature ‘Dalit’ for the members belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as the same does not find mention in the Constitution of India or any statute”. She further said that following the direction of the high court, the ministry of social justice and empowerment of India directed all the state governments/Union Territory administrations to use the word “Scheduled Caste” instead of “Dalit” for the persons belonging to the community. Acting on the reports of violations being made by the various media groups, the information and broadcasting ministry also issued a notice to private satellite TV channels by asking them to comply with an order passed earlier by the Bombay high court to not use the word “Dalit” in reports, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-use-word-dalit-to-identify-a-person-punjab-sc-panel-101632254235094.html
22-09-2021||Other||Drama over Punjab CM name exposed Cong’s communal face: Anil Joshi||AMRITSAR Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) senior vice-president and former Punjab cabinet minister Anil Joshi on Tuesday said that the drama over choosing the chief minister had exposed the communal face of the Congress. “We congratulate Charanjit Singh Channi for being appointed to the top post of the state, as our party does not believe in casteism. Whoever deserves the post should get it, but the Congress high command has played a game, which has exposed the real face of the party. The Congress has attempted to divide people on communal lines again,” he alleged, addressing a press conference. Joshi, a former senior leader of the BJP, has only recently joined the SAD.“Across the country, Punjab has always been an exception as communal riots have never happened here. The state is the biggest instance of communal harmony and brotherhood which has withstood the worst. The Congress, however, has not desisted from damaging it,” he claimed. “It is this communal politics of the Congress, which meant that former PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar could not become the CM. The Congress party has a history of ruling, after dividing people on communal lines. The party’s communal face has been exposed by this drama,” Joshi alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drama-over-punjab-cm-name-exposed-cong-s-communal-face-anil-joshi-101632254054846.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Minor raped in Zirakpur hotel: Mother among seven booked||The Zirakpur police have booked seven persons including the mother of a 14-year-old minor on charges of rape.The victim is a resident of Civil Lines in Bathinda. In her complaint, she alleged that her mother, who has been living separated from her father for the last nine years, had pushed her into flesh trade for money.On September 14, she was brought to a Zirakpur hotel where she was raped by several persons. The police have also booked a manager of the hotel.Station house officer of Zirakpur, Onkar Singh Brar, said, “We have received zero FIR from Bhatinda police station, following which a case has been registered against seven persons including the mother of the victim on rape charges. The girl is undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Bathinda.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minor-raped-in-zirakpur-hotel-mother-among-seven-booked-101632253936040.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 37 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Tuesday reported 37 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,01,359, according to a media bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality reported in the past 24 hours, the death toll reached 16,501 the bulletin said. The positivity rate stood at 0.11 %, the media bulletin said. The number of active cases also came down to 304. Among fresh cases, eight were reported in Mohali, seven in Sangrur, and three in Amritsar, the bulletin said. With 43 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 5,84,554, it said. A total of 1,42,35,452 samples have been collected for testing in the state of which 32,339 were tested on Tuesday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-37-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101632253935052.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dera Bassi: 38-year-old woman killed, two injured in road accident||A 38-year-old woman was killed while two others suffered serious injuries after their car rammed into a tree while trying to avoid a collision with a car coming from the wrong side on Bhankharpur- Ghaggar bride in Dera Bassi on Tuesday morning.The deceased has been identified as Swati Madan, a resident of Karnal. Her husband Hemraj Singh and mother-in-law Gurkrishna Kaur suffered serious injuries and are admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh.Police have registered a case against the driver of the car coming from the wrong side under Sections 304-A, 427, 338, 337 and 279 of Indian Penal Code. After the incident, the car driver fled from the scene. Investigating officer Balbir Singh said the registration number of the vehicle has been noted down and the accused will be arrested soon.In his statement to the police, Hamraj said he works at a private company in Mohali and they were on their way back from Karnal when the accident took place. Lalru mishap: 50-year-old man diesA 50-year-old man died after his auto was hit by an unknown vehicle on Ambala –Chandigarh Highway in Lalru on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Munni Lal, a resident of Sector 20, Panchkula, who worked as a juice vendor. Investigating officer Jagtar Singh said that Lal had gone to Ambala to buy fruits on his auto and while coming back, was hit by an unknown vehicle which resulted in injuries. He was rushed to the civil hospital in Lalru, where he was declared brought dead.Police have registered a case against the driver of the unknown vehicle under Sections 304A, 279 and 427 of Indian Penal Code at Lalru Police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-bassi-38-year-old-woman-killed-two-injured-in-road-accident-101632253757673.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kidnapped Hoshiarpur youth rescued, one held||Police have rescued a 21-year-old son of a merchant, who was kidnapped on Monday from the vegetable market at gunpoint by some car-borne persons, from Amritsar. One of the accused has also been arrested.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Amneet Kondal said the police nabbed one of the kidnappers when he had come to collect the ransom money from abducted youth Rajan’s father near Sri Hargobindpur canal on the Tanda road, while his accomplice managed to flee. The arrested person has been identified as Varinder Pal Singh, alias Vicky, who was involved in the recent murder of gangster Rana Kandowalia in a hospital in Amritsar.“Succumbing to the pressure, the abductors released the youth in the wee hours on Tuesday in Amritsar’s Khilchian town,” she added.The SSP claimed that the abduction was carried out at the behest of US-based gangster Darman Kahlon and Malaysia-based Satinder Pal Singh Taggar.“The international calls that the family was receiving for ransom were being made by these fugitives,” she said. “There certainly will be an insider who knew about the financial status of the family and their daily routine. The kidnappers and their aides must have done recee of the victim’s house before executing their plan,” the SSP added.Superintendent of police Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu, who led the investigation, revealed that the car taken away by the abductors has also been recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kidnapped-hoshiarpur-youth-rescued-one-held-101632253634962.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Security agency owner found with 12 live rounds at Pune airport||Pune: Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) seized 12 live rounds of 0.32 calibre from a passenger travelling to Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh at Pune Airport at 6.45 am on Tuesday. Later it was found that live round of calibre remained in the bag inadvertently. “At about 0645 hours, during Pre-Embarkation Security Check (PESC) at Security Hold Area (SHA) of Pune Airport, CISF screener detected 12 live rounds of 0.32 caliber from the hand baggage of a passenger namely S K (Sandip) Dubey, travelling to Prayagraj by IndiGo flight No.6E-5984 (STD-0810 hrs). On enquiry, the said passenger could not produce any valid documents Later, the said passenger along with the seized live rounds was handed over to Local Police for further legal action in the matter.,” said official from the Pune airport. In further investigation it was found that,”Sandip Dubey (45), who runs a security agency in Bhosari MIDC was going to his hometown Prayagraj. His wife while packing the bag removed a pistol and live rounds of 0.32 caliber remained in the bag inadvertently,” said Mangesh Jagtap, Police Inspector, Vimantal police station. “During investigation, we found that Dubey has a licence on his name and we released him after checking his licence, and completing the documentation process” added Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/security-agency-owner-found-with-12-live-rounds-at-pune-airport-101632253575178.html
22-09-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest dept catches wildlife smuggler with 33 turtles, booked||The Uttarakhand forest department has arrested a man on charges of smuggling turtles in Udham Singh Nagar district, forest officials said. The officials have recovered 33 turtles from his possession. Abhilasha Singh, divisional forest officer (DFO) Terai Central forest division said on Monday night around 11pm, a forest patrolling team was checking at Pulbhatta Barrier on Bareilly Road. “A person who was coming on a bike was asked to stop. But he didn’t stop and just ran away. The forest team chased him and caught him,” said Singh Singh said when forest officials checked him and his belongings, they recovered 33 turtles from his bag. “The wildlife smuggler has been identified as Sameer Mandal, son of Subodh Mandal, a resident of Kheda, Rudrapur. We have booked him under Section 9 (prohibition on hunting, no person shall hunt any wildlife listed in schedule 1,2,3,4) of Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972,” she said. Singh said the accused is being questioned whether he is part of any wildlife smuggling network and where he was taking these turtles and from where he had got them. This is not the first time when turtles and tortoises have been recovered in the state. In March, the Uttarakhand police rescued 16 turtles in Kichha area of US Nagar and arrested the two women from whom they were recovered Turtles are killed for their meat and are in good demand in some areas of US Nagar like Dineshpur, Transit camp and Shaktifarm. In June last year, the state forest department arrested a 36-year-old man on charges of smuggling Indian flapshell turtle in US Nagar district. In December last year, police recovered 40 turtles from a man in Dineshpur area of US Nagar. The accused had kept the turtles hidden in a polybag in his kitchen. Earlier in March last year, 25 turtles were recovered from the same village hidden in the bathroom of a house. In May 2019, forest officials arrested one 40 year old Abdul Rauf in Jhirna range of Corbett tiger reserve and recovered a dead turtle from his possession. In August 2019 three people were arrested in Rudrapur and 14 tortoises were recovered from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-forest-dept-catches-wildlife-smuggler-with-33-turtles-booked-101632253395975.html
22-09-2021||Other||Promote Phulkari artisans, says Punjabi University||Punjabi University’s Women Studies Centre completed a project that the Centre for Women Development, New Delhi, had assigned to it on ‘Phulkari: Reviving and Sustaining the Traditional Handicraft of Punjab’. Ritu Lehal, director of the Centre in the varsity, said four Phulkari training centres at Thuha, Sheikhpura, Sular and Rorgarh villages of Patiala District were chosen for this project. “For ensuring the survival and sustenance of Phulkari, artisans must be motivated and promoted by the Central government in both infrastructure and monetary support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/promote-phulkari-artisans-says-punjabi-university-101632253394929.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Humiliated’ 25-year-old drug addict dies by suicide in Ludhiana||A 25-year-old drug addict overdosed on intoxicant pills and ended his life after he was beaten up and humiliated at his house on Madiya Road in Khanna on Monday. The victim, Sonu, has been booked for abetment of suicide. The victim had borrowed a motorcycle and mobile phone from Sonu, but did not return it on time, after which the accused thrashed him.The victim’s mother, a widow, said the accused had come looking for his son as he had borrowed his bike and mobile for half-an-hour, but did not return for three hours. The complainant told Sonu that he should not have given his belongings to her son as he had a drug habit. After waiting for some time, Sonu left . When the victim returned home, he told his mother that Sonu had beaten him up and humiliated him. Later, he swallowed four pills and collapsed. He was rushed to the hospital, where he breathed his last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/humiliated-25-year-old-drug-addict-dies-by-suicide-in-ludhiana-101632253216200.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jagmeet, 15 other Punjab-origin candidates win Canada elections||Caption:Canada’s New Democratic Party leader Jagmeet Singh, accompanied by his wife Gurkiran Kaur Sidhu, delivers remarks on election night in Vancouver, British Columbia REUTERSBlurb:TorontoThere will be a sizeable contingent of Indo-Canadians in the House of Commons as 17 candidates, 16 of them Punjabis, secured victories in the Canada elections held on Monday. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s gamble to seek a majority by calling a snap election has not paid off as his ruling Liberal Party again ended up 14 seats short of the 170-mark in the 338-member House of Commons.The Jagmeet Singh-led New Democratic Party (NDP) will again hold the balance of power as it increased its tally from 24 to 27.All three Indo-Canadian ministers in the dissolved cabinet emerged victorious as did Jagmeet Singh of the NDP. Defence minister Harjit Sajjan was re-elected from Vancouver South, with nearly 49% of the vote share, despite facing headwinds over issues such as a major sexual harassment crisis in the Canadian Armed Forces under his watch and a much criticised evacuation mission in Afghanistan. Among Indo-Canadians, another high-profile minister Anita Anand, who handled the public services and procurement portfolio and was described by Trudeau as his minister for vaccines, retained her seat from the riding of Oakville, Ontario. Also winning comfortably in the Canada elections from Waterloo in Ontario was Bardish Chagger, minister of diversity, inclusion and youth.NDP leader Jagmeet Singh - a popular figure among Indo-Canadians - was re-elected from Burnaby South, with approximately 38% of the votes cast. However, his focus may well have been on the national performance of the party he leads, as the NDP increased its vote share to 17.7% from 15.98% in 2019 but could only gain one more seat in the House of Commons, rising from 24 to 25. It will again be the fourth-largest group there, behind Justin Trudeau’s Liberal Party, the principal opposition Conservatives and the Bloc Quebecois, which was on course to capture 34 seats in the Canada elections.Focus will also be on another Indo-Canadian Liberal Party winner, George Chahal, who edged out incumbent Conservative MP Jag Sahota from Calgary Skyview in Alberta. While Justin Trudeau’s ruling party was blanked in the province in 2019, this seat may well see the city councillor-turned-first-time MP possibly finding a place in the next cabinet.Several sitting MPs from the Greater Toronto Area were re-elected, and the most prominent among them are former parliamentary secretary Kamal Khera from Brampton West, Ruby Sahota from Brampton North, Sonia Sidhu from Brampton South and Arif Virani from Parkdale-High Park. In Metro Vancouver, veteran Sukh Dhaliwal retained his Surrey-Newton seat while Randeep Sarai won again from Surrey. Making it a hat-trick of victories from Dorval-Lachine-LaSalle in Quebec was Anju Dhillon, while emulating her feat was Chandra Arya from Nepean, near Ottawa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jagmeet-15-other-punjab-origin-candidates-win-canada-elections-101632253214930.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Seventh sero survey likely to begin in the Capital this week||After delays going back to the second wave of the pandemic, the seventh serological survey is likely to begin this week in Delhi, when 28,000 people will be tested for exposure to Sars-CoV-2. A portion of the samples will be, for the first time, also tested to calculate the levels of neutralising antibodies that directly target the virus.“In a subset of the samples collected, we will check the levels of neutralising antibodies. This will also help us in co-relating the level of antibodies with the IgG levels found in the semi-quantitative test, thereby giving us an understanding of how much of the population is actually protected,” said a researcher working on the surveys conducted by the Delhi government.Serological surveys are used by epidemiologists to determine the prevalence of a disease in a population. The testing kits currently in use reveal whether a sample has IgG antibodies against one of the proteins of the virus. They just indicate whether the antibody level is high or low, and are called semi-quantitative. The seventh survey will conduct a more expensive test to determine the exact levels of the antibodies in a subset of the samples.“The survey should ideally have been conducted eight weeks after the infection peak we saw in April-end. That was the time we would have seen the highest level of antibodies in those who were exposed to the virus during the second wave,” another researcher involved in the survey said. “However, the good thing is that the neutralising antibodies will be measured in a proportion of the people.” Both the researchers declined to be named.The seventh survey will be conducted when nearly three out of four of Delhi’s adult population have received at least one dose of a vaccine against Covid-19, and one in three have been fully vaccinated. The survey will include questions about vaccination history, similar to the survey conducted in April, which was aborted due to the surge in infections.Delhi has been conducting serological surveys since June-July last year. The last complete round, conducted in January, had found the serological prevalence to be 56.13%, almost double the prevalence in the previous survey conducted in October, showing high levels of exposure during the November surge in infections in the city. The result from the April survey showed a similar exposure level detected during the January survey.“This time, however, we are expecting to find antibodies in 80% to 90% of the population, either through a previous infection or because of vaccination,” said the first researcher quoted in the story. The researchers in the report of the truncated April survey had said that another round of survey must be conducted in June-end or July.The seventh survey was initially planned to be conducted between August 1 and 10. “The survey will begin in another two days,” the researcher said.At the end of June 2020, when the first survey was conducted, 22.6% of the 21,000 people sampled had antibodies. This shot up to 29.1% of the 15,000 people sampled in August. It dropped to 25.1% among the 17,000 people sampled in September due to a change in methodology and dropping antibody levels in the population, the researchers said. In October, it went up to 25.5% in a sample size of 15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/seventh-sero-survey-likely-to-begin-in-the-capital-this-week-101632253029199.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet expansion: Channi, Sidhu hold talks with Congress leaders in Delhi||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his two deputies and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu were in Delhi on Tuesday to meet the party’s central leaders and discuss the expansion of the state cabinet. They discussed the names of the probable candidates with All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat after having a long consultation with Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni. Channi took oath as the chief minister along with two deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni on Monday with less than five months to go for the state elections. Channi and Sidhu are keen to expand the council of ministers and allocate them portfolios to get cracking on the 18-point agenda and accommodate some of those who were part of the group that took on Capt Amarinder Singh. “The new cabinet will see the induction of a few new faces by keeping out some of those who were part of the Amarinder cabinet and involved in controversies, to give it a fresh look and make a clean break from the previous setup,” a person familiar with the developments said. Names doing the roundsThe names doing the rounds for inclusion in the state cabinet include Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Pargat Singh, Gurkirat Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilizian and Raj Kumar Verka. Gilzian, who has been seeking due representation for backward classes in the cabinet, had made a personal request to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi when he was in Chandigarh to attend the oath-taking ceremony of the new chief minister and his two deputies on Monday, said sources. There is speculation that Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and Sunder Sham Arora may not find a place in the new team. All three were embroiled in controversies during the Amarinder Singh government. A number of legislators, including former ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and MLA Parminder Singh Pinky, were also camping in Delhi. Another person said that Venugopal and the state team connected with Rahul through video-conferencing for a discussion on the expansion. Channi and Sidhu, however, did not talk to the media or respond to calls. The chief minister, his deputies and the state chief will fly from Delhi to Amritsar where they will pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and visit the Durgiana Mandir early in the morning. On their way to Chandigarh, they are likely to visit Dera Sachkhand Ballan. Meanwhile, the AlCC made more appointments in the state Congress. Pargat Singh and Yoginder Pal Dhingra have been appointed general secretaries while Gulzar Inder Chahal is the new treasurer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-expansion-channi-sidhu-hold-talks-with-congress-leaders-in-delhi-101632253036336.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Runaway couples: Undertaking on marital status, age by petitioners a must, says HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered that in protection matters by runaway couples, the petition be put up before judges only after affidavits are filed from both the petitioners. The direction has been issued in a matter in which it came to light that the male petitioner had not filed an affidavit and the petition concealed details about his marital status stating that it was first marriage of both the petitioners. During the hearing, it had come to light that the male petitioner was married. Photos and other documents of the marriage were supplied to the court and marriage certificate too. It was also stated that the person was involved in a gang-rape case and was facing trial. Taking note of facts on September 9, the high court bench of justice Arvind Sangwan sought explanation from the registry as to how the petition was passed without there being the affidavits of both the petitioners. In response, the registry told court that since the affidavit of one of the petitioner was annexed, the case was passed. The registry had referred to the Criminal Procedure Code stating that there is no provision regarding filing of affidavit. It also submitted that under the high court rules, this category of cases, there is no requirement of affidavits accompanying a petition. The bench observed that since a large number of such or similar petitions praying for protection to the life and liberty are filed on the basis of a claim that the marriage performed by the petitioners is against the wishes of their parents or in cases where the parties claim to be in a live-in-relationship or in cases where one of the petitioners is a minor and has not attained the marriageable age as per The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, the lawyers intentionally file the affidavit only of the petitioner, who is legally competent to file the same, in order to avoid deposing the correct description of the marital status as well as the age of another petitioner. Now, the court has ordered that from November 1, all cases seeking issuance of a direction to protect the life and liberty of the petitioners at the hands of private respondents, who are the parents or relatives of the petitioners, should be passed only when both have filed their respective affidavits mentioning their date of birth as well as marital status, irrespective of the fact that they are claiming to be in a live-in-relationship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/runaway-couples-undertaking-on-marital-status-age-by-petitioners-a-must-says-hc-101632253034854.html
22-09-2021||Pune||HC grants bail to DS Kulkarni’s sister-in-law||PUNE: The Bombay High Court granted bail to Anuradha Purandare in the cheating case of thousands of investors in the companies owned by DS Kulkarni, a Pune-based realtor, and his wife Hemanti Kulkarni. The 63-year-old woman, the sister-in-law of DS Kulkarni, held an important office in the DS Kulkarni Developers Limited (DSKDL) company whose owners are accused of cheating more than 30,000 investors of more than ₹2,000 crore. The case is being investigated by the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Pune police. The order was passed by Justice Revati Mohite Dere on Tuesday with Special Public prosecutor Praveen Chauhan and defence lawyer Sujay Gangal. “The applicant - Anuradha Ramchandra Purandare - be enlarged on bail in connection with the case registered with the Shivaji Nagar Police Station, Pune and investigated by EOW, Pune, on executing PR Bond in the sum of ₹2,00,000 with one or more sureties in the like amount,” read the operational part of the order by Justice Dere. “The Anuradha Purandare matter was heard on September 13, but matter was posted for today. I had relied on PD Naik for Hemanthi Kulkarni order. I had relied PMC chargesheet. Phursungi land purchase: allegations were that relatives purchased land in individual capacity and sold it to DSKDL at higher rates and cheques were bounced and Anuradha misused power of attorney (PoA). That was wrong. The PoA was given to her only for name entering purpose and post-sale. Neither of the properties were purchased in our (Purandare) name. Thirdly, siphoning of funds, apart from her salary, working since 1989 and 2017 retirement. There was not a single transaction with her company aside from her salary,” said advocate Gangal. Purandare worked as the vice-president and head of accounts at DSKDL. She was arrested on May 27, 2018 and has been in Yerawada Central Jail ever since. One of the main accused, Hemanthi Kulkarni, the wife of DS Kulkarni, was granted bail by the court after over four years. DS Kulkarni, his son Shirish Kulkarni, and others are still in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hc-grants-bail-to-ds-kulkarni-s-sisterinlaw-101632252914999.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrests man for cycle theft, 19 bikes recovered||Chandigarh Police have arrested a cycle thief and recovered 19 bicycles worth of ₹4 lakh from him. The accused has been identified as Neemkanta, 40, a resident of Kansal village, Mohali. He works as a cook and waiter and is married and has a two-year-old son. He was arrested on Sunday from the parking lot of Sector 9, Chandigarh, while riding a stolen cycle. During interrogation, the accused revealed that he had stolen cycles from various parks and hidden them in the jungle area of Kharar. A case under Section 411 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 3 police station. He has three cases of theft registered against him at different police stations in city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrests-man-for-cycle-theft-19-bikes-recovered-101632252674892.html
22-09-2021||Other||Haryana rice millers express resentment over CMR policy, seek amendment||Ahead of paddy procurement, rice millers from across Haryana on Tuesday expressed their resentment over the present Custom Milled Rice (CMR) policy and demanded the Union government to constitute a committee to review the policy.The rice millers held a meeting under the banner of the Haryana Pradesh Rice Millers and Dealers’ Association. They said the government should immediately form a committee comprising rice millers, agriculture institutes and officials of the Food Corporation of India to form a new CMR policy.They raised questions over the norms fixed by the government and expressed their anxiety in the present CMR policy under which 25% of broken grain, 3% damaged grain, 3% discolour is allowed in delivery of CMR to the government.“Most norms of the CMR policy are 30-years-old and many things have changed during this period as now most paddy is harvested by the machines,” said Amarjeet Chhabra, state president of the association.He said most rice millers raised concerns during the meeting and jointly demanded the government to increase the limit of broken grain be 35%. They added that they should be allowed to return 64kg rice for per quintal of paddy against the present 67kg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-rice-millers-express-resentment-over-cmr-policy-seek-amendment-101632252374905.html
22-09-2021||Pune||ARAI successfully develops indigenous chargers for electric vehicles||Pune: The Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) has indigenously developed charger for electric vehicles considering the need to boost the charging mechanism of electric vehicles in the country, said Reji Mathai, director, ARAI. Speaking during a press conference on Tuesday, Mathai said that to promote electric vehicles, infrastructure for charging is important and since the mobility chargers are imported, the focus of ARAI is to develop chargers indigenously, which will be cost-effective and boost local economy. “Many components of EV like motors and controllers are imported and even chargers are being brought from abroad. ARAI has developed an indigenous technology for EV charger AC001, which has been taken up for manufacturing and promotion by Bharat Electronics. The charging points will be set up by Bharat Electronics and parts for EV charger systems- Type 1, Type 2, CCS and CHAdeMO will be manufactured locally,” said Mathai. He said that the charger has been designed considering the safety aspects and power surge in India with other aspects like environmental conditions and it will also be cost-competitive. ARAI has recently signed MoU with Bharat Electronics Limited where ARAI will provide the knowhow of the charges and Bharat Electronics will manufacture the chargers. The cost of the charger is expected to be in the range of ₹50,000-60,000. In addition, as ADAS (Advanced Driver Assistant System) vehicles and cylinder testing centres need dedicated space, ARAI is setting up a new centre in Takwe. Investments to the tune of ₹500 crore shall be made in phased manner in the next 3-4 years in setting up this centre. “One of the areas would be ‘Testing Tracks’ which could be useful for carrying out development of ADAS vehicles. Additional facilities related with the cylinder testing and Transmission Gearbox Testing Center (TGTC) have been planned along with a Hydro-fuel cell and Rapid Prototyping centre at Takwe,” said Mathai. Nitin Dhande, senior deputy director, ARAI, said that the organisation is planning to set up dedicated skill development centres that will impart necessary knowledge and shall undertake skilling for engineering students in the electric vehicles segment. The course content is ready and some part of it could be available in the form of e-content. These centres would also have research and test labs, which could also be utilised to nurture startups in the e-mobility sector. ARAI is currently in talks with Telangana and Kerala Government to set up such centers. 17th edition of SIAT will be online The 17th edition of Symposium on International Automotive Technology (SIAT) 2021 organised by The Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) in association with SAEINDIA and SAE International (USA) will be held from September 29 to October 1, 2021. In the light of the current situation related to Covid, the conference and Expo will be organised in virtual mode for the first time, said Reji Mathai, director, ARAI and SS Thipse, convenor, SIAT 2021 at a press conference at ARAI on Tuesday. Other officials from ARAI including Nitin Dhande, senior deputy director; Anand Deshpande, senior deputy director; Vijay Pankhawala, deputy director and BV Shamsundara, deputy director were present. Central Heavy Industries Minister Mahendra Nath Pandey will inaugurate SIAT 2021 and Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari will be the chief Guest for the valedictory for the closing ceremony The theme of SIAT 2021 will be ‘Redefining Mobility for the Future’. It will serve as a forum for exchange of ideas and brainstorming for the automotive industry, with participation of eminent experts worldwide in various automotive arenas and will cover topics including Active and Passive Safety Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) Advanced Powertrain Technology, Biofuels, Construction Equipment Vehicles, E-mobility, Emission Measurement & Control Technology, Harmonization of Regulations, Materials & Manufacturing and Public Transportation Systems among many others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/arai-successfully-develops-indigenous-chargers-for-electric-vehicles-101632252314726.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A reluctant balloon hawker||It’s a secret. Nobody in the village knows that he is selling balloons in the big city. “My family believes I’m here as a house carpenter,” says Anil Kumar, sitting by a central Delhi roadside. This afternoon he is holding a huge yellow balloon in one hand, while the other hand is busy with a wad of unblown balloons.In his mid-30s, Mr Kumar arrived in the city a week ago from Katni in Madhya Pradesh, but couldn’t find any carpentry work. “The other evening I was sitting idle in a chai stall in Sadar Bazaar when a man suggested I should sell balloons until I find suitable work” He promptly acquired a stack of balloons from a market trader and hit the streets.It’s painful to be alone in an unfamiliar place, especially when you are unable to get a job you desire, Mr Kumar observes. It becomes worse because “you cannot share your disappointments with your family.” He feels that his folks at home would be distressed to know of his pain, “which wouldn’t help the situation.” Not that there are many people left in his family to worry for him. His wife died during the childbirth last year, and he’s left only with his baby daughter and his mother. Mr Kumar has worked off and on in the city in the past and didn’t find it tough to get assignments, he says, “but it’s my first trip during the corona kaal (era) and I think jobs are fewer because of the times.” He does own agricultural land in the village in which he recently planted the rice crop. “But how much can a mere 1.5 acres yield.” The land is so small he says, that his elderly mother easily substitutes him as a farmer in his absence.Mr Kumar hopes to find the work he prefers sooner or later. Meanwhile, he sleeps in a ren basera for the homeless in Sadar Bazaar, and dines in an eatery “where you get a complete meal for ₹20.” The balloons help him earn ₹300 daily. Despite the current hard luck, he is trying to remain optimistic. “Setbacks happen in everyone’s life.” He now poses for a photograph but “please no face, I don’t want my gharwale (family) to know of my present condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-reluctant-balloon-hawker-101632252046024.html
22-09-2021||Other||Anganwadi workers, helpers protest in Kaithal||Hundreds of members of the Haryana Anganwadi Workers and Helpers’ Union held a protest in Kaithal and threatened to continue their indefinite protest until their demands are met.The protesters alleged that the agitation has completed two months but the government is not taking their concerns seriously.On Tuesday morning, anganwadi workers and helpers gathered in Kaithal and held a protest at the Vishavkarma Chowk for hours.The aganwadi workers and helpers alleged that the Kaithal police had registered an FIR under Sections 147, 148 and 283 of the IPC against the union members, including Kamlesh Deohra, for blocking the Hisar-Chandigarh highway near Vishvakarma Chowk in July.Besides withdrawal of the FIR registered against some workers and helpers for holding a protest in Kaithal, they are demanding a hike in salary, promotion of experienced workers as supervisors, training to work on Poshan tracker app, scheduled disbursement of salary and regularisation of job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anganwadi-workers-helpers-protest-in-kaithal-101632252078073.html
22-09-2021||Pune||BJP on back foot over amenity spaces proposal||PUNE: With citizens and some of the Bharatiya Janta Party’s (BJP’s) elected members unhappy over the proposal to rent out amenity spaces to private parties, the party went on the back foot and decided to postpone the proposal instead of pushing it for the general body’s approval. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said that the BJP will first put out all the facts in the public domain to clear the air among critics of the proposal, including civic activists, environmentalists and opposition parties. “The proposal is before the general body meeting. Though it is a good proposal, citizens have some doubts about it. Considering this, we have decided to clear the doubts among citizens and political parties. We will put all the facts in front of citizens and try to get approval for this proposal by convincing other parties as well. This process cannot be completed in a day,” Mohol said on Tuesday after the general body meeting which will continue on Wednesday. He said given that clearing doubts may take time, the BJP will not try and get the proposal approved on Wednesday itself although the party has enough numbers to push it.The proposal was originally put forward by the BJP and cleared in the standing committee. The BJP planned to rent out as many as 185 amenity spaces on long lease. At the time, the BJP was firm on the proposal while announcing that it was in favour of passing it immediately. The opposition parties however managed to push BJP on the back foot by campaigning against it. Deviating from the party line, NCP leader Vandana Chavan earlier supported the proposal. However elected members of the NCP strongly opposed it, forcing the party to unanimously oppose it. The Congress and Shiv Sena had already opposed the proposal.“The BJP had to finally give in to pressure from the citizens and the NCP. It is a win for the citizens and a slap for the BJP,” said NCP spokesperson Pradeep Deshmukh. Meanwhile, BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil supported the proposal and claimed that the renting out process would be transparent and that anyone could hire these places by taking part in an auction. However, several NGOs and citizens’ groups too opposed the proposal and even filed PILs (Public Interest Litigations). Sources said that many BJP elected members were unhappy over this proposal ahead of the civic polls and even threatened the party leadership that if the party tried and gave its nod to the proposal in the general body meeting, they would raise their voice against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-on-back-foot-over-amenity-spaces-proposal-101632251896126.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Power supply to Mundhwa and Hadapsar will remains shut on Thursday||Pune: Power supply to parts of Hadapsar and Mundhwa areas will be disrupted from 8 am to 6 pm on Thursday due to a pre-planned work to replace a 10 MVA power transformer at the local substation under the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) Bundgarden division. According to MSEDCL authorities, a new transformer will be installed and the power supply of all 13 high-voltage powerlines in this substation will have to be discontinued. The hospitals have been informed about the temporary arrangement of power supply through generators. A statement from the MSEDCL stated that due to pre-planned work, electricity will unavailable in Vaiduwadi, Gosavi vasti, Mantri market, Kamadhenu Estate, Ramtekdi Estate, Magarpatta road, Subhash nagar, Shankarmath, Hadapsar Industrial Estate, Laxminagar, Safe Colony, St. Patrick’s Town, SV Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/power-supply-to-mundhwa-and-hadapsar-will-remains-shut-on-thursday-101632251774867.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab gets relief, SC clears decks to run Pachhwara coal mine||In a big relief to the power sector in Punjab, the Supreme Court has cleared all hurdles for operating the Pachhwara central coal mine, which will eventually save around ₹600 crore annually and reduce tariff by 20 to 30 paisa per unit.Quashing a Punjab and Haryana high court judgment, a three-member bench of Justice L Nageswara Rao, Justice BR Gavai and Justice BV Nagarathna on Tuesday allowed Punjab’s plea to hire a new contractor to maintain and operate the mine.The coal mine located in Jharkhand, with reserves for 50 years, was allocated to the state-owned Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) in 2001 for generating electricity at state-owned power plants. However, its operation has been stuck in legal tangles after the Supreme Court in 2014 cancelled its allocation along with that of 212 other coal mines in India. On March 31, 2015, the coal mine was reallocated to the PSPCL, but its operations were again delayed due to legal issues.In 2018, the PSPCL floated a tender and hired the firm DBL to develop and operate the mine. However, in 2019, the high court allowed the appeal of the previous mine operator, EMTA, to operate the mine, which led to a political slugfest, including criticism of the then advocate general Atul Nanda, and stalled the process further.SC upholds hiring of new contractorOn Tuesday, the Supreme Court quashed this order and upheld the procedure followed by the PSPCL for hiring a new contractor through reverse bidding, which has saved the state government crores of rupees.Former advocate general Atul Nanda, who appeared for state in the Supreme Court, said: “I have been vindicated. I am very happy as several hundred crores of rupees of consumers will be saved annually with the operation of the coal mine. It’s a benchmark judgment as the state had selected the vendor by reverse bidding to protect the interest of the consumers, which should be the priority of every corporation.” PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said the coal from Pachhwara mine has a high calorific value. Spread over 1,051 hectare, the mine will produce 7 million tonnes of coal every year.“Its operation will not only save us from coal crisis, but also save ₹600 crores annually. Now, we will try to divert this coal to private plants to further bring this benefit to ₹1,000 crore, which will reduce tariff,” he said.The PSPCL has two coal-fired power generating units — Guru Hargobind Thermal Plant at Lehra Mohabbat in Bathinda and Guru Gobind Singh Super Thermal Power Plant at Rupnagar. Now, the Centre has also allowed the use of state-owned coal at private plants. “Hopefully, mining operations at the coal mine shall commence in the next three to five months, as we have taken all other necessary permissions from the Jharkhand government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-gets-relief-sc-clears-decks-to-run-pachhwara-coal-mine-101632251595667.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Fewer Covid cases in Pune city during festival compared to previous week||PUNE During the 11 days of Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in Pune city from September 9 to 20, the district reported over 9,000 new Covid cases while for the same duration prior to the festivities, the number of new cases was higher at over 10,000. The positivity rate of the district too fell down during Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. However, it was found that the number of tests conducted by the administration fell from 3.17 lakh in the week before the festival as compared to 2.78 lakh during the festival.From September 9 to 20, the district reported a total 9,223 new Covid-19 cases out of the 278,108 Covid-19 tests conducted, taking the positivity rate to 3.31%. Also, 85 deaths were reported in the district by the district health department. However in the week before Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations from August 28 to September 8, the district reported 10,980 new Covid-19 cases out of the 317,435 Covid-19 tests conducted. The positivity rate for this period was 3.4% and 123 deaths were reported by the district health department.By comparison, the week of Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations and the week after these celebrations in 2020 saw the beginning of the surge in the first wave of Covid-19 which peaked in September. As per figures released by the state health department, the district reported 37,968 new Covid-19 cases during the Ganesh festival between August 22 and September 2, 2020 while 31,110 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the week after the festival between August 10 and 21, 2020. So in 2020, a spike of 6,800 new Covid-19 cases was seen post Ganesh celebrations.This year, a number of factors contributed to the dip in new Covid-19 cases vis-a-vis last year, including a large number of vaccination drives and availability of the vaccine apart from the decision by major Ganapati mandals to organise only online darshan as opposed to physical aartis and darshan which helped avoid crowding.While the coming few months are being considered very important in terms of Covid-19 especially since multiple festivals are lined up, experts are of the view that it might be a bit too early to comment if the situation gets better or worse. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor to the state government said, “It is a good sign that the numbers have not increased as much as last year or even that major mandals took the step to ensure online aartis and darshan so that there was no crowding at popular immersion spots and famous mandals. However we could still see crowds at popular places. The incubation period for the virus is about 14 days and so, if in the next 14 days there is a major spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, we can then say that the situation is better than it was thought of. However we have many festivals lined up and we must not let down our guard until everyone is vaccinated and there are no serious active cases remaining.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fewer-covid-cases-in-pune-city-during-festival-compared-to-previous-week-101632251534807.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana steps pedal on Covid vaccination, over 26 lakh got shots last week||The Haryana health authorities seem to have pressed the pedal on vaccination, administering an impressive 26.27 lakh coronavirus vaccine doses last week even as the number of weekly infections touched another all-time low at 88.About 70% of the vaccine shots administered last week were the first doses. Additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora said last week’s vaccination was the highest ever in a week in Haryana.“We intend to continue this momentum and hope to achieve the first dose target quickly. The fast-paced vaccination in state is also due to the increased supply of vaccine from the central government,” Arora said.The tempo seems to be continuing this week as more than 5.53 lakh doses including 3.80 lakh first dose were administered on the first two days of this week.Data showed that vaccinators across state inoculated 6.05 lakh persons on September 15, 5.12 lakh on September 13, 3.69 lakh on September 14, 3.63 lakh on September 17, 3.17 lakh on September 17, 3.07 lakh on September 18, and 1.50 lakh on September 19.The state also crossed the two-crore inoculation mark last week, vaccinating more than 1.50 crore persons with the first dose.Meanwhile, the virus infection trajectory in Haryana continued its downward journey for the 19th consecutive week. The deadly second wave of the virus transmission during a six-week period in April and May had resulted in over 4.21 lakh infections and over 4,200 fatalities.The decline in infection spread which started in the second week of May has continued since then.Health department statistics show that the state has registered a record low of 88 cases in each of the last two weeks (September 6-12 and September 13-19). Also, 19 of 22 districts have less than 10 or no active case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-steps-pedal-on-covid-vaccination-over-26-lakh-got-shots-last-week-101632251416964.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi’s house in Delhi vandalised by Hindu Sena members||The official residence of All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen’s chief (AIMIM) and Member of Parliament (MP) from Hyderabad, Asaduddin Owaisi, was vandalised during a protest by some alleged members of right-wing organisation, Hindu Sena, in central Delhi’s Ashoka Road on Tuesday evening, police said. The incident happened close to the Delhi Police headquarters.Five alleged members of the outfit were arrested and a case under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and the Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2007, was registered, said deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav.Later in the evening, Hindu Sena chief Vishnu Gupta released a press statement and took the responsibility of the incident by saying that “Hindu Sena workers staged a protest at Owaisi’s house as they were offended by his anti-Hindu statement.”The Hyderabad MP, who was in Lucknow at the time of the alleged vandalism, criticised the incident by saying that similar incidents at his house had taken place during 2015-16 and despite many police complaints nothing has been done to prevent such acts. Owaisi also alleged that the caretaker of the house, Raju, was assaulted by the people involved in the vandalism on Tuesday.“This is not the first time that such vandalism had taken place at my house. During 2015-16, when Rajnath Singh (senior BJP leader and Union defence minister) was my neighbor, such incidents had happened. Several complaints were given but I don’t know why this keeps on happening. We have given another complaint following today’s (Tuesday’s) incident,” said Owaisi over the phone.According to the police, six to seven alleged members of the Hindu Sena reached outside Owaisi’s residence at Ashoka Road and involved in vandalism during their protest. They allegedly broke the MP’s name plate, a tubelight and a window glass. A police team arrived after being informed about the vandalism and they caught five men.In a video released by the Hindu Sena, Lalit Kumar, state president of the group, is seen saying that they have come at the residence of Owaisi to teach him a lesson as he always gives speech against Hindus in his raillies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aimim-chief-asaduddin-owaisi-s-house-in-delhi-vandalised-by-hindu-sena-members-101632251176760.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Be realistic, more accurate in preparing budget estimates and fund requirements, govt tells depts||New Delhi: Pointing to discrepancies between estimates and actual expenses in previous years, the Delhi government has asked its departments to be more accurate and “realistic” in drawing up their estimates for the annual budget and said inaccurate assessments are often flagged with “adverse comments” during financial audits.In budget circulars issued to departments between August 12 and September 12, the government sought revised estimates for 2021-22 and budget estimates for 2022-23. In the same circular, copies of which HT has seen, the government has sought details on budget estimates, revised estimates and actual expenses for all financial years since 2017-18. They have been asked to specifically classify expenses under “establishment and other committed expenditure”, “government scheme and projects”, and “centrally sponsored schemes”.“Revised estimates and budget estimates should be formulated taking a realistic assessment of the requirement of funds which are to be utilised by the department during the financial year. Some of the discrepancies which have continued to occur in framing budget estimates by the department are given below and it is requested that departments should take utmost care to avoid such recurring discrepancies,” said the official document.The government identified a few areas which recorded discrepancies between estimates and actual expenses. These included salaries, supplementary demand for grants, and centrally sponsored schemes.“There are also cases where the actual expenditure was found either in excess or short of budget provisions. To avoid such situations, it is for the department to have a realistic view of its requirement. The wide variations between the original budget estimates and actual expenditure incurred lead to an obvious conclusion that the departments have not been able to properly anticipate, assess and project a realistic requirement of funds,” said the document.It further said, “Revised estimates and budget estimates of a department means that projections are inclusive of all subordinate offices under their administrative control including the autonomous bodies and grantee institutions... Budget proposals issued directly by any such subordinate offices or grantee institutions will not be entertained.”The Delhi government has around 200 departments in total which include finance, revenue, general administration, services, education, health, excise, water, power, urban department, agriculture, labour, local bodies, transport, environment, art and culture, food and civil supplies, technical institutes, agriculture, irrigation and flood, fire services and home.The Delhi government proposed a budget outlay of ₹ ₹69,000 crore for 2021-22, the highest so far. Of this, around ₹32,000 crore was allocated on revenue expenditure and nearly ₹37, 000 crore on schemes and projects. The highest allocation, of ₹16,377 crore, was on education, followed by ₹9,934 crore on health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/be-realistic-more-accurate-in-preparing-budget-estimates-and-fund-requirements-govt-tells-depts-101632251175744.html
22-09-2021||Other||In show of strength, Rao Inderjit Singh to hold rally in Jhajjar on September 23||Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh, who nurses a dream of becoming Haryana chief minister, will show his strength by organising a Shaheedi Diwas Samaroh outside Ahirwal region in Jhajjar’s Patauda village on September 23 on the martyrdom day of Rao Tularam.This village is also a ‘Ahir-dominated’ village and comes under Jhajjar district, which is considered to be former chief minister Bhupinder Hooda’s stronghold.This time, Rao Inderjit had invited only Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar in the rally and he will be the chief speaker. Rao Inderjit, a prominent ‘Ahir’ leader from southern Haryana, wields considerable clout in Ahirwal constituencies.Son of former Haryana CM Rao Birender Singh, Inderjit comes from the famed Rampura House, an icon of royalty in dynastic politics of southern Haryana. He is one of the few BJP leaders, who did not face any protest from farmers in the ongoing farm agitation.As many as six MLAs, two ministers in the Haryana government and four MPs will share the stage with Union minister Inderjit Singh in a show of strength.Rao’s loyalist Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Sonepat MP Ramesh Kaushik, Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma, Rajya Sabha MP DP Vats, Haryana ministers Banwari Lal, OP Yadav and MLAs loyal to Rao will attend the rally.Haryana cooperation minister Banwari Lal said, “We have started ground-level preparations to make the rally a success.”A legislator loyal to Rao Inderjit, pleading anonymity, said some opponents within the BJP are trying to underestimate Rao Inderjit by inducting newly-appointed Union minister Bhupender Yadav in the Ahirwal region.“Bhupender Yadav selected the route of his Jan Ashirwad Yatra that is being represented by Rao Inderjit and the MLAs opponent to our faction welcomed the newly-appointed minister. The September 23 rally will prove the charisma of Rao Inderjit outside the Ahirwal belt,” the MLA added.On Shaheedi Diwas (September 23) in 2013, the then Congress MP from Gurgaon Rao Inderjit had announced to quit the grand-old party in a Rewari rally while accusing the then Haryana CM Bhupinder Sigh Hooda on the issue of discrimination in terms of development and jobs.Throwing an open challenge to Hooda, Rao Inderjit had dared Hooda to resign from his assembly seat and said he would resign from the Gurgaon parliamentary seat to have a direct battle on the turf of Gurugram (earlier Gurgaon) to prove who enjoys mass support.Retired professor from Bhiwani government college and political commentator, Anant Ram, said Rao Inderjit enjoys dominance in the southern region of the state and there is no leader in Ahirwal region of his stature.“He had also taken key decisions of his political life on the Shaheedi Diwas. He remained at loggerheads with former Congress CMs Bhajan Lal and Bhupinder Singh Hooda. After Bhupender Yadav’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra that passes through the Ahirwal belt, there is some uneasiness in the Rao camp and he has decided to show his strength by holding his rally at Jhajjar’s Patauda village, which is also a Yadav-dominated village but it comes under Hooda’s bastion. This seems to be a pressure tactic on high command by Inderjit to hold a rally without calling any top BJP leader,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-show-of-strength-rao-inderjit-singh-to-hold-rally-in-jhajjar-on-september-23-101632251174688.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Gurdwara election body disqualifies Manjinder Singh Sirsa from being ‘co-opted’ as DSGMC member||Chandigarh: The directorate of gurdwara election, New Delhi, on Tuesday disqualified former Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa from being chosen as a ‘co-opted’ member of DSGMC. Sirsa lost the DSGMC polls held on August 22, to Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) candidate Harvinder Singh Sarna. On August 25, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said that Sirsa will continue as DSGMC president, and that he will be ‘co-opted’ through the quota of Amritsar-headquartered Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). SAD has majority in SGPC. However, Narinder Singh, the director of gurdwara election, said on Tuesday that Sirsa was not eligible for the post. “The undersigned is constrained to deduce that Manjinder Singh Sirsa is not well versed with reading and writing of Gurmukhi and, therefore, does not qualify the eligibility conditions as laid the section 10 of the (DSGMC) Act,” Narinder Singh said in an order on Tuesday. Sirsa said he will challenge the orders in the high court. “The director is working against the interest of my party and me,” Sirsa said, adding that he has done BA (Honours) in Punjabi. “The same directorate has cleared my nominations thrice in the past, and now they say my knowledge of Gurmukhi is limited, which is not acceptable,” he said. Harvinder Singh Sarna has filed a petition in the Dehi high court, seeking Sirsa’s disqualification on the grounds of the alleged lack of his knowledge in Gurmukhi, the script in which Guru Granth Sahib is written. On September 5, the high court ordered the directorate to submit a report by September 21. Sirsa appeared before the directorate to take a test in Gurmukhi on September 17. After the appearing for the test, he said that he recited Gurbani, but refused to write because any inadvertent mistake would amount to sacrilege. The court will next hear the matter on October 15. As per the norms of DSGMC Act 46 elected members of the DSGMC would meet on September 24 again for nomination of two members from among 350 Singh Sabha gurdwaras in the national capital that falls under the jurisdiction of DSGMC. Other than that, four members from the clergy would also be nominated taking the total strength of the house to 55. In the house one member is reserved to be coopted from SGPC. After Sirsa’s disqualification the directorate has written to the SGPC to send a fresh name for cooption, before September 24. Meanwhile, two members, SAD (Delhi) president Paramjit Singh Sarna, and Vikram Singh Rohini, belonging to the Badals-led SAD were co-opted in the last meeting on September 9, when Sirsa’s nomination was put on a hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gurdwara-election-body-disqualifies-manjinder-singh-sirsa-from-being-co-opted-as-dsgmcmember-101632251054730.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||CBSE announces board exam fee exemption for students who lost their parents during Covid pandemic||New Delhi: The Central Board of Secondary Education on Tuesday announced a one-time exemption of examination and registration fee for those students who lost both their parents to Covid-19 or the surviving parent. “The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the country adversely and keeping in view of its impact on students, CBSE as a special measure for academic session 2021-22, has decided that neither the examination fees nor the registration fees will be charged by the board from the students who have lost both parents, or surviving parent, or legal guardian/adoptive parents due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a circular signed by Controller of Examination Sanyam Bhardwaj.Students who have lost one of their parents will not be eligible for the exemption. The board also asked CBSE-affiliated schools to submit the details of such students after verifying the cases. Students are required to submit the fee before September 30 – which is the last date for schools to submit their list of Class 10 and 12 candidates to the board. A majority of schools in Delhi are affiliated to CBSE, including the 1,030 Delhi government schools. In 2019, CBSE hiked the board examination fee for Class 10 and 12 students in the general category in Delhi government schools from ₹375 and ₹600, respectively, to ₹1,500 for five subjects. For Class 12 students, the fee can go up to ₹2,500, including the extra amount for practicals, additional and optional subjects.For SC/ST candidates in Class 10, the examination fee was increased from ₹375 to ₹1,200 and for Class 12, from ₹600 to ₹1,200 in Delhi government and government-aided schools. Before 2019, students from the SC/ST category were charged ₹50 and the remainder used to be reimbursed by the government to the board. Now, they have to pay the full fee.Following the 2019 hike, the Delhi government paid the fee for over 314,000 Class 10 and 12 students in government schools that year, but it did not pay the fee last year citing fund crunch. This year, the All India Parents Association has been campaigning and asking state authorities to bear the costs.Officials from the Delhi government and in the education department did not comment on the matter.Principals HT spoke to said the decision will definitely help those students who have lost their parents, but added that several others whose parents were facing financial crisis due to the pandemic will not benefit from it. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Sector-8 Rohini, said, “We have several students whose parents have lost livelihood during the pandemic and they are struggling to arrange for two square meals. It is difficult for them to arrange the board fee especially for those families that have more than one of their children in Class 10 or 12. We have planned to arrange the fee for at least 100 of our 500 board students. Affluent people across the city should meet government school principals and help such students.”Several other government school principals in Dwarka, Najagfarh, Okhla, Mayur Vihar, Dallupura, Seelampur, and Sangam Vihar also expressed similar concerns. Dallupura resident Sunita Chaudhary, a domestic worker whose daughter studies in a nearby government school in Class 10, said she lost work during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The numbers of houses where I worked were almost halved due to the pandemic. I have three children to feed, and need some money for their education as well. Though my husband is an auto driver, he doesn’t contribute much to the household income. Arranging for ₹1,800 is not easy for me,” she said.Last year too, HT reported that doctors, book publishers, grocery store owners, and members of residents’ welfare associations helped schools pay the board exam fee of students in many government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbseannounces-board-exam-fee-exemption-for-students-who-lost-their-parents-during-covid-pandemic-101632250935083.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||From 2022, not separating household waste will invite fines in east Delhi||From next year, residents of east Delhi will have to pay a penalty if they do not segregate their household waste into the three mandated categories of non-biodegradable (dry waste), biodegradable (wet waste) and domestic hazardous waste. For commercial institutions, however, the penalties for the same will start from November 1, 2021, said an order by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Tuesday.According to civic officials, the penalty ranges from ₹200 (for individual households) to ₹10,000 (for gated communities) and ₹20,000 (for market associations). The penalties will be imposed by the civic body under the Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016, and the by-laws under its jurisdiction.As per the order, commercial outlets such as marriage halls, party lawns, banquet halls, exhibition and fares, with area less than 5000 square metres (sqm), the penalty will be ₹10,000. For cinema halls, pubs, community halls with an area less than 5000 sqm, the fine shall be ₹5,000. For hotels, the penalty will be ₹50,000 and for restaurants, it will be ₹20,000.“A month’s time will be given to all categories of establishments, including residential, to comply with the rules. Door to door collection of waste has already been started in the area. We have been carrying out awareness drives for the same. Also, we have been holding meetings with the stakeholders, including resident bodies and market associations, to make them aware of the significance of segregating waste and opting for different alternatives such as composting of wet waste to reduce the overall waste generated,” said a senior corporation official, who asked not to be named.The order, dated September 21, stated: “Mandatory segregation of solid waste at source will come into implementation --- for commercial, industrial, institutional and non- residential premises -- from October 2 while for residential premises it will start from December 1 this year. The levying of penalty on defaulters in the commercial category will start from November 1 this year while for residential category; it will begin from January 1, 2022.” As per the SWM Rules, it is necessary for all waste generators to segregate and store solid waste in three categories --- non-biodegradable or dry waste; biodegradable or wet waste and domestic hazardous waste. Those not complying with the rules are liable for levying fines/penalties. “The penalties vary for different categories. For instance, for individual households, the amount of waste generated is less and hence the penalty levied is lesser. In the case of group housing societies and market associations, which are bulk waste generators, the penalties will be much higher,” the official quoted above said.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal, however, said he has not seen the order yet and that he is not in favour of the decision. “I have yet to see the order. We need to educate people and make them aware of how they can segregate waste and provide different alternatives for the same before we can think of levying penalties. There are a number of resettlement colonies and other such areas where people need to be provided with a mechanism to segregate waste,” he said.Resident associations in east Delhi, too, are against the civic body’s decision of levying penalty without providing a framework.“We are ready to segregate waste and are doing it even now. However, there is no point doing it till the waste is also collected in a segregated manner. So far, the waste collector dumps the entire waste in the same vehicle without segregating it. So the civic body has to first ready its own mechanism for segregation before penalising people,” said Shivaji Samaddar, president, Samachar group housing society, Mayur Vihar Phase-I.BS Vohra, president, East Delhi RWAs Federation, said imposing a penalty is just not right. “The civic body is ready to levy fines on people without even holding a discussion with the residents. They first need to provide adequate services. When there is waterlogging in the streets and potholes, there is no penalty imposed on the civic body for inconveniencing residents,” said Vohra.So far, EDMC is the first municipal corporation to issue an order to this effect. The south and north corporations have not imposed any penalties for non-segregation of waste. While the South corporation had last year started levying user charges for collection and transportation of waste and even issued notices to households for not complying with the segregation, the order was withdrawn after resident groups opposed it.The east corporation had started levying user charges on commercial institutions from this July while residences are still exempted from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-2022-not-separating-household-waste-will-invite-fines-in-east-delhi-101632250814807.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi court rejects plea to hold day-to-day trial in Dalit girl rape-murder case||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Tuesday rejected the city police’s plea for holding day-to-day trial in the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl at a crematorium near Delhi Cantonment, saying that there is huge pendency of crime against children cases.Additional sessions judge Ashutosh Kumar dismissed a plea by the police seeking expeditious hearing in the matter. The judge said that he has 620 pending cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 in his court, including the present one, and several accused are languishing in jail pending trial.“In view of the huge pendency before this court and the submissions of the defence counsel that they have to attend their other matters, day-to-day hearing will not be possible in this case. However, this court shall expeditiously hear the case,” the judge said.The girl, from a Dalit family in a village near Delhi cantonment, was found dead by her parents in a local crematorium earlier this month. The accused — a 55-year-old priest and his three associates — say the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler but the family alleges that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after raping her. The four accused are in jail.On August 28, police filed a charge sheet against the four accused—Radhey Shyam, Kuldeep Singh, Salim Ahmed and Laxmi Narayan--for rape, wrongful confinement, murder, destruction of evidence, and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Prevention of Atrocities Act. On Tuesday, additional public prosecutor Yadvinder Singh, appearing for the police, said fast tracking the case will bring justice to the victim’s family.However, this was opposed by Radhey Shyam’s counsel, LK Verma, who contended that the arguments on charge can only begin after the police submit evidence of rape of the minor girl in their supplementary charge sheet.“There are so many Pocso cases. Why is the police trying to fast track this case only? The charge sheet was filed within a month and evidence of rape is yet to be proved by them. The accused in this case deserve a fair trial too, one which is not hurried,” he argued, adding that he had other cases to look into and he cannot devote his time only on a single case.Verma, also moved an application in the court, seeking protection for his client who was being assaulted by the co-inmates in the prison as well as the jail van. The application also said that there was danger to Shyam’s life because he is being threatened to life by the inmates.“Life of the applicant (Shyam) is in danger as some of the co-prisoners used to beat him in jail as well while traveling to the court on a police van during the proceedings of the case and are regularly being threatened to kill,” it alleged.The court issued notice to the concerned DCP and jail authorities on the plea and posted it for consideration on September 29, the date already fixed. It also sought the response of the police on the plea by Shyam seeking the CCTV footage of August 1 and the coloured photographs of the incident of crime, annexed in the charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-rejects-plea-to-hold-day-to-day-trial-in-dalit-girl-rape-murder-case-101632250697020.html
22-09-2021||Other||SKM leaders gear up for Panipat rally on September 26||Farm leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, are likely to address the farmers at a state-level rally that will be organised in Panipat on September 26.The rally assumes significance as the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has given a call of Bharat Bandh on September 27 on completion of 10 months of their ongoing agitation against three controversial farm laws enacted by the Centre last year.Farm leader from Karnal, Ratan Mann, who is monitoring the arrangements for the rally said this rally will be historic as thousands of farmers of Haryana will reach Panipat to attend the rally.As per information, the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Haryana unit will organise the rally and they have invited many leaders of the SKM.“The rally is being organised by the Bharatiya Kisan Union as farmers from Panipat have invited Rakesh Tikait to honour him for the ongoing agitation,” said Ratan Mann, state BKU president.He said thousands of farmers from the state will attend the rally as farm leaders will give an important message ahead of the Bharat Bandh.A 26-member committee has been formed to ensure a huge gathering at the rally.As of now, there is no information on whether Haryana BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni will attend the rally or not but without naming anybody Mann said they have invited SKM leaders, including Rakesh Tikait.There are reports that earlier there were no plans to invite Charuni at the rally but later, some farm leaders objected to this as Charuni’s absence may put a question mark because Charuni and his supporters played a key role in several protests, including Karnal.“We cannot confirm whether Charuni will attend this rally or not but we will see if they have sent us an invite,” said Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of BKU (Charuni).This will be the first such rally in state after the three-day protest by farm leaders over lathi-charge on farmers on August 28 in Karnal.Mann said the rally is being organised to “awaken” the government to repeal the anti-farmer laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/skm-leaders-gear-up-for-panipat-rally-on-september-26-101632250635861.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Children must be taught to become job givers, not job seekers: Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said in order to boost business enterprises in the country, children must be taught to become “job givers” and not “job seekers”, “If our students only run in the direction of jobs in the corporate or IT sector, then who will create jobs in the country? Who will give an upward push to the economy of the country?” the minister said, while speaking at the opening session of a two-day commerce festival organised by the state industries department, in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).Sisodia also said the increase in India’s exports -- from $1.7 billion to $300 billion in 75 years -- is not remarkable and blamed the “mentality” of policy makers and “the system” for the slow progress. “The country’s system is so indifferent to trade that when we first made computers, there was no change in the law for its export for five-six years and India was exporting computers as typewriters for all those years. The sad reality is that students in our country are studying with a mindset to grab jobs as soon as they complete their graduation. Students are brainwashed to become job seekers instead of job providers. Do we want our kids to just become a small part of a big corporate company one day or should we prepare them to take risks like an entrepreneur and become change-makers of society?” Sisodia said. The deputy chief minister also said government software systems are flawed and are resistant to reforms. “You try to do something, make it better and it immediately shows an error. This problem needs to be immediately rectified. This is the reason why it took seven years for the country’s first computer to be exported as a computer and not as typewriters. Also, if laws are made on the assumption that the traders are working with the aim to steal, then this will only lead to the creation of a negative mindset among businessmen. This needs to be immediately changed or else only the export data will increase but the reality will remain the same,” he said. Industries minister Satyendar Jain said, “Delhi is the biggest exporter of skilled man force across the globe. Most Indian doctors and engineers working abroad are from Delhi. It tells a lot about the potential of Delhi as a state. This is evident from the export business turnover of up to $10 billion. The government should focus on doing the job of an enabler. The export business in Delhi requires quite a lot of space and this space cannot be created within the city all of a sudden,” he said. Jain added that 30 years ago, a policy of decentralisation of services was formulated, and at that time, thousands of people travelled from one place to another within Delhi, now that figure has gone up by lakhs. All governments should remove restrictions from export industries, and let businesses prosper and grow, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/children-must-be-taught-to-become-job-givers-not-job-seekers-delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-101632250574787.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Centre gets time to respond to Delhi Waqf Board plea to preserve heritage properties that are likely to be affected due to Central Vista revamp||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court Tuesday granted time to the Centre to respond to a plea by Delhi Waqf Board seeking the preservation and protection of its heritage properties that are likely to be affected by the ongoing Central Vista Redevelopment Project.Solicitor Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva that he would take instructions on the Board’s petition in a week’s time following which, the court posted the matter for September 29.In its plea, the board has sought the preservation and protection of six of its properties in the area within which the redevelopment work was ongoing, namely Masjid Zabta Ganj at Mansingh Road, Jama Masjid at Red Cross Road, Masjid Sunehri Bagh Road Near Udyog Bhawan, Mazar Sunehri Bagh Road behind Moti Lal Nehru Marg, Masjid Krishi Bhawan inside Krishi Bhawan Compound and Masjid Vice President at the official residence of the Vice President of India.Appearing for the Delhi Waqf Board, senior advocate Sanjoy Ghose, urged the court that an assurance be given by the SG with respect to the protection of the properties till then.The judge, however, said that such an assurance would be an “indirect stay” on the ongoing work.“Why should he give an assurance? This is an indirect stay. The project is continuing in a particular fashion. There is a timeline. They would have taken it (the structures) into account,” the court said adding that a stay on the project has already been refused by the Supreme Court and the high court.Ghose responded that they do not intend to impede the ongoing project but merely sought a “clarification that the government would honour the integrity of these places of worship.”He said that one of the structures even housed the remains of Dr Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed, the fifth President of India and the father of former high court judge Badar Durez Ahmed.“The waqf properties, subject matter of the present petition, are all more than 100 years old and are continuously being used for religious purpose. It is not the case that the Government Buildings were built first and thereafter these properties came into existence, to the contrary, these properties were well in existence when the Government buildings were constructed around them or in the vicinity,” said the petition filed through lawyer Wajeeh Shafiq.Claiming that the six properties “are more than an ordinary mosque and have a distinction attached to them”, the petition states that neither the British government nor the government of India ever created any hindrance in the observance of religious practices at these properties which were always preserved.“The British Crown transferred few of these properties to the predecessors of the petitioner by way of registered agreements; these waqf properties were also spared when Government buildings were constructed around them or in their immediate vicinity, few of these waqf properties were also withdrawn from the acquisition and their title was allowed to revert to the petitioner,” the plea added.It said that the representations sent by the board seeking assurance about the properties have not been responded to in spite of the expiry of over two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-gets-time-to-respond-to-delhi-waqf-board-plea-to-preserve-heritage-properties-that-are-likely-to-be-affected-due-to-central-vista-revamp-101632250514604.html
22-09-2021||Other||Take early decision on mercy plea of Rajoana: SGPC chief to Centre||Amritsar Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Tuesday accused the Centre of deliberately delaying the mercy plea of Balwant Singh Rajoana, a convict in former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh’s assassination case. She added that the Centre has not acted despite the Supreme Court directing it to do so. Rajoana’s sister Kamaldeep Kaur had visited the SGPC headquarters to meet the president; she requested the SGPC chief to take up the issue, at which the chief said the gurdwara management body would write to the Union home minister in this regard. “The government is pursuing a policy of evasion in this matter, despite the apex court’s clear instructions. Rajoana’s name was among the eight prisoners to whom the Indian government had announced a relaxation in imprisonment on Guru Nanak’s 550th birth anniversary. Under this decision, Rajoana’s sentence was commuted to life. The government has not implemented its own decision,” the SGPC chief added. “On January 25, 2021, the SC issued orders to the government to take a decision within two weeks. On its appeal, another six weeks were granted to the government, effectively mandating a decision by March 26, 2021. To date, no decision has been taken,” she added. SGPC members Gurcharan Singh Grewal, Gurbakhsh Singh Khalsa and others were present, as the chief met Rajoana’s sister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/take-early-decision-on-mercy-plea-of-rajoana-sgpc-chief-to-centre-101632250460293.html
22-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: PCTE College holds event on working of journalists||The department of journalism and mass communication of PCTE College organised a seminar on the working of journalists. The highlight was an interactive session wherein experienced journalists, a part of the college faculty, shared their experiences from the field.Students and budding journalists from different schools, including BCM School, Shastri Nagar, GRD Academy, and PCTE, attended the seminar. The students interacted with the panel and asked questions that added to their knowledge. During the seminar, the panelists shared their anecdotes and experiences from their respective careers.Dinesh Kumar, dean, journalism department, shared stories about reporting terrorism during his early career days in Amritsar. He also spoke about covering defence in Delhi and his tenure as an editor of leading publications.Harpreet Kaur Kang, dean, international affairs, shared her journey of being a journalist for eight consecutive years. She gave interesting insights to the students on how the sector works and how one should be ready to face the challenges.Anjali Dudeja, the coordinator of the journalism department, shared anecdotes from her career as a radio jockey and a newsreader with national news channels.Dr KNS Kang, director-general, PCTE Group of Institutes, congratulated the journalism department on successfully organising the conference. “It’s great to gather students and professionals from the industry with common interests and background, with a purpose of seeking healthy discussions and their valuable inputs on the current status of the industry,” he said.The seminar concluded with principal Gushminder Singh of GRD Academy delivering a thank you note on behalf of the academy and students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-pcte-college-holds-event-on-working-of-journalists-101632250456123.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Bodies of Kyrgyz woman and her one year old son found in Kalkaji flat||New Delhi: The bodies of a 28-year-old pregnant woman from Kyrgyzstan and her 13-month-old son, with multiple stab wounds, were found on Tuesday morning at her friend’s flat in south Delhi’s Kalkaji, police said, and added that a kitchen knife purportedly used in the crime was also recovered from the crime scene. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said the victim, Myskal Zhumabaeva, had gone to her friend’s house on Monday evening after an alleged argument with her husband, Vinay Chauhan, an Indian citizen. She stayed there for the night, he said. Chauhan had gone to her friend, Wahid’s, house in South Extension after the argument, and was present there at the time of alleged murders, the police said. He added that Myskal’s friend, Matluba Madusmonov, an Uzbek citizen, was present inside the flat with her Indian friend, Avnish, and at least two others, when the incident took place between 8am and 9am on Tuesday. The DCP said though they have registered a case of murder at the Kalkaji police station, the police were also investigating if Myskal murdered her son and then killed herself. “All possibilities are being thoroughly probed, considering the circumstances of the cases,” the DCP said. Police officers investigating the case said there were at least five stab wounds on Myskal’s body, and three on the body of the boy. DCP Meena said that Matluba, Avnish and the two others were being questioned. He said they have told the police in their initial statements that they were in another other room, and have no idea how Myskal and her son died. They were the first to see the bodies. They have claimed that Myskal’s room was shut from inside, and they had to use force to open it. They told the police that they informed Chauhan about the death of his wife and son. It was Chauhan who called the police, the DCP said.“We are verifying the statements of the four people who were present in the flat. None of them has been given a clean chit. We have established that the knife used in the crime came from the flat’s kitchen. As Chauhan was not present at the crime scene, his involvement is unlikely at least according to the circumstances of the case. However, we are also investigating him,” DCP Meena said. He said Myskal and Chauhan lived in a rented flat in Greater Kailash Part-2. Police said the crime was reported around 10am, when Chauhan called up the police control room. A police team that reached the Kalkaji flat found the two bodies on the bed. The bodies were shifted to the mortuary at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) where a post-mortem examination will be conducted on Wednesday by a panel of doctors. The Delhi Police have already requested the Delhi government to constitute the doctors’ panel.Preliminary investigation has shown that Myskal met Chauhan on a social networking site, and they got married around two and a half years ago. She was two months pregnant and often required visits to hospital, investigators said.On Monday evening, Myskal asked Chauhan to take her to a maternity hospital since she had pain. Chauhan suggested that they should visit any nearby clinic. An argument began after which Chauhan left home, saying that he was going to his friend’s place, the officer said quoting statements of the family’s friends. After Chauhan left, Msykal called Matluba and asked her to take her to a hospital. Matluba and Avnish took Myskal to a hospital and brought her to Matluba’s flat in Kalkaji, where their two friends were already present, the investigator said.“What happened after they reached the flat and when the bodies were found is a matter of probe. We are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the flat’s neighbourhood to ascertain if anybody else visited the flat during that period,” the investigator said, adding that Chauhan owns as guest house but could not tell the location.Matluba’s immediate neighbour, an elderly woman who did not want to be named, said that she did not know about the incident until she stepped out in the morning to see a huge crowd and police gathered outside her house. “We barely saw this couple outside. They did not even mingle or interact with anyone here, and had shifted here just two months ago. Usually all the tenants leave in less than a month,” she said.The police have learnt that Matluba shifted to Kalkaji four months ago. They were trying to find out when did she came to India, and her purpose of staying in the country. They were also ascertaining details of Myskal’s status of stay in India, and if she had applied for Indian citizenship or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bodies-of-kyrgyz-woman-and-her-one-year-old-son-found-in-kalkaji-flat-101632250274693.html
22-09-2021||Other||Lawyer urges high court to order CBI probe into ABAP chief’s death||: A letter petition has been sent to the official email id of the Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court seeking CBI probe in the mysterious death of Mahant Narendra Giri inside his room at Baghambari Gaddi Math on Monday. Giri was the president of the Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) and mahant of Bade Hanuman temple of Prayagraj. The letter petition was filed at midnight by Sunil Choudhary, a lawyer by profession in which a request has been made to treat the letter as a public interest litigation (PIL). Choudhary has also demanded that the probe be transferred to CBI and has sought the suspension of the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prayagraj. It his letter, Choudhary claimed he was informed by some ‘residents of Baghambari gaddi’ that reason behind the incident was huge amount of financial misappropriation. Citing some news portals, Choudhary also alleged involvement of a top cop and a land shark in the case. The letter further stated the ABAP president was provided security by state government and raises the question about “how such an incident was possible in the presence of huge number of disciples and security.” Giri was found hanging from a ceiling fan by a rope, officials said. A purported suicide note was found from ABAP president’s room in which mahant’s disciple, Anand Giri, and two others were held responsible for the extreme step, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lawyer-urges-high-court-to-order-cbi-probe-into-abap-chief-s-death-101632250214728.html
22-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: BJP leaders seek FIR against district youth Congress president||The leaders of district Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) filed a complaint with the commissioner of police Naunihal Singh, seeking an FIR under attempt to murder charges against district youth Congress president Yogesh Handa and others for hurling stones, bottles, and sharp-edged objects at their party members.They alleged that Naveen Saini, a BJP worker, lost his vision due to the assault. He is admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, they added.The BJP workers led by district president Pushpinder Singhal filed the complaint with the police chief who has assured them of action.Singhal stated that on September 11, members of the Youth Congress led by Handa turned up at the BJP office near the Clock Tower and started pelting stones, bottles, and sharp-edged objects at BJP workers in the presence of police. During the alleged attack, Naveen Saini suffered grievous injuries on his eye and lost his vision. Other BJP workers, including Yashpal Verma, Rahul Kaushal, and Manu Arora, also suffered severe injuries.Singhal added that there are CCTVs installed in the area that will help the police identify the accused. He also alleged that the accused were hatching a conspiracy to set the BJP office on fire.Further, he added that police personnel have recorded Saini’s statement wherein he named Handa, Cherry Ahluwalia, Amar Gogna, Sahil Bassi, Kamal, Chetan, Sunil, and others as the accused. The police have not taken action against the culprits yet, he said.BJP and Youth Congress workers had indulged in a violent scuffle outside the BJP office on September 11. At least 14 people suffered injuries in the clash wherein workers of both parties assaulted each other. The police used mild force to disperse the workers of both parties.The cops had lodged an FIR under Section 160(committing affray) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons for the clash after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-bjp-leaders-seek-fir-against-district-youth-congress-president-101632250034738.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||HC seeks response of Centre, Delhi govt and discom on plea seeking power connections for Pak migrants||The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought the response of the Centre, Delhi government and Tata Power on a plea seeking electricity connection for nearly 800 Hindu migrants from Pakistan residing in north Delhi.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to the ministries of home affairs and defence, Delhi government, North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC), Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC), Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (TPDDL), and district magistrate of North Delhi and asked them to file reply to the petition.The petition sough electricity connection for 200 Hindu migrants families, comprising almost 800 persons, who are currently living in Delhi Jal Board Maidan in North Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar area.Petitioner Hariom, who works for the welfare of “minority migrants” from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan to India, said in the present case, the migrants are from Pakistan, mostly from Sindh province, and are living here without electricity for the past few years.“Migrants who have come to India from Pakistan on account of religious persecution believed that coming to India will give their children a bright and safe future but their present existence without electricity in the slums has shattered all their dreams of a meaningful existence,” he said in his plea.“During the pandemic, when all schools went online, there is no electricity in the jhuggis (slums) and the future of their children is in the dark,” the plea said further.The petitioner said he has approached various government authorities but could not succeed in getting electricity for migrants and some of them even applied to TPDDL, which refused on the grounds a valid ownership proof of the respective address was required.The plea claimed that most migrants are living on a long-term visa and they have Aadhaar cards in those addresses as well, consequently proving their occupancy of said address.However, as per the discom, Aadhaar can only be used as identity proof and not as proof of occupancy of the premises, it said.The plea sought directions for providing electricity to the migrants on the basis of their Aadhaar cards, long-term visas and passports under the DERC (Supply Code and Performance Standards) Regulations, 2017, and to also include these documents as identity proof and Aadhaar card as proof of occupancy.The court listed the matter for further hearing to October 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-seeks-response-of-centre-delhi-govt-and-discom-on-plea-seeking-power-connections-for-pak-migrants-101632249915035.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Man involved in over 100 cases of robbery in Delhi held after evading arrest for 10 years||Delhi Police arrested a man wanted for 100 snatchings and robberies, who managed to evade the law for 10 years, in Dwarka on Monday. Police said that on September 14, they received information about an active snatcher Arjun (known by his first name only), who was about to leave for Gogamedhi Dham in Jodhpur to evade arrest. A team of Delhi Police went to Jodhpur, and after a 72-hour-long operation, finally identified Arjun.When the team tried to apprehend him, he tried to flee. After chasing him for 1.5 kilometres, the team caught him.Santosh Kumar Meena, DCP (Dwarka) said that the police registered an FIR at the Dwarka north police station and began an investigation.During interrogation, Arjun said he would commit crimes in Dwarka west, northwest, north and Rohini districts.He said he would sell the vehicles he stole to a man named Noni (known by his first name only) in Bhalswa Dairy and the gold he stole to a goldsmith, Vishal (known by his first name only). Police have arrested Vishal.Arjun also named his associates, one of whom is his brother Sonu (known by his first name only). He also told the police that he robbed so much gold that he gifted some of it to his mother, sister, brother-in-law and other relatives. DCP Meena said that police raided his relatives’ houses, but all of them were on the run.Arjun also told the police that to evade arrest, he would repaint stolen motorcycles so that he could use those to snatch other vehicles. “He is involved in over 100 criminal cases of robbery, snatching, firearms etc. He and his associates have committed several crimes in many parts of the city. They used high-performance stolen motorcycles to commit the crimes,” said DCP Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-involved-in-over-100-cases-of-robbery-in-delhi-held-after-evading-arrest-for-10-years-101632249736934.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Parts of Delhi get light showers; patchy rain to continue through week, says IMD||After the past few days of sweltering heat, parts of Delhi on Tuesday received light rain much to the relief of capital’s residents. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials, light to moderate showers are likely to continue in Delhi over the next two days and while the intensity might reduce after that, the capital will receive patchy rain throughout the week. The IMD recordings show that on Tuesday, Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station, which is taken as representational for the entire city, received 3.6mm of rain, while Lodi Road received 1mm of rain. The observatory in Ridge reported 17.6mm rain, according to IMD data. The maximum temperature in Delhi on Tuesday was 35.6 degrees Celsius, a notch above what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 25.8 degrees Celsius .“Most parts of Delhi will receive light to moderate rain over the next two days. After that, the intensity of showers is expected to reduce and the patchy rain will continue through the week,” said a senior Met official, asking not to be named. Delhi this year has been witnessing an erratic monsoon, with several records -- highest single-day, monthly and seasonal rainfall -- being broken. Despite a late start to monsoon, it is turning out to be one of the wettest seasons the city has ever seen. IMD data shows that between June 1 and September 21, Delhi received 1,161.1mm rainfall, as opposed to the seasonal normal of 624.3mm rainfall, a departure of 86% towards surplus. The all-time record for the wettest monsoon is 1,420.3mm rainfall, in 1933. Forecasters said this year, Delhi is likely to see a late withdrawal of monsoon, just as it did in 2019. “The current conditions indicate that the monsoon is likely to stay at least till the first week of October. It is possible that the withdrawal this year, just like in 2019, will be late,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather Services, a private weather forecasting agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-get-light-showers-patchy-rain-to-continue-through-week-says-imd-101632249735957.html
22-09-2021||Other||Bikru case: HC rejects bail plea of cops accused of leaking info on police action to gangster||The Allahabad High Court rejected the bail plea of station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari and sub-inspector KK Sharma who were arrested for allegedly leaking information on police action to gangster Vikas Dubey that led to the Bikru village ambush on July 3, 2020. While rejecting the bail plea, single judge Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava said that it was evident that the accused/applicants had prior information regarding the police raid, and they ‘evidently’ revealed it to gangster. “There are policemen, maybe very few in numbers, who show their loyalty more to such gangsters than to their department for reasons best known to them,” the HC observed. The act of the accused alerted the gangsters and eventually led to a shootout in which 8 police personnel lost their lives. Dubey too was later killed in police encounter. Tiwari and another policeman were arrested in 2020 on charges of allegedly leaking information on police action to Dubey. An FIR was registered after the incident under sections 147, 148, 504, 323, 364, 342 and 307 of Indian Penal Code and section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1932 at Chaubeypur police station of Kanpur Nagar. Tiwari’s counsel submitted that there was only some “scattered” evidence against the accused applicants. UP government’s counsel countered that role of Sharma was evident since he was regularly in touch with Vikas Dubey and his gang and through him SO Vinay Tiwari was also in his touch. “The police force faces some real difficulty in combating organised crime and criminal activities. The police personnel are mostly not provided with that kind of sophisticated arms which are available in plenty to the gangsters and their gang members. The police stations are mostly under-manned and the strength of police force is remarkably less in comparison to the population,” the HC order read. The court also said that there is a concerning trend of political parties welcoming gangsters and criminals involved in organised crime in the party. The parties try to back and protect such gangsters, painting and spreading an imaginary image of Robinhood, the Court observed. “They are given tickets to contest elections and sometimes they win also. This trend needs to be stopped as soon as possible. All the political parties should sit and together a decision is required to be taken by them that gangsters and criminals will be discouraged in politics and no political party will give ticket to them in elections,” the HC emphasised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bikru-case-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-cops-accused-of-leaking-info-on-police-action-to-gangster-101632249617151.html
22-09-2021||Kolkata||Mamata’s mosque visit insult to Islam, says Bengal BJP’s new boss; cleric rebuts||KOLKATA: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Bengal unit’s president, Sukanta Majumdar, 41, on Tuesday accused the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) of imposing a Taliban-like regime in the state, hailed his predecessor Dilip Ghosh as the most successful state president in the party’s national history and gave a call to move ahead as a team comprising the youth and veterans.A day after being appointed as state president, Majumdar, the Bengal unit’s youngest chief, also alleged that many Hindu supporters of the BJP were killed by members of a minority community during post-poll violence. He did not name the community.“This was never Bengal’s culture though political clashes are not new. It is also a fact that minority community members of the BJP have also been attacked. Sadly, Bengal’s intellectuals have not said a word. They prefer enjoying champagne in the evening,” said Sukanta Majumdar, a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) member who entered electoral politics in 2019 when he contested and won the Balurghat Lok sabha seat in north Bengal.Addressing party leaders and the media at the BJP state office in West Bengal capital Kolkata, Majumdar said, “Talibanisation does not mean some people in long garbs going around with guns. Killing people who practice a different ideology or follow a rival party is real Talibanisation.”“We saw it when a young man and even his pet dog were killed on the streets of Kolkata,” said Majumdar, referring to the murder of BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar in the city’s Narkeldanga area on May 2 when the assembly poll results were announced. The case is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation.“We will oust Mamata Banerjee’s Taliban government at any cost. Even if we consider for argument’s sake that TMC can win all 42 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal in 2024, Narendra Modi will still become the Prime Minister. The TMC’s dream will never come true. Today, I promise to give the BJP more than 18 Lok Sabha seats in the next polls,” said Sukanta Majumdar.The state BJP leadership, the party’s national deputy observer for Bengal, Amit Malviya, and three former state presidents, Ashim Ghosh, Tathagata Roy and Rahul Sinha, attended the programme held to felicitate Majumdar and Ghosh, who is now a national vice-president.The only prominent face missing at the event was Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the assembly.Majumdar said: “There is no need to speculate. Adhikari is holding a campaign rally at Jangipur in Murshidabad district. I was supposed to be there today but last evening, our national general secretary B L Santhosh called me to say that I have to take up a new responsibility. He did specify what it was. The announcement was made late in the evening.”Assembly elections in Jangipur and Samserganj in Murshidabad could not be held in March-April as the TMC candidates fielded from these seats died of Covid-19. Both seats will go to the polls on September 30 along with Kolkata’s Bhawanipore from where Mamata Banerjee is contesting.“Our strategy for Bhawanipore is working well. TMC bigwigs who earlier ridiculed our candidate Priyanka Tibrewal are now getting irritated on hearing her name. Mamata Banerjee is campaigning every day. She recently visited a mosque. Islam does not permit women to enter mosques. I see this as an insult to Islam,” said Majumdar.Md Yahiya, chairman of the West Bengal Imams Association, promptly rebutted Majumdar.“The Quran does not say anywhere that women cannot enter mosques. The Prophet never said it. The BJP leader is absolutely wrong. Moreover, a mosque’s committee decides who will be given entry. It is not the prerogative of a party like the BJP,” Md Yahiya said, in response to a question by HT.Asked what he thought of Dilip Ghosh’s 2019 remark that Indian cow milk contains gold, Majumdar, a professor with a doctoral degree in botany, said, “Dilip Da (elder brother) said this because a scientific paper published at that time said elements of gold were found in the milk of Indian cows. A plant called Equisetum grows in areas that have gold deposits. It does not mean Equisetum can produce gold.”Though found in the wild in many countries, some varieties of Equisetum grow in parts of the US and Alaska where the ground is mineralized with metals such as copper, gold and zinc, according to some research papers.Majumdar also heaped praises at Ghosh, who sat next to him at the Press conference.“He (Dilip Ghosh) is the most successful state president. Under his leadership, the number of BJP MLAs rose from three to 77 and we won 18 Lok Sabha seats. This will be etched in gold in the BJP’s national history. Even ministers in other states long to hear his speech. Bengal BJP leaders never reached the national level because they could not speak Hindi fluently. Dilip Da has been chosen for a national role because he is an exception. But we will urge the party to ensure that he spends the maximum time in Bengal.”Admitting that the state unit is going through a bad phase because of an exodus of BJP leaders to TMC, Majumdar said, “Failure in any election demoralises party workers. There is nothing new about it. Those who believe in ideology will stay. They are in majority. The deserters should evaluate their decision.”“We made some strategic mistakes. Those are being analyzed,” he said.TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy promptly hit back at the Taliban barb. “The Talibanisaton he is talking about can be seen in BJP-ruled states. Majumdar should check the facts first,” the TMC leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/a-taliban-like-regime-bengal-bjp-s-new-boss-takes-a-swipe-at-mamata-banerjee-101632249616005.html
22-09-2021||Other||70% households in Uttar Pradesh use LPG as primary cooking fuel: CEEW||LUCKNOW More than 70% of the households in Uttar Pradesh (UP) use LPG as their primary cooking fuel and 85% have LPG connections, according to a recent independent study by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW). However, 54% of households continue to use solid fuels, either exclusively or by stacking them with LPG. These findings are based on data collected from over 1,500 households in 16 districts of the state. Using solid fuels such as firewood, dung cakes, agriculture residue, and charcoal for cooking increases exposure to indoor air pollution in such households. Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched Ujjwala 2.0, aimed at providing free LPG connections to 1 crore poor and migrant families in the country. CEEW senior programme lead Shalu Agrawal said, “The government deserves credit for its efforts to expand clean cooking energy access, primarily through the first phase of Ujjwala. But 15% of households in the state still lack LPG connections. Phase II of Ujjwala should focus on bridging the coverage gap through targeted beneficiary identification, improved enrolment processes, and awareness campaigns.” “Districts like Etawah, Mahoba, and Mainpuri, where LPG penetration is especially low, deserve particular attention. Further, policymakers should prioritise reinstating LPG refill subsidies to wean consumers away from solid fuels, which disproportionately impact the health of women and children,” Agrawal added. CEEW’s findings are from the India Residential Energy Survey (IRES) 2020, conducted in collaboration with the Initiative for Sustainable Energy Policy (ISEP). The findings indicated that LPG coverage in UP is better than Bihar, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, and West Bengal— but poorer than 13 other IRES states. The CEEW study also highlighted that LPG coverage is particularly low in districts like Etawah, Mahoba, Mainpuri, Pratapgarh and Sultanpur. Further, around one-fourth of households in these five districts use only solid fuels for cooking. The CEEW study highlighted that 93% of UP households, which use solid fuels along with LPG, cite high cylinder costs as one of their reasons for stacking fuels. This finding is significant in the context of the ongoing surge in LPG prices, which have risen by Rs240 per cylinder (a 40% hike) over the past one year. Lower household incomes during the pandemic and the suspension of LPG subsidies in May 2020 have made cooking gas unaffordable for a section of the population. Other reasons for fuel stacking including a preference for cooking on chulhas, the availability of free biomass, and the limited availability of LPG refills. The CEEW study recommends incentivising rural distributors to improve home delivery of LPG. This is particularly important in UP, where only 28% of rural LPG-using households have cylinders delivered at home. For rural households in Basti, Pratapgarh, Sitapur, and Sultanpur districts, this number falls to less than 10 per cent. Sunil Mani, Programme Associate, CEEW, and lead author of the study, said, “Given the high social costs of using solid fuels for cooking, we must strive to make LPG affordable and accessible through timely home delivery. The government should consider diverse strategies to disburse subsidies to deserving households.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/70-households-in-uttar-pradesh-use-lpg-as-primary-cooking-fuel-ceew-101632249614737.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Govt school teachers’ body calls for action against Class 11 student who attacked teacher||Three days after a Class 11 student of a government school attacked a teacher with a rod, the Government School Teacher’s Association (GSTA) wrote to the education department asking that the student’s name be struck off the rolls and measures be taken to safeguard teachers.Condemning the incident, the teachers’ association wrote to the deputy director of education, West B, on Monday, and said that it was imperative that the safety of teachers be prioritised while formulating policy. “Teachers’ safety and security must be at the forefront of policy formulation for the smooth functioning of the teaching-learning activities in educational institutions. Measures must be carried out to foil the reoccurrence of such incidents in future,” said GSTA in the letter. The association also sought that the teacher who was attacked be considered on duty till he recovers completely.Vikrant (who goes by his first name), a teacher at Government Boys Senior Secondary School in Baprola, was attacked with an iron rod by a student on school premises during school hours last Saturday. The 21-year-old student, who had failed twice, was arrested, while the teacher is being treated. Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parminder Singh said that a case had been registered at Ranhola police station. “The teacher was sitting in the staffroom along with his colleague, when the student, Lalit, attacked him with an iron pipe and injured him,” said Singh.In the letter, the GSTA also pointed out that this was not the first time that a teacher had been attacked. The association wrote that another teacher at Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Nangloi, was allegedly killed by his students in 2016.Anju Kumar Ahlawat, district secretary (West B), GSTA, said that teachers needed to be reassured that they will not be attacked as they impart their duties. Ahlawat said that the Delhi government could deploy police personnel for the safety of students and teachers just like it had provided marshals in DTC buses. “Teachers need assurance that they will not be harmed or attacked while doing their job. The government can depute police personnel or security guards along the lines of marshals in buses. These incidents will reduce drastically if security personnel are deployed within schools,” said Ahlawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-school-teachers-body-calls-for-action-against-class-11-student-who-attacked-teacher-101632249555422.html
22-09-2021||Noida||Noida authority removes illegal vendors from Brahmaputra Market||The Noida authority on Tuesday carried out an anti-encroachment drive against illegal street vendors in Brahmaputra Market in Noida’s Sector 29. The move comes after several complaints from residents of the Arun Vihar locality which is opposite Sector 29.According to authority officials, the action was taken after some vendors refused to shift to a separate vending zone that has been created in the nearby area of Sector 37. Brahmaputra Market is one of the oldest and famous market complexes in the city.“There are 101 registered roadside vendors in the sector, including those who set up their stalls in Brahmaputra Market. These vendors were repeatedly being asked to move to the vending zone. However, only 25 of the registered vendors supported the decision, and the rest were staying put at the market illegally,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida authority.Last week, the authority had proposed to set up a vending zone along Arun Vihar locality’s entry gates in Sector 37 which was opposed by the Arun Vihar Residents’ Welfare Association (AVRWA) citing security and sanitation concerns. After the protest, the vending zone was shifted towards the post office along the T-junction of the Ambedkar Market in Sector 37.“The Noida authority has created a separate zone for the vendors to set up their stalls/shops in a legal and organised manner. By setting up their shops at the Brahmaputra Market on the space meant for pedestrians, the vendors not only create nuisance but also deface the market,” said Colonel (retired) IP Singh, chairman of AVRWA.The residential area in Arun Vihar majorly houses retired armed forces personnel.Colonel (retired) UB Singh, ward director of Ward 6A, said, “As the authority officials have removed the encroachment from Brahmaputra Market, the RWA will ensure that the illegal vendors do not return.”Meanwhile, SK Gupta, president of Rehri Patri Sanchalak Welfare Association, said that the vendors at Brahmaputra Market have been given licences to shift to the vending zone. “We encourage all street vendors in Noida to follow the rules and set up their shops legally. At the Brahmaputra Market too, the authority officials have given licences to the vendors so they can shift to the new vending zone. However, some of them are still resisting the move. We will talk to them and try to resolve the issues,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-removes-illegal-vendors-from-brahmaputra-market-101632249554174.html
22-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic body to provide free Wi-Fi at five locations||In the next one month, city’s five locations with high footfall will have free Wi-Fi, said officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation on Tuesday. The five locations identified by the civic body include the old bus stand, civil courts, Turab Nagar market, tehsil complex at Gandhi Nagar and corporation headquarters.The project cost is pegged at ₹50 lakh per annum with 48 different access points at the five locations. The officials said that the decision to provide free Wi-Fi service in these areas was taken after directions from the Uttar Pradesh government.“The locations were selected by a team of our officials and all the places have high footfall. It is estimated that more than one lakh people per day visit these areas. Now, a proposal will be put forward in our upcoming meeting of the executive committee to get the financial approval,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.“The work will be awarded thereafter, and the project is expected to get implemented in the next one month,” he added.The state administration on September 10 this year issued a government order in which the municipal corporations across the state were directed to choose places having high movement of public for the free Wi-Fi service.The Turab Nagar market association has welcomed the corporation’s initiative.“Our market is about 30 years old, and about 20,000 customers visit here every day. It is still without a Wi-Fi facility. If the municipal corporation provides free Wi-Fi, it will be a boost for shop owners too. Normally, there is a network issue in our market. The new facility will really helpful to both the shop owners and customers,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairperson of Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal.Officials of the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) said that the daily passenger footfall at the old bus stand, from where around 100 buses depart every day, is about 25,000-35,000. “The decision by the corporation to provide free Wi-Fi is a welcome step. We will urge the corporation officials to install the facility at ISBT Kaushambi too, which has a higher footfall of about 40,000 passengers, and both bus stations will soon be linked through the electric bus service,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-body-to-provide-free-wi-fi-at-five-locations-101632249434012.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi University constitutes NEP committee for framing syllabi||The Delhi University (DU) has constituted a National Education Policy (NEP) interdisciplinary course committee that will frame syllabi in line with the new six interdisciplinary courses that have been approved for implementation at the undergraduate level from the next academic session. The seven-member committee includes principals from three colleges besides faculty from university departments. It has been given the task of framing the syllabi with respect to the new interdisciplinary courses that are part of the undergraduate course programme approved by the university’s academic and executive councils in August this year. “The NEP Interdisciplinary Course Committee is empowered to constitute Interdisciplinary Sub-committees/Working Groups for assisting the committee in framing the syllabi for the NEP Interdisciplinary Courses, comprising of teachers of the Departments, Centres and Colleges of the university,” the university’s registrar said in a notification issued on Monday. From the next academic session, DU students will get the chance to opt for a three-year Honours programme or a four-year Honours in a discipline or four-year Honours in a discipline with research. In addition to the courses that exist in the current honours programme, the new programme shall include a number of additional courses in the first three years of the programme. These courses will focus on social and emotional learning, innovation and entrepreneurship, extracurricular activities, ethics and culture and multidisciplinary research. SP Aggarwal, principal, Ramanujan College, and member of the committee, said that the committee will frame the syllabus for the new interdisciplinary courses that are being introduced as part of the four-year undergraduate programme. “We need to frame the syllabus and outline how the curriculum will be taught. These papers are practical papers, and we will strive to incorporate innovative teaching practices. We want to ensure that students develop a basic understanding of the paper as well as the practical application of the knowledge,” said Aggarwal. He said that the committee will meet in the coming days and added that details on the roadmap for syllabus framing will emerge after that. Anju Srivastava, the principal of the Hindu College who is also a part of the newly constituted committee, said that while it was too early to comment on the processes that will be taken in the coming days, the committee will ensure that the exercise is undertaken carefully while prioritising the interests of the students. “I have been on the NEP implementation committee. Discussions on interdisciplinary courses have taken place in the past as well. While we have not had any meetings with the interdisciplinary course committee till now, we are aware that these are pertinent issues. We will have to do a lot of work to ensure that the courses are interdisciplinary, particularly, keeping in mind the interests of students who will be opting for these courses out of interest,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-constitutes-nep-committee-for-framing-syllabi-101632249375194.html
22-09-2021||Noida||Man dies by suicide in Noida||Noida: A 34-year-old man allegedly killed himself at his Sector 24 house around 9pm on Monday after “losing some money in cryptocurrency”, officials said. Police have found a suicide note from the room, but his family alleged foul play due to domestic disturbances.According to police, when the man’s wife went inside the room on Monday night to call him for dinner, she found him hanging from the ceiling fan. She raised an alarm, and officials of the local residents’ welfare association (RWA) made a call to the Sector 24 police station, and a police team took the man to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead.“In the suicide note recovered from the room, the man apologised to his parents, saying he had lost the money he invested in cryptocurrency, and that is why he took his life as he was facing a financial crisis,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (zone 1).Police also found a ledger in the house which showed that the man had borrowed at least ₹6 lakh from some lenders for some investment.The man’s family, however, suspect a foul play in the case of his death.“Autopsy results confirmed death due to hanging, and prima facie there is no evidence of a foul play. Still, we will look into the family’s allegations. An investigation is underway,” said Verma.The man had recently taken up a new job at a private company in Delhi, and his wife works at a private bank in Noida Sector 18. They got married nine months ago. Police, meanwhile, said that though Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline number to deal with such situations, there are a few suicide prevention helpline numbers in India such as +914066202000 for Roshni (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 for Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-dies-by-suicide-in-noida-101632249373972.html
22-09-2021||Noida||G Noida authority to make all traffic signages uniform in 4 months||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida Authority has decided to make nearly all the 10,000 traffic signages in the city uniform, and also install 1,000 new signages for beautification, officials said on Tuesday.The signages, across 38,000 hectares, will cost around ₹4.3 crore, and the authority has issued a tender to finalise a private company for the purpose, they added.The firm, assigned for the job, will ensure that all the signages are coloured green and the font size is uniform.The authority, according to the plan, will start work at the site within one to two months, and it aims to finish the job in the next four months. “Everything is likely to be done in the next four months as painting signages doesn’t take much time,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer (CEO) of Greater Noida authority.“We have taken this decision as, firstly, it will give the city an aesthetic look and also help commuters on route guidance. Multi-coloured signages do not suit this well-planned city’s character,” he said.“Private companies will also have to take service of the agency chosen for the purpose by the authority so that signages outside their premises, too, look similar. They will have to pay for the service,” Chand added.As of now, many signages in the city do not have names of roads, lanes and sectors. “We will install signages at roads and lanes among other such areas to make things easier for the commuters. New signages will be installed, and older ones will be replaced with new ones to give the city a better look,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-authority-to-make-all-traffic-signages-uniform-in-4-months-101632249253981.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Technical glitch: Punjab Agricultural University’s website crashes, services disrupted for 5hrs||Farmers, students and faculty members were unable to access Punjab Agricultural University’s official website for four to five hours on Tuesday due to a technical glitch. Those attempting to access the website to book seeds or check the admission process saw a message saying that the account had been “suspended”, which led to rumours that the site had been hacked. However, officials said the site had crashed due to a technical glitch in the server and had been restored by the afternoon. Farmers from across the country and abroad rely on the website to check out advisories. Notices and circulars for students are also uploaded on the website. PAU information and technology department head Dr Derminder Singh said the matter was flagged and resolved at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/technical-glitch-punjab-agricultural-university-s-website-crashes-services-disrupted-for-5hrs-101632249196370.html
22-09-2021||Noida||2 arrested for damaging event posters ahead of UP CM’s Dadri visit||Greater Noida: Police on Tuesday arrested two persons for allegedly damaging posters with photos of ninth century king Mihir Bhoj, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar, among others in Greater Noida’s Dadri. The suspects, identified as Vipin Nagar, 25, and Mohit Nagar, 26, are both residents of Dadri.This came as CM Adityanath is scheduled to unveil a 15-foot statue of the king at Mihir Bhoj degree college in Dadri on Wednesday (September 22). Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer (SHO) of Dadri police station, said, “A group of men allegedly pulled down some of posters of the programme on Saturday, after members of the Gurjar community claimed that Samrat Mihir Bhoj was a Gurjar, but the word ‘Gurjar’ was missing from all the posters.”Three separate cases were registered against six persons -- identified as Kartar Singh, Anil, Shyam Singh Bhati, Lokesh Bhati, and Vipin Nagar and Mohit Nagar (arrested on Tuesday) -- under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation, with intent to cause riot), 505-1B (public mischief), and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) at the Dadri police station on Sunday.“These men are accused of damaging the posters, and sharing videos of the act on social media platforms. We arrested two involved in connection with the case on Tuesday, and a police team is raiding places to arrest the remaining suspects,” Tripathi said, adding that more police have been deployed across Dadri ahead of CM Adityanath’s visit there.On Monday, several Gurjar and Rajput leaders joined hands to resolve the dispute over the statue unveiling at the Dadri college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-arrested-for-damaging-event-posters-ahead-of-up-cm-s-dadri-visit-101632249135287.html
22-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to induct only e-autos from now, one-third permits reserved for women||Soon, Delhi will have women driving auto-rickshaws on the capital roads, with the government deciding to reserve 33% of at least 4,000 auto permits for women. Besides that, the city administration will also induct only electric autos from now, instead of the CNG ones that have been plying passengers for over two decades, senior transport officials said.Documents seen by Hindustan Times showed that this month, transport minister Kailash Gahlot approved a proposal to induct women auto drivers. A total of 4,261 auto permits will be up for grabs in Delhi from next month, and of these, at least 1,406 will be reserved for women.And to apply for a permit, all one needs is a Delhi-issued light motor vehicle driving licence (for driving cars), which means the new scheme will give young people a means to be self-employedAlso, in a first, the entire fleet of 4,261 auto-rickshaws will be electric. On July 21, HT first reported about the Delhi government’s plan to reserve at least 4,000 fresh auto permits exclusively for e-autos. The move is aimed at giving a further push to the roll-out of the government’s electric vehicle policy, which has been hit by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, high electric vehicle cost and a lack of supporting infrastructure.Currently, the city has about 95,000 registered auto-rickshaws, all of which run on CNG. There is a cap of 100,000 on the number of autos that can be registered in Delhi.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the Delhi government will provide a subsidy of about ₹30,000 to each e-auto. The average cost of an e-auto will be around ₹2.7 lakh after the subsidy which is almost similar to the price of a CNG auto in Delhi. The cost of battery swapping e-autos, after subsidy, will be around ₹1.8 lakh, the minister said.. “But, we are trying to make this scheme even more appealing by tying up with CESL (Convergence Energy Services Limited, a company of the Union government) and introducing an additional 5% interest subvention scheme. The talks are on and we are in the final stages of the discussion. With this, we hope many women also will come forward as they will be able to own a vehicle and earn a livelihood. A car taxi becomes way too expensive; so, e-autos will help a lot of people looking to become financially independent, irrespective of gender,” he said.“At a time when many have lost their livelihoods due to the pandemic, this scheme will give them a chance at self-employment,” Gahlot said.Sunita Chaudhary, Delhi’s first and currently the only woman auto driver, said she applied for a permit for an e-auto as soon as she got wind of the e-auto roll-out from the motor licensing officer (MLO) at Rajpur Road a few days ago.“I have submitted my application to the MLO and to the chief minister’s office as well. This scheme looks very promising because with an EV, I will not have to queue up at CNG stations and waste precious duty hours. The e-auto models which the government is likely to approve are from reputed manufacturers. They are not going to be like e-rickshaws that are dangerous in terms of road safety as well as charging. So, it will be like an elite club and we hope many passengers will take rides just to experience a journey in an e-auto,” she said.Chaudhary (45), started driving an auto-rickshaw in 2003. It took her three years to merely get the permit that is required to ride an auto in Delhi. “They just kept refusing to give me a PSV (public service vehicle) badge and kept finding some excuse or the other. I kept going back every month and finally, after three years, they agreed to give me a PSV badge. So, it is not for no reason that we do not see women auto-rickshaw drivers in Delhi. You will still find women e-rickshaw drivers because for e-rickshaws, a PSV badge is not required. Now, I hear the state transport department is relaxing its norms for more women to join the ranks,” she said.A senior transport official, on condition of anonymity, said the department will soon start granting auto permits on the basis of the light motor vehicle driving licence of the applicant. “It is true that the rule has been stringent until now. To attract women drivers, we will be removing the clause that made a PSV badge mandatory for getting an auto permit. Once launched, applications of all those who have a light motor vehicle (LMV) driving licence in Delhi will be accepted. Next, a computerised draw of lots will be conducted to select the permit holders. Once that is done, the selected applicants will get one month’s time to get a PSV badge for which the transport department will provide a one-stop solution,” the official said.That means any person, especially a woman, who has a licence to drive a car will be eligible to buy a subsidised e-auto, drive it and earn a living.The official further said the department is in talks with all related auto-rickshaw dealers to facilitate these processes at the time of purchasing the e-auto itself. “The idea is to make the auto-rickshaw dealers a one-stop window for completion of the entire process of enrolling with the transport department as an e-auto driver,” the official said.Chadhary said, “I am eagerly looking forward to this scheme because finally, my dream of buying an auto will come true. Right now, I have to pay ₹350 every day to the owner of the auto and then the cost of CNG also comes out of my pocket. So, my net earnings are meagre.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-induct-only-e-autos-from-now-one-third-permits-reserved-for-women-101632249134810.html
22-09-2021||Noida||Farmers protest at Loni’s Mandola: Eight booked for digging up pits in green belt||The Ghaziabad police have booked eight farmers, including their leader Manvir Teotia, for allegedly digging up pits in the green belt area at Loni’s Mandola as part of their ongoing protest that started on September 15. The farmers, however, have continued their protest by sitting in the 17 pits dug up at Mandola to press for amendments to the Centre’s new farm laws and also to get more compensation for their lands acquired under the Mandola housing scheme of the UP Housing and Development Board (UPHDB). “The FIR was lodged against the farmers at Tronica City police station on a complaint given by housing board officials on September 18. The farmers are still continuing with their protests,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). According to police, the case was registered under IPC sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 447 (criminal trespass), 427 (causing damages), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. Meanwhile, Teotia said that they are holding protest peacefully at the site. “The housing board has lodged an FIR against us, but we will continue with our peaceful protest at the site,” Teotia said. Neeraj Tyagi, another farmer leader who was also named in the FIR, said, “Seven farmers, including our leader, are continuing with hunger strike while others are sitting in the pits as part of the protest. Our protest will continue. Some women volunteers have also joined the protest.”DB Singh, superintending engineer from UPHDB, said that police will investigate the matter. “The farmers have dug up pits in the green belt and this is causing obstruction on the road. It is now up to police to investigate the case,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-protest-at-loni-s-mandola-eight-booked-for-digging-up-pits-in-green-belt-101632249075126.html
22-09-2021||Mumbai||Thane man has narrow escape after revolver pointed at him develops glitch||A 28-year-old Thane businessman, who was chased by four men, had a narrow escape after the revolver from which one of the accused fired at him, developed a glitch. The man managed to escape from the spot, while the accused were later arrested by the Diva team of Mumbra police. The four accused have been identified as Sajan Patil and Sunny Rajbhar, both aged 21; Rupesh Patil, 31, and Ankit Shinde. Rupesh had an affair with the complainant’s wife and used to regularly threaten him to leave his wife. An officer from Mumbra police station said, “Rupesh had earlier injured the complainant with a knife for the same reason, but the businessman was not ready to leave his wife. The accused again tried to threaten the businessman. While he was returning home, the four accused stopped his rickshaw. They tried to shoot at him but due the bullet did not fire. The man fled and took shelter in a nearby hospital and called the police. Our team attached Diva saved him and arrested the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-man-has-narrow-escape-after-revolver-pointed-at-him-develops-glitch-101632249074535.html
22-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Spring Dale students bring laurels to school||The students of Spring Dale Public School, Ludhiana, won six medals in the U-12 and U-17 categories of the 29th District Veer Kwon Do Martial Arts Championship, 2021. In the U-12 category, Aditya Mahatara won the gold medal and Challenge Cup. Gourav Sharma bagged a gold in the U-17 44-47 kg category, Rahul Rana won gold in the U-17 50-53 kg, Ramkishan Yadav got a silver in the U-17 4-47 kg, Hardik Kumar clinched a gold in the U-17 53-55 kg, and Satguru Partap Singh secured a silver in the U-17 +55 kg category.Seminar on tinkering and innovation heldBCM Foundation organised a seminar on tinkering and innovation on the premises of BCM School, Chandigarh Road, Ludhiana. Abhishek Sharma, chief visionary officer, and Dhrupal R Shah, chief executive officer, STEMpedia, were the keynote speakers. They informed teachers about their organisation which they said has emerged as a pioneer in India for developing experiential learning aids and resources for AI and STEM Education. They said that innovation and tinkering are a way of life in developed societies. ‘Tinkering’ and ‘making’ are natural human skills that now need to be embraced with technology, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-spring-dale-students-bring-laurels-to-school-101632245294323.html
22-09-2021||Other||Prayagraj: ‘Nagar yatra’ and ‘bhoo samadhi’ of Narendra Giri’s mortal remains today||PRAYAGRAJ: The mortal remains of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) president Narendra Giri would be taken out for ‘Nagar Yatra’ (procession) in the city on Wednesday. He would be given ‘bhoo samadhi’ on September 22, said vice-president of the Akhara Parishad, Devendra Shastri. The last rites would also be performed on September 22 itself, he said.Secretary of Niranjani Akhara Ravindra Puri said, “After the post-mortem of our departed seer, his mortal remains would be taken for bathing rituals at Sangam from where it would be brought to Hanuman temple and the ‘Nagar Yatra’ would come back to Baghambari Gaddi Math at Allahapur.” He further said that Narendra Giri would be given Samadhi at the Baghambari Math itself and for this, a spot had been selected. “He would be given Samadhi in sitting position, as if he is sitting in ‘Dhayan’ (meditation) posture. This would be done as per the religious practice.” On the third day (September 24), the ceremony of ‘Dhul Rot’ would be performed wherein prasad would be distributed to devotees, he said. Balbir Giri, who is widely being seen as a possible successor of Mahant Narendra Giri, said. “All the ‘Panch’ (a body of eight seers of the Akhara) have arrived and they would be holding a meeting on Wednesday after Nagar Yatra, to decide the future course of action.” It is also learnt that representatives of all the 13 Akharas have either arrived in the city or would be arriving before Samadhi. All important meeting of the Akhara Parishad would be held after ‘Shoshthi’ (16 days of the demise of Narendra Giri). The meeting could elect the next president of the powerful body of the 13 recognised monastic orders of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-nagar-yatra-of-narendra-giri-s-mortal-remains-today-samadhi-tomorrow-101632242474151.html
22-09-2021||Pune||Man arrested with 40 counterfeit notes in Pune||PUNE: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested a man with 40 counterfeit notes of ₹2,000 denomination in Indrayaninagar around 6:15 pm. The arrested was identified as Sandeep (36) of Vadgaon in Bharas Wada area of Parbhani. He also had ₹6,570 in cash, according to the police. The arrested man was remanded to police custody by a local court on Tuesday. “We received information about this man arriving in Pune. He said of getting the notes from someone in Nanded,” said sub-inspector Ravindra Bhavari of Bhosari police station who is investigating the case. The man is a farmer by profession, according to the police, and was driving a Honda Amaze car registered in Parbhani. “He probably intended to exchange it while buying material from the market,” said PSI Bhavari. A case was registered under section 489 (C) of Indian penal code at Bhosari police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-with-40-counterfeit-notes-in-pune-101632238693008.html
22-09-2021||Lucknow||Akhada parishad chief’s death: Culprits will not be spared, says Yogi Adityanath||PRAYAGRAJ Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid his last respects to Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri at his Baghambari Math ashram in Prayagraj on Tuesday.Giri’s body was found hanging from the ceiling in his room in the ashram on Monday evening. A suicide note was recovered, in which the names of his disciples, Anand Giri and two others were mentioned, following which an FIR was registered against Anand Giri under Section 306 of the IPC (abetment of suicide) on the basis of a complaint filed by another disciple Amar Giri Pawan Maharaj.Talking to media persons, the CM said there would be a thorough probe into the incident and the culprits would be punished. “I would request all to refrain from unnecessary statements in this sensitive case and allow the investigation agencies to proceed with their investigation in a responsible manner. A five-member team (of doctors) would carry out a post-mortem examination of the body on Wednesday, which will be followed by Samadhi as per religious rituals,” he said. He said the police had collected lot of evidences regarding the incident. “A team of senior police officials, including ADG Prayagraj Zone, IG Range, DIG-Prayagraj along with divisional commissioner, will together oversee the investigation,” added Yogi Adityanath. The CM said Mahant Narendra Giri always tried to make every religious event a mega success in Prayagraj in accordance with the city’s importance. “He always strived for good coordination between all the 13 akharas (monastic orders) and seers of different orders and sects. His efforts helped in organising Kumbh-2019 that is known for its grand scale, good arrangements and hygiene across the world. Narendra Giri was the first to request the PM to come to Kumbh-2019 and perform the Sangam and Ganga Pujan. I have seen how Narendra Giri was always ready to extend his support to any major issue concerning the country, the seers and the monastic orders. His passing away is a huge loss for the religious and the spiritual world,” he said. Among the dignitaries who paid their last respects to Giri were deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, state law minister Brajesh Pathak, UP civil aviation minister Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’, minister for MSME and export promotion Sidharth Nath Singh, MPs Rita Joshi and Keshari Devi Patel besides MLAs Neelam Karwariya, Harshvardhan Bajpai and former zila panchayat chief Rekha Singh among others. A number of senior seers including former president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) Dharam Das, Acharya Maha Mandaleshwar of Niranjani Akhara Kailashanand Giri, chief patron of Juna Akhara and general secretary of ABAP Mahant Hari Giri and Maha Mandaleshwar Santosh Das ‘Satua Baba’ also paid their tributes to the departed soul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/postmortem-examination-today-culprit-will-not-be-spared-says-yogi-101632230593227.html
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab bureaucratic reshuffle: 9 IAS, two PCS officers transferred||In its first major bureaucratic reshuffle, the Charanjit Singh Channi government on Tuesday issued the transfer orders of nine IAS and two PCS officers, posting three more officers in the new chief minister’s office. Kamal Kishor Yadav, the commissioner-cum-director, information and public relations (I&PR), has been posted as secretary, I&PR, and in addition special principal secretary to the chief minister. Showkat Ahmad Parray is the new additional principal secretary to the chief minister, while Mankanwal Singh Chahal has been posted as deputy principal secretary to the chief minister. Yadav and Parray are IAS officers of the 2007 and 2013 batches, respectively. Chahal is a 2016 batch PCS officer. Out of CMO, Tejveer, Gurkirat Kirpal get new assignments Tejveer Singh, who was principal secretary to the chief minister during the Capt Amarinder Singh government, has been posted as principal secretary, investment promotion, industries and commerce, information technology. Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, who was special principal secretary to CM at that time, is the new secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, and in addition secretary, defence services welfare. Both Tejveer and Gurkirat Kirpal served in the chief minister’s office in the Capt Amarinder Singh government. Dilip Kumar is the new principal secretary, science, technology and environment and in addition mission director, Tandrust Punjab, and in addition principal secretary, employment generation and training. Mohammad Tayyab has also been given the additional charge of chief executive officer, Punjab Waqf Board. Sumeet Jarangal is the new director, information and public relations. Isha replaces Girish Dayalan as Mohali DC Isha, director general, school education, is the new deputy commissioner, Mohali, in place of Girish Dayalan whose posting orders will be issued later. Harpreet Singh Sudan has been given the additional charge of mission director, Punjab Skill Development Mission. Anil Gupta, PCS, has been posted as deputy secretary, personnel. Three police commissioners transferredThe Punjab government on Tuesday also transferred three police commissioners, while Gurpreet Singh Bhullar was appointed as the Ludhiana police commissioner in place of Naunihal Singh. Bhullar was recently made the deputy inspector general of police, Jalandhar. Naunihal Singh has been transferred as the Jalandhar commissioner.Meanwhile, removing Vikramjeet Duggal, the government transferred Sukhchain Singh Gill back as the Amritsar police commissioner. He was recently transferred to Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bureaucratic-reshuffle-9-ias-two-pcs-officers-transferred-101632208150855.html
22-09-2021||Other||Gurugram land release case: CBI court asks for status of probe against Hooda||A special CBI court has sought a status report from the investigating agency on the probe pending against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, former IAS officer TC Gupta and others in the Gurugram land release case. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is to submit the report by October 18. The court of special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg has also communicated with the CBI director for expeditious completion of investigation in the case. The court said a case was registered against Hooda and others on January 23, 2019, and a chargesheet was filed by the CBI against three public servants along with an accused company on January 4, 2021. The court said that perusal of case diary showed that the investigating officer had just recorded the statement of one Ramesh Sanka and not conducted any further probe in the case (M/s Commander Realtors Pvt. Ltd and others. “Further investigation is pending against the accused BS Hooda, TC Gupta and others. He (the investigating officer) has also categorically admitted in his statement that due to paucity of time, he was unable to conduct further investigation as he was busy in investigation of some other cases,” the court said. The court also made it clear that paucity of time due to other cases is not a ground for not conducting further probe in cases pertaining to former and sitting MPs and MLAs. The case The Congress government, in June 2009, had issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act to acquire 1,407 acres for developing residential Sectors 58 to 63 and commercial Sectors 65 to 67 in Gurugram by HUDA. While issuing the declaration under Section 6 on June 2, 2010, the total area was reduced to about 800 acres. Finally, the award, dated May 29, 2012, was passed for 87 acres only. The SC had in 2017 ordered a CBI probe in the release of about 1,300 acres in the favour of private builders. The CBI, in its preliminary inquiry, had prima facie established irregularities in the release of land from acquisition process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-land-release-case-cbi-court-asks-for-status-of-probe-against-hooda-officers-101632169568175.html
