23-09-2021||Pune||Cong demand to scrap NEET in Maha has students worried||PUNE After the Tamil Nadu government adopts a bill to the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) examination in the state, a similar demand has been made in Maharashtra by the Congress. Students who have already appeared for the NEET exam this year are worried about how medical admissions will happen, and other issues they might face, if the NEET exam is scrapped in Maharashtra for this year. The state government is now going to review the entire NEET process. “The decision taken by the Tamil Nadu government has forced us to rethink the NEET exams on which admissions to medical courses and the careers of thousands of students are dependant. We are now going to collect all necessary information about this year’s examination and soon declare our stand on it,” said Amit Deshmukh, state minister for medical education. On September 13, a bill was passed in the Tamil Nadu assemble to scrap the NEET examination in the state. It was followed by a demand raised by Nana Patole, Maharashtra state Congress chief, to follow suit.“We are worried about the NEET exams. I studied hard to crack this test and if it is cancelled then how will admissions happen. I don’t want to miss a chance to get admission to a good medical college,” said Sharvari Khatri, an aspirant student. Another student Meenal Dudhane said, “Due to Covid we are already in stress over online studying and exams. Finally something good was happening as NEET was conducted. If that is cancelled now then what will be the substitute for it? There are lakhs of students appearing for NEET every year from the state and state government should think before taking any decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cong-demand-to-scrap-neet-in-maha-has-students-worried-101632421499037.html
23-09-2021||Other||Allahabad HC dismisses appeal of four murder convicts||The Allahabad high court has dismissed an appeal challenging life sentence of four convicts who had killed one Riazuddin by crushing him under a tractor nearly 18 years ago as he was selected as “Shiksha Mitra” (para teacher) while one of the accused Pratap Singh from the same village could not succeed and so harboured animosity against him.Riazuddin was a resident of Nauli Fatuabad village of Buduan district and the incident had occurred in November 2003. The court affirmed the lower court judgment and directed three out of the four appellants, Sadhu, Devendra and Srikrishna, who were on bail, to surrender immediately before the trial court to serve out the sentence. The fourth convict Pratap Singh is already in jail. His bail plea was not allowed on an earlier date.The bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice JJ Munir passed the order in an appeal filed by Pratap Singh, Sadhu, Devendra and Srikrishna who were convicted by the court of additional sessions judge, Budaun. The prosecution case was that a First Information Report (FIR) was lodged on November 11, 2003 by Sirajudin, father of the deceased, at Ushait police station of Budaun.As per the FIR, on November 11, 2003, Riazuddin was riding a tonga to Kadar Chowk when he was intercepted at an isolated place and waylaid by the four appellants who came along riding a tractor. They forced Riazuddin to get down from the carriage, physically assaulted him and threw him in front of the tractor and then Pratap Singh crushed him to death under the wheels of the tractor.Appellants’ plea was that the prosecution could not establish the motive to kill the victim and that too brutally. State government counsel submitted that both Riazuddin and Pratap Singh had vied for the position of “Shiksha Mitra” and the former’s appointment to the said position had left Pratap Singh seething with anger which led to the crime.The court, after hearing the concerned parties, observed, “Motive is not very relevant in a case of direct evidence, where a dependable ocular version is available. Once there is evidence forthcoming on the basis of an eye-witness account, that is consistently narrated by multiple witnesses, motive is hardly relevant.”“Appellants, in their statements under Section 313 of the Code, have not assigned any particular motive to the witnesses to falsely implicate them,” added the bench while dismissing the appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-hc-dismisses-appeal-of-four-murder-convicts-101632421259053.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Five-year-old electrocuted, two friends injured at south Delhi park||New Delhi: A five-year-old boy was electrocuted and two other children were injured after they came in contact with the iron railing of a public park in south Delhi’s Khanpur which was in touch with a live wire, police and electricity department officials said. The park is reportedly managed by the south municipal corporation of Delhi (SDMC).The incident happened on Wednesday with the electricity department officials claiming that the loose wire was used by someone in the neighbourhood to illegally draw power from an electric pole.The incident comes weeks after three minor girls and two adults, who tried to save them, were electrocuted by a loose electric wire at a grocery shop in Ghaziabad’s Rakesh Marg on September 1.According to police, the three children involved in Wednesday’s mishap belonged to the JJ Colony in Khanpur and had reportedly gone to the park to see a monkey performing tricks with its trainer.“Around 4.30 pm, my grandson touched the electric pole and suffered electric shock. The other two children tried to save him one after the other and suffered electric shock... While they somehow survived, my grandson could not be saved,” said the grandmother of the deceased child.Their families claimed the two children, aged five and six, were admitted to a private hospital and discharged on Thursday. Police said they have registered a case in connection with the incident.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the police control room received a call about the incident at 4.40 pm on Wednesday, following which a police team headed by a sub-inspector from the Neb Sarai police station rushed to the spot.“An initial enquiry has revealed that on Wednesday, a live electric wire of one of the temporary connections fell on the ground, causing the casualty. We have registered a case and further action is being taken,” said DCP Thakur.A BSES spokesperson said, “As per the preliminary investigation, it appears that illegal electricity wires were being drawn by hawkers from the nearby jhuggis in the vicinity. One of these illegal live wires fell down, charging the railings around the park, leading to the unfortunate incident... We are fully cooperating in the police investigation and our condolences are with the family of the deceased.”The deceased child’s grandmother alleged that instances of live wires coming in contact with the park’s railings are common during rainy season. “Despite informing the local councilor and municipal officials, nothing was done,” she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fiveyearold-electrocuted-two-friends-injured-at-south-delhi-park-101632420898941.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Three Delhi mayors announce sanitation campaign and drive against single-use plastic||The three mayors of Delhi’s municipal corporations addressed a joint press conference on Thursday, announcing that a special campaign will be run to improve civic services in Delhi. Mukesh Suryan, the mayor of the south corporation, said that the joint campaign will focus on controlling vector-borne diseases, reducing single-use plastic, a “chalo school programme” to improve school enrolment levels, and improving sanitation services. Suryan claimed that the municipal corporations will be expediting the installation of fixed compactor stations at all dhalaos (garbage receptacle points). The drive against the single-use plastic will be carried out between September 25 and October 2, he added.Suryan said that the civic body will also distribute 5,000 tablets to needy students of SDMC primary schools. He added that they will start a special programme “RWA Ki Baat Parshad Ke Sath” wherein RWAs can put their issues before the councillor.Raja Iqbal Singh, the north corporation mayor, said that the North Delhi Municipal Corporation will run a “garbage-free Delhi” campaign from October 7. Shyam Sunder Agarwal, the east corporation mayor, said that the civic body plans to add 37 garbage compactor stations in its jurisdiction area. Agrawal said that a target has been set to eliminate the legacy waste from the Ghazipur landfill site by the year 2024.The three municipal corporations of Delhi have consistently fared poorly in the Swachh Bharat rankings by the ministry of housing and urban affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-delhi-mayors-announce-sanitation-campaign-and-drive-against-single-use-plastic-101632420659036.html
23-09-2021||Other||Narendra Giri’s death: Security of Anand Giri, other accused to be stepped up in jail||Security of Anand Giri and others, who were booked and sent to 14-day judicial custody after being accused of harassment by Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Narendra Giri in his purported suicide note, will be tightened in jail and they will be produced in the court through videoconferencing on the dates of hearing in the case.Chief judicial magistrate Harendra Nath passed the order on Thursday on the application filed by Anand Giri after hearing the arguments of his advocate Vijay Kumar Dwivedi and the prosecution officer.The court directed senior superintendent of Naini Central Jail to take necessary steps to make security arrangements for the accused as per the provisions of jail manual and other relevant laws.CJM directed the senior superintendent of jail that on the next date of hearing, the accused should be produced in the court through videoconferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/narendra-giri-s-death-security-of-anand-giri-other-accused-to-be-stepped-up-in-jail-101632420539083.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||AAP claims North MCD making false claim of tax cuts; BJP calls charge ‘baseless’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled North Delhi municipal corporation of making a false claim over reducing house tax, and trade and licence fee.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless”.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD). Municipal polls are scheduled to be held in April next year. “The BJP-ruled North MCD hasn’t rolled back the hike in trade and factory licence fees yet. They are misleading people ahead of elections. The BJP is lying to the people of Delhi by saying North MCD has reduced house tax and licence fees on trade and factories. The BJP-ruled MCDs are functioning like Khap Panchayats. They have no credibility left,” said the AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.He said, “The BJP increased licence fees by 17-25 times last year on a range of trades and factories. Now, they are putting up posters saying they have reduced them when they have actually not initiated any roll-back process. The BJP had resorted to similar tactics before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls too, and later forced people to pay increased amounts as taxes and fees.”Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the allegations are baseless. “His (Saurabh Bhardwaj) comments expose his politically immature conduct. His statement that BJP-ruled North MCD has misled people on withdrawal of hiked trade licence fees and property tax waiver is another proof of his political and administrative immaturity. North MCD’s general house and standing committee have already approved withdrawal of hiked charges and property tax waiver which are now awaiting notification by administrative wing. Such notifications take a few weeks, and are likely to be implemented anytime next week.”Jogi Ram Jain, the standing committee chairman of the north corporation, said the AAP functionaries do not understand how the municipal corporation operates, adding that relief will be provided in the next 20 days. “The private member resolution on this issue has been passed and the municipal commissioner will bring a preamble on the matter in the next house meeting. We will try to call an early house meeting. It is our commitment that the relief will be provided within the next 20 days,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aapclaims-north-mcd-making-false-claim-of-tax-cuts-bjp-calls-charge-baseless-101632420420095.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: Number of polling booths increased to 700||The number of polling stations are likely to be over 700 compared to the 445 during the last municipal corporation (MC) elections.A meeting was convened on Thursday by state election commissioner SK Srivastava with UT adviser Dharam Pal and other UT officials.Various issues pertaining to the preparation of forthcoming MC elections scheduled in December 2021 were discussed; the tenure of the present MC House is coming to an end on December 31, 2021.It was apprised that since the Chandigarh administration has issued delimitation order merging 13 villages with the MC, the number of polling stations shall increase substantially this time. The number of polling stations shall further increase due to limiting the number of electors to 1,000 per station. Thus, the number of polling stations are likely to be over 700 compared to 445 during the last elections.Accordingly the SEC asked the adviser to provide adequate arrangements and police personnel to ensure smooth and transparent elections. He also directed that requisite arrangements/preparations be made timely.The adviser committed that all logistics, manpower and infrastructure shall be provided as per the requirement of the commission. The present pandemic scenario was also discussed and he assured that the administration will make adequate provisions to follow the prescribed COVID-19 protocol during the elections. He also confirmed that all adequate arrangements shall be ensured by all department heads in a time bound manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-number-of-polling-booths-increased-to-700-101632420419031.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||22-year-old student dies by suicide at IISER Mohali||A 22-year-old student of Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in Sector 81, Mohali, died by suicide after jumping from the eighth floor of his hostel on Wednesday night.The student’s body was found by a security guard on Thursday morning at 6.15am, the police said.Station house officer (SHO), Sohana, Bhagwant Singh said, “The student jumped from the eighth floor of his hostel located on IISER premises. He left a one-page suicide note stating that no one should be blamed for his death and that though he was studying hard, he was unable to get 90% marks and was only getting 80% marks.”Singh said, “He was a native of Sant Kabir Nagar in Uttar Pradesh and came to the hostel on September 22 at around 12 noon from home after a gap of nearly 18 months. We have informed his parents and his body has been kept in the mortuary of the civil hospital in Mohali. We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.”The SHO added that the student was suffering from depression and was taking medicines for it as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/22yearold-student-dies-by-suicide-at-iiser-mohali-101632420238769.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Prisoner stabs, injures warden in Delhi’s Tihar Jail||A prison officer had to get six stitches on her fingers after being stabbed by a prisoner inside the woman’s jail in Tihar on Wednesday morning.Police said that Onos Evelyno Narode, currently incarcerated in connection with a murder case, attacked the warden after snatching a knife from another jail officer. Police said two prison officers L Jyoti and Poonam Neelam while inspecting the premises, reached ward 3 of jail 6, where Narode is lodged. The two officers were using a kitchen knife to cut ropes used to tie bedsheets inside the prison. All jail officers were instructed to ensure that none of the ropes were hanging or loose. “Narode refused to have her cell inspected. She snatched the knife from the jail officers and tried to assault herself. When the officers tried to take the knife from her, she assaulted Jyoti and injured her. A case has been registered at Hari Nagar police station based on Jyoti’s complaint,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/prisoner-stabs-injures-warden-in-delhi-s-tihar-jail-101632420120772.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||DDA sets December 2023 deadline to complete 36 km of walking, cycling tracks in Delhi||New Delhi: The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) plans to complete the first phase of the “cycle-walk project”, which will see development of 36km of the 200km of cycle tracks and pathways for pedestrians planned in the Capital, by December 2023. “The project is an important step towards providing pollution-free, green commuting options to the residents of Delhi, while addressing the needs and safety of cyclists and enhancing walkability options for pedestrians,” tweeted Delhi lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal, who reviewed the project on Wednesday.Senior officials said the LG directed DDA to proactively pursue grant of approvals so that the project can be completed in a time-bound manner.A senior DDA official said that the first phase of the project has been divided into three stages. In the first stage, a 20.5km-long section will be developed between Sangam Vihar and Malviya Nagar Metro station (Nilgai line); the second will see an 8.5km stretch between Malviya Nagar Metro station and Vasant Kunj; and the third stage involves the development of a 7-km long stretch between Chirag Dilli and Asiad Village Complex.The work for phase-I’s first stage has been awarded and tenders for the second and third stages will be floated soon, said a senior DDA official.As part of the project, DDA will construct cycle tracks and pedestrian pathways, and to ensure convenient access, origin and destination points too will be linked using cycling and walking tracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-sets-december-2023-deadline-to-complete-36-km-of-walking-cycling-tracks-in-delhi-101632420058958.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||HC slams ‘copy-paste’ petition against Asthana’s appointment as Delhi top cop||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday said a petition challenging the appointment of IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner was a “copy-paste”, and warned the petitioner to be cautious in the future.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh made the remark when the petitioner’s counsel was unable to explain the averments made in his plea, which advocate Prashant Bhushan, on behalf of the intervenor NGO, claimed to be “copied”.The court said the petition was entirely copied, including full stop and comma, from another plea filed with similar prayers before the Supreme Court. It said that the lawyer, who is the author of the petition which has been copied, is waiting in the queue to argue.“All these things you have copied from the memo of the senior advocate (referring to Bhushan). If you are copying, you do it 5% and write 95% of your own. Here, 97 to 99% is copied even with all the full stops and commas. Don’t do this in the future, we have tolerated it this time,” the bench said.Advocate BS Bagga, appearing for the petitioner, said, “I don’t know from where these allegations have come from”.The high court was hearing a PIL by Sadre Alam, a lawyer, against the appointment of Asthana along with an intervention application by NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, which has challenged the appointment before the Supreme Court.During the day’s hearing, when Bagga started his argument on inter cadre transfer, the chief justice asked him what he meant by “super time scale”.The court repeatedly asked the same question which he was unable to explain and sought time to check and come back.“We are asking you for the last time, we will dismiss the petition with costs. You have copied from his memo that is the problem. Without understanding, you are reading. Now we want an additional explanation. What is the super time scale,” the bench said.While addressing Bhushan, the bench said, “You people are also distributing your copies (of the petition) everywhere. Don’t do this. He does not know what is super time scale is. You are doing it in good faith but it becomes a weapon. I have asked the question deliberately.”The Centre, in its affidavit, has said that the appointment of Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner was done in the public interest, keeping in mind the diverse law and order challenges faced by the national capital, which have national security implications as well as international/cross border implications.Asthana, in his affidavit, has told the court that there is a sustained social media campaign against him and the legal challenge to his appointment was an abuse of process of law, arising from vendetta.He said that ever since he was appointed Special Director, CBI, proceedings are being consistently filed against him by certain organisations as part of a “selective campaign”.While dictating the order, the bench said, “counsel appearing in… started with an argument on inter cadre transfer. He simply read over paragraphs without explaining anything. When the word ‘super time scale’ was read, we asked a question whether he can explain or not and the counsel for the petitioner was unable to explain what is the meaning of super time scale in the service jurisprudence.”The counsel sought time and the court listed the matter for further hearing on September 27.The petitioner has sought quashing of the July 27 order issued by the Union home ministry appointing Asthana as the Delhi Police commissioner, and also the order granting inter cadre deputation and extension of service to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hcslams-copy-paste-petition-against-asthana-s-appointment-as-delhi-top-cop-101632419939413.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Pay ₹2 lakh a day to shoot at Ghazipur landfill, ₹75k for all other locations in East Delhi: Civic body’s new film policy||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) will charge filmmakers ₹2 lakh a day to shoot around the Ghazipur landfill site, even as it fixed a rate less than half for other areas in its jurisdiction, according to the municipal body’s new film policy. A senior EDMC official said the civic body will charge ₹10,000 as a one-time registration fee, ₹25,000 as refundable security fee, apart from ₹75,000 as a daily charge in all areas in east Delhi, apart from the landfill, according to the policy, which got east Delhi mayor Shyam Sunder Agarwal’s anticipatory approval on Thursday.Before this policy was implemented, no such policy was in place in the area, and filmmakers were free to shoot without being charged for it.A senior municipal corporation official said the rates for shoots near the landfill are higher because of the large number of such requests they receive. However, the official added, if anyone plans to shoot a documentary or a film for a social cause, or to promote the EDMC’s interests, the civic body may consider waiving all charges for shoots near the garbage mound.The 70-acre Ghazipur landfill is the tallest in India, and stands at a height of 50m, according to recent estimates, and receives around 2,200 metric tonnes of waste every day.“A single window portal to approve film shootings online is being developed for various agencies of Delhi. The Delhi Tourism and Transport Development Corporation (DTTDC) has been appointed the nodal agency for this... After depositing all the required documents, security fee and permission fee, the civic body will grant permission for the shoot within seven days,” said Rakesh Gupta, spokesperson of the East corporation.The south and north corporation have also cleared their new film policies, and will charge ₹75,000 per day to shoot in their respective jurisdictions. So far, only the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) had a film policy and permissions are issued on payment of ₹2 lakh per day.EDMC standing committee chairman Beer Singh Panwar said, “This will be a good source of revenue generation for the EDMC and will bring on electronic media and OTT platforms areas under the East corporation.”Commissioner Vikas Anand said that the new policy covers all buildings and open areas including the ASI-protected monuments, heritage buildings, private properties like farm houses, malls, hospitals, among other sites. The regulations state that no disruption of traffic flow will be permitted and sound limits will be required to be kept within the limits prescribed by pollution control board. The policy prohibits display of “controversial, objectionable or obscene material” while liquor will be prohibited in all venues, the approved policy adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pay-2-lakh-a-day-to-shoot-at-ghazipur-landfill-75k-for-all-other-locations-in-east-delhi-civic-body-s-new-film-policy-101632419518936.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Jamia to reopen in phase-wise manner from November, says registrar||Following protests by several student groups demanding the reopening of the campus to all students, Jamia Millia Islamia on Thursday announced a phase-wise reopening plan for its final-year students in undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD courses from November. The university, however, has not given any date for the reopening.Registrar Nazim Hussain Jafri said the decision was taken after an academic council meeting on September 13. “The university campus shall be opened to PhD scholars who are due to submit their thesis on or before December 31, 2021. The final year/semester students may attend clinical and practical classes offline from the month of November in limited numbers, subject to the adherence of Covid-19 health and hygiene protocols,” said an order released by Jafri’s office on Wednesday.Speaking to Hindustan Times, Jafri said, “PhD students have already been coming to the campus for their work. As far as final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students are concerned, our statutory bodies have decided that status quo should be maintained till October 31. We will hold a meeting after that and decide whether it would be conducive to call them to the campus from November, based on the Covid-19 situation prevalent at that time.”Students coming to the campus for lab and practical work will have to produce a negative RT-PCR report or a vaccination certificate. The university has specified that teaching and examinations of all undergraduate, postgraduate, and diploma programmes will continue in the online mode and hostel facilities will remain suspended. “Departmental library facility will be opened to PhD and final-year/semester students on production of their latest negative RT-PCR report/vaccination certification,” the university said in the order.Students have been campaigning and demanding the reopening of the university over the past few weeks. Earlier this week, a representation of students, comprising members of at least five student groups, approached the university administration to make a case for the reopening of the university that has remained closed since last year when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. In a joint statement, students said it was crucial to open the university since students have been facing difficulties during remote learning. Students said while most institutions and public spaces have opened, the campus continued to remain shut. They said the possibility of reopening the university in the near future looked bleak. “AC and EC meetings were held four to five days ago, but the minutes have not yet been released. In this situation, the students are facing uncertainty over the reopening of the campus,” the statement issued by the student organisations said.Students said they were disappointed with the varsity order. “The circular hasn’t addressed the core demand of restarting in-person classes for all students. The permission for research scholars and final year students to use library isn’t of much use as most students are away at their native places and the hostels are shut,” said Musaddiq Mubeen, a postgraduate student and president of Students’ Islamic Organisation’s Jamia unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jamia-to-reopen-in-phase-wise-manner-from-november-says-registrar-101632419459268.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Centre refuses to share empirical data on OBC, BCC collected in 2011||The state took a step closer to resolving the knotty quota issue that has plagued it since March after the Governor on Thursday approved an ordinance that permitted reservation for Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates in local body polls even as the Centre refused to share data from the Socio Economic Caste Census (SECC) 2011 stating that the data was “unusable” for official purposes” because of “mistakes and inaccuracies”. The Centre’s contention was made in an affidavit filed in response to the state’s July writ petition which came up for hearing in the Supreme Court on Thursday. The petition sought empirical caste data after the apex court struck down a law in March that granted reservation to OBC candidates in municipal body elections. The SC also asked Maharashtra to stay within the court’s previously mandated cap of 50%, and provide reservation to OBC candidates based on fresh empirical data. “The governor sought a clarification on the ordinance. The state cabinet decided to resend it on Wednesday. I am happy to hear that the governor has signed the ordinance. I was sure that he would clear it. However, the battle for OBC reservation and its census data is long,” said food and civil supplies minister and OBC community leader Chhagan Bhujbal. Raj Bhavan officials on Thursday confirmed that governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has signed the ordinance. On Wednesday, Koshiyari had refused to clear the ordinance citing the apex court’s March directions. The state sent the ordinance back to the Governor late in the evening stating that its amendment permitting reservation to OBC candidates was permissible as the reservation to within the 50% cap as mandated by the apex court. The state will amend two legislations — Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 and Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for Zilla Parishads, Panchayat Samiti and Gram Panchayats — to ensure this reservation. However, the local Zilla Parishad elections that will start on October 5 in six districts across Maharashtra — Palghar, Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim and Nagpur — may not be affected by this amendment. “Any change in the bypolls has to be done at the directions of the Supreme Court because it has directed us to hold the bypolls based on open category candidates. If there is any change for whatever reason, the direction has to come from SC. We are following their directives and can’t change on our own, state election commissioner UPS Madan told HT last week. Following the Centre’s refusal to share caste census data citing reasons of error, the state government is expected to file its reply and the matter has been scheduled after four weeks. OBC Welfare minister Vijay Wadettiwar said they will file a caveat in the apex court regarding the ordinance. “We will file a caveat in the Supreme Court saying that we have promulgated the ordinance to provide reservation to the OBC community within 50% ceiling,” he said. “Pertinently, due to several infirmities found in the aforesaid data as explained hereinafter, it was decided by the cabinet to constitute an expert committee under the chairmanship of the then vice chairman Arvind Panagariya. However, the other members of the committee were not named and the committee never met. As a result, no action has been taken on the data in the past 5 years,” the 30-page affidavit filed by R Subrahmanyam, secretary, ministry of social justice and empowerment stated. A senior law officer requesting anonymity as he is not authorized to speak to the media said: “The central government has filed an affidavit on Tuesday in which it has refused to share the Socio Economic Caste Census (SECC) 2011. The Centre has said that the data cannot be used for any official purposes as it has several errors. It has further told the SC that they had constituted an expert committee under the chairmanship of Arvind Panagriya, the then vice-chairman of Niti Aayog to rectify the mistakes but other members were not named and thus no action was taken for rectification of the mistakes.” “It has further mentioned several examples to prove that there are errors in the data. For example, the affidavit says that the data was collected by the people such as primary teachers who were not trained enough for the job and hence there are errors in entries etc.,” he added. The census data is necessary because of the Supreme Court’s March ruling. Legislation for the local bodies in Maharashtra provides reservation to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (SC and ST) communities based on their population in those particular bodies. In case of the OBC community, 27% reservation based on last census conducted in 1931. Consequently, there are many districts in the state where the combined reservation of all the communities — SC, ST and OBC — exceeded the 50% cap. On March 4, the Supreme Court directed the state to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which reservation for the community could be fixed. It also allowed the state election commission to hold local bodies polls, which begin on October 5 without reservation in place. This could have proved politically damaging for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharshtra Vikas Aghadi coalition government. Even with the amendments to the law, seats reserved for OBC candidates would have decreased by 10-15%, from 5200 to 4500 seats. There are five laws that govern OBC reservation in local body elections. The remaining three — the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act and Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayats and the Industrial Townships Act — fall under the state urban development department, and do not come within the purview of the ordinance. The state has also decided to promulgate another ordinance that will provide upto 27% reservation to the OBC community in the urban local bodies such as municipal corporations, municipal councils and nagar panchayats. An ordinance to this effect will be sent in a day or two, officials said. Separately, the state is also considering returning to a multi-member ward system where the local body will have panels of members in place of a single elected one. Experts said that this was a gambit to ensure further representation of OBC candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-centre-refuses-to-share-empirical-data-on-obc-bcc-collected-in-2011-101632418858806.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC nod for weekly offs for fair price shops in the Capital||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday modified an order directing all the fair price shops in the city to remain open on all seven days of the week, and allowed the dealers to take a day off each week.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh passed the order after the Delhi government additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal said that he had no objection to the application by the dealers’ association.Fair price shops were directed to function on all days of the week in April last year by the Delhi government as the pandemic spread across the Capital.Noting that the pandemic situation is not so grave as it was on April 27, 2020, the bench said, “So weekly off is permitted to fair price shops in accordance with the law.”Meanwhile, the bench also directed the Delhi government to give a road map for ensuring that the needy, including among non-PDS beneficiaries, are provided with adequate dry ration amid the Covid-19 pandemic. It asked the government to give bullet points of all the work done in this regard till now and listed the matter for further hearing on October 22.The court was hearing an application by an NGO, “Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan”, which had challenged the government’s non-PDS guidelines putting an “arbitrary” limit of 20 lakh beneficiaries for dry ration.The NGO demanded foodgrains for all the needy persons and sought direction to the AAP government to modify the May 27 guidelines to the extent that it should not be a mere one-time relief measure and that the beneficiaries should be given foodgrains for every calendar month until further orders.Delhi government counsel Anuj Aggarwal submitted that the cap has been done away with in pursuance to the court’s June 25 order.“We are ensuring that nobody sleeps hungry and besides dry ration, people are also provided with cooked meals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-nod-for-weekly-offs-for-fair-price-shops-in-the-capital-101632418618871.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||1 killed in Khar fire, two rescued by Mumbai Fire Brigade||One woman was killed due to suffocation, and two others including a 10-year-old child were rescued safely by the Mumbai Fire Brigade, as a medium intensity fire was reported in a residential building, Nutan Villa, in Khar West, at 6.58pm on Thursday. All three people were trapped in the building, during the fire.The deceased has been identified as Hema Jagwani, 40, who was moved to Hinduja Hospital but was declared dead by doctors at the hospital. Sangita Thakur, 45, and Palak Jagwani, 10, were rescued by the fire brigade using turntable ladders.The fire brigade reached the spot at 7.15pm. The fire was escalated to a level 2 fire in intensity at 7.55 pm.Fire was confined to electric wiring, electric installation in the electric duct from the ground floor to the seventh floor of the building. Due to this, the entire building was smoke logged. Firefighting and rescue operation was being carried out using a breathing apparatus set.The fire brigade then pressed eight fire engines, seven jumbo tankers, two turntable ladders, and a breathing apparatus van to the spot for the firefighting operations. According to the disaster management department, the Mumbai Police, 108 ambulance service, ward staff have been notified in case of emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-killed-in-khar-fire-two-rescued-by-mumbai-fire-brigade-101632418258870.html
23-09-2021||Gurugram||52 illegal stormwater drain connections identified, notices sent to offenders||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has identified at least 52 illegal stormwater drain connections over the past two weeks and sent notices to offenders, officials said.The drainage division of GMDA has identified these connections with exact coordinates so that locating and disconnecting them is easy, officials said.Pardeep Kumar, chief engineer, infrastructure-II division of GMDA, said, “As per norms, untreated sewage should not go into our drains, but there are many such unauthorised connections to stormwater drains in the city, which we identified during a survey this month. We are now tracing those who have made these connections and sending notices to them along with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, which will further be disconnecting them.”Kumar said that if violators repeat the offence, action will be taken against them under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and Environment Protection Act, 1986, with the help of the pollution control board.Officials from the infrastructure-II division said that around 40-50 MLD of sewage is illegally released into the city’s stormwater drains at present. These illegal connections add to the waterlogging problems during peak monsoon.Explaining how these illegal connections are being identified, a senior official from the infrastructure-II division said, “We are sending cameras mounted on selfie sticks or similar devices down different manholes in the city, where we have noticed heavy waterlogging, and through these cameras, we are able to identify the illegal connections.”Officials said that maximum violations were found at Khandsa village street, Vatika Chowk, Sector 39/46 road, Sector 45 on Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg and Garoli industrial area.Between January and May, the GMDA had removed over 170 illegal connections to sewer lines and stormwater drains in the city. These connections were mostly from housing societies and led to flooding and overflow of sewer and stormwater drains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/52-illegal-stormwater-drain-connections-identified-notices-sent-to-offenders-101632418147232.html
23-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination: Camp to be set up at gurudwara, more likely at temples, banks and post offices||The Gurugram health department on Friday will conduct a Covid-19 vaccination drive at a place of religious worship, a gurudwara at Sadar Bazar, for the first time as part of its mega vaccination push that includes setting up camps at public places and places of worship, officials said. Officials said that the camp will be set up at the Gurudwara Singh Sabha, opposite a vegetable market in Old Gurugram, from 10.30am to 4.30pm, in collaboration with Fortis Memorial Research Institute. Only Covaxin doses will be administered at the camp, with the first dose available for people above 45 years and the second dose available for all eligible age groups. A total of 600 slots will be available at this site and beneficiaries must register themselves on Co-WIN application before coming for vaccination, health department officials said.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Many times, people are not able to visit the designated vaccination centres due to some or the other problem, but they visit religious places, banks and post offices to access their pension account or other works; we are trying to take the vaccine to these people. One such vaccination drive will be conducted at a gurudwara on Friday, and more such drives are being planned at temples, mosques and other public places.”On Tuesday, the district task force decided to undertake vaccinations at places of worship, vegetable markets, post offices and banks, to extend the reach of the vaccination drive. The health department will also be coordinating with 1,221 residents’ welfare associations in this regard. Officials said that besides the camp at the gurudwara, vaccination will be carried out at 48 session sites and that around 7,900 slots will be available for the same. On Thursday, 8,568 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district, with 3,284 taking the first dose and 5,284 taking the second dose. Officials said that for the past three days, the number of second dose vaccinations has been higher. Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “After we realised that many people are due to take their second dose of vaccine, we made a list of these people and circulated it to all health centres in the district. Ground medical staff have already started contacting these people and we have seen that numbers of second dose have been higher in the past three days, as those whose second doses were due are being individually contacted.” Since Monday, 49,669 people have been given the second dose of vaccines, compared to 38,662 being administered the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-camp-to-be-set-up-at-gurudwara-more-likely-at-temples-banks-and-post-offices-101632418145988.html
23-09-2021||Gurugram||Cycle tracks across 800 kms to come up by 2035: GMDA||A decision to construct 800 kilometres of cycle tracks across the city by 2035 was taken in a core planning committee meeting of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) held on Tuesday, officials familiar with the developments said.The cycle tracks are being developed as part of measures to improve non-motorised transportation in the city, identified as a mobility concern in the comprehensive mobility management plan (CMMP) of the GMDA approved last December. The improvements will be rolled out in different phases, with Phase 1 lasting until 2026, Phase 2 until 2031, and phases 3 and 4 to be completed by 2041. In the meeting, the GMDA’s chief executive officer (CEO) recommended a proposal for the construction of a 15-kilometre cycle track from Iffco Chowk to the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and directed officials to formulate a plan to link this track with the track on Golf Course Road. This track will cover sectors 27, 28, 42 and 43, officials said. “We have a target of constructing 800 kilometres of cycle tracks, which will be covered in different phases. At present, we will be constructing a 15-km track from Iffco Chowk to SPR. We will also hold discussions with DLF for constructing a cycle track on Golf Course Road. We have planned to connect all these cycle tracks so that more residential areas can be covered, which will automatically motivate people to use cycle for short travel,” Sudhir Rajpal, the GMDA’s CEO, said. Officials from the infrastructure-I division said that once the cycle track from Iffco Chowk to SPR is completed, it will automatically act as a connecting point for the existing track between Huda City centre and Subhash Chowk. At present, cycle tracks are under construction at the Anaath Road, Shankar Road, Rezang La Road and Maharana Pratap Chowk. Officials said that the GMDA is planning on constructing similar cycle tracks from Huda City Centre towards major road networks of Mehrauli-Gurgaon Road, Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, Golf Course Road, Golf Course Extension Road, and Signature Towers. Sarika Panda Bhatt, a co-founder of the Raahgiri foundation, the GMDA’s technical partner for designing cycle tracks, said, “Cyclists and pedestrians take 20% of the road space only and it is an important mode of transport for a large section of the population. We need to shift towards finding out ways for sustainable mobility and cycle tracks help in developing that.” “At present, people fear for safety and prefer a four-wheeler, but once proper cycle tracks are developed, people who now take out cars for short distances will also shift to cycling or walking. Gurugram is a city with almost 5,000 elite cyclists, besides those who use it as a daily mode of transport,” she said. To ensure all cycle tracks are not encroached upon, the GMDA has placed bollards at all entry and exit points to prevent vehicles from entering the main tracks. At a few points, the GMDA is also planning on deploying security guards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cycle-tracks-across-800-kms-to-come-up-by-2035-gmda-101632418144807.html
23-09-2021||Gurugram||Wanted man shoots himself in bid to escape police, arrested after suffering two shots||The Rewari police on Wednesday arrested a 27-year-old suspected criminal, who allegedly shot himself when surrounded by a police team on the rooftop of a house, officials said. The suspect, identified as Rajan Kumar, allegedly involved in multiple crimes in Bhiwani, shot himself twice before the police could intervene and arrest him. He was taken to the trauma centre and later admitted to PGIMS Rohtak where his condition was reported to be stable, the police said on Thursday.Kumar and an associate, Mahender Singh, were allegedly on the run after they shooting a person in Bhiwani over a personal rivalry. A team from Bhiwani police traced the location of the duo to Suthana village, located around 12 kilometres from Rewari. Rajesh Kumar, the deputy superintendent of police, Bawal, said that the two suspects were standing near a tea shop on the outskirts of Suthana and before they could be caught, fled in different directions. “One of them was caught from the nearby industrial area and another escaped and managed to enter a house in the village,” Rajesh said. The suspect, Rajan Kumar, allegedly fired at least three shots at the police and in the melee, ran to the rooftop of the house. He threatened to shoot himself if the police tried to follow him, the DSP said. Residents of the house in which Kumar had intruded locked themselves in a room after seeing him carrying a firearm. A large number of villagers had also gathered at the spot where the incident took place, said officials. The DSP said that the local police, which was assisting the Bhiwani crime team, surrounded the house and asked the suspect to surrender, following which he shot himself in a leg and jumped to another roof. The suspect later allegedly shot himself twice in the stomach and fell, throwing the pistol on the ground, following which the police caught hold of him.The police said the injured suspect the duo was involved in over two dozen criminal cases. A case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 (whoever voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act was registered at Kasola police station in Rewari on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wanted-man-shoots-himself-in-bid-to-escape-police-arrested-after-suffering-two-shots-101632418081404.html
23-09-2021||Gurugram||Aravallis: MCF resumes demolition of illegal structures, five farmhouses razed||After a break of around 20 days, the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) resumed its ongoing demolition drive against illegal structures constructed on forest land in the Aravallis. On Wednesday, five illegal farmhouses located on the Surajkund Road were demolished, officials said. Yashpal Yadav, the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad, said, “After identification by the forest department, we have started demolishing illegally constructed farmhouses on Aravalli land in the district. Five such farmhouses were demolished on Wednesday and 10 more will be demolished by the end of the week. The forest department has given us a list of 15 farmhouses.” He said that more illegal structures standing on Aravalli land have been identified and will be demolished over the next few weeks. On Monday, the Supreme Court said that unauthorised properties on forest land cannot be granted any protection, as it sought a report from the municipal body of Faridabad, within a week, on illegal structures located in the Aravalli forest and reasons for not demolishing them. The next hearing in this regard is scheduled for September 27.In the second week of August, the Faridabad forest department had demolished three farmhouses. Earlier this month, the administration had also demolished 200 houses at Jamai Colony, a settlement that cropped up on Aravalli land in the district. In the third week of July, the Supreme Court, while hearing a case about demolition of Khori village in Faridabad, observed that “the direction to remove all unauthorised structures standing on the forest land applies to all such structures without any exception.” After the top court issued directions in this regard, the forest department started preparations to raze all illegal structures, including farmhouses, banquet halls and institutes, constructed on forest land. So far, around 14 farmhouses that were set up in the Aravallis have been demolished in Faridabad, officials said. In Faridabad, officials have estimated that around 120-130 illegal structures are currently standing on land notified under Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/aravallis-mcf-resumes-demolition-of-illegal-structures-five-farmhouses-razed-101632418080172.html
23-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram murder: Missing woman strangulated to death in South City-1 park||The body of a 25-year-old woman who went missing from her home in Silokhra on Wednesday evening was found at a park in South City-1 colony on Thursday morning, with police saying that she might have been strangulated, according to an initial probe. The police said that a neighbour of the woman was identified as the prime suspect in the case. The police did not find any sign of sexual assault during a preliminary investigation, but officials said that swab samples have been sent for forensic analysis.The woman was identified as a resident of South Dinajpur in West Bengal, who was staying in the city with her family. As per the complaint of her father, she had gone to purchase milk near their residence in Silokhra but when she failed to return home by 9pm, her family member started searching for her in the locality. Around 10.30pm, the father lodged a missing person’s complaint with the Sector 40 police and a case under Section 346 (missing persons) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. Subash Boken, the spokesperson for Gurugram police said that Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been added to the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-murder-missing-woman-strangulated-to-death-in-south-city-1-park-101632418078916.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||DJB to install 80MGD RO plants in areas with saline groundwater: Satyendar Jain||The state water utility plans to install reverse osmosis (RO) plants in areas where groundwater is unusable due to high salinity and levels of total dissolved solids (TDS), said senior officials of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) after a meeting with water minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday. Jain said the government will install RO plants with a total capacity of 80mgd (million gallons per day) or 363mld (million litres per day) within a year. In the first phase, the water utility will install these plants in areas like Okhla, Dwarka, Nilothi-Nangloi, Chilla and Najafgarh. The government estimates that around 725,000 households may benefit from this project. A senior DJB official explained that the agency is targeting areas with surplus groundwater, but which is unfit for use. “For instance, water in the Najafgarh area is available at a depth of 2-3 metres, but is extremely saline. Raw water will be supplied to these RO plants using sub-surface resources and purified water will then be supplied to the households,” the official said. The Delhi government said it will use RO systems that will have 80% water recovery rate, unlike typical systems, which waste a lot of water during the purification process.The Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) estimates that the city has around 22 lakh million gallonsof saline, and hence unusable, groundwater. “This can be converted to drinking water after RO treatment and can be used to augment the DJB’s existing water supply. Areas for the project will be selected in such a way that the existing pipeline system can be used, which will save the utility money on laying pipelines,” DJB said in an official statement.DJB said private investors will bear a major share of the cost to set up the RO plants and the water utility will then buy clean drinking water from them at a fixed rate. Jain said the DJB will shortlist RO systems available with at least an 80% recovery rate. “Based on initial studies done by DJB officials, the cost of water, in this case, will be equal to the existing cost of water treatment through conventional methods,” Jain said. The minister said that one small RO plant will be installed for every 500 households and more than one RO plant will be provided in areas where the population is more than 2,000.DJB currently supplies the city with 4,230mld of water, against a demand of 5,130mld. If the RO project is successful, officials estimate that this shortfall will drop from 900mld currently, to 540mld..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/djb-to-install-80mgd-ro-plants-in-areas-with-saline-groundwater-satyendar-jain-101632417658535.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Active case count down in Maharashtra, state monitors Covid situation||Even as the state’s active case count is reducing, experts and state public health department is monitoring the situation closely as they expect a spurt in infections by October first week, owing to the increased movement during the Dahi Handi and Ganeshotsav festivals. However, officials from the health department said that so far there are no signs of the potential third wave of Covid-19 infections. Maharashtra on Thursday added 3,320 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking it tally to 6,534,557. The state recorded 61 deaths due to the virus, pushing the toll to 138,725. Mumbai, meanwhile nearly logged 500 fresh cases on Thursday. It recorded 498 fresh infections and five fatalities. The active caseload in the state dropped to 39,191, lowest in seven months. A senior bureaucrat said the state is monitoring as the numbers could see some increase owing to crowding in the past two weeks due to the festivals. Officials said that targeted testing during this period will help them pinpoint cases and arrest the transmission. “Due to crowding during the celebrations, we expect some increase in cases. It is crucial to keep test numbers high in this period to locate infection and prevent it from spreading,” the bureaucrat said, requesting anonymity. He further said there are no indications of the potential third wave as of now. Officials added that they are also focusing on speeding up the vaccination drive in the districts where the percentage of first dose and second doses are low. The vaccination drive will also help in the fight to prevent the third wave, officials said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday directed officials to increase the pace of inoculation drives across the state, especially in districts where the numbers are lagging. In Nanded and Hingoli districts, the percentage of second doses is 12.24% and 11.28%, respectively, which is the lowest in the state. Similarly, the two districts have the lowest percentage in first doses – 35.20% (Nanded) and 38.08% (Hingoli). A chunk of the cases came from Ahmednagar rural (577), while Ahmednagar city added 21 cases. Pune rural added 437 cases, while Pune city added 182 cases and Pimpri-Chinchwad added 125 new cases. Satara logged 219 new infections, and Solapur 196. Dhule rural, Dhule city, Jalgaon city, Hingoli district, Akola rural, Amravati rural, Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur, and Chandrapur city did not report any fresh cases on Thursday. The daily positivity rate in the state has been around 2% in the last one week. On Thursday, the positivity rate was 1.95%. The state tested 170,373 samples in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/active-case-count-down-in-maharashtra-state-monitors-covid-situation-101632417238673.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Mangrove Foundation of Maharashtra spent 7.5% of earnings last financial year||The Mangrove Foundation, a registered society under the state forest department’s mangrove cell, spent 7.5% of its earnings in FY20-21 on research, security, capacity building, asset procurement and other allied tasks for protection of mangroves in Maharashtra’s coastal districts. This comes to a total of ₹15.66 crore, as opposed to the total earnings for the year of ₹211 crore, as per the Foundation’s recently published annual report 2020-21.After being registered in 2015 with a corpus fund of ₹115.7 crore, the Mangrove Foundation’s capital has increased over the years to ₹525 crore at the end of March 2021, with mitigation costs from projects like Coastal Road, Trans Harbour Link and Bullet train contributing large sums. However, the majority of this money remains unspent due to the foundation’s decision to use only the interest accrued to carry out its activities. “The Mangrove Foundation was registered with a... mandate to run its operations from the interest income generated by keeping its corpus funds in fixed deposits. Additionally, it receives project/activity specific funds from various government departments and agencies and CSR funds from various corporate organisations,” the foundation’s annual report stated. The foundation also received non-corpus funds to the tune of ₹2.3 crore in the last financial year.Neenu Somraj, deputy conservator of forest (DCF), mangrove cell, clarified that the Foundation is not bound by law to retain its corpus funds, but has made this decision keeping in mind “longevity”. “We have to think about running the foundation for a good length of time in the future. There was a period of three years before 2018 when the corpus did not grow at all. If we simply spend all the money now, it may cause a crunch in the future. So the decision to use only the interest is a considered step that will help sustain the organisation,” said Somraj. At a conservative interest rate of about 6%, the mangrove foundation can hope to generate about ₹30 crore of usable revenue from its current corpus which, officials said, would exceed the total expenditure of FY20-21 by a large margin. “As the corpus grows, we will of course have more funds to scale up our current activities,” Somraj added.Of the ₹15.66 crore utilised in FY20-21, the largest expense of ₹4.7 crore has been made under the head of a “Mangrove Protection Framework”, which includes compensatory mangrove plantation, security and encroachment removal. Of this, ₹3.22 crore were spent on hiring 185 security personnel from the Maharashtra State Security Corporation to keep a watch on sensitive mangrove areas. The remainder was spent on carrying out compensatory afforestation and other “protection measures” which include office development and payment of legal fees to advocates. Another ₹2.32 crore were spent on eco-tourism and livelihood activities such as aquaculture and mangrove tours.The majority of expenses, however, have been administrative in nature. Under multiple heads, ₹6.6 crore together were spent on staff fees, procurement of vehicles, office maintenance, electronic gadgets, office rent and others. In comparison, only ₹94 lakh were spent under the research and capacity building heads, while another ₹79 lakh was spent toward conservation of coastal and marine species.“This pattern of expenditure does not reflect a coherent or unified vision for protection of mangroves. A very large part of the money is being spent only on administrative works, and only a small amount has gone towards dedicated ecological studies and gathering actionable data through field work. A question arises as to whether the foundation is sustaining itself while leaving conservation wanting,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee of the Conservation Action Trust (CAT). Goenka’s petition as a member of the Bombay Environment Action Group had led to the Bombay high court’s (HC) September 2018 judgment on mangrove protection.Though environmentalists agreed that use of these funds must be judicious, they also claimed no money has so far been spent on restoration of damaged mangroves, complaints of which are placed before a HC-appointed committee from time to time. Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti which is currently fighting a public interest litigation in the Bombay HC for compliance with the HC’s September 2018 judgement on transfer of mangroves to the forest department for safekeeping, said, “The mangrove foundation is a cash rich body now. As per their mandate, they must spend a portion of this money on restoration of degraded mangroves. But so far, not a single instance of mangrove destruction has led to restorative action.”HT was the first to report last month that, since its inception in 2018, the Bombay high court (HC)-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee (MPCC) has received an estimated 142 complaints regarding the destruction of mangroves in the state’s coastal districts. Of these, about 88 complaints have been resolved, with a few transferred to the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) for consideration. Another 54 odd complaints are pending resolution, according to committee members. However, committee members (including officials in the forest department’s mangrove cell) confirmed to HT that not a single complaint has so far resulted in the restoration of damaged mangroves, which is part of the mandate given to the committee by HC in its final judgement from September 2018.Responding to this claim, Somraj said the primary responsibility for restoration lies with various municipal corporations and land-owning agencies. “It can be prohibitively expensive for us to do this work. It is for ULBs to conduct the initial clean up and their cost, only after that can be step in to afforest the affected places,” Somraj said.Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest, mangrove cell, could not be reached for a comment. However, speaking to HT on the issue of restoration last month, Tiwari had said, “We have kept funds for this task but cannot proceed with it until the various municipal corporations or land-owning agencies clean up the debris first. The restoration will be done by the forest department but cleaning up the area is their responsibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mangrove-foundation-of-maharashtra-spent-7-5-of-earnings-last-financial-year-101632416998704.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||43 Maharashtra cities to join global Race to Zero campaign||Ahead of the upcoming 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow in November, Maharashtra minister for environment and climate change Aaditya Thackeray on Thursday announced that 43 Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) cities and urban clusters from Maharashtra will join the global Race to Zero campaign. Cities joining this campaign have pledged to reach net zero carbon emissions in the 2040s or sooner.Some prominent cities in the list are Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Panvel, Kohlapur, Shirdi, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Badlapur, Ulhasnagar, Solapur, Osmanabad and Latur among others. Of these, six cities from western Maharashtra — Mumbai, Nashik, Aurangabad, Kalyan-Dombivli, Pune and Nagpur — already joined the campaign earlier this year.The announcement comes during the ongoing Climate Week NYC 2021 proceedings where Thackeray spoke during India’s ‘Road to COP26’ event, part of The Hub Live series of conferences. “Joining the Race to Zero campaign is our contribution in the global fight against climate change. We cannot keep emitting carbon. We don’t have the luxury of time. Maharashtra will set an example of how subnational governments can act despite being a heavily industrialised state,” said Thackeray in his address. The state environment department will undertake a greenhouse gas emission inventory exercise for all the cities and clusters, which account for a floating population of 50 million. Within 12 months of joining, the cities will have to explain what actions will be taken toward achieving both interim and long-term pledges and commit to report publicly on their progress.Commenting on the development, Chandni Singh, senior research consultant at the Indian Institute for Human Settlements in Bangalore, said, “The Race to Zero campaign has a holistic approach and makes a case that you cannot just do mitigation or adaptation but everything together. Even a signal of this kind of commitment is commendable. However, a study we did showed that about 50-60% of the cities with population of over a million have some kind of climate resilience plans in place, but the situation is different when checked for implementation. So, it will be good to see how these plans pan out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/43-maharashtra-cities-to-join-global-race-to-zero-campaign-101632416518498.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to probe alleged irregularities in Mumbai district coop bank led by BJP leader||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has initiated an inquiry against Mumbai District Central Cooperative Bank (MDCCB) headed by leader of opposition in legislative council and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pravin Darekar for the alleged irregularities in the bank over last five years. The cooperation department has initiated the inquiry into the alleged irregularities related to bad loans given to corporate entities, redevelopment of housing projects, irregularities in gold mortgage loans, misappropriation in purchase for computerisation system among others. Divisional joint registrar Bajirao Shinde issued the order of inquiry for 10 types of irregularities in MDCCB in the past five years. District sub-registrar Pratap Patil has been tasked with conducting the inquiry and submitting the report in three months. The bank is headed by Darekar as its chairman and the action is seen as the MVA government’s reply to the action and inquiries initiated against ministers and leaders from the ruling parties. MVA ministers such as Anil Parab, Hasan Mushrif and leaders from ruling parties including Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawli, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar are facing charges of corruption levelled by BJP leaders. The inquiry notice dated September 22 has been served under section 83 of Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, 1960. “The inquiry will be conducted into the expenditure on the repair and renovation of movable and immovable properties belonging to the bank in the last five years. The loans given by the bank for redevelopment of housing societies, corporate houses which turned out to be bad loans too will be inquired into. Probe will also conducted into loans given out of its area of operation and loans given to sugar factories. The irregularities into loans given on mortgage will also be probed. The loans given to cooperating housing societies on the basis of forged documents too will be probed,” the notice stated.The inquiry has been initiated on the basis of the inspection report submitted by the cooperation department on August 10. Darekar alleged that the action initiated by the government is politically motivated and out of vendetta. “The state government had ordered such inquiries in the past too. We have come out clean every time. The compliance report submitted after the inquiries under section 83 and 88 in the past have been accepted by the cooperation department. The bank has received Class-A certificates by cooperation auditors for the last 10 years. The bank is headed by the board of directors representing all political parties and they share equal responsibilities of the irregularities, if any. We are not resisting any action, but it is an attempt to suppress the voice of the opposition. We are going to demand inquiries into corruption in Pune district cooperative bank, state central cooperative bank and other cooperative entities under the leadership of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). We will push for inquiry into these irregularities by central agencies like the Enforcement Directorate and Central Bureau of investigation along with state regulators,” he said. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the action by cooperation department against MDCCB is on the basis of a complaint received by the department. “Darekar or other BJP leaders are free to make complaints against the state cooperative bank or Pune district bank to any agency. The directors responsible for irregularities will face consequences,” he said.MDCCB has faced the inquiry in the past as well. In September last year, a team led by divisional joint registrar was asked to enquire into losses of ₹47.99 crore sustained by the bank and 7.11% drop in capital receipts. The probe was also ordered to examine loans given to sugar factories and corporate loans and their recovery, expenditure on modernisation of bank offices and its computer mechanism over past five years, and loans given to cooperative housing societies under its ambitious redevelopment scheme. It also faced the inquiry into the disbursement of loan of ₹2.35 crore to Darekar’s relatives using fake documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-probe-alleged-irregularities-in-mumbai-district-coop-bank-led-by-bjp-leader-101632416278500.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Solar fence to reduce man-animal conflict near Tadoba tiger sanctuary in Maharashtra||In a bid to reduce man-animal conflict and to prevent damage to crops in villages, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said guidelines should be made to put up individual solar fences in sensitive villages where wildlife movement is more. Thackeray also directed forest department officials that tigers should be radio-collared and camera should be affixed to track their movement and alert locals in a time-bound manner.Chandrapur district, which has a high tiger population, has seen the most tiger attack cases out of the total 88 recorded in 2020. Taking cognisance of the rising human-tiger conflict in Chandrapur, the Maharashtra government had set up an 11-member committee to look into options for conservation, relocation of tigers, and suggest measures to reduce conflict.The project under Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Jan Van Vikas Yojana will cover 939 villages. The CM directed officials to see if other villages can be added. Initially, five sensitive villages will be fitted with metal fence. Solar fence has been used in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra. A solar-powered fence is fed by the power generated from solar sources, including solar panels, batteries and energisers. These fences send non-lethal but sharp shock when an animal or person comes in contact with it, acting as a barrier to intruding animals, experts said.The CM further said that solar borewells should be built at 218 locations and ditches should be constructed which would solve the issue of drinking water for wildlife. Thackeray also suggested considering the possibility of cultivating bamboo, fruit trees and store fodder in non-agricultural lands near villages where tigers roam frequently.Thackeray, in a statement from the secretariat, said, “Cameras should be installed at places where wildlife, especially tigers, are found to monitor their movements. Some tigers should also be fitted with radio collars to monitor their movement, so that people can be alerted and human-wildlife conflicts can be avoided.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/solar-fence-to-reduce-man-animal-conflict-near-tadoba-tiger-sanctuary-in-maharashtra-101632416098472.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||MVA and BJP spar over molestation allegation by BJP worker in Maharashtra||A woman has filed complaint against a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker from Borivli for alleged molestation. This has led to the spat between the ruling parties and opposition. The Congress and Shiv Sena have hit out at the BJP and questioned as to what action the party was going take in the case which allegedly took place in a party office. The complainant has alleged that BJP worker Pratik Salvi molested her in the office of local party corporator Anjali Khedkar by on August 15, 2020. She said that before approaching the police, she made a complaint to local party MP Gopal Shetty and MLA Sunil Rane but they paid no heed. She has also alleged in her complaint that Khedkar and other women workers beat her up for complaining to legislators.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant hit out at the BJP saying that the party’s original character has come to the fore. “BJP leaders have been making noise over atrocities against women in the state. BJP leaders have been talking about safety of women in the state. The incident of the molestation in this case has taken place in a BJP corporator’s office. The complainant was threatened and beaten up by the party’s women workers. BJP leaders like Chandrakant Patil and Devendra Fadnavis should now speak about the action they are going take against the party workers involved,” he said. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, who visited Borivli police station on Thursday, said women leaders of the BJP who make noise over atrocities against women should now speak up and stand by the complainant. “The police have acted swiftly and registered a complaint. They have assured us to take necessary action against the accused. We do not want to play any politics in the case, but want to know if the women leader of BJP will stand by the complainant,” she said. BJP leader Chitra Wagh said that police should investigate the case and take action against the accused. “We will stand by the complainant and police should take strict action and punish if the accused is found guilty. We have submitted videos of the complainant and accused. Our corporators and MPs have clarified their stand and written to the police. Congress and Sena leaders are now talking loud, but why did they not speak when leaders from ruling parties were found involved in cases of atrocities against women,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-and-bjp-spar-over-molestation-allegation-by-bjp-worker-in-maharashtra-101632415918725.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police to identify 100 'bad drivers'. Here's what they will face||Delhi Police will prepare a list of 100 'bad drivers' who often jump the red light, indulge in overspeeding and rash driving and will recommend them to do classes and counselling sessions on road safety, as per Special Commissioner of Traffic, Delhi Police Muktesh Chander."A list of 100 bad drivers will be prepared by the police, who often put other lives at risk by jumping the red light or indulging in rash driving and overspeeding. Letters will be sent at their homes in which we will recommend them to visit classes and counselling sessions on road safety. Classes in physical and video conference mode are available for all," Chander told ANI.Chandra warned that the license of the drivers will be cancelled under the Motor Vehicle act if drivers continue to ignore the warnings of the police and stay absent from the classes.He also said that the police resumed the checking of drivers for drunk driving and Covid protocols are being followed in the entire process."People should not use Covid-19 as an excuse to escape the checking. We are following all the protocols, be it sanitising the machines, using a new pipe for breath analysers and wearing gloves. Earlier this practice was stopped due to Covid but has been started again. In the last 15 days, more than 750 challans have been given to people," Chander said.He also said that the police resumed its drive against people hiding their number plates. "More than 4000 challans have been issued for this so far," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-to-identify-100-bad-drivers-here-s-what-they-will-face-101632414390054.html
23-09-2021||Dehradun||BJP minister, blamed for police horse Shaktiman’s death, acquitted by judge||Dehradun: Uttarakhand cabinet minister Ganesh Joshi on Thursday was cleared of charges of assaulting a police horse, Shaktiman, deployed for crowd control at a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rally in the state capital in 2016, the minister’s lawyer said. The horse died a month later due to injuries.The chief judicial magistrate’s court in Dehradun acquitted five people including the small, medium enterprises minister due to lack of evidence and contradictions in statements of witnesses, Joshi’s counsel Manmohan Kandwal said.Ganesh Joshi, the Mussorie legislator, was arrested in 2016 after outrage over a video clip that showed him brandishing a stick and appearing to strike the horse at a BJP protest on March 16, 2016 against the Congress government led by Harish Rawat. The video ended with the horse on its back, in pain, with a policeman trying to get it back on its feet.The lawmaker, seen in the video holding a stick and poised to strike, was not seen hitting the horse in the video or the photograph. He also insisted that he did not hurt the horse. At the time and later, Ganesh Joshi, who spent about five days in custody before getting bail, insisted that he was innocent and was being framed on then chief minister Harish Rawat’s instructions.Following the injury, the horse’s hind leg was amputated and a prosthetic leg was fitted, but it couldn’t survive and died. As a mark of respect, Uttarakhand police named a petrol pump after Shaktiman and erected a statue at Police Lines in Dehradun.On Thursday after the court verdict came in, Joshi said it was a victory of truth. “I was saying from the very beginning that I am innocent. Now it has been proved,” he said. Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice president, said the Harish Rawat-led Congress government at that time tried to frame Joshi in this case under a conspiracy. “They should now apologise to Joshi as the court has delivered its verdict and truth has won.”Ganesh Godiyal, Uttarakhand Congress president, said his party respects the court’s verdict in the matter but “there is no question of an apology”. “Everyone knows what happened in 2016. It is there in photos and news reports of that time.”When the BJP came to power in 2017, it recommended withdrawal of the case against Joshi, who was charged with rioting, hurting and charging with a stick towards the 13-year-old police horse Shaktiman who fell on the ground during the ruckus and fractured its hind leg. But the effort didn’t succeed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/bjp-minister-blamed-for-police-horse-shaktiman-s-death-acquitted-by-judge-101632415319047.html
23-09-2021||Other||Narendra Giri’s death: CBI probe move welcomed by seers||Acharya Mahamandaleshwar (supreme head) of Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani Swami Kailashanand Giri and Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) general secretary Swami Hari Giri have welcomed the state government’s recommendation for a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of ABAP president Narendra Giri. Narendra Giri, who was also the Mahant of Bade Hanuman Temple in Prayagraj, was found dead in his room at Baghambari Gaddi Math in the Sangam city on Monday (September 20). “We welcome the move of the state government recommending a CBI probe into the case. I have been saying from the beginning that there is something fishy in the entire incident and after a thorough probe by the CBI, the truth will come to fore,” said Swami Kailashanand. He also said both the personal room of Mahant Narendra Giri and the one in which he was found hanging had been sealed. Giri belonged to the Niranjani Akhara and was also serving as its secretary at the time of his death.“We held a meeting of the Akhara at the Baghambari Math on Thursday and discussed day-to-day business, including how to run the Math, in coming days etc. It has also been decided that a temple or some kind of monument would be constructed at the site where Narendra Giri has been given Bhu (land) Samadhi,” he said. On being asked about the successor of Mahant Narendra Giri and Balbeer Giri, who Narendra Giri has named as his successor in his purported suicide note, he said, “We are still grieving over the departure of one of our close and highly respectable members of the Akhara”. “In days to come, we will sit together and decide who would be the successor,” said Kailashanand. Balbeer Giri is presently a Mahant of the Niranjani Akhara. Likewise, ABAP general secretary Swami Hari Giri, while applauding CM Yogi Adityanath for recommending a CBI inquiry, said, “There should be a thorough probe into the incident and no one should reach to any conclusion before the CBI inquiry is over. The mobile phone call details of Narendra Giri, who all came to meet him, was there any property angle behind his death will all be looked into by the CBI and we should wait for its findings,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/narendra-giri-s-death-cbi-probe-move-welcomed-by-seers-101632414418298.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Tuition teacher in Kalyan held for rape of 8-year-old girl||A Kalyan-based coaching class teacher was held for molesting and raping an eight-year-old girl who used to go to his place for tuition classes. The man’s wife had gone to her native place when the person started taking advantage of the girl.Bajarpeth police in Kalyan have registered a case against the teacher after the girl’s mother gave a complaint.The survivor joined the tuition classes four months ago. The accused, Mudur Talwala, 48, was taking tuition classes at home due to the lockdown. For more than a month, the girl was avoiding going to the class. However, her mother did not realise the reason and asked her to go. Two days ago, the survivor finally narrated her ordeal to her mother.An officer from Bajarpeth police station said, “The accused used to live with his wife. For the past one-and-a-half months, she went to her native place. During the same time, the accused started taking advantage of the girl. While he sent home the other children, he used to ask the girl to stay back and sexually assaulted her. He also threatened her not to tell anyone. We arrested the accused immediately in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tuition-teacher-in-kalyan-held-for-rape-of-8-year-old-girl-101632414298281.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||2015 Bank of Baroda loan fraud case: ED files charge sheet against 14 people||The enforcement directorate (ED) on Wednesday filed a charge sheet against 14 people, including prime accused Vikram Seth and seven members of his family, in the ₹24-crore Bank of Baroda loan fraud case registered in 2015 in Chandigarh, at a special PMLA court, Mohali. The next date of hearing has been fixed for October 14. The ED has charged the accused for money laundering. The charge sheet says the accused invested the loan amount to purchase new properties and repay their previous loans. A top ED official said the agency was still probing the role of more private people as the proceeds of the crime are increasing. In July 26, 2021, the ED had arrested Vikram Seth from Phagwara and he is currently in judicial custody. The ED had taken over the probe after the CBI registered an FIR against Vikram Seth and his family members under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) at its zonal office in Jalandhar. The ED said the CBI investigations revealed that Seth, in connivance with other accused and officials of Bank of Baroda, fraudulently got sanctioned 19 loans totalling ₹24 crore and the money was routed through various accounts of associated firms. In May 2020, the ED had attached 42 immovable and seven movable properties worth ₹18.5 crore belonging to the Seth family in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. The attached assets consisted of 20 residential plots, six industrial plots, one house, three tracts of agricultural land, two brick kilns and 10 commercial plots located in Phagwara and Banga of Punjab, and Una district of Himachal Pradesh. The seven movable assets attached included three luxury vehicles worth ₹33 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-bank-of-baroda-loan-fraud-case-ed-files-charge-sheet-against-14-people-101632414118323.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||As garbage is left uncollected by KDMC for days together, Titwala residents complain of poor waste management||Despite several complaints of poor waste management in Titwala near Kalyan, an NGO from this locality has decided to draw attention of the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) by placing banners and placards on the waste dumped in public places.The Titwala Educational Kalyankari Foundation has appealed to the residents of Titwala to inform about such places where garbage has been dumped in public places for several days. The foundation will draw the attention of the civic body by placing a ‘thank you’ placard on the waste.“The best way to draw the civic body’s attention to the ordeal we face due to the waste dumped on the roads is by thanking them for not picking the waste. We will place placards on the waste and thank them for always neglecting our area. At least, this will make them realise their responsibility,” said Vijay Deshekar, founder of the foundation.As per the residents of Titwala, the waste management is very poor. There is a lack of waste collecting vehicles.“There is only one vehicle to collect the waste from Titwala. There is a need to have more vehicles as well as staff. Sometimes, the waste dumped in the garbage bin is not collected for several days. I have received photos of four or five locations from the residents,” added Deshekar, a resident of Titwala.An officer from KDMC said, “We will inquire with the particular wards and check the situation there. The concerned officer in-charge will be asked to collect the waste without fail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-garbage-is-left-uncollected-by-kdmc-for-days-together-titwala-residents-complain-of-poor-waste-management-101632413280871.html
23-09-2021||Other||God man hacks woman to death in front of her two daughters||A 50-year-old self-styled god man allegedly hacked a woman to death with a sharp-edged weapon in front of her two daughters at a village in Bagaha police district on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Tara Devi (40). The motive behind the murder could not be known immediately, said Bagaha subdivisional police officer (SDPO), Kailash Prasad, adding that the body had been sent for autopsy.According to the daughters of the deceased, Devi was killed by Motilal, a resident of Laxmipur village, when they were on their way to collect fodder for livestock. “We suspected nothing of this sort when he emerged from a field with an axe that he used wield all the time. Then he suddenly caught hold of my mother and attacked her on the neck with the axe,” said one of the victim’s daughters, adding that the he kept attacking her until she died. The accused fled the spot after villagers rushed to the victims’ rescue. According to locals, Motilal had declared himself a monk at the age of 25. “He sports long hair and a beard. He used to dress like a monk and is unmarried. Sometimes, he used to live at an ashram,” said a village resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/god-man-hacks-woman-to-death-in-front-of-her-two-daughters-101632413158654.html
23-09-2021||Other||Narendra Giri’s death: Prayagraj police send report to Uttar Pradesh government||A day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended a CBI enquiry into the death of ABAP president Narendra Giri, Prayagraj police on Thursday forwarded its report related to the incident to the government, police said. All documents, including copy of the FIR lodged in connection with the case, autopsy report and the list of collected samples etc had been forwarded to the concerned authorities, they added.As per rules, after a recommendation for a CBI probe into an incident, the apex agency asks for a progress report from the current investigation team before it takes charge of the case.Refusing to believe that Giri committed suicide, several seers had demanded a CBI probe into the incident. Mahant Hari Giri of Akhada Parishad had said that Union home minister Amit Shah was keeping an eye on the developments related to the case. A few hours after his statement, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended for a CBI probe late on Wednesday night.Prayagraj police also become active after the recommendation of the CBI enquiry. Senior police officials held a meeting with the special investigation team constituted on Tuesday and asked them to prepare the relevant documents. Early on Thursday morning, the report was forwarded to the state government with no objection to a CBI probe. Meanwhile, there were reports of arrival of a five-member CBI team to Prayagraj on Thursday morning and their meeting with senior police officials. Although none of senior police officials confirmed arrival of the CBI team.
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD protest march from Mohali to CM residence on September 29 against ‘meagre’ land compensation||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will stage a protest march on September 29 against the “meagre” compensation being offered to farmers in lieu of their land being acquired for various road projects which will pass through 19 districts of Punjab. SAD activists will march from Mohali up to the chief minister’s official residence in Chandigarh on the day and a party delegation will also submit a memorandum to the governor, seeking hike in land compensation being offered to the farmers. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal took the decision after meeting the office-bearers of Punjab Pradesh Road Kisan Sangharsh Committee, a body fighting for a fair compensation. Briefing the SAD leadership, committee chief Sukhdev Singh Dhillon said the Congress government in the state was offering ₹30 lakh and ₹70 lakh per acre for rural and urban land, respectively, while demanding ₹1 crore per acre for rural and ₹3-5 crore per acre for urban land being acquired for the road project. The committee also highlighted that 25,000 acres were being acquired for the project. “More than 3,000 houses will be demolished and 100 village ponds will vanish. One-crore trees will be felled. On completion, the road project will lead to flooding in low-lying areas,” the committee members said. Sukhbir appealed to the committee representatives and farmers to join the SAD in its September 29 protest. The main road projects include Delhi-Jammu-Katra, Jamnagar-Amritsar, Ludhiana-Ropar, Amritsar-Una and Mohali-Fatehgarh Sahib. SAD leaders Tota Singh, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Bikram Singh Majithia, Daljit Singh Cheema and Surjit Singh Rakhra were also present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-protest-march-from-mohali-to-cm-residence-on-september-29-against-meagre-land-compensation-101632413040808.html
23-09-2021||Patna||Ex-JD(U) leader, wife, four others held for attempting to kill gym trainer in Patna||Patna Police on Thursday arrested six persons, including former Janata Dal (United) leader, his wife and her former male friend for their alleged involvement in connection with the murderous attack on gym trainer Vikram Singh (26) on September 19.The arrested were identified as physiotherapist Dr Rajiv Kumar Singh, his wife Khushbu Singh, her male friend Mihir Kumar Singh (Danapur), besides three shooters identified as Aman Kumar (Samastipur), Aryan alias Rohit Singh (Saran) and Mohammad Shamshad (Begusarai). Rajiv earlier held the post of state vice-president of JD(U) medical cell and was removed after his name cropped up in the attack case. Police have recovered two pistols, magazine and eight live cartridges used in the crime.Patna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Upendra Sharma confirmed their arrest and said that the reason behind the incident was an uncomfortable relationship between Khushbu and Vikram.Police said that Vikram named Dr Rajiv and his wife as accused. Following his statement, the police detained Rajiv and his wife from their Patliputra Colony residence and released them after preliminary questioning.During the investigation, it was revealed that Vikram and Khushbu knew each other since January this year and had called each other as many as 1,875 times and talked for over 5.5 lakh seconds since then.SSP claimed that following differences between the duo, Khushbu allegedly developed her relationship with an old male friend and asked him to kill Gym trainer, who “spoiled her life.”Police said that Mihir hired contract killers and paid ₹1.85 lakh as advance to eliminate Vikram while the arrested former leader’s wife was the mastermind behind this conspiracy. The shooters demanded ₹3 lakh for their task. The three had hired a rented accommodation at Bhagwat Nagar at ₹14,000 per month. The shooters had tried to kill Vikram in June but failed due to police alertness. SSP further said that police are looking for two more criminals involved in the murderous attack conspiracy. “The money paid to contract killers was owned by Dr Rajiv. He has been arrested and forwarded to judicial custody,” said SSP.Meanwhile, an audio of a conversation, allegedly between Dr Rajiv, Vikram and Khushbu, went viral on social media in which the couple threatened Vikram of dire consequences. The couple also made references to transactions of some money during their conversation. The audio is stated to be about three months old..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/exjdu-leader-wife-four-others-held-for-attempting-to-kill-gym-trainer-in-patna-101632412918120.html
23-09-2021||Patna||Man accused of rape bid ordered by court to wash women’s clothes for six months||A man in Madhubani district of Bihar, accused of attempted rape, has been given bail on condition that he wash and iron the clothes of all women in his village for six months.Lalan Kumar, 20, will have to buy detergent and other items needed to provide six months of free laundry services to about 2,000 women in the village of Majhor, a court said on Wednesday.Kumar, who washes clothes for a living, was arrested in April on charges including attempted rape, Santosh Kumar Singh, a police officer, said. No date has been set for his trial.“All the women in the village are happy with the court decision,” Nasima Khatoon, the village head, said.“It is historic. It will boost respect for women and help to protect dignity,” added Khatoon, one of the villagers who will monitor Kumar.Women in the village said the order had made a positive impact by making crime against women a subject of discussion in their community.“This is a remarkable step and a different kind of punishment that sends a message to society,” said Anjum Perween.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-accused-of-rape-bid-ordered-by-court-to-wash-women-s-clothes-for-six-months-101632411777948.html
23-09-2021||Other||SC collegium clears 8 names for Patna HC, including six from bar||PATNAAfter a long wait, the Patna High Court is set to get eight new judges. This will bring down the vacancies, as the court was left with just 17 judges against the sanctioned strength of 53 at the start of this month and one more vacancy was to arise at the end of September.Of the eight new judges, six have been elevated from the bar after approval at the Supreme Court collegium meeting on September 23. They include Khatim Reza, Sandeep Kumar, Anshuman Pandey, Purnendu Singh, Satyavrat Verma and Rajesh Kumar Verma.Two others who got elevated as judges of the HC are judicial officers Navneet Kumar Pandey, who is presently the registrar general of the HC, and Sunil Kumar Panwar, who is presently registrar (vigilance) at Patna HC.“The warrants for their appointments will be issued by the President. As per the procedure, now the Centre will send the names after due process to the President. It may take a fortnight’s time,” said a court official.Four more judges have been transferred to the Patna HC from different High Courts and they would be joining soon after completing the formalities. The judges transferred are from Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Punjab and Haryana High Court.One judge, Justice A Amanullah has also been transferred out of Patna HC to Andhra Pradesh.With 12 new judges, the strength of the 105-year-old institution will increase to 28, still just around 53% of the sanctioned strength. In August 2019, the working strength of Patna HC was 24, which fell further in the last two years to reach 17.This year itself, the Patna HC collegium had sent four recommendations comprising 35 names to reduce the vacancies. Of the 11 names sent from the bar, six have been selected.The last three recommendations comprising 20 names had been made since July 16, including one on August 2.Former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay said it was a very good sign for the Patna HC that the Supreme Court collegium has recommended six names from the bar. “Besides, two judges will be from the judiciary side and four are coming from other HCs. This will make much needed addition to the strength of the HC, which had been functioning with depleted strength for a long time. Hopefully, more additions will be made in the months to come,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-collegium-clears-8-names-for-patna-hc-including-six-from-bar-101632411657941.html
23-09-2021||Patna||Panchayat polls in Bihar begin today||The 11-phase panchayat elections in Bihar will begin on Friday, when polling for 4,647 posts will be held in 12 blocks spread over 10 districts in the state in the first phase amid tight security.A total of 14,000 people have been deployed on polling duty at 2,119 polling stations where both EVMs ( electronic voting machines) and ballot papers would be used for voting, officials involved in the exercise said. “So far, 362 illegal arms and 1,606 cartridges have been seized from anti-socials in the ongoing pre-poll checking drives by the police,” a press release issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) on Thursday said. “Moreover, 12,065 illegal liquor manufacturing units have been destroyed in different districts while 5,46,143 litres of illicit liquor has been seized,” the release said. This time, the SEC has made arrangements for webcasting polling at sensitive and super sensitive booths and has also set up state level control room where any complaint about poll malpractices or other discrepancies could be lodged by dialling 18003457243. Besides, the voters this time would be verified through biometric machines at the booths so that there is no bogus voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/panchayat-polls-in-bihar-begin-today-101632411538015.html
23-09-2021||Patna||Bihar’s Dy CM trashes reports of favours to kin in govt contracts||Bihar’s deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad Thursday dismissed allegations that his kin were favoured in the award of contracts for the Nitish Kumar government’s showpiece scheme to provide tap water to every village household.“All allegations levelled against me are baseless. None of my family members are involved in the companies named as having been awarded tenders. Only four contracts out of the total 2,800 was awarded to my family member Puja Kumari as per rules in 2019 and the water is being supplied in that area. All the work was completed before I became the deputy CM. So, the allegations that I influenced the award of contract are wrong,” a press release issued by Prasad said. Ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) leaders also came out in defence of Prasad, who has been in the line of Opposition’s fire for the past few days following a media report that said his kin had got high-value government contracts in violation of rules.The tender for the said work was floated in December 2019 when he (Prasad) was Katihar MLA. His son was one of the bidders and was awarded the contract through due process. The said work was completed on September 2020, before he became the deputy CM. At no point did Prasad influence the process,” said Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, president of the state unit of Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), the biggest constituent of the NDA.“It was a routine meeting to discuss party affairs,” Jaiswal said when asked about a meeting of BJP ministers on Wednesday evening at the residence of deputy CM Renu Devi, also from the same party. BJP state vice-president Rajiv Ranjan said nobody could cast aspersions on Prasad’s character. “He is one of the finest leaders who is thoroughly dedicated for the state’s development,” said Ranjan.Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awami Morcha (Secular), also an NDA constituent, ruled out Tarkishore Prasad’s involvement in the tender process. Its spokesperson Danish Rizwan said, “Unlike the Lalu-Rabr era when tenders were awarded to their acquaintances, the tender process under the NDA government is as clear as water.” After the media report that claimed that the deputy CM’s kin had got contracts worth ₹53 crore in the state government’s Har Ghar Jal scheme to provide tap water to every village household, the Opposition parties have sought to corner the Nitish Kumar government on the corruption issue.Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), has accused the state government of looting the treasuries. On Thursday, Yadav dragged the name of former deputy CM and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi, alleging that the tender of the said project was awarded to Prasad’s kin during his tenure. “Tarkishore Prasad was the MLA of Katihar and it was on Modi’s recommendation that he became the deputy CM,” he said and alleged that tender was given to Prasad’s family for generating money for the 2020 assembly elections. Dubbing the water supply scheme as “Nal Dhan Yojana (scheme to siphon money)”, he asked the CM to name 50 panchayats where the scheme is running efficiently. After RJD and Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) formed an alliance and won the 2015 assembly elections, Modi had levelled serious allegations of corruption against Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the then deputy CM, through a series of media briefings and posts on social media, which eventually led to a break in the RJD-JD(U) alliance and Yadav’s ouster from the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-dy-cm-trashes-reports-of-favours-to-kin-in-govt-contracts-101632411479318.html
23-09-2021||Ranchi||Seems Dhanbad judge was intentionally hit by auto, CBI tells Jharkhand HC||Dhanbad’s additional district judge Uttam Anand , who died in July after being run over by an auto-rickshaw, was hit intentionally, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed the Jharkhand high court on Thursday. On July 28, judge Anand was brought dead to a hospital about an hour after he was hit by the auto rickshaw in Dhanbad when he was out on a morning walk. The two occupants of the three-wheeler, Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma, were subsequently arrested. The CCTV footage of the location showed the vehicle swerving seemingly deliberately to hit the judge from behind, officials involved in the case had said.Appearing before the division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad, CBI zonal director Sharad Agrawal informed the court that judge Anand’s death was not an accident, and submitted the weekly probe report as directed by the court.Sources said the zonal director informed the court that they drew the conclusion on the basis of interrogation of the arrested accused, along with scientific investigation, but are yet to get concrete evidence for it.The court then directed the CBI not to waste time and get behind the crime, as any time lost would be detrimental for investigation. It also questioned the probe agency as to why they have not been able to move beyond the two arrested occupants of the auto rickshaw involved in the alleged crime.“The CBI officer informed court that one of the two arrested persons Lakhan Verma also has previous criminal record of mobile theft, and he has been trying to mislead the agency by changing his stand. The agency is interrogating the two accused for a breakthrough,” a source said.Both the Supreme Court and the Jharkhand High Court has taken suo motu cognisance of the incident. The CBI took over the investigation from the SIT headed by an ADG rank officer of Jharkhand Police at the state government’s instance. The HC had ever since directed the central agency to provide probe status report every week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/seems-dhanbad-judge-was-intentionally-hit-by-auto-cbi-tells-jharkhand-hc-101632411478004.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Under fire for dumping in mangroves, Uran Municipal Council to get own dumping ground soon||The Uran Municipal Council (UMC), which is under attack for dumping municipal garbage in mangrove areas, has said that it’s getting a new dumping ground soon from the collector and the process is in the final stage.The greens say that dumping and spreading of garbage on mangroves has been going on unabated in Uran despite interventions from the Prime Minister down to the High Court-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee, Chief Minister and Raigad District Guardian Minister, Aditi Tatkare, environmentalists and local citizens.NatConnect Foundation director, BN Kumar, said, “For 15 years, people and environment lovers have been literally banging their heads on the walls with no respite from pollution, breathing problems and frequent sickness besides the damage to mangroves. None of the authorities here seem to respect mangroves as frontline soldiers against tidal attacks.”NatConnect tweeted to all the powers that be a fresh video of the dumping and JCB machine spreading the garbage on mangroves.The HC panel has asked the UMC and local planner CIDCO to find an alternative site and stop dumping on mangroves, Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, said. He recalled that an FIR had been filed against the civic body for violation under the Environment Act in January 2020.Santosh Mali, chief executive officer of UMC, said, “The environmentalists are complaining but the land has been given to us by the collector. In 2006, Raigad Collector had given us land where we started dumping municipal waste. The area is close to the creek. Mangroves have grown amidst the garbage dumped but we have not touched or harmed them.”He added that they have again gone to the Raigad Collector for an alternate five- hectare plot in Jasai for a dumping ground and our request has been granted. “The process is in the last stage and we will get it soon. At present, on the Bori Pakhadi area dumping ground, we will be taking action to conserve the mangroves that have grown. We will take up garbage bio-mining to protect the environment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/under-fire-for-dumping-in-mangroves-uran-municipal-council-to-get-own-dumping-ground-soon-101632410758607.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||If Navjot Sidhu is anti-national, he should be behind bars: Wife||AMRITSAR Even as Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is maintaining a stoic silence over being labelled anti-national by former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, former’s wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu on Thursday said if it was true, why he (Sidhu) was not being put behind the bars.“If somebody is a threat to the national security, jail is the place for such person. I will write to Union home minister Amit Shah, requesting him to send him (Sidhu) behind the bars as he has done something anti-national (as being alleged),” she said. Navjot Kaur, who is a former chief parliamentary secretary, was talking to the media at her Amritsar residence after the appointment of Shivani Sharma as Mahila Congress’ president for Amritsar district. “Navjot played cricket with Imran Khan (prime minister of Pakistan). They were rivals on the ground and friends off it. During his visit to Pakistan, Navjot didn’t bring anything from Pakistan except soil from Guru Nanak’s land, a piece of asugarcane, and a stuffed partridge as a gift for Captain Amarinder,” she said.She said Navjot was called by his ‘friend’ Imran Khan to Pakistan. Imran later ‘honoured’ Sidhu’s wish by opening the Kartarpur Corridor, which was a long pending demand of every Sikh, she said. “All Sikhs around the world were happy with the opening of the corridor,” Kaur said.She said her husband’s other demand was the re-opening of transit trade via the Attari-Wagah border. “This demand was for the farmers so that they can export their produce. Were these things anti-national. Navjot never visited Pakistan for personal reasons,” she added. On Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab government, she said, “Channi is a person who will always think about the poor. Whatever he is promising, he will fulfil it.”Dubbing Navjot Sidhu as anti-national, dangerous, unstable, incompetent and a security threat to the state and the country, Captain Amarinder had said that he would fight ‘tooth and nail’ any move to make the PPCC chief the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/if-navjot-sidhu-is-anti-national-he-should-be-behind-bars-wife-101632410521461.html
23-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 744 new Covid cases, 4 deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 744 fresh Covid positive cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours. The four deaths were reported from Pune rural. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 516,142 Covid cases and 9,140 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 265,720 cases so far and a total of 3,494 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 356,150 total cases so far and 6,742 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,138,012 Covid cases. Of this, 1,008,460 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 19,745 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 9,807 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 4,050 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,553,079 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.22%. Across Maharashtra, 3,320 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 61 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated that of 57,646,515 laboratory samples, 6,534,557 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 11.34% of patients till Thursday. Currently 261,842 people are in home quarantine and 1,461 in institutional quarantine. Pune district figures Covid-19 cases: 1,138,012 Recovered patients: 1,108,460 Deaths: 19,745 Active cases: 9,807 New cases: 744 New deaths: 4||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-744-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-101632410397852.html
23-09-2021||Lucknow||Now, UP has separate body to govern training of technicians in medical field||LUCKNOW The state now has a separate body – Uttar Pradesh State Allied Healthcare Council (UPSAHC) – to regulate training curriculum for technicians working in the medical field. The council will govern courses and plan training for technical medical staff working as OT, X-ray, ultrasound and lab technicians in hospitals. The move will improve the quality of education and ensure hospitals get the best staff for better patient care, said health experts.“The Uttar Pradesh State Allied Healthcare Council (UPSAHC) will look after the curriculum of about three-dozen courses, including those for operating theatre technicians, laboratory technicians and physiotherapy,” said Dr AK Singh, head of the Uttar Pradesh State Medical Faculty (UPSMF). The union government has already set up a national body and asked states to form their wings for allied health services. These services are directly connected to healthcare and include all personnel who work in hospitals/clinics other than doctors and nurses. UPSMF registers MBBS or PG doctors who wish to practice in the state, and is the umbrella body for the Uttar Pradesh Medical Council for doctors, Uttar Pradesh Nurses and Midwives Council and Uttar Pradesh Dental Council. And now, the allied healthcare council will also be running in the state. At present, a core committee is making rules for the UPSAHC that will decide on the curriculum and registration of students who clear different technical exams. Prof Vinod Jain, dean, paramedical sciences of the KGMU, is heading the core committee. “Such a body will certainly improve the quality of education and ensure hospitals get the best staff for better patient care,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital.“Medical technical education is as significant as MBBS or BDS. If an OT technician has adequate knowledge and is well trained, the doctor/surgeon gets major support inside the operating theatre or the ICU,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.“Once the rules are made, a separate chairperson, secretary and other office- bearers will hold the office of UPSAHC. A formal decision on the structure of study and exams will then be made just as in nursing and other courses,” said Dr AK Singh. The entire process is likely to be completed in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-up-has-separate-body-to-govern-training-of-technicians-in-medical-field-101632409617806.html
23-09-2021||Pune||Man found dead in Pune, case of murder registered||PUNE: A body was found at Dange chowk area of Pimpri-Chinchwad on Thursday morning. The police have registered a case of murder against unidentified people. The deceased was identified as Rohan Kamble (30) of Chandani chowk area of Dhayarigaon in Pune. A complaint was lodged by his father Dilip Kamble (60), also a resident of the same area. The deceased was found with blood on his face at a short distance from a wine shop in Dange chowk. His friend rushed to his house late on Wednesday night and informed his father that his son was found unconscious with blood flowing from his mouth and nose. He was rushed to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital and declared dead on Thursday morning around 11am. His body was sent for a post-mortem and the cause of death was found to be a blunt force trauma to the back of his head, according to the police. The details were confirmed by senior inspector Vivek Muglikar of Wakad police station. A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-found-dead-in-pune-case-of-murder-registered-101632409197793.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Small-time model from Airoli complains of assault; police search for man||The Rabale police are looking for a man who broke into the house of a small-time model in Airoli and assaulted her.The 25-year-old model who resides in Airoli had met the alleged accused, Dhirendra Mishra, (in his 30s) in February at her birthday party. The duo belonged to Uttar Pradesh and connected well with each other soon and became friends.According to the complainant, the duo used to talk over phone often. Mishra then proposed to her for marriage, which she rejected and said that they could continue to be friends. On September 20, there were some producers at the complainant’s house for a work-related meeting during which the complainant asked Mishra to arrange for food.By 2.30am on September 21, the producers left her house and then the complainant called Mishra to check on why he had not got the food.According to the complainant, Mishra said that he was angry over the rejection of his proposal and hence chose not to get the food. By 3am, he was outside her row house and she refused to open the door.“According to the complainant, the accused then bent the grill of her house, entered, assaulted her, abused her and also threatened to destroy her career. We have registered a case against him and are on the lookout for him,” senior police inspector Yogesh Gawade from Rabale police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/smalltime-model-from-airoli-complains-of-assault-police-search-for-man-101632409018523.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||40% eligible population in Mumbai fully vaccinated against Covid, 85% get at least first dose: Data||Around 40% of the total 9.2 million targeted adult population in Mumbai is fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and 85% population has been administered at least one dose, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data.The highest target of the fully vaccinated population — 59% — is in the age group of 45-60 years, followed by 55% senior citizens above 60 years of age. Further, a 23% target is achieved in the 18-45 years of age group. The data reveals that 52% of the total healthcare workers and 57% frontline workers have been fully vaccinated.However, civic officials assume that 20% out of the total vaccinated citizens in Mumbai are from the satellite towns in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). These beneficiaries are considered to be a floating population, who mostly work in Mumbai but reside in satellite towns.The vaccination for Covid-19 started with healthcare workers in the city on January 16, 2021, followed by frontline workers and senior citizens in March 2021, those above the age of 45 years in April and from May 2021, vaccination was rolled out for everyone above the age group of 18 years.According to BMC data, 9,236,500 or 9.2 million is the targeted adult population in the city that is above 18 years of age and is eligible for vaccination. According to the census of 2011, the city’s population is 12.4 million. The highest number of the beneficiary or eligible citizens in the age group is 5,684,800 or 5.6 million is in the 18 to 45 age group, of which 23% have got both doses and 78% have got their first dose. The second-highest number of beneficiaries are in the 45 to 60 years of age group having 2,082,100 beneficiaries, of which 59% are fully vaccinated and 90% have got at least first dose.The data of the BMC has, however, added a few caveats which include pregnant and lactating mothers, students going abroad etc in the 18 to 44 age group, and bedridden citizens are included in the senior citizen category. The total doses administered data also includes data of disabled citizens.Further, in the case of senior citizens above the age group of 60 years, out of the total 1,469,600 or 1.4 million beneficiaries, 55% are fully vaccinated and 76% have got at least first dose. In the case of healthcare and frontline workers, though age-wise breakup is not available, the BMC anticipates beneficiaries to be around 600,000.The data reveals that around 273,249 healthcare workers are beneficiaries in the city, of which 52% are fully vaccinated and 69% have got at least first dose. In the case of frontline workers, there are 313,625 beneficiaries, of which 55% are fully vaccinated and 76% have got at least the first dose. According to BMC officials, many healthcare and frontline workers have also taken their second dose by registering with alternate phone numbers or as general citizens.Meanwhile, experts anticipate that next year, by this time, we will be in a much more comfortable situation when it comes to vaccination. This considering vaccine for children is also expected in the coming months and the scope of vaccination drive will increase.Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at BYL Nair Hospital said, “Considering the challenges in the city and country, we have done very well when it comes to vaccination. I feel many developed countries are also curious about our pace. There will be no problem further even if the supply is good. India has good scope to ramp up infrastructure considering our skills at public vaccination are good owing to polio vaccination.”Dr Sathe added, “By this pace, next year at this time we might have fully vaccinated our adult population. The scope of vaccination drive will increase with vaccines for children arriving, but that would not hinder the pace considering the experience of vaccinating children for polio.”(Quote by Suresh Kakani, Addl MC of BMC to be added)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/40-eligible-population-in-mumbai-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-85-get-at-least-first-dose-data-101632408420209.html
23-09-2021||Lucknow||Concert near Taj Mahal sparks controversy||AGRA A concert organised by the Agra Development Authority (ADA) on Wednesday evening within 315 metres area around the Taj Mahal sparked a controversy as it was allegedly in violation of restrictions imposed by the Supreme Court for holding such programmes within 500 metres area around the monument. The event, ‘Incredible Taj Concert – Harmony’, was organized at Taj View Point on the other side of Yamuna with Taj Mahal in the backdrop, near Mehtab Bagh, an ASI-protected site. ADA vice-chairman Rajender Pensiya denied such allegations, saying the concert was held in compliance of SC’s guidelines. “It was a small-scale programme with 50 people in attendance. Neither any heavy structure was set up nor the decibel levels were beyond limits,” he said. Renowned poets of Agra, including Som Thakur, Ruchi Chaturvedi, Ameer Akbarabadi, Sushil Sarit and Deepak Mehra, rendered their poetry at the event. The concert began at 5.30 pm with a ghazal by Sudhir Narain and ended at 8pm. Commissioner, Agra division, Amit Gupta was the chief guest on the occasion. The event was reminiscent of the famous Yanni show held in the backdrop of Taj Mahal in 1997. Yanni was permitted to hold his mega show on the bank of Yamuna, 500 metres away from the Taj Mahal periphery with restricted sound limits and instructions to disband the pontoon bridge after the show. The then superintending archaeologist of ASI PBS Senger said that the apex court was very clear in its order and had permitted the Yanni Show at a location 500 metres away from the Taj Mahal. “The SC was concerned because heavy construction work was undertaken for the Yanni Show and the pontoon bridge was created. Heavy generators were also in operation for the mega show. The apex court had issued guidelines for any event to be held near the monument and thus it is important as to what was the scale of the Wednesday event and whether permission had been sought from the ASI, if it was within 500 metres of Taj Mahal periphery,” stated Senger. “The SC had issued certain guidelines considering the Taj area as fragile. There are restrictions on heavy constructions, heavy vehicle movement and decibel level violation. Any event could be held near the Taj Mahal only after assessment of impact on the monument,’ said the ADA vice-chairman. “The event on Wednesday evening was on a much lower scale with only 50 people present. Only shades were set up at the venue while vehicles were parked a kilometer away and no construction activity was undertaken,” stated Pensiya. ASI superintendent Vasant Swarankar was not available for comments despite efforts to contact him. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/concert-near-taj-mahal-sparks-controversy-101632408417717.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Any change in medical admission should be announced in advance, parents tell Maharashtra govt||Until recently 18-year-old Manusha Pandey was eagerly waiting for the results of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) exams conducted 10 days ago, but now she’s confused. The recent announcement by the state government about considering admissions to undergraduate medical seats based on Class 12 score over NEET has not gone down well with several stakeholders.“Admission rules should be specified in advance, to prepare students for the same. How can the state government even hint at changes to the admission process this late in the year, especially after lakhs of students have already appeared for NEET,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent and activist. He added that the Supreme Court in a previous order has clarified that admissions to professional courses should be conducted in the common admission process on the basis of entrance exams only.This move comes less than 10 days after the Tamil Nadu Assembly passed a bill seeking a permanent exemption to the state from NEET. The Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021, was supported by several political parties in the state and was introduced after a 19-year old medical aspirant died by suicide hours before the NEET exam was to be conducted on September 11.On Wednesday, the Maharashtra minister for medical education, Amit Deshmukh suggested that the government will review the all-India entrance exam and decide whether it is good for students. He responded to a letter written by a local leader addressed to the state chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, requesting scrapping of NEET, and conducting medical admissions based on Class 12 scores.“The government added to the anxiety of students with this move, no matter the final decision. The timing for such a discussion is wrong, not only because the exam has already been conducted, but also because Class 12 marks this year were awarded without an official exam. It’ll be unethical to conduct admissions to medical and dental courses based on such scores,” said Anuja Parikh, parent of a UG medical aspirant.Rising Covid-19 cases forced most school education boards to scrap Class 12 board exams this year and instead promote students based on their performance in Class 10, 11 and 12 following a 30:30:40 formula. This pushed the overall performance of students from all boards—while CBSE and ISC schools witnessed a hike in the number of students scoring 90% and 95% in their batches, the state board witnessed a 12-fold rise in the number of students scoring 90% and above this year, including 46 students who scored a perfect 100% in HSC this year.Since the government has not yet given a clear indication about their decision on the status of NEET, students are hoping no changes will be introduced this year.“Most of us have spent two or more years preparing for NEET along with our board exams, so by scrapping the test, the government will ruin our hard work of two years. We request the government to not make any changes to the existing process,” said a student. He added that several student groups in TN have already decided to approach the Apex court about the government’s recent decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/any-change-in-medical-admission-should-be-announced-in-advance-parents-tell-maharashtra-govt-101632408237801.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai to get another mother-and-child hospital in Digha||The residents of Digha can now heave a sigh of relief as the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to develop a mother-and-child (MCH) hospital in their area.The civic body has set aside a budget of ₹14Cr for developing a six-storey building for the hospital. They are also done with the tendering process and the work at the site would start next month, a senior officer said.Due to the migration of people from different parts of the state, the population of Digha (a small township near Airoli in Navi Mumbai) has gone up to above one lakh. However, the area does not have any mother-and-child hospital till date. The local residents and activists had long been demanding such a hospital in that area.A senior officer from NMMC said, “We did not have any plot to develop a hospital in Digha. Therefore, we discussed the matter with Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and they allotted a plot for the hospital a few months ago. Recently, we also completed the tendering process and the work on the plot will start in October. The work on this 50-bed hospital will be completed in 18 months. The new hospital will be thrown open to the public in the first half of 2023.”Presently, NMMC has a total of five mother-and-child hospitals – in Belapur, Nerul, Turbhe, Koparkhairane and Airoli.Chitra Patil, 48, a resident of Digha, said, “As there is no mother-and-child hospital in our area at present, we have to go to the hospitals in Turbhe and Airoli. It is very inconvenient as the ambulances are also not available at times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-to-get-another-mother-and-child-hospital-in-digha-101632408001855.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||NMMT reopens bus pass centres in Vashi, Belapur||After nearly 17 months, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) reopened its bus pass centres in Vashi and Belapur on Thursday. The daily commuters will now be able to purchase their monthly, quarterly and yearly passes from these centres.Two other centres in Koparkhairane and Airoli will also be reopened soon. Due to Covid, NMMT had shut all these centres in March last year except the one in Turbhe.Yogesh Kaduskar, general manager of NMMT, said, “As far as the pandemic is concerned, the scenario is much better in Navi Mumbai at present. Therefore, we have decided to reopen all bus pass centres in the city. The commuters can now purchase bus passes at the Vashi and Belapur centres like they used to do before the pandemic. The other two centres in Koparkhairane and Airoli will also be opened very soon.”Apart from Navi Mumbai, the NMMT buses go to different places of Mumbai, Borivali, Bandra, World Trade Centre, Andheri, Mulund, Thane, Dombivli, Kalyan, Badlapur, Kharghar, Kalamboli, Panvel, Ulwe Node, Karanjade, Koproli and Uran.The total route length for all their services is 1,895 km. The average length of all routes is approximately 26km (maximum of 62km and minimum of 3km). The average headway for all routes is 15 minutes (maximum of 65 minutes and minimum of 7 minutes).Ajit Patil, a 41-year-old resident of Belapur, said, “I travel to my workplace in Vashi every day by NMMT buses. Since the bus pass centre in Belapur was shut for so long, I had to spend ₹30 every day ( ₹15 for a one-way ticket). Now, since the pass centre has been reopened, I can purchase a monthly pass by paying just ₹300.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmmt-reopens-bus-pass-centres-in-vashi-belapur-101632407821171.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||FIR registered after Digha woman’s fake Instagram account opened||The Rabale MIDC police have registered an FIR after some unidentified people opened an Instagram account of a 32-year-old woman and uploaded some of her photos and videos without her consent.According to the police, the woman is a homemaker and stays with her husband and son in Digha. A few days ago, she learnt from her friends that she had two accounts on Instagram and that one account had a lot of photos and personal videos of hers. She then checked and found her photos and videos in the bogus account.“It is still not clear exactly who opened the bogus account and how he procured the photos and videos. We have registered a case against the unidentified accused under Sections 43 and 66 (C) of the IT Act.” said a police officer from Rabale MIDC police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-registered-after-digha-woman-s-fake-instagram-account-opened-101632407397445.html
23-09-2021||Lucknow||Covid: Mega vaccination drive in Lucknow on Monday||A mega Covid vaccination drive has been planned in Lucknow on Monday with a target to administer over 1.50 lakh doses in a single day that will be highest one-day figure since the inoculation campaign began on January 16. Each of the urban unit will administer doses to 2000 beneficiaries and in villages cluster vaccination approach has been planned with 1000 doses for each rural vaccination unit, according to a statement issued by the district administration on Thursday.District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said publicity about the drive will be done via schools targeting the parents. “All students will be given a form to fill. It will have vaccination details of their parents and if they have not been vaccinated they will be called to take the jab,” the statement said. On September 17, Lucknow had administered over 89,000 Covid vaccine doses and in the next mega vaccination drive the aim is to cross the double mark of the previous high. Vaccine doses will reach the cold chain points a day before and delivered to the centres on Monday morning around 8 am. “Lucknow is administering over 30,000 doses every day on an average and till now over 29% people have been fully vaccinated (both doses). It’s responsibility of eligible beneficiaries to come and take the jab during the mega drive,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. A senior nodal officer will monitor the drive in each block while block development officer will monitor the proceedings via data entry operator. All data entry operators will be attending a training session on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-mega-vaccination-drive-in-lucknow-on-monday-101632407225550.html
23-09-2021||Other||Emblems of Empowerment: She runs her business with surgical precision||Not one to be tied down by the shackles of the society, Nasira Akhter, 34, always wanted to do something different in life. She initially went with the tried and tested formula – got a commerce degree, pursued an ITI course in computers and stenography, and landed a government job. But her heart lay elsewhere. So, she took the leap of faith, turned down the job offer and put all her energies into setting up a small-scale industry (SSI) in Khonmoh, an idea on which she had been working since her graduation years. Today, Akhter’s SSI unit, which produces surgical items such as bandages, cotton, masks and bedsheets, has an annual turnover of ₹80 lakh and employs over a dozen workers, besides providing work to scores of others—mostly women. “I am the only woman in Kashmir who works in the field of bandage production. There are a few others in Jammu but none in Kashmir. My products reach every city and district-level hospital here,” she says. But setting up a profitable unit requires a lot of planning, research and sound judgement. “After brainstorming various ideas with my brother, I travelled to Delhi, Jind and Muradabad to survey the market and acquire more knowledge about the field. It is there I learnt about bandages,” says Akhter. She took loans from time to time, from different financial and entrepreneurial institutions such as EDI (Entrepreneur Development Institute), KVIC (Khadi Village Industries Commission) and DIC (Directorate of Industry and Commerce) to scale up her business. Her aim now is to raise her unit’s annual turnover to ₹2 crore. “It can only happen if I have access to a government market. The JK Medical Supplies Corporation Limited does not accept our supplies as we are small units. They favour those whose turnover runs into crores. The government should support SSIs.” But she is happy with how far she has come. “I built my establishment from the scratch. I used to travel in public transport, sometimes walk all the way and have blisters on my feet. But I never gave up,” she says. She says her family has been her biggest support system. “My parents, though unlettered, always motivated me and my siblings. They encouraged us to get educated and when I decided to set up my SSI, they even mortgaged their jewellery to help me financially,” says Akhter. Her success has been a motivation for others. “When other young girls see me excelling in a field that has been mostly dominated by males in the past, they are encouraged break the shackles of the society and work towards their dreams,” says the 34-year-old, who got married about a week ago, and back to work within five days. Next: Tawheeda Mushtaq, runs a boutique.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emblems-of-empowerment-she-runs-her-business-with-surgical-precision-101632406618374.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||With 89% given first dose for Covid, NMMC hopes to reach 100% vaccination in Navi Mumbai by October||With 89% of the people from Navi Mumbai vaccinated with their first dose, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has claimed that it is expecting to reach 100% for the first dose by next month.Once the 100% mark for the first dose is reached, NMMC will discuss the probabilities of vaccinating people who do not have Aadhaar card with Navi Mumbai address. “Till now, we have been concentrating on vaccinating those with Navi Mumbai address. For those who do not have, we have tried to inculcate them with the help of various means by getting a letter from their employers in Navi Mumbai. Since we are approaching 100% vaccination with the first dose, we can now think of vaccinating everyone after reaching the 100%. This will be discussed first and then implemented,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.Even as 89% of the total eligible population of 10.60 lakh is vaccinated with the first dose, around 10% to 15% of the same are being considered to be people from outside Navi Mumbai who would have come here for vaccination at private hospitals.“In the beginning of the vaccination drive, when the booking of the slots was online, we had no control over it and many of them from outside Navi Mumbai also came here for vaccination. After it became offline, we have been vaccinating only the residents. The private hospitals, though, did vaccinate people from outside as well. But it applies vice versa too as many Navi Mumbai residents have got vaccinated from Mumbai or from their workplace in Mumbai when the vaccination drive had started,” Bangar added.As of now, 10.09 lakh people have got their first vaccination done while 4,78,216 of them (47%) have got their second dose. “Only 47% are fully protected in Navi Mumbai and the others need to make sure that they get their second doses soon and make themselves secure. We’d now be concentrating more on the second dose as many are due to get them,” a medical officer from NMMC said.Around 6.39 lakh people between 18 years and 44 years have got vaccinated with the first dose, and 2.02 lakh of them have got the second dose as well. In the age group of 45-59 years age group, 2.14 lakh people have got their first dose and 1.52 lakh of them got the second as well. In the 60-plus years category, 90,545 people got the first and 78,424 got both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-89-given-first-dose-for-covid-nmmc-hopes-to-reach-100-vaccination-in-navi-mumbai-by-october-101632405662240.html
23-09-2021||Lucknow||To fill potholes, LMC to spend ₹22 crore from corporators’ quota||LUCKNOW The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has decided to spend ₹22 crore from the corporators’ quota to fill potholes and carry out patchwork on roads where reconstruction is not required. In the annual budget, the civic body has sanctioned ₹70 crore for the construction of roads but this fund would not be utilised for minor repairs.The LMC’s decision to deduct ₹20 lakh from the quota of each corporator for the patchwork has not gone down well with the corporators. A number of them, those of the ruling party, have expressed their anger over the decision.“Corporators are angry over the decision to deduct the amount from their quota. They say they already suffered a cut in their quota when their fund was diverted for renovation of government schools. I think the mayor should also surrender her quota and then ask us to surrender a part of our quota,” said a senior corporator of the BJP. Another BJP corporator said, “Corporators don’t get salaries like MLAs or MPs, they only depend on the quota for meeting the demands of voters in their constituency. But our quota is being breached, that too when the state is ruled by the BJP. This has never happened in the past.”“Why doesn’t mayor Sanyukta Bhatia surrender her quota of ₹17 crore for the patchwork of city roads. She didn’t give anything for the renovation of government schools when our funds were diverted for the cause,” said Amit Chaudhary, corporator.Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi confirmed that road construction job will not be given nod where only patchwork is required. “In the past, files of road construction were passed on the recommendations of corporators, but now engineers and zonal officers will have to tell whether the road requires a patchwork or construction,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/to-fill-potholes-lmc-to-spend-rs-22-crore-from-corporators-quota-101632405297427.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Pending e-challans: Maharashtra traffic police issue ultimatum to over 10 lakh vehicle owners||Losing patience over pending e-challans the additional director general (ADG) of Maharashtra (traffic) has given an ultimatum to over 10 lakh vehicle owners to pay their traffic challan dues by Friday or present themselves before the Lok Adalat on Saturday.According to BK Upadhyay, ADG (traffic), since September 12, the Maharashtra traffic police had begun sending pre-litigation notices to owners of vehicles who owe them more than ₹417.41 crore in fines for traffic violations across the state.Upadhyay said that the pre-litigation notices were sent across the state and a recovery drive had started since September 13, and so far, Maharashtra traffic police have recovered a fine of ₹5.52 crore levied through 120,024 e-challans.“We sent notices to over 10 lakh vehicle owners, calling upon them to pay their pending e-challans or be present in front of the Lok Adalat. Around 20% violators have paid the fine in the past one week and we expect another 25-30% violators to pay the fine before the due date,” said ADG Upadhyay.The notices were sent to violators via SMS on their registered mobile numbers.Out of over 10 lakh pending e-challans, the traffic police have sent maximum notices to violators in Mumbai city, of which 82,409 challans were paid amounting to ₹3.16 crore since September 13.Navi Mumbai was in second place, where 6,726 violators paid the e-challan dues worth ₹54,23 lakh.“Violators were taking the e-challan system lightly. We resorted to approach the court and collect the pending amount,” said Upadhyay. If the violators do not pay the fines, the Maharashtra Police would file a case against them in regular courts, he added.Officials said the vehicle owners who have not received the notice should also check the status of their e-challans on the traffic police website.Since June 14 this year, the traffic police had decided to send their personnel to the doorstep of violators for the recovery of pending e-challans which has resulted in the recovery of ₹1 crore in their kitty. Special teams of constables were asked to visit the addresses of violators who have not paid e-challans of more than ₹5,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pending-e-challans-maharashtra-traffic-police-issue-ultimatum-to-over-10-lakh-vehicle-owners-101632404457368.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||452 tuberculosis patients contracted Covid-19 in Mumbai||Although Mumbai is being considered as the tuberculosis (TB) capital of India, patients in the city have largely escaped being co-infected with Covid-19. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year, only 452 TB patients undergoing treatment in the city have contracted the coronavirus. The Covid-19 positivity rate among the tested TB patients is around 1.8%.TB and Covid-19 are infectious diseases which primarily attack the lungs. They present similar symptoms such as cough, fever and difficulty breathing, although TB disease has a longer incubation period and a slower onset. So, to overrule any possibilities of misdiagnosis, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has conducted 25,303 tests for Covid-19 among TB patients with symptoms between March 2020 and August this year. Of this, 452 patients have been identified with TB-Covid co-infection.Doctors said Covid-19 can be lethal for TB patients whose lung capacity is already compromised. In addition, TB patients also tend to have co-morbid or living conditions like malnutrition, diabetes, smoking, HIV among others that increase their vulnerability. Data from BMC shows that 37 TB patients have succumbed to the co-infection since the start of the pandemic.“Patients with TB have two-fold risk of severe Covid-19. So, after the pandemic started, we shifted the TB patients to Covid Care Centres, especially from slums like Dharavi, Bandra (East), Kurla, Govandi among others that record a large number of TB cases every year,” said Dr Pranita Tipre, in-charge of TB department in BMC.In October 2020, the Central health department issued guidelines on Bi-directional TB-Covid-19 screening and screening of TB among influenza-like-illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases. Following which, all government and private hospitals were instructed to test symptomatic patients with ILI, SARI and Covid-19 with TB.Doctors have called for more research to understand the reason for low co-infection rates among TB patients.“TB patients are highly immunocompromised which makes them most vulnerable to contracting Covid-19. Despite this, the number of co-infection has been extremely limited. So, there is a possibility that the TB regimen may have somehow saved them from Sars-CoV-2. But we need more studies to establish the fact,” said Dr Lalit Anande, former medical superintendent of Sewri TB Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/452-tuberculosis-patients-contracted-covid-19-in-mumbai-101632404397157.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court grants a month to Maharashtra govt to fill vacant MSHRC posts||Expressing its disheartenment at the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC) being defunct as the appointment of chairperson and other members has not been done since the retirement of the only presiding judicial member in April, the Bombay high court (HC) granted a month to the state as the last chance to fill up the posts and ensure that the commission became functional in all respects.A division bench of chief justice (CJ) Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by activist Naresh Gosavi was informed on Wednesday that the commission was not functioning since April. The PIL filed in 2013 sought directions for filling up vacant posts, assigning a larger premise and allotting adequate funds for functioning autonomously. While hearing another PIL with similar prayers, on July 12, 2021, the bench had asked the state to fill up the vacant posts of the chairperson, members and other staff by September 12. The petitioner Vaishnavi Gholave had informed the bench that an RTI reply had revealed that while only the secretary of the commission had been appointed, the posts of a chairperson, judicial member, expert member and inspector general of police along with 26 of the 51 sanctioned posts were vacant. Thereafter the court had given two months to the state to fill up the posts.On Wednesday, advocate Arif Doctor for MSHRC reiterated that while only the secretary had been appointed, the constitutional posts were still vacant. He submitted that a 2018 order of the HC to the state to fill up the posts within six months was also not complied.After being informed that the state had been forwarded three names by the former chief justice Pradeep Nandrajog, the CJ Datta questioned the state as to why no decision was taken on those names or even those six names which he had recommended. The CJ also sought to know why the chief minister and other senior officials had not met to resolve the issue as such an important body could not be defunct.“It is disheartening to note that the Maharashtra Human Rights Commission is a defunct body at present. Although on behalf of the state it was submitted on July 12, 2021, that the process of appointing the chairperson of the commission as well the other members thereof would be completed by September 12, 2021, little progress in that direction has been made,” observed the bench in its order.Additional government pleader for the state, informed the court that substantial progress had been made with regards to the appointments and another month would be needed to complete the same, hence as the last chance, the stated should be granted a month’s extension, which the court accepted.The bench then noted, “We hope and trust that the state government would rise to the challenge and make the necessary appointments by that date. Earnest endeavour shall also be made by the state to appoint requisite number of staff to make the commission functional in all respects.”The bench directed that both PILs should be heard together and posted hearing of the PILs by Gosavi and Gholave to October 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-grants-a-month-to-maharashtra-govt-to-fill-vacant-mshrc-posts-101632404157858.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Money laundering case: SG Tushar Mehta to represent ED in Anil Deshmukh’s petition||The Bombay high court (HC) has allowed the Solicitor General (SG) of India to respond on behalf of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to the petition filed by former home minister Anil Deshmukh for quashing of the summons issued to him by the central agency.​Deshmukh has been issued five summons asking him to appear before ED in connection with the money-laundering and corruption case registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on April 21. On Thursday, when Deshmukh’s petition came up for hearing before the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh informed the bench that SG Tushar Mehta wanted to address the court in the petition, hence sought an adjournment. However, senior advocate Vikram Chaudhri and advocate Aniket Nikam who represent Deshmukh opposed the request and submitted that ED was resorting to delaying tactics on one pretext or the other and the petitioner felt victimised. “This petition demonstrates a hapless state of affairs...Tactics by ED are deplorable. The manner in which it (ED) applied the law, it becomes a matter of oppression,” submitted Chaudhri. While seeking interim relief for his client, Chaudhri stated that previously the ED had secured an adjournment after it had raised an objection on whether a single judge bench could hear the petition. The single judge had conducted a hearing on the issue and had directed the petition to be placed before a division bench. However, Singh denied the allegations and submitted that the objection about the single judge hearing the petition was raised by the HC Registry and hence the ED could not be blamed for the delay. After hearing the submissions that the court adjourned the hearing of the petition to September 29 and asked SG Mehta to respond on behalf of ED through video conference. The court also permitted ED to file a reply if they wanted to. Deshmukh who has been issued five summons by ED till now had written multiple times to the agency to allow him to appear before it through video conferencing in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, as he had not received any response from ED he approached the HC. Deshmukh’s petition apart from seeking quashing of the summons has also sought permission to allow him to be represented by an authorized agent and submit documents or statements to ED through electronic mode. The petition has also sought directions to set up an SIT comprising of ED officers from outside the Mumbai zonal office to carry out the investigation and requested the HC to monitor the probe as per the directions issued by the Supreme Court in another case. ED’s probe has claimed that when Deshmukh was the home minister, he had received an amount of ₹4.7 crore in cash which was collected by now dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze from various bar owners between December 2020 and February 2021. ED has justified its probe stating that it is in line with the CBI FIR which was filed after the completion of the HC ordered a preliminary inquiry on April 5. The April 5 order was based on the complaint of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh who had alleged that Deshmukh had ordered police officers to collect ₹100 crore from bar owners every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/money-laundering-case-sg-tushar-mehta-to-represent-ed-in-anil-deshmukh-s-petition-101632404097187.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Shoddy repair work of roads, substandard materials reasons for potholes: Ulhasnagar residents||Ulhasnagar residents have blamed shoddy road repair works, use of sub-standard materials and lack of regular repairs for the pathetic condition of the roads every monsoon.The residents have taken to social media to draw attention to the many potholes prevalent on the roads across the city.In the last five years in Ulhasnagar, more than ₹30Cr has been spent on road repair works. Every year, around ₹5Cr- ₹6Cr is spent on road works. Ulhasnagar has around 130km of road in its vicinity, of which 70km are cement roads and the remaining are asphalt roads.The Hirali Foundation in Ulhasnagar wrote to the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC), the State CM, Uddhav Thackeray, and Thane Collector to draw their attention to the condition of bad roads in Ulhasnagar on Thursday.“The pothole or road repair in Ulhasnagar taken up by the civic body is an eyewash every year. Tender is given to a contractor who does shoddy work. It was shocking to see the state of the road towards VTC ground, which was repaired on September 7 for welcoming Thane Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde. It could not remain intact for even a week when the road developed huge potholes,” said Sarita Khanchandani, president of Hirali Foundation.The stretch from Town Hall to Follower-lane via Jawahar Hotel is pathetic, claimed Khanchandani. Other roads that are in a bad state are Shreeram Chowk towards Ulhasnagar 4 and towards Ulhasnagar 3 via Powai till Hira Ghat, the road at Kurla Camp, CHM College Road towards the Pinto Park via Neptune Building to Gulaal Tower on one side and OT section of Ulhasnagar 3 towards Radha Swami Satsang.“The entire Ulhasnagar roads are filled with small pebbles and dust. The dust particles are continuously released, causing respiratory ailments. Potholes on roads are also one of the major causes of traffic jams, leading to excessive honking and noise pollution,” added Khanchandani.Meanwhile, the shopkeepers and auto rickshaw union have also plans to repair the roads by begging and raising funds. “We have warned the civic body to repair the roads soon or else we will do it ourselves by begging and raising funds,” said Sonu Ahuja , president of Shivshankar Shopkeepers Association.Rahul Punjwani, a 37-year-old motorist, claimed that hard-earned taxpayer’s money is wasted on road repairs. “All the civic officials or contractors who do the shoddy work should be fined or punished and an example should be set for every city,” he said.The potholes are due to the continuous heavy downpour the city received all these days, claimed the civic officials. “Once the rain stops, all the roads will be repaired and potholes will be filled. Even if the road repair works were done, the heavy rains wash them away,” said Yuvraj Bhadane, UMC PRO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shoddy-repair-work-of-roads-substandard-materials-reasons-for-potholes-ulhasnagar-residents-101632402417117.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid humour: Unmasking our inappropriate behaviour||The scene had the signs of a Steven Spielberg movie. Sleepy-eyed, I stood in my balcony and noticed pristine, white circles outside the gate of my hospital. Intrigued, I cast my eyes further and saw the same carefully drawn circles outside the neighbouring commercial establishments, too. Relieved that I wasn’t the only one being targeted, I went down to investigate the matter. It turned out to be the state’s effort to ensure social distancing. People were expected to stand in these circles while doing their business. Needless to say, there were people in the circles, on them and outside them! That was last year. The circles have faded away. We have limped out of the second wave and are heading towards the next. Despite the tragic toll, physical distancing remains an alien concept. Perhaps in the western world where personal space is respected and a decent distance is always maintained, moving further away was easier. But in India, we are used to standing close, literally breathing down each other’s necks. In any case, it is debatable whether the recommended ‘do gaj ki doori (Two-yard distance)’ is logistically possible. If all 1.4 billion of us were to keep this distance, wouldn’t some Indians be pushed into the sea? In the past year, ‘masking laws’ have become stricter and the penalty for non-compliance severer. For the average Indian, this means keeping a mask handy. Not for protection but in case they are accosted by the police. These “law enforcers” themselves seldom wear the mask correctly, leaving their nose jutting out. Most Indians keep it a little lower, like some trendy chin-wear. The few who wear it correctly lower it to talk. In rural India, mask sharing is rampant. It is not uncommon to hear, “Zara apna mask diyo bahar ho kar aana hai (Please lend me your mask, I need to go out).” A rare instance where sharing is not caring. That brings me to the last pillar of Covid-appropriate behaviour, hand washing. It should be easy to follow this instruction, one would assume. But for the vast majority of Indians living in slums and on roadsides, water is a rare commodity. Soap an unheard luxury. Earlier tiny leftover scraps of soap would make their way into the hands of the impoverished. But the advent of liquid soap has put an end to this wastage! The last drop of soap is mercilessly squeezed out and the sachet rinsed before discarding. Hand sanitisers that are supposed to protect when ‘hand washing is not possible’, hardly ever contain the recommended amount of alcohol. Prudence takes precedence here. Why throw it down the drain when it can be used to lift spirits! Coming full circle, a favourite joke to conclude. A seasoned biker took his new motorcycle for a spin. A swaying scooter came from the opposite direction, obviously driven by a novice. The veteran tried to save him but the scooterist kept wavering and inevitably the two collided. Infuriated by the damage to his new bike, the veteran rebuked the scared scooterist. Then to get even, he drew a circle on the road and commanded the trembling man to stand in it while he proceeded to break his scooter. Every time the biker would turn his back to do so, the scooterist would chuckle. After ‘delivering justice’, the man finally asked the scooterist what was so funny. With a twinkle in his eyes, the scooterist responded, “I stepped out of the circle when you were not looking.” The average Indian is no better. He fails to understand that he harms himself by not following rules. Will there be a third wave? Will it be as bad as the second or worse? Only time will tell. One thing is certain though. Our one-celled enemy has an edge over us. While it is constantly evolving and finding new ways to survive and flourish, we definitely aren’t. dr_manjugupta@icloud.com The writer is a Gharaunda-based gynaecologist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-humour-unmasking-our-inappropriate-behaviour-101632401276970.html
23-09-2021||Other||Paediatrician dies by suicide in Sanpada||A 48-year-old well-known paediatrician from Sanpada was found dead on Tuesday night at his residence. According to Sanpada police, prima facie he is suspected to have died by suicide. The deceased has a children’s hospital in the city.On Tuesday, the deceased visited his patients in the afternoon and then went back home. He was to return to his hospital at 7pm.“By 7pm, when his patients started turning up, the hospital staff tried to contact him but he did not answer the calls. The staff then went to the second floor of the building where he stayed and rang the doorbell. Since there was no answer, the hospital staff broke open the door and found him hanging,” said Subhash Nikam, senior police inspector from Sanpada police station.An accidental death case has been registered. The wife of the doctor stayed in Kalyan as she practiced as a paediatric doctor there. “The reason behind the extreme step is not clear as there was no suicide note left behind. He would have been under some stress. There has been no allegation on anyone by his family and hence no case against anyone has been registered,” Nikam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paediatrician-dies-by-suicide-in-sanpada-101632400316822.html
23-09-2021||Jaipur||‘Rajasthan leads solar installed capacity in India’: Govt report||Rajasthan has topped in installed capacity of solar energy in India with 7737.95MW as per the state-wise report released by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE). The state has added a solar installed capacity of 2348.47MW in 2021 within eight months. Karnataka comes second with 7469.01 MW, followed by Gujarat 5708MW, Tamil Nadu 4675MW and Andhra Pradesh 4380MW. A senior official said despite Covid-19 situations in 2020-2021, the state has been advancing in solar energy from its second position in December 2020 with 5389.48 MW and has made a record by adding a new solar installed capacity of 2348.47 MW and nearly ₹10,000 crore investments within just eight months in 2021. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said, “Rajasthan with vast tracts of barren land is now leading the green energy revolution in India. Rajasthan’s solar generation potential has been assessed at 142 GW. The state government plans to systematically harness this potential and has set for itself an ambitious target of 30 GW capacity by 2024-25, which will transform the energy scape of the state and the country.” He said Rajasthan’s Solar Energy Policy 2019 has been beneficial to the solar sector investors. Additionally, Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme (RIPS) scheme to promote investment in the state has driven the growth of the overall investment in the renewable energy sector in the state. In fact, in April 2021, the state had approved the customized investment proposals totalling 34,200 MW of Adani, Renew Power, JSW Solar, Greenko in the renewal energy, of which, majority of them are in solar energy clubbed with wind and hydro Dr BD Kalla, minister of energy, government of Rajasthan, said, “with expected Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Power Parks (UMREPP) projects, international centricity of climate change policies and zero carbon emission policies, it is assumed that Rajasthan will become the centre of attraction in the Asian continent for investments in the renewable energy sector. Rajasthan has ample barren land and it covers about 60 per cent share of the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) which is rapidly growing.” Additional chief secretary, energy, Dr Subodh Agarwal, said “The state’s ease of doing business and policy framework has become a model with this milestone in the solar energy sector. For the ease of doing business, Rajasthan has been constantly innovating the processes and notably, the state has achieved the place among the top states in the country in 2019 with an implementation score of 98.39%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-leads-solar-installed-capacity-in-india-govt-report-101632399358078.html
23-09-2021||Other||Uttarakhand woman dies by suicide after killing her 6-year-old child||A 35-year-old woman in Rudrapur area of Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district allegedly died by suicide after killing her six-year-old child. Police claim that a family dispute is behind this tragic incident. “We have sent both bodies for post-mortem after we received information of the tragic incident. Some family dispute is said to be behind the extreme step. However, we are probing the case from various angles,” Vijendra Sah, station house officer, Rudrapur police station in US Nagar said. Sah said the woman had some altercation with her husband three days ago. She had come to her father-in-law’s house with her six-year-old child after the dispute. The family members went to their rooms after dinner on Wednesday night. The woman too went into a room with her child. Sah said on Thursday morning when she didn’t come out, the family members opened the door and found her dead while the child was lying dead on the bed, lifeless. Sah said she is likely to have used a pillow to suffocate her child before killing herself. According to the woman’s brother, she had an inter-caste marriage and her husband used to abuse and beat her. Sah said, “We are yet to receive a complaint from the family members. We will probe the matter and take action accordingly”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhand-woman-dies-by-suicide-after-killing-her-6-year-old-child-101632398563855.html
23-09-2021||Jaipur||Leopard kills woman in Udaipur; third attack in three days||In the third such attack in three days, a leopard mauled a 60-year-old woman to death on Wednesday evening when she was working in her fields near the Sita Mata Wildlife Sanctuary in Rajasthan’s Udaipur district. Earlier, an 18-year-old man and a four-year-old child were attacked in the region prompting the forest department to lay trap cages to capture the leopard.Around two dozen incidents of human-animal conflict have been reported in Udaipur over the last two years and left five people dead and 15 others injured.Also Read | Night curfew clamped in half a dozen Uttarakhand villages after leopard terrorForest conservator (Udaipur) R K Khairwa said they have formed teams to capture the leopard and that the same animal probably attacked all three people. He added a healthy leopard never attacks a human. “It seems the leopard is old, unable to hunt, or is injured. There is adequate prey base in the sanctuary area,” he said, ruling out this as a cause of the attacks.Rahul Bhatnagar, a retired Indian Forest Service officer, said there are many villages inside the sanctuary that has also been encroached upon. He added leopard attacks are rare in the sanctuary. He blamed encroachments and said they will increase the conflict. “To reduce conflicts, the prey base needs to be increased and voluntary relocation needs to be encouraged,” said Bhatnagar.According to a 2015 wildlife census, there were 434 leopards in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/leopard-kills-woman-in-udaipur-third-attack-in-three-days-101632397542617.html
23-09-2021||Patna||JD(U) leader, wife among 5 held in gym trainer’s attack case||Patna Police on Thursday arrested five persons, including former Janata Dal (United) leader and his wife for their alleged involvement in connection with the murderous attack on gym trainer Vikram Singh, 26, on September 19, officials said. The arrested were identified as physiotherapist Dr Rajiv Kumar Singh, his wife Khushboo Singh, a shooter, a liner and another accused. Rajiv earlier held the post of state vice-president of JD(U) medical cell and was removed after his name cropped up in the attack case. Patna Senior Superintendent of Police, Upendra Sharma confirmed their arrest and told HT that the police will address the media and share more details. The gym trainer was shot at by unidentified criminals on Saturday morning when he was on his way to the gym in the Patna Market. The unidentified criminals had pumped five bullets into his body. Police said that Vikram named Dr Rajiv and his wife as accused of the attack on him. Following his statement, the police detained Rajiv and his wife from their Patliputra Colony residence and released them after preliminary questioning. During the investigation, it was revealed that Vikram and Khusboo knew each other since January this year and had called each other as many as 1,100 times since then. Police claimed that contract killers were hired to eliminate Vikram while the arrested former leader and his wife are the masterminds behind this conspiracy. They allegedly paid ₹3 lakh for the attack on Vikram. The CCTV footage police have gathered from the crime scene also suggested that unidentified criminals were behind this incident. Audio of a conversation, allegedly between Dr Rajiv, Vikram and Khushboo, went viral on social media in which the couple is heard threatening Vikram with dire consequences. The couple also made references to transactions of some money during their conversation. The audio is stated to be about three months old. Vikram’s family members claimed that he earlier survived another attack. Dr Rajiv runs a clinic at Boring Road. He allegedly threatened to eliminate Vikram due to his relationship with Khusbu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-leader-wife-among-5-held-in-gym-trainer-s-attack-case-101632397483585.html
23-09-2021||Patna||Former Bihar CM at loggerheads with BJP over discrimination faced by Dalits||Former Bihar chief minister and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi on Thursday lashed out at the ‘self-appointed guardians of faith’ for Dalit being forced to live a life deprived of dignity.ये जो हम कह रहें हैं,बस सदियों का दर्द है,गुस्से का अब-तक हमने इजहार कहां किया…धर्म के राजनैतिक ठेकेदारों की ज़बान ऐसे मामलों पर चुप हो जाती है।अब कोई कुछ नहीं बोलेगा,क्योंकि धर्म के ठेकेदारों के पसंद नहीं कि दलित मंदिर में जाए,दलित धर्मिक कव्यों पर टिप्पणी करे। pic.twitter.com/RMiSpQWqZ5Manjhi in a tweet expressed his anguish and shared a news report of a Dalit couple from Karnataka facing a penalty after their child, aged two years, inadvertently stepped into a temple.“What we are trying to express is anguish that has not been expressed in over several centuries. We have not even expressed our anger yet. The self-appointed ‘political’ guardians of our faith go silent when such reports surface. They do not say anything because they themselves do not like when Dalits enter temple or hold an opinion regarding religious texts,” Manjhi said in a tweet sharing news reports of the Dalit couple facing the penalty.A Dalit family was asked to pay ₹25,000 for "purification" of a Hanuman temple in Miyapur village in Karnataka's Koppal after their child entered the temple. The police arrested five people in connection with the case on Wednesday.Incidentally, Manjhi’s tweet is directed at the Karnataka government which is ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who also happens to be a coalition partner of the HAM in Bihar.His statements also came after few leaders from the BJP criticised Manjhi for calling Lord Ram a fictional character. His remarks were in reference to discussions on demands of including the sacred text Ramayana in school curriculum in Bihar.Manjhi, who expressed his support to the idea of inclusion of the sacred text, however, also said that Lord Ram was a ‘fictional entity’ and not a real person. “I do not believe Lord Rama was a great man. He is a work of fiction. I believe Valmiki and Goswami Tulsidas were great men who came out with such an inspiring character,” Manjhi was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.His remarks courted controversy and led to criticism from the BJP. BJP MLA Hari Bhushan Thakur even asked why the former minister was not named ‘Jiten Rakshas (Demon) Manjhi’ instead of Jiten Ram Manjhi.Manjhi was the chief minister of Bihar for a little less than a year and was chosen to lead the state after the 2014 Lok Sabha elections when Nitish Kumar stepped down following Janata Dal (United)’s poor performance.Manjhi broke away from the JD(U) and formed HAM in 2015. He joined the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in 2020 after leaving the RJD-led Opposition Grand Alliance. Manjhi belongs to the Musahar caste, which is also known as Mahadalits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/former-bihar-cm-at-loggerheads-with-bjp-over-discrimination-faced-by-dalits-101632396086994.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Commuters fear about potholes, craters on major roads in Thane||Following the death of a youngster due to the bad road conditions in Thane, residents and commuters have raised concerns about commuting over longer distances along the Ghodbunder Road and Thane-Nashik Highway. There are potholes aplenty and uneven patches of roads along these major highways. The pathetic conditions of these highways lead to regular traffic congestion.Moreover, the soon-to-be announced traffic curbs on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway near Ghodbunder Road for heavy vehicles due to repair work would add to the existing traffic snarls in the city especially along this major road.Commuters had to endure a nightmarish commute on both Tuesday and Wednesday as 15km-long serpentine queues of vehicles were witnessed on the Mumbai-Nashik Highway. The traffic snarls spilled over to Ghodbunder Road, Waghbil, Kalwa, Majiwada and other areas in Thane city. Although the movement of heavy vehicles has been restricted to only night time, commuters complain that they often find heavy vehicles during peak hours as well.The traffic department has taken efforts to fill the potholes in many places to ensure a smooth flow of traffic. However, the respective authorities continue to stay mum on the poor condition of roads in the city.Vinay Rathod, DCP (Traffic), Thane, said, “The poor condition of roads and the heavy rains that damaged the temporary filling of potholes led to a slow pace of traffic. We have approached the local authorities and asked them to do the needful.” Commuters claimed that they face this kind of problem year after year following a heavy downpour. “The potholes and huge craters force us to drive slowly, causing traffic snarls during peak hours. As it has been raining heavily over the last few days, the size and the number of potholes have increased. Every day, during the peak hours, it takes twice the time to commute,” said Prathiti Shetty, 49, a resident of Mumbra who travels to Thane daily. An officer from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is in charge of the Thane-Nashik Highway, added, “We have started the repair work of roads from Igatpuri onwards and shall continue till Mulund Toll Naka. A meeting with officials from all authorities related to road repairs was conducted this week, wherein all have agreed to initiate repair work at the earliest.” While both authorities claim that pothole-filling work is undertaken regularly, the ground reality is contradictory. Most stretches along these two highways are riddled with huge craters making commuting difficult. In these times when fuel prices have skyrocketed, commuters lament that they spend a fortune on gas owing to these congestions. With the road being the only option for most, there is no respite from the traffic snarls. In 2019, there were five instances of pothole deaths in Thane district. There were umpteen protests. Commuters fear that if local authorities continue to ignore the condition of the roads, more such accidents may follow. “There is no other option but the road to access areas beyond Ghodbunder Road. Travelling daily on this pothole-filled stretch has caused back and neck pain. I spend an hour, and during heavy rains more than that, to cover an 8km distance to my house. It seems like the Metro will provide respite from these bad roads,” said Paresh Kharkhanis, a 53-year-old resident of Patlipada who travels from Wagle Estate to Patlipada every day by road.Pothole memes on social mediaAkash Kundu and Krishnakant Kshatriya are two youngsters who made use of an online trend to make a plea for better roads in Dombivli. The original song in English by Justin Bieber called ‘Stay’ was used by the duo to create a Marathi parody. This video posted on social media has more than 12,000 views within a day of posting it. In the video, the lyrics have been changed to “I am ashamed to drive a two-wheeler, I am ashamed to drop guests, I am ashamed to pay taxes due to the poor condition of these roads.”In the video, the duo is seen dancing amidst potholes and large craters in various parts of Dombivli city. Apart from this, there are many tweets and memes of poor condition of roads and the increased potholes in Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Dombivli and Thane city that are doing the rounds.RESIDENTSPEAK“It hardly takes 30 minutes from my residence to go to Thane. However, I spend around two hours on a daily basis to cover this distance. On Thursday morning, at around 11.30am I was in front of Jupiter Hospital and by 1.15pm, I had not crossed Kharegaon Toll Naka.”Arvind Gupta, 38, resident of Tata Amantra“Getting stuck in traffic in Thane city is not only time consuming but also makes a hole in our pockets due to the expensive petrol and diesel prices. Being taxpayers, can’t we expect at least roads that are easy to drive on and do not cause traffic jams?”Sahil Sisodia, 44, resident of Patlipada“An absolute mess of traffic and chaos. (It has) been over a week of round the clock bumper to bumper traffic in and around Majiwada. The administration has gone from bad to worse & now no one simply cares.Akshay Agrawal, tweeting to TMC“Traffic in Thane city is highly mismanaged! Because of this the traffic spills on all the subsequent roads. Right from Patni till Kalwa naka and again from Majiwada till Waghbil. This is an everyday affair especially in Evenings. We get stuck for hours at the same place.”Priyannka Desai, tweeting to Thane traffic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/commuters-fear-about-potholes-craters-on-major-roads-in-thane-101632396524074.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Rise in average weekly Covid cases in Thane in festival season||A marginal increase in cases within the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) jurisdiction has been noted during the festive season. The average weekly cases have swollen to 58 per day compared to 46 average weekly cases in mid-August when the relaxations were announced. In August, the active cases were between 420 and 490 but in September, they have increased to between 540 and 645.“The two weeks post-Ganesh Chaturthi are crucial. We will be keeping a close watch on the positivity rate during this period. Till now, we were mostly at less than 2.5% positivity rate, the lowest in the second wave as well as in the first wave. On some days, like Tuesday, we saw the positivity rate at 2.75%. If it goes beyond 3% or 4%, we need to take prompt measures and declare it a major spike in cases,” said Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner. In the first week after lockdown relaxations on August 15, the weekly average was 46. By the last week of August it increased to 54.2 and 62.75 in the week before Ganesh Chaturthi festivities began. Last week, the weekly average continued to be at 58. In the last few days, the number of tests conducted within the city has also increased to 3,500 and even beyond 4,000. The overall active cases have also increased to more than 600 daily. Among these, around 8.5% are in ICU, 6.2% on ventilator support and 4.9% serious or moderate patients admitted to Dedicated Covid Care facilities.“Although the number of deaths within the city is hardly one in a week, there are more than 100 among the current active cases who are in ICU or on ventilators. It is important to approach the doctor in time in order to get apt treatment, medication and avoid adverse situations,” said a medical officer from TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rise-in-average-weekly-covid-cases-in-thane-in-festival-season-101632396406877.html
23-09-2021||City||Delhi saree row: NCW directs police chief to act against restaurant if allegations found true||The National Commission for Women (NCW) said on Thursday it has directed the police commissioner of Delhi to take action against a city-based restaurant if allegations against it of refusing entry to a guest only because she was wearing a saree are found to be true.Also Read | Delhi hotel says it allows saree after video goes viral, claims guest slapped manager“@NCWIndia has taken cognisance. Chairperson @sharmarekha has written to @CPDelhi to take action against the restaurant if allegations are found to be true. We have also asked its marketing and PR director to appear before the Commission for a hearing on September 28,” the NCW shared on its official Twitter handle, quote-tweeting Rekha Sharma, who heads the body.
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pakistan-backed terror module busted in Punjab, 3 held||Punjab Police have busted a Pakistan-backed terror module with the arrest of three persons and the recovery of arms and ammunition at a checkpoint near Bhagwanpura village in Bhikhiwind sub division of Punjab’s Tarn Taran district. The arrested men were identified as Kulwinder Singh, Kamalpreet Singh Mann and Kanwarpal Singh of Moga district. They were coming from the India-Pakistan border near Khalra in a car on Wednesday night. Also read: DS Patwalia appointed new advocate general of PunjabA search of the car revealed two improvised explosive devices (IEDs), two hand-grenades and three pistols. Police said they suspect that the arms and explosives were dropped by a drone from Pakistan. The IEDs were packed in two boxes and were yet to be opened by the police, said a senior police official aware of the development. Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) OS Ghuman said, “A team led by Bhikhiwind station house officer (SHO) Navdeep Singh had put up a naka (checkpoint) near Bhagwanpur village on Wednesday night. Our investigation to ascertain the backward and forward linkages of the accused is on.” Police have launched a search operation in the border area in the Bhikhiwind sub division. During the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, a joint team of the Punjab Police and Border Security Force (BSF) personnel launched a search operation at the border near Khalra village after a drone was heard in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakistanbacked-terror-module-busted-in-punjab-3-held-101632394362348.html
23-09-2021||Patna||Bike-borne criminals rob ₹4.80 lakh from two CSP agents in Bihar district||Bike-borne criminals robbed ₹4.80 lakh from the agents of two customer service points (CSP) in two separate incidents in a district of Bihar on Wednesday.In the first incident four criminals on two motorcycles stole ₹1.80 lakh from a CSP agent of the Central Bank of India (CBI), Ganesh Kumar Mandal of Bagchhalla.“Four armed criminals on two bikes looted ₹1.80 lakh at gunpoint and sped away towards West Bengal,” Mandal told police and added he had withdrawn the money from the Azamnagar branch of the bank and was on his way to a customer service point when the incident took place.Barsoi sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Premnath Ram said, “A manhunt has been launched to nab the criminals.”In another incident, two bike-borne armed criminals shot at the agent of Nawabganj CSP of SBI, Vinay Mandal, and robbed him of ₹3 lakh. The injured CSP agent is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Purnia. The incident took place on NH-77 under Kursela police station of Katihar district on Wednesday evening.“No sooner had I resisted their robbery bid, one of the criminals shot me in my stomach and escaped with the bag containing money,” he said. Kursela station house officer (SHO) Manish Kumar said “We have recorded the statement of the victim and a hunt for the criminals has already been launched.”Katihar superintendent of police (SP) Vikash Kumar said two dedicated teams of police officers led by two SDPOs have been formed to nab the criminals. He said police were trying to obtain CCTV footage of the areas concerned to identify the criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bikeborne-criminals-rob-rs-4-80-lakh-from-two-csp-agents-in-bihar-district-101632394002538.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal rail accident: Train to Shimla derails near Barog amid heavy rain||A rail car derailed on the world heritage Kalka-Shimla narrow gauge line amid heavy rain on Thursday morning, halting rail traffic to the Himachal Pradesh state capital. A train with nine passengers on board was stranded at Dharampur station. Also read: 3 Himachal Pradesh Police personnel killed in motorcycle accident in UnaRailway officials said that the rail car had left from Kalka to Shimla at 5am. “It left Kumarhatti for Barog at 6.55am but ran off track near Barog at 7.45am due to heavy rain and landslide in the area as some stones had slid down onto the track,” said Amar Singh Thakur, chief commercial inspector of the Kalka-Shimla track. The coach was moving at a slow speed that helped avert a major accident. All passengers are safe, he said. Thakur said the train driver informed Kumarhatti and Barog railway station officials about the incident. Immediately after the information, railway personnel rushed to the spot. The authorities made arrangements to send the passengers to Shimla by road. Efforts are on to restore traffic on the track. Heavy rain across Himachal Moderate to heavy rainfall occurred at most places of Himachal Pradesh since Wednesday afternoon. Paonta Sahib was the wettest, recording 68mm of rainfall, Nahan 67mm and Kasauli 50mm. Naina Devi in Bilaspur got 45mm of rainfall, Pachhad 20mm, Narkanda 17mm, Karsog 16mm, and Gohar and Sundernagar 11mm each. The meteorological department has issued a yellow weather warning for heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning in eight districts of Himachal. Visibility would be low due to foggy conditions. There is also a possibility of landslides. “Commuters are advised to follow traffic advisories and avoid going to areas that face waterlogging,” said Shimla meteorological centre director Surender Paul. Meanwhile, not much change was recorded in minimum temperatures. The low temperatures were 1-2 degrees Celsius below normal. However, the maximum temperatures decreased by 5-6 degrees C. Keylong was the coldest at 8.4 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-rail-accident-train-to-shimla-derails-near-barog-amid-heavy-rain-101632392622560.html
23-09-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest dept rescues 20 more turtles, man booked||A day after recovering 33 turtles in Udham Singh Nagar district, the Uttarakhand forest department has arrested a man on the charges of wildlife smuggling in the district and recovered 20 turtles from his possession, an official said on Wednesday. Abhilasha Singh, divisional forest officer (DFO) Terai Central forest division, said a forest team patrolling at Mahtosh road on Kashipur road on Wednesday evening asked a person, who was coming on a bike, to stop. “But he didn’t stop and just ran away. The forest team chased and caught him,” she said. The DFO further said the forest team recovered 20 turtles from his bag. “The wildlife smuggler has been identified as Kuldeep, the son of Natthula, a resident of Rampur, Uttar Pradesh. We have booked him under relevant sections of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972,” she said. On Tuesday, the forest team rescued 33 turtles from a wildlife smuggler from the Pullbhatta barrier on Bareilly road in Udham Singh Nagar district. In March, police rescued 16 turtles in Kichha area of US Nagar and arrested two women from whom they were recovered. Turtles are killed for their meat and are in good demand in some areas of US Nagar like Dineshpur, Transit camp and Shaktifarm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-forest-dept-rescues-20-more-turtles-man-booked-101632392264832.html
23-09-2021||Patna||Boy killed; man found beheaded at separate places in Bihar||A 15-year-old boy was killed after another boy hit him on his head as they quarrelled over a fish that they caught in a pond in their Majhwar village in Bihar’s Rohtas district on Thursday. Police said Arvind Kahar, the boy, died during treatment at a local hospital.Police superintendent Ashish Bharti said they were investigating the matter and a case will be registered on the basis of the statement of Kahar’s family.Also Read | Bike-borne criminals abduct 12-year-old girl in Bihar, demand ₹5 lakhA 25-year-old man was separately beheaded at Sirbit village in the neighbouring Kaimur district on Wednesday night. Police said Shayar Khan was sleeping in the open when he was killed. On Thursday, when his family discovered his body, they refused to pick it up until the district magistrate and superintendent of police arrived at the scene. Sub-divisional police officer Sunita Kumari rushed to the scene and assured the locals of action before the body was sent for post-mortem. Khan’s brother has registered a murder case against four people while accusing them of killing his sibling over a land dispute. “The accused are absconding, and police were investigating the case,” said Kumari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/boy-killed-man-found-beheaded-at-separate-places-in-bihar-101632391962364.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||DS Patwalia appointed new advocate general of Punjab||Senior advocate Deepinder Singh Patwalia was on Thursday appointed the new advocate general (AG) of Punjab in place of Atul Nanda, who resigned after Captain Amarinder Singh quit as chief minister last week. Also read: Anirudh Tiwari is new Punjab chief secretaryPatwalia is the son of former Supreme Court judge Kuldeep Singh and retired educationist Gurminder K Singh. He is the younger brother of Supreme Court advocate PS Patwalia, who resigned as a Punjab and Haryana high court judge in 2006 to practise in the apex court. Patwalia is considered close to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and had appeared for former Indian Police Service officer Mohammad Mustafa when he challenged the appointment of Dinkar Gupta as the state police chief after superseding him. A known service matters lawyer, DS Patwalia has handled cases for various departments and independent bodies in Punjab and the Centre and some major private players. An alumnus of St John’s High School, Chandigarh, Patwalia completed his LLB from the Department of Laws at Panjab University in 1998. He was designated as a senior advocate by the Punjab and Haryana high court in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ds-patwalia-appointed-new-advocate-general-of-punjab-101632390462035.html
23-09-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal to vaccinate college, university students before reopening educational institutions||The West Bengal government is planning to vaccinate college and university students before reopening educational institutions expectedly in November, officials said. The state health secretary has sent a letter to his counterpart in the state higher education department, district magistrates and chief medical officers of health in the districts to expedite the vaccination of eligible students. “With a view of possible restarting of offline instructions in colleges and universities, it has been decided to vaccinate all students of such higher education institutions at the earliest possible. The vaccination drive will be organised by the health department in coordination with the higher education department,” the letter stated. While the Durga Puja starts this year from October 11, the immersion process would continue till October 17. The puja vacation in West Bengal continues till Bhai Dooj or Bhai Phonta every year. This year, however, schools, colleges and universities, which are now suspended due to Covid-19, are likely to reopen after the puja vacation Chief minister Mamata Banerjee earlier hinted at allowing schools and colleges to reopen after the Puja vacation in November, depending upon the pandemic situation. The DMs and CMOHs have been directed to hold coordination meetings with college and university authorities for planning early Covid-19 vaccination of the students. The vaccination drive may be conducted at the existing vaccination centres or college and university campuses. Some universities in the state have already set the ball rolling for the reopening of the universities. Dean of students, coordinators, medical officers and other heads have been asked to undertake necessary inspections and set up health centres at the campus so that classes may be resumed as soon as the government gives the green light. Information is also being collected from students and scholars about their vaccination status so that vaccination drives may be launched before classes resume. While West Bengal has administered 5,35,59,220 doses till date, around 2,54,81,735 jabs have been given to people in the age group 18 – 44 years, including students. “We had identified some groups which were more vulnerable or could act as super-spreaders in the age group 18 – 44 years such as drivers, hawkers, jail inmates and sex workers among others who were vaccinated first,” said a senior health official. With the festive season around the corner, the West Bengal government has ramped up its vaccination drive in rural areas ahead of the festive season. Between April 1 and September 18, around 20.3 million doses were administered in rural areas while 10.8 million doses have been given in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-to-vaccinate-college-university-students-before-reopening-educational-institutions-101632388423681.html
23-09-2021||Other||6 tribal students from Jharkhand get selected to study abroad on scholarship||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and welfare minister Champai Soren will felicitate the students of the Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Scholarship Scheme and their parents at a special event here on Thursday, officials said. In one of its kind initiatives by the state government, the overseas scholarship scheme has been rolled out for the scheduled tribe category students from Jharkhand to pursue higher studies in the universities of England and Ireland.The awardees of the scholarship would be entitled to complete coverage including stay, food, tuition fees and other miscellaneous expenses including travel.“Under this scheme, every year 10 students will be selected from the Scheduled Tribes category residing in Jharkhand. For the first cohort of the scholarship, six students have been selected who are going to begin their study programmes in 5 different universities of England in September,” an official said.The scheme was approved by the Hemant Soren cabinet in December last year. After the notification of the scheme, applications were subsequently invited from prospective students of the scholarship scheme on 7 March 2021. This year, 6 students were selected for receipt of a scholarship to study in England, an official said.Among the selected students, Hercules Singh Munda is going to pursue an MA degree at the University of London’s School of Oriental and African Studies. Ajitesh Murmu is going to study Masters in Architecture at the University College of London.Akanksha Mery has been selected for an MSc course in climate change science and management at Loughborough University while Dinesh Bhagat will pursue MSc in climate change, development and policy at the University of Sussex.Apart from this, Anjana Pratima Dungdung has been selected for an MSc programme at the University of Warwick and Priya Murmu will pursue an MA in creative writing and the writing industries at Loughborough University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-tribal-students-from-jharkhand-get-selected-to-study-abroad-on-scholarship-101632386982915.html
23-09-2021||Kolkata||Gang using portable jammers to block cellphone signals busted in West Bengal||Police have busted a gang of dacoits who blocked mobile signals with portable jammers so victims couldn’t seek help or inform the police, at Chandernagore, around 50 km from Kolkata. Police arrested three members of the gang which had targeted a bank dealing with gold loan at Chandernagore on Tuesday. One member is still on the run. Police said that the four-member gang arrived at the bank on two two-wheelers sometime between 2pm and 3pm on Tuesday. The security guard at the gate was first overpowered and taken inside at gunpoint. The other members terrorised the bank officials with their guns. One of the bank employees, however, managed to set off the alarm. Also Read | Bhabanipur bypolls: Here’s why Hardeep Puri thinks Mamata Banerjee is ‘nervous’“When the information reached us, a team of officers from the local police station and some senior officers, including the deputy commissioner of Chandernagore, rushed to the spot. The area was cordoned off. But when we tried to contact our senior officers over mobile, we failed. No calls were going. Even SMS and WhatsApp were not working,” said a senior officer. The dacoits, on sensing that they were trapped, fire a few rounds even though police didn’t retaliate. One was arrested from the spot while the others managed to escape initially. Police swung into action and multiple naka checking points were set up at various exit points of Chandernagore to seal the fate of the other gang members. “When our officers tried to contact me from the spot, while the incident was taking place, they failed. Later, we found that the gang had used a jammer,” said Arnab Ghosh, police commissioner of Chandannagar in Hooghly district. Police found two jammers, improvised firearms from all three arrested members, 60 live cartridges and cutting tools. Three two wheelers have also been seized. “Search is going on for the fourth accused because the bank manager told us that there were four persons. Most of the cash and a gold chain snatched from an employee have been recovered,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/gang-using-portable-jammers-to-block-cellphone-signals-busted-in-west-bengal-101632386681850.html
23-09-2021||Bangalore||Civic body warns people against modifications of balconies in Bengaluru||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday said that the covering of balconies and additional construction and modifications in the balconies is against its rules and is an unsafe practice observed across the city.Issuing a circular to all the residential apartments of the city, the BBMP said, "As per the building construction guidelines-2003, National Building Code of India-2016, after obtaining Occupancy Certificate(OC) Commencement Certificate(CC), covering the balcony and additional construction or modifying in the balconies is against the rules of these guidelines which lead to unsafe practices and this has been observed across the city."The BBMP also informed that if there is a need for modification at the residential complexes and ther buildings, a pre-approval must be obtained from BBMP competent authorities, according to the order by BBMP Chief Commissioner, Gaurav Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/civic-body-warns-people-against-modifications-of-balconies-in-bengaluru-101632383951923.html
23-09-2021||Pune||Pune: Police arrests man for extorting several women on pretext of marriage||A Chennai-based man was arrested for allegedly befriending several women and duping them by extorting money on the pretext of marriage, police said.The Police Commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad, Krishna Prakash during a press conference said, "We have arrested the accused, who extorted lakhs of money by luring highly educated working professionals, businesswomen, widows, divorced women over the age of 30. He targeted over 50 women from across the country, who were in search of a spouse, using matrimonial websites."According to the police, the 32-year-old accused Premraj Thevaraj used to extort money by falsely reporting a dip in his business after he made close ties with the victims. "He also used to get engaged with these women," said Prakash.The Police Commissioner further informed that two victims have reported a complaint against him in which he has extorted ₹14 lakh and ₹20,000 from the victims."In a case registered against him in Chennai, he defrauded a woman of ₹98 lakh," he said.He added, "By going through his phone records, there are more such victims, who are not coming forward to report the crime fearing embarrassment. Over 50 women have been a victim to the crime.One of the victims told ANI that the accused had taken her signature on marriage documents and presented a fake marriage certificate. "By taking a personal loan, I gave him ₹11,04,000. I was suspicious and has asked him to come to Pune to meet my parents. For 1 year and 3 months, he never visited," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-arrests-man-for-extorting-several-women-on-pretext-of-marriage-101632382878474.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Coastal Road projected to be completed by Nov 2023: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has completed 40% civil works of the ₹12,700 crore 10-km-long Coastal Road project between Nariman Point and Worli, including a one kilometre tunnel below Malabar Hill, said municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Thursday.He added that the construction work will be completed by November 2023.The coastal road project between Princess Street flyover and Worli-end of Bandra-Worli sea link was earlier expected to be ready by July 2023.Also Read | Destabilising non-BJP ruled states a blot on national unity: Shiv SenaHowever, Covid-19 pandemic initially delayed the delivery of the Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) from China. Also, the BMC had to tweak its plan to not use Chinese experts for assembling the TBM in the backdrop of border tensions with the country. Chahal added, “Tunneling work of 1 kilometre is completed with a 40 feet diameter tunnel under Malabar Hill. Only 900 metres it remains now.” According to BMC officials, this is the first of its kind undersea tunnel of 40 feet diameter in the country. It will also include 125 acre garden on the reclaimed land abutting the Coastal Road with underground car parking.The coastal road project was originally planned between Nariman Point and Kandivli, claiming it will ease traffic for those travelling between north and south Mumbai. However, now there is a question whether there should be a coastal road or a sea link beyond Versova to connect to the suburbs. The state is yet to take a call on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coastal-road-projected-to-be-completed-by-nov-2023bmc-101632383261748.html
23-09-2021||Noida||Housing societies in Greater Noida fined for not running sewage treatment plants||The Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) Wednesday said it has slapped penalties worth ₹17 lakh on seven group housing societies for non-functional sewage treatment plants (STPs).The GNIDA said the offenders have been directed to deposit the fine amount in the account of the authority within three working days, warning legal action and the doubling of the penalty on repeat mistakes."On the instructions of GNIDA CEO Narendra Bhooshan, a team of the water-sewer department conducted a surprise inspection of group housing societies during which seven societies were found at fault. STPs are not installed in some of these societies, while the STP is installed in some societies, it is being used less," the authority said in a statement."At the same time, STP water of some societies was being put into the drainage system, while there is a provision to use this treated water for irrigation of trees and plants. Some societies have not even started STP. Due to this, the authority's team has issued fines to seven builder societies," it added.The societies penalised are Green Arch in Techzone 4, Royal Court in Sector 16B, AVJ Heights in Sector Zeta I, Assotech Spring Fields, Purvanchal Heights, Amrapali Grand – all four in Zeta I, and Supertech Czar in Omicron I, the authority said.Green Arch society was penalised the maximum ₹5 lakh, while others ₹2 lakh each, it said.GNIDA CEO Narendra Bhooshan has appealed to all builder societies to treat the sewer through STP and use the water for irrigation purposes, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/housing-societies-in-greater-noida-fined-for-not-running-sewage-treatment-plants-101632382617237.html
23-09-2021||Patna||Bike-borne criminals abduct 12-year-old girl in Bihar, demand ₹5 lakh||A 12-year-old girl was kidnapped by motorcycles-borne criminals from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. The abductors demanded ₹5 lakh for her safe release, officials said.“When the 12-year-old girl was playing outside with the cousin, motorcycle-borne abductors came and kidnapped her. We suspect the involvement of some known persons,” said Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police Jayant Kant. “We have dispatched several police teams and conducted multiple raids at different locations to trace the minor,” Kant added. No arrests have been made in the case so far. The incident took place on Wednesday evening at around 7 pm when the minor was playing outside the house with her cousin. Eyewitnesses of the incident informed that they saw motorcycle-borne armed criminals coming from the direction of Muzaffarpur-Samastipur National Highway-28. The criminals came and took the girl on their two-wheeler. Police said that the abductors handed over a slip to the abductee’s cousin and asked her to deliver it to ‘Tiwari Ji’, the girl’s father. Police informed that the letter was written in simple English and abductors demanded ₹5 lakh for her safe release threatening to kill her if the demand is not met. Kant added that they don’t have any information about the location of the child. Tiwari’s friends and suspected persons near his residence are being questioned to get clues about the kidnappers. The police have also asked the family whom they suspect.Sadar deputy superintendent of police Ram Naresh Paswan told HT that the incident took place at Sherpur village under the jurisdiction of Town police station area. The minor’s father, Chandan Tiwari, is a contractor. Tiwari filed a kidnapping case against unknown persons in connection with the abduction of her daughter under Sections 364A (kidnapping for ransom), 369 (abducting a child under ten years), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Town police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bikeborne-criminals-abduct-12-year-old-girl-in-bihar-demand-rs-5-lakh-101632382723156.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Destabilising non-BJP ruled states a blot on national unity: Shiv Sena||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Thursday called alleged attempts to destabilise governments in non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states a “blot on the national unity”. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena hit out at governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari while blaming him for “crushing democratic values, laws and political culture”.Sena’s fresh criticism of Koshyari comes amid a tussle between the state government and the governor over his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking him to consider holding a two-day special assembly session in the backdrop of an incident of rape in Mumbai this month. Koshyari on Wednesday also angered the government by returning an ordinance on the Other Backward Class quota. He asked the government to inform the Supreme Court about the ordinance.Also Read | Suspect held by Maharashtra ATS was tasked to give logistic support to D companyThe Sena asked how appropriate it is for Koshyari “to destabilise the government he administered oath to”. It said the country’s federal structure has taken a beating over the past two years. It attacked the Centre over the “trampling” of the structure. “The Prime Minister belongs to the country even though the state government does not belong to his party. To destabilise (non-BJP-ruled states)...is... a blot to the national unity.”BJP has said it will not react to issues raised in the Sena mouthpiece as a policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/destabilising-non-bjp-ruled-states-a-blot-on-national-unity-sena-101632382181602.html
23-09-2021||Kolkata||Bhabanipur by-polls: Hardeep Puri thinks Mamata Banerjee is a 'little nervous’. Here's why||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Thursday that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee looks a “little nervous” about the upcoming assembly by-elections in Bhabanipur, a day after he campaigned there for the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) candidate Priyanka Tibrewal.Also Read | ‘Clear support for BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal in Bhabanipur’: Union minister Puri“She is a little nervous. I get a feeling that she is aware of the undercurrent of resentment against her,” the Union petroleum minister told news agency ANI. Puri was referring to remarks made by Banerjee on Wednesday, when the chief of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) alleged that the opposition BJP was bringing in “outsiders to create disturbances" during the September 30 by-polls.Also Read | Someone else will become Bengal chief minister if I don’t win: Mamata Banerjee at Bhabanipur bypoll campaignPreviously, Banerjee had raised “outsiders” pitch while campaigning for the assembly elections as well. Though the TMC won a third consecutive term by securing 213 seats, the chief minister, who left Bhabanipur to contest from Nandigram against her former aide, BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, lost to him after a seesaw battle.Puri, meanwhile, explained why, according to him, the Bengal chief minister is “nervous.” He said, “She also realises that things like post-poll violence are going to be issues in these by-elections.” She is a little nervous. I get a feeling that she is aware of the undercurrent of resentment against her. She also realizes that things like post-poll violence are going to be issues (in Bhabanipur bypolls): Union Minister HS Puri on WB CM Mamata Banerjee's 'outsider' remark pic.twitter.com/jT0HBHC52pLast month, the Calcutta high court directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe allegations of post-poll violence in the eastern state. The BJP has alleged that its supporters and voters were targeted by members of the ruling dispensation for several days after the TMC's victory on May 2, when counting of votes took place.
23-09-2021||Delhi||Contact with live wire kills 5-yr-old boy; injures 2 others in Delhi’s Khanpur||A five-year-old boy was killed and two other children were injured after they came in contact with a live wire while playing in south Delhi’s Khanpur on Wednesday evening, police said. A case was registered in connection with the incident and an investigation was taken up, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that at 4.40 pm on Wednesday, the police control room was informed that a live electric wire was lying on the road and two children had suffered electric shocks. A police team headed by a sub-inspector from the Neb Sarai police station was sent there. Also Read | Woman found dead in Delhi’s Maidangarhi; suicide suspectedOn reaching there, the police team learnt that three children were injured and taken to a private hospital. At the hospital, the team was told that one of the boys had dead. The other two, aged six and five, were undergoing treatment and they were out of danger, the police said. “An Initial enquiry has revealed that on Wednesday, a live electric wire of one of the temporary connections fell on the ground, causing the casualty. We have registered a case and further action is being taken,” added DCP Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/contact-with-live-wire-kills-5-yr-old-boy-injures-2-others-in-delhi-s-khanpur-101632381581583.html
23-09-2021||Bhopal||Remove pet’s poop from public place or pay ₹1k fine: Jabalpur administration||Jabalpur municipal corporation (JMC) commissioner has issued an order for pet owners to either clean the poop of their pet from public place or pay a fine of ₹1,000. This makes Jabalpur the third city in the state, after Indore and Bhopal, to impose such a ban. “Now, people can’t just go out with their dogs, unmindful of dirtying a public place. If someone is found doing so, they have to pay a fine of ₹1,000. The order was released under the provisions of the Municipal Corporation Act 1956, “ said JMC commissioner Sandeep GR. Also Read | MP woman suffers partial vision loss after acid attack: PolicePeople love their pets but don’t want to take their responsibility. They keep their own houses clean while encouraging their pets to dirty public places, he added.Now, pet owners will have to carry a poop scooper, and a poop bag with them while walking their dogs in public places. Indore is the cleanest city of India for the past five years and other cities are adopting its model to improve their ranking in Swachh Survekshan. Jabalpur is currently placed at the 17th spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/remove-pet-s-poop-from-public-place-or-pay-rs-1k-fine-jabalpur-administration-101632379781548.html
23-09-2021||Other||Night curfew clamped in half a dozen Uttarakhand villages after leopard terror||In a bid to avoid man-animal conflict, night curfew has been clamped in half a dozen villages in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district, officials said. “Night curfew has been clamped in half a dozen villages where leopard movement has created terror. The curfew will be lifted after the movement of leopards lessens in the area and people feel safe,” said Nandan Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate, Pithoragarh. According to forest officials and locals, a leopard pair has been sighting adjoining villages of Pithoragarh district headquarters for a long time. People of the local area have not only stopped venturing out in the evenings but also in the mornings. An eight-year-old girl was dragged and killed on Sunday in Bajeti village adjoining district headquarters. After this incident, a cage was installed in the village and a leopard was caught on Monday. Since a pair was spotted at the time of this incident, the local administration has clamped night curfew from 6 pm to 6 am in villages where leopard movement has been reported in the past few weeks to avoid any untoward incident. Dinesh Joshi, a forest officer from the area said, “We had intensified patrolling in areas where leopard movement has been reported. We have also been advising locals to remain indoors during the evenings. After the curfew order, we are strictly following the orders issued by the district administration.” Many parts of the Kumaon region are facing leopard terror these days. Kumaon has six districts, and no district is left without this problem. Several persons have lost their lives or been injured in leopard attacks in recent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/night-curfew-clamped-in-half-a-dozen-uttarakhand-villages-after-leopard-terror-101632379183132.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Anirudh Tiwari is new Punjab chief secretary||Anirudh Tiwari will be the new chief secretary of Punjab. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has approved his name for the top bureaucratic position in the state and the formal orders will be issued soon. Also read: Super CM Sidhu dictating terms to Channi: AmarinderA 1990-batch IAS officer, Tiwari comes in place of Vini Mahajan after the change of guard in the state. Mahajan, a 1987-batch IAS officer, was appointed to the top bureaucratic post by the previous Capt Amarinder Singh government. The change was in the offing since the time Capt Amarinder Singh resigned as the chief minister and his detractors got the reins of the Punjab government. Tiwari has also been given the charge of principal secretary, personnel and vigilance, in addition to his present duties that include financial commissioner, development; principal secretary, food processing, governance reforms and public grievances, reads the order. Mahajan’s posting orders will be issued later. Varun Roojam has been appointed special principal secretary to deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. He is a 2004-batch IAS officer. Initially, 1988-batch IAS officer Ravneet Kaur’s name was also doing the rounds for the top bureaucratic post of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anirudh-tiwari-is-new-punjab-chief-secretary-101632378761527.html
23-09-2021||Other||Two minors among three arrested for raping girl in Chhattisgarh||Four people, including two minors, allegedly raped a 14-year-old girl in Chhattisgarh’s Balrampur district on Sunday when she was returning home from a religious event in a nearby village, police said.Balrampur Police superintendent Ram Krishna Sahu said the matter was reported to the local police station a day later and they booked the accused and launched a hunt to arrest them. Sahu added the four sexually assaulted the girl after finding her walking alone back to her village. Also Read | Minor girls’ skeletons found in Harra forest of Mirzapur“The girl informed her family members on Monday about the sexual assault and then the complaint was filed with the police,” said Sahu. He added they on Tuesday arrested three of the accused, including two minors. Sahu said the remaining accused is on the run in the nearby jungles. He added the three accused were sent in judicial custody on Tuesday evening and that teams have been constituted to arrest the absconding one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-minors-among-three-arrested-for-raping-girl-in-chhattisgarh-101632378101544.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Woman found dead in Delhi’s Maidangarhi; suicide suspected||A 28-year-old woman allegedly died by suicide at her in-laws’ home in an area under the territorial jurisdiction of Maidangarhi police station in south Delhi on Wednesday, police said. The woman was married 10 months ago. The motive behind her alleged suicide couldn’t be ascertained and no suicide note was found, they said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the Maidangarhi police received a call on Wednesday that a woman had hanged herself. A police team arrived at the site to find a room locked from inside. Fire department personnel had to be called who broke into the room. Also Read | Chandigarh: 25-year-old transporter dies by suicide in Sector 56“The woman was hanging from the ceiling fan with a dupatta. She was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. An inquest proceeding under section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been initiated,” said DCP Thakur. Police said that the woman’s body was sent to a government hospital’s mortuary for autopsy. Her parents in Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh, were informed about the death. Further legal action would be taken based on the autopsy report and in case the woman’s parents file a case, the police said.Help is just a call away. Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-found-dead-in-delhi-s-maidangarhi-suicide-suspected-101632377861478.html
23-09-2021||Other||‘Haven’t met or spoken to anyone’: Mukul Sangma rubbishes reports of meeting TMC leaders||Former Meghalaya chief minister and current leader of opposition Mukul Sangma has rubbished news reports of him being in touch with leaders of the Trinamool Congress.“Take it from me, I have not met or spoken to anyone from any quarter and I don’t know the source of such misleading information,” Sangma said over the phone while returning to Shillong from Tura. The senior Congress leader added, “I have not accepted any calls and except for a few close friends who were curious at the news I have not even broached the subject.”The former CM made the statement after reports of him meeting senior TMC leaders in Kolkata on Tuesday surfaced in local media leading to speculations that he might quit Congress.Rejecting all speculation of his looking at alternative parties after being sidelined by the Congress in the appointment of the state party president Lok Sabha MP Vincent H Pala, the veteran leader said, “Why should I selectively speak to only one media, if I wish to make an announcement I’ll do it at the correct time at a correct forum and you will all be there.”Lately, rumours have been rife with unverified information that Sangma was looking at joining other political parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In fact, a local BJP leader in Meghalaya had told a popular vernacular daily that the BJP is waiting to welcome him to its fold.HT reached out to Pala for his take on the media report and he outrightly denied knowledge of it saying that he was too preoccupied with settling down to his new task and other important matters. “I have absolutely no knowledge of any such incident or any such move. I think it is purely someone’s speculation,” the new Meghalaya Pradesh Congress Committee chief said while emphasising, “I am also not aware of any authorised Congress source speaking to any media house. You should ask the reporter from where they got this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/havent-met-or-spoken-to-anyone-mukul-sangma-rubbishes-reports-of-meeting-tmc-leaders-101632376902695.html
23-09-2021||Other||Over 50 goats mowed down, 30 others injured as truck runs over herd in Odisha||A herd of over 50 goats were killed while 30 others were injured after a sand-laden truck in Nayagarh district of Odisha ran over them late Tuesday night, police officials said on Wednesday.Rajendra Patra of Champapandiri village under Goudapur grampanchayat was taking a herd of over 100 goats to Bahadajhola late Tuesday night as it would have been difficult for him to herd them on the busy road during daytime. Patra in his FIR alleged that while he was herding his goats late at night, the speeding truck came from the opposite direction and ran over his goats.While 50 goats were instantly killed, 30 more have suffered fractures on their legs. “I have suffered losses of at least ₹2-3 lakh due to the accident,” said Patra.An official of Odagaon police station said the errant driver fled the spot after the incident. Local villagers gathered at the spot, demanding compensation for the lost goats.A police official said the Nayagarh incident could be the largest ever casualty of livestock in a road accident in the last few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-50-goats-mowed-down-30-others-injured-as-truck-runs-over-herd-in-odisha-101632374022860.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||3 Himachal Pradesh Police personnel killed in motorcycle accident in Una||Three Himachal Pradesh Police personnel were killed when their motorcycle was hit by vehicle at Ashapuri near Gagret town of Una district late on Wednesday. The three jawans belonged to the 4th Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) at Jangalberi in Hamirpur district and were deployed at the Ashapuri inter-state barrier, said Una superintendent of police Arjit Sen Thakur. Also read: Since pandemic outbreak, 15,000 students in Himachal have shifted to government schoolsHe said two jawans died on the spot, while the third succumbed to injuries on the way to the hospital. The victims were identified as Manoj Kumar, Shubham and Vishal. Staff at the checkpost rushed to the spot after hearing a loud bang. The policemen were in civvies and were identified from the ID cards found on them. A hunt is on to trace the vehicle involved in the accident. Police sources said a truck driver has been detained at Nadaun in Hamirpur. A case of rash and negligent driving has been registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-himachal-pradesh-police-personnel-killed-in-motorcycle-accident-in-una-101632372521164.html
23-09-2021||Other||Manipur’s iconic all-women market to reopen after 5 months||Manipur’s iconic women market, popularly known as Nupi Keithel, along with the temporary market in the heart of the state capital, will be allowed to open after closing for almost five months, subject to the preparation of schedule for vendors, according to official people familiar with the matter.State chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar, who is the chairman of the state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued a revised order in this regard on Tuesday.As per the order, Imphal Municipal Corporation (IMC) will divide the vendors into groups by following the stall numbers allocated to each vendor, the order said. The IMC will make the vendors sit as per arrangement for each elevated platform to ensure that they maintain a physical distance of at least 6 feet between one another.Informing that each vendor may be given an opportunity to sell her goods twice a week on a rotational basis, it added, “Sundays will be closed for cleaning and sanitation by IMC.”On April 21, the Manipur government announced the immediate closure of the Nupi Keithel, one of Asia’s largest women-run markets, located in Imphal, barely two months after its reopening, because of the second wave of Covid-19 in the state.According to the people cited above, more than 3,500 license holding women vendors sit at three Nupi Keithel market buildings in Imphal. The unique feature of this centuries-old market is that all business activities are done by women.In January this year, an independent researcher in Imphal claimed that the shutting down of Nupi Keithel might have caused a minimum loss of ₹3,879 crore to vendors in the last 10 months.Meanwhile, the duration of the night curfew imposed in the state has been shortened, as per the government order. The night curfew, which was earlier imposed across the state from 7 pm to 4 am, will be imposed from 8.30 pm to 4 am for fifteen more days till October 21.According to the order, restaurants and cafes are allowed to open from 10 am to 8 pm subject to ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour. Banks, insurance offices and postal offices may function normally without the shortened working hours stipulated earlier, it said. All passengers, drivers and helpers should wear masks while police and district administration should ensure that the capacity limit is complied with. Social gatherings and feasts are still not permitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipurs-iconic-all-women-market-to-reopen-after-5-months-101632370541091.html
23-09-2021||Patna||IIT Patna witnesses 78% increase in pre-placement offers||Altogether 34 students of the Indian Institute of Technology, Patna (IIT-P) have bagged pre-placement offers (PPOs) till September which is almost double than PPOs made the preceding academic year, officials of the institute said on Wednesday.Various national and international companies have offered jobs to the students graduating in 2022 in different sectors including IT, finance, management and consultancy, core and analytics.IIT-P has attributed the increase in preplacement offers to the performance of students and their hard work during the internship.As per IIT’s training and placement cell, six students have received PPO from Google. The USA-based Salesforce, a cloud-based software company, has also offered pre-placement offers to two students while investment banking firm Goldman Sachs has extended PPO to three students. The insurance and healthcare firm Optum has offered PPO to seven students, Samsung Research, Bangalore has reached out to three students, and Publicis Sapient has offered to three students.Kripa Shankar, training and placement officer at IIT-Patna, said, “The maximum pay package of the PPOs was 54.5 lakhs while other top offers varied between 25 to 53 lakhs. The average package of the PPOs received so far is around 24 lakhs per annum.”“Placement season for BTech students has started on a positive note with 34 pre-placement offers which is 78.9% more than last year’s 19 offers. The full-time hiring of students graduating in 2022 will pick up the pace from October. Due to Covid-19, entire placement processes will be held virtually,” Shankar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/iit-patna-witnesses-78-increase-in-pre-placement-offers-101632370182256.html
23-09-2021||Patna||Bihar Museum offered collaborations by Germany’s Goethe Institute to work on art projects||Bihar Museum, the internationally acclaimed museum in the state capital, has been offered collaborations by the Goethe Institute, Germany in many art projects to be planned in the state in the coming days, officials said.The Indo-German collaborations may be expected in the realms of the conservation of artworks and antiquities, curator training, research work on Indo- German cultural relations, the Indo- German exhibition of artworks and the presentations of Indian and German music. Besides, events like feature film festivals and science film festivals may also be planned in collaborations. “In a bid to discuss these things Astrid Wege, the director of the Kolkata based Goethe Institute which is popularly known as the Max Mueller Bhavan, was in Patna this Tuesday. In fact, the Goethe Institute intends to provide technical support to the Bihar Museum in a wide variety of activities. For instance, we can plan in collaboration the training of curators,” Deepak Anand, director, Bihar Museum, said. Besides, exhibitions of antiquities and artworks can also be planned in collaboration. “The artists and the lovers of art and antiquities from both the countries will have an opportunity to exchange ideas, views and expressions at this exhibition,” he said. The Museum director said that Indo-German cultural exchange has been rooted in the cultural agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany and India which became effective in September 1969. “The agreement intended to promote cooperation in the realm of culture and education between India and Germany. In 2019 also, in a bid to intensify the existing cultural cooperation between India and Germany, a Memorandum of Understanding on Museum Cooperation was signed between the two countries during the 5th Indo-German inter-governmental Consultation,” he said. As a part of this agreement many museums in our country have been working in collaboration with German museums on many projects, he said. “In our state, the Bihar Museum has been the first such institution which has been offered collaborations by the Goethe Institute of Germany. We will definitely love to work together and will plan many activities in the coming days,” he said. The Goethe Institute is also interested in supporting Bihar Museum in holding film festivals. “They especially want the science film festival. People may find it interesting. It will definitely expose Patnaites to international culture and life,” he said. Others present on the occasion included Archana Rani, director of the German language centre, Max Mueller Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-museum-offered-collaborations-by-germany-s-goethe-institute-to-work-on-art-projects-101632368382482.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||Somaiya files complaint against state govt, Mumbai police over his detention||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya on Wednesday filed a complaint against the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai police at Navghar Mulund East Police Station over his alleged detention at Karad Railway Station.Speaking to the media persons after filing the complaint, Somaiya said: "Mumbai Police was indulged into wrongful confinement, abuse of power to stop me from visiting Kolhapur. I was stopped from stepping out of my residence on the day of Ganesh Visarjan. They stopped me at Karad Railway Station.""I submitted a legal notice to Mulund and MRA Marg police stations under section 149, 340, 341, 342 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The Mumbai Police and Maharashtra government have to apologise to me within 24 hours," the BJP leader said.Somaiya was detained at Karad Railway Station in the Satara district of Maharashtra in the early hours of Monday. He was expected to visit Kohlapur on September 20 and was en route to the district via train.Ahead of his visit, Kolhapur District Collector had issued prohibitory orders against him and imposed Section 144, prohibiting gatherings on September 20 and 21.The BJP leader was scheduled to visit the properties owned by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif in which he claims corruption has taken place. Somaiya had also levelled allegations of money laundering against Maharashtra Cabinet Ministers Chhagan Bhujbal and Anil Parab.BJP slammed the Maharashtra government over Somaiya's detention and had alleged that the leader was being targeted because he was exposing scams related to corrupt ministers of the government.Earlier in the day, Mushrif said that he will file a ₹100 crore defamation suit against Somaiya."The allegation which is being made by Kirit Somaiya is part of BJPs big conspiracy and Chandrakant Patil is the mastermind of this. I have been very vocal about the Centre using central agencies against Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and on the issue of Parambir Singh. It is the reason I am being framed by BJP through Kirit Somaiya to stop me," he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/somaiya-files-complaint-against-state-govt-mumbai-police-over-his-detention-101632365429254.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain in Delhi today: IMD||Delhi is likely to see cloudy sky with light rain and thundershowers on Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be 25°C while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 32°C.The maximum temperature on Wednesday was 31.8°C and the minimum was 26°C, a degree above normal.Also Read | JNU to reopen classes for 3rd-year PhD scholars from todayDelhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 62. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 69.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in satisfactory category today as predicted by SAFAR due to local pollution and scattered rainfall, and it will remain in good to satisfactory category for next 3 days due to rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-light-rain-in-delhi-todayimd-101632365800625.html
23-09-2021||Education||JNU to reopen classes for 3rd-year PhD scholars from today||As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation improves in Delhi, the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has decided to hold classes for third-year PhD scholars from Thursday. The university said in a statement on Wednesday that final year MBA and MSc students can attend physical classes from September 27 (next Monday).The JNU has announced that it will resume classes for students in a phased manner. Previously, the campus had reopened on September 6 for those PhD scholars who have to submit their research thesis by the end of 2021.Issuing an order on Wednesday, the JNU said that classes will resume for both hostellers and day scholars of the third-year PhD scholars and final year MBA and MSC students.The order said that buses will be allowed inside the campus bu the staff will have to follow Covid-19 norms. To avoid overcrowding, the process of issuance of student ID cards from the security office will be decentralised and the cards will be issued at the school/special centre level, Wednesday’s order added.Delhi: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) decides phase 3 and 4 reopenings of the campus from 23rd September and 27th September respectively. pic.twitter.com/xUVZ0mKa2CThe JNU administration also warned that anyone found violating the above guidelines, shall face proceedings under the provisions of Section 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other applicable laws.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in Delhi announced last month that schools for classes 9-12, colleges and coaching institutions will reopen from September 1 due to an improvement in the pandemic situation. The government initially said that students of classes 6-8 will also be allowed to attend schools from September 8, but as per an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on September 15, schools in the national capital will remain closed up to class 8 as of now.Delhi on Wednesday reported 30 new cases, 19 recoveries and zero deaths due to the coronavirus disease. With this, the caseload has climbed to 1,438,586 including 1,413,090 recoveries, 25,085 deaths and 411 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/jnu-to-reopen-classes-for-3rd-year-phd-scholars-from-today-101632361031178.html
23-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal leader Mainul Haque, who quit Congress, likely to join TMC today||Veteran Congress leader from West Bengal Mainul Haque, who resigned from the party on Tuesday, is likely to join the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday. Speaking to news agency PTI, Haque had said after resigning that he had sent the interim letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi.“I want to fight the communal BJP in the state in a more apt manner and meet the aspirations of people whom I had represented in all these years,” Haque added.During his time at the Congress, Haque was a five-time MLA from Farakka in the state’s Murshidabad district. He had also served as the secretary of the All India Congress Committee (AICC). Upon his resignation, Congress’ Bengal president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “I have nothing to say if someone wants to go.”Though Haque refused to answer whether he would join the Trinamool, PTI reported that he is slated to join the TMC at an election meeting.“We are ready to welcome Haque, a veteran politician, to our party fold. He will add more strength to our party in the district.” PTI quoted TMC MP Abu Taher Khan as saying.Another TMC leader Tapas Roy said on Tuesday that leaders of the Congress were realising that they can’t fight the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre and its politics of hatred. Hence, Congress leaders are joining the TMC, which is the only party that can dislodge Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah from power in the next Lok Sabha elections.Mainul Haque’s resignation comes days after former Union minister and BJP leader Babul Supriyo joined the TMC last Saturday. He joined the ruling party in Bengal in the presence of its general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and Rajya Sabha MP and spokesperson Derek O’Brien.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-leader-mainul-haque-who-quit-congress-likely-to-join-tmctoday-101632357721879.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 25-year-old transporter dies by suicide in Sector 56||A 25-year-old man hanged himself at his house in Sector 56 on Wednesday.The body has been kept in the mortuary at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16, where the postmortem will be conducted on Thursday.The deceased worked as a transporter and had attached his vehicle to the furniture market to transport furniture. On Wednesday, when he did not open the door till afternoon despite repeated knocking, the family managed to break open the mesh door and found him hanging from the ceiling fan.No suicide note was found from the spot. The family told the police that he was stressed for the last few days, but they were unaware of the reason. The police added that the deceased used to consume alcohol frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-25-year-old-transporter-dies-by-suicide-in-sector-56-101632355360134.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Breathtaking acrobatic feats enthral hundreds at Sukhna Lake air show||Hundreds of visitors who thronged the Sukhna Lake here on Wednesday were enthralled by the Indian Air Force’s newly inducted Rafale fighter aircraft.The Chinook heavy-lift helicopter airlifted heavy underslung loads as well as inducted special forces for offensive operations showing its versatility in war and peace time.Due to bad weather, however, the display of Surya Kiran, the aerobatics demonstration team of the Indian Air Force (IAF), was not carried out.The air show was organised by the Chandigarh Air Force Station in association with the UT administration to mark Swarnim Vijay Diwas of the 1971 War. The event also coincided with the celebration of the diamond jubilee year of the air force station, which was established in 1961.Punjab governor Banwari Lal Purohit, Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Himachal Pradesh governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, and chief justice of Punjab and Haryana high court Ravi Shankar Jha attended the event.Although the organisers had asked visitors to maintain social distancing, protocols went for a toss amid crowding at the venue.Mismanagement galoreThe programme started at 4.30pm, but viewers started gathering at the lake around 2pm. Amid tight security arrangements, there was only one main entry point to the venue through the Kishangarh road.People were being stopped by the Chandigarh Police by putting up barricades on all sides leading up to the lake. They were asked to go through the back-end of the lake going towards Kishangarh.With no arrangements for car parking, residents parked their cars on cycle tracks, road berms and even on the roads. Long queues of cars parked on the roadside stretched from Sector 7 to Kishangarh-Manimajra light point.“It was a good show, but thereafter it was a nightmare. There were long traffic jams. Police were also finding it tough to manage the traffic as no proper planning was done,” said Ravi Bhagat, a resident of Panchkula, who had come for the air show with his family.While all roads were open for VIPs, the UT Guest House Chowk was closed to the public, even pedestrians. Hundreds of people had to go towards Kishangarh on foot. Because of this many people returned without watching the air show and there were many who stood at the UT Guest House Chowk in anticipation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhbreathtaking-acrobatic-feats-enthral-hundreds-at-sukhna-lake-air-show-101632355300401.html
23-09-2021||Other||Jammu traders observe peaceful bandh against 100 proposed Reliance retail stores||Traders on Wednesday observed a peaceful bandh to register their protest against the government move to set up 100 Reliance retail stores in Jammu. All shops, including essentials’ stores and chemists, remained closed. However, transport, both commercial and passenger, plied normally. The bandh call had been given by the Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The bandh remained peaceful and there were no untoward incidents reported from anywhere, said a police official. The work in courts was also affected by the strike. The J&K high court bar association had extended support to the bandh call and had decided to abstain themselves from the courts. Reliance has already clarified that the talk of 100 stores being opened in Jammu is “completely untrue”. Opposition, including Congress, National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Apni Party, AAP, CPI(M), Lok Janshakti Party besides several social groups, also supported the bandh call. Police and paramilitary forces were deployed in strength in sensitive areas to maintain law-and- order. JCCI president Arun Gupta said successful bandh vindicated JCCI’s stance and that it will continue to fight for ‘cause’ of Jammu province. He expressed gratitude to the people of Jammu, especially traders’ fraternity and Jammu high court bar association and other bars of Jammu province, for extending their support. “Overwhelming support which the Chamber has received from various quarters of the society in the entire Jammu province is testimony to the fact that the stand taken by apex body of traders is 100% right and the government should consider the demands henceforth,” he said. He said, “The motive of JCCI was in no way to oppose the government as far as abrogation of Article 370 is concerned, as some sections in the political circles were trying to promulgate. The only reason behind this resentment was the lopsided policies of the J&K government towards the business community of the region.” “Lately, the decisions taken by the government especially that of ending the Darbar move practice, treatment with wine shop owners, abrupt closure of bars, standard operating procedures for banquets, debarring of Mahajans, Khatris, Sikhs and Jains communities from purchasing of agricultural land in J&K, issue of sand mining, crushers and brick kiln trade, passenger tax on commercial vehicles, and with current issues of Jammu Bar Association and now the move to invite Reliance stores’ chain in the UT will prove to be detrimental for the trading community,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-traders-observe-peaceful-bandh-against-100-proposed-reliance-retail-stores-101632350799767.html
23-09-2021||Other||Jammu and Kashmir sacks 6 government employees for ‘anti-national’ activities||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) government on Wednesday dismissed six government employees, including two police constables, from their services for alleged anti-national activities.Over a dozen government employees have been suspended in J&K since April this year.The employees suspended by the government today are Hamid Wani, a government schoolteacher in Bijbehara, Anantnag, Jaffer Hussain Butt, a constable in Kishtwar, Mohd Rafi Butt, a junior assistant in the road & building department in Kishtwar, Liyaqat Ali Kakroo, a schoolteacher in Baramulla, Tariq Mehmood Kohli, a range officer in the forest department, Poonch, and Showkat Ahmad Khan, a police constable in Budgam.Six separate dismissal orders were issued on behalf of J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha by commissioner secretary, general administration department.The government issued the order after a designated committee, formed to scrutinise cases under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India, recommended their removal from government services over militants links.After the dismissal of employees, the government said their activities are tantamount to posing a threat to the country’s security or they were involved in anti-national activities.The LG had set up a special task force for this purpose in April this year. The dismissal, however, attracted sharp reaction from mainstream political parties and employees unions, who said the employees have been terminated on flimsy grounds.Former employee union leader and chairman of Jammu and Kashmir Civil Society Forum, Abdul Qayoom Wani said the dismissals are a jab on the employees’ integrity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-and-kashmir-sacks-6-government-employees-for-anti-national-activities-101632350439494.html
23-09-2021||Other||Jammu and Kashmir’s daily Covid count crosses 200, a first in two months||For the first time in more than two months, Jammu and Kashmir’s daily Covid infections crossed 200 on Wednesday.Of the total 204 daily cases, 159 cases were reported from Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 45 infections. The summer capital Srinagar, which is witnessing an increase in cases, saw the highest count of 80 cases.The last time the UT witnessed above 200 cases in a single day was on July 16.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 118 with active positive cases crossing 1,500 to reach 1,536, a first in 61 days.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 787 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 133 and 160 active cases respectively. Officials said 51,834 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-and-kashmir-s-daily-covid-count-crosses-200-a-first-in-two-months-101632350260167.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB data: 24% more juveniles in Ludhiana took to crime during pandemic||Involvement of juveniles in criminal activities saw a 24% jump during the coronavirus pandemic against the 2019 tally, as per data released by the National Crime Records Bureau on Wednesday. In 2020, 59 juveniles were booked in 36 criminal cases, including murder, drug peddling, molestation and abduction. Cops say most juveniles took to crime during the pandemic to meet their daily needs as most of them had lost their jobs during the pandemic, while others resorted to criminal activities to make a quick buck. In 2019, juveniles were found involved in 28 criminal cases, while in 2018 the number of cases was 21. In 2020, minors executed two thefts and three burglaries. Juveniles were also involved in three murder cases, including the murder of an 18-year-old factory worker who was murdered by his childhood friend and two others. The victim had slapped the accused over a petty issue and six months after the incident, the accused had bludgeoned him to death on July 12, 2020 and dumped the body at a vacant plot.Two cases each of attempt to murder, and molestation were also executed by minors. Four cases of scuffle and injuries were also reported in 2020. Police also found minors involved in one case of abduction, three cases of hatching a conspiracy of robbery, three cases of trespassing, one case of drug peddling, six cases of protection of children from sexual offences and one case of unlawful activities.Authorities have also studied the background of juveniles involved in criminal activities to determine why they took to crime. As per NCRB data, two of the juveniles were illiterate and never went to school, while one of the accused had attended school till primary classes, while 56 juveniles had passed matriculation.Of the 59 juveniles arrested by the police, 42 were living with their parents, while 10 were living with their guardians. Seven homeless juveniles were also found involved in criminal activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrbdata-24-more-juveniles-in-ludhiana-took-to-crime-during-pandemic-101632349721695.html
23-09-2021||Other||Mistaken for a militant, cop shot dead by colleague||After mistaking a policeman for a militant, a cop on duty fired and killed his colleague in North Kashmir’s Handwara town.Officials said the police follower identified as Ajay Dhar of Langate Handwara forcibly entered into a temple last night. A policeman on duty mistook him for a militant and opened fire on him, leaving him injured. He succumbed to his injuries on the way to the hospital.Deputy inspector general of police, North Kashmir, termed this an unfortunate incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mistaken-for-a-militant-cop-shot-dead-by-colleague-101632349719406.html
23-09-2021||Other||46.9% of J&K’s Covid cases this month logged from Srinagar||Summer capital Srinagar’s upward Covid trend is turning out to be a nightmare for administration officials, with the city contributing to around 46.9% of Jammu and Kashmir total cases in September so far. The weekly cases have also been seeing a marked increase in the city. While in the first week of September, Srinagar recorded 314 cases, the figure went up to 471 in the second week and further up to 526 in the third week. In the last week alone (September 15 to 21), Srinagar contributed almost half (526) of the total cases (1,074) reported in the UT. Srinagar has crossed its August tally of 1,060, in just the first three weeks of September with 1,311 infections, which is an increase of 23.5% from the previous month. Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, head of the community medicine department and Covid in-charge at Srinagar government medical college, said, “There is a slow rise in cases, not steep. The hospitalisations so far are also not increasing much but we need to act cautiously. People need to follow Covid appropriate behaviour.” Of the total 1,450 active cases in J&K, Srinagar has more than half of them at 768 cases.For the past three days, officials have been visiting city markets, particularly city centre Lal Chowk, and penalising traders for non-adherence to Covid-appropriate behavior. The officials have even threatened FIRs against people for not wearing masks. Srinagar deputy commissioner Aijaz Asad also held a meeting with traders on Tuesday for strict adherence to Covid safety guidelines. Additional deputy commissioner M Haneef Balkhi made checks at business hub Lal Chowk on Tuesday. “We request people to wear masks and maintain social distance. There should not be even one case of fine, shop sealing or FIR in Srinagar,” Balkhi said.He said the Covid situation in Srinagar was so far good with some clusters of cases in a few areas which have now been turned into containment zones. “Srinagar is the business centre and people from all districts converge here for shopping and hospital visits. It also takes the load of people at the airport and tourist places,” he said.Srinagar mayor’s rally draws social media flak for violationsMeanwhile, Srinagar mayor and Apni Party leader Junaid Azim Mattu’s rally in Hazratbal area of the city on Tuesday drew flak from netizens who alleged that officials had turned a blind eye to Covid violations at the rally. Pictures and videos emerging from the rally show Mattu addressing a huge gathering of people, who were standing in close proximity to each other, many of them without masks. “No Covid during mayor rallies. Seems Covid is visible only in Lal Chowk for DC (deputy commissioner) sahib,” wrote Shajat Lone, a netizen, on Twitter while tagging Srinagar officials.Despite several attempts, Mattu was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/469-of-j-k-s-covid-cases-this-month-logged-from-srinagar-101632349479566.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||13 animals killed in Haibowal dairy roof collapse in Ludhiana||Thirteen animals, including eight cows, four calves and a bull, were killed in a portion of the roof collapsed at a dairy farm at the Haibowal Dairy Complex on Tuesday evening. Four labourers who were present at the dairy farm had a narrow escape. The brothers who own the dairy farm, Vishal, Ravi and Hero Vasan of the Upkar Nagar area, said most of the dead cows were pregnant.Estimating losses of around ₹10 lakh, the owners said the building’s foundation had been compromised due to the presence of a choked drain at the back of the farm, and incessant rainfall over the last few days had not helped matters either. “We have around 70 animals. The accident took place an hour we returned home,” he said. Wastewater from the clogged drain had also accumulated at the farm. The owners and their neighbours tried to rescue the animals, to no avail. The non-availability of a JCB machine at night also delayed the rescue mission. Vishal said, “The structure was around 15 years old but the foundation had weakened due to flow of dairy waste into the drain that passes through the rear end of the farm.” A veterinarian from the animal husbandry department Dr Chatinder Singh provided first aid to the injured animals. “One of the cows has suffered a spinal injury and is critical,” he said. Vishal’s cousin, Rajan, who owns the adjoining dairy unit, said a portion of his unit’s roof had also collapsed in the last week. No casualty was reported.Owners blame MC, seek compensationThe owners have blamed the municipal corporation (MC) for the incident on grounds that they had failed to clean the drain lines and make concrete boundaries around the drain. Vishal said, “The drain remains choked and overflows after rainfall. The wastewater in the drain seeps into the foundation of the buildings, which also results in wild growth.”Seeking compensation for the loss, Vishal said the boundary wall of the drain lines should be made of concrete to avoid any such incident in future. “The foundation of other buildings situated in the area is also being damaged due to seepage,’ he said. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, however, said the incident had nothing to do with the drain lines as many other dairy units are also situated in the area. The structure was weak and may have collapsed due to the rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13-animals-killed-in-haibowal-dairy-roof-collapse-in-ludhiana-101632349240738.html
23-09-2021||Other||Shimla’s Indian Institute of Advanced Studies reopened for public after five months||Five months after the lethal second wave of Covid-19 struck the country, the prestigious Indian Institute of Advanced Studies (IIAS) has been thrown open for the public. The building, constructed in 1888, was formerly known as the Vice Regal Lodge. As many as 13 viceroys stayed in the building between 1888 and 1946.After Independence, it was known as Rashtrapati Niwas. Apart from the Simla Conference of 1945, the building has witnessed many historical events. “The building has been thrown open for tourists. All visitors have to follow the standard operating procedures and carry hand sanitisers and maintain social distance while entering the building,” said Prem Chand, officiating secretary of the Institute. The building was closed for tourists in April. Due to its old-world charm, the building is a big draw for tourists. On an average, over 2 lakh tourists visited the building annually ahead of the lockdown. The IIAS charges ₹40 from domestic tourists and ₹85 from foreign nationals as entry fees. Those who only want to view the building that reminiscences the powerful British rule in India from outside are charged ₹20. The building earns ₹85 lakh annually from visitors. The building was opened for the Public in1992 and was declared a heritage structure in 1997.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shimlas-indian-institute-of-advanced-studies-reopened-for-public-after-five-months-101632349059686.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gurpreet Singh Bhullar takes charge as Ludhiana commissioner of police||Newly appointed commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar took charge of his new command on Wednesday. A 2004-batch IPS officer, Bhullar, was formerly posted as the deputy inspector general of police, Ludhiana range. He succeeds Naunihal Singh, who was transferred to Jalandhar, barely a month after assuming charge of the city police. After taking charge, the new commissioner said prevention of crime, categorisation and surveillance of criminals redressing people’s grievances and cracking down on drugs will be the cornerstone of his tenure as the city police chief. “Should any other wing or agency seize drugs from a police station’s jurisdiction, the station house officer will be held accountable,” he said. Expect improved traffic management“The traffic management plan of the city will be overhauled and senior officers of the traffic wing will be posted on the field to ensure there are no snarls. Moreover, the Police Control Room will be made more responsive so as to quickly respond to any exigency. Police will patrol the roads round-the-clock so that the public feels safe,” Bhullar said, adding that officers will be held accountable for poor public dealings. “Our focus will be good, responsive and transparent policing, for which feedback will be taken from the general public. People visit police stations when they are stressed or disturbed. It is our duty to resolve their issues at the earliest,” he said.Checkpoints inspectedBhullar checked night domination drive in the city on Wednesday. He visited the Sarabha Nagar Market, and the Ferozepur Road near MBD Mall to check different police nakas and stopped at different strategic points to supervise physical checking of private vehicles.Bhullar said no vehicle will be allowed to enter the city without checking. New police chief receives lukewarm reception While a guard of honour received Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on his arrival, his predecessor Naunihal Singh,atypically left the station without symbolically handing over the charge to the new commissioner of police. Barring joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarter) J Elanchezhian, no other senior officer was present at the time of his joining. Officer said they were attending a meeting at the time. Later, the commissioner held deliberations with senior officers of the commissionerate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurpreet-singh-bhullar-takes-charge-as-ludhiana-commissioner-of-police-101632348459498.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Couple held for running flesh trade racket in Ludhiana||A couple was arrested for running a flesh trade racket from their house in Moti Bagh Colony on Tuesday. Apart from the couple, another man and a woman, were arrested from the house, while two of the accused managed to escape. Those arrested are Palwinder Singh, his wife Kamaljit Kaur, Jassi Sandhu of Shivaji Nagar and Prince of Rahon road, while those who managed to escape are Akash and Prabhu of Rahon road.Inspector Pramod Kumar, station house officer at the Tibba police station, said a case has been registered under sections of the Immoral Trafficking Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/couple-held-for-running-flesh-trade-racket-in-ludhiana-101632347500620.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board: Clear outstanding payment by October 31 to avoid cancellation of allotment||Allottees of Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) with outstanding payment will face cancellation of allotment if they don’t clear their dues by October 31.Chief executive officer of CHB Yashpal Garg said, “A considerable amount of dues is pending against many allottees of CHB. All allottees are requested to clear their pending dues, including rent, instalments etc, by October 31 along with applicable interest for delay.”“Thereafter, action as per the terms and conditions of allotment and relevant rules/instructions will be initiated against the defaulter allottees in the first week of November,” said the CEO.There is a possibility that some of the earlier payments made by the allottees were not reflecting in their CHB account. “The allottees may deposit the dues, after deducting the payments they have already made, and for the balance may submit an application for reconciliation with photocopy of payment proof,” Garg said.After required verification, CHB records will be corrected and the dues lists would be rectified by corresponding payments. Part payment of dues is also accepted by the CHB.Garg said details of outstanding dues are uploaded on the website www.chbonline.in from time to time.Various payment options availableGarg said online payments could be made by visiting CHB website without any additional charges, through debit card, credit card and online banking. This was the best way of payment and to further encourage online payments, a computerised draw was being held every month to give a reward of ₹1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions, he added.The allottees may pay the dues at any e-sampark centre, he said, and added that the allottees may generate a challan from CHB website and then make the payment in any of the branches of HDFC within the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-clear-outstanding-payment-by-october-31-to-avoid-cancellation-of-allotment-101632347379662.html
23-09-2021||Other||Since pandemic outbreak, 15,000 students in Himachal have shifted to government schools||The prolonged school closure and financial troubles brought about by the pandemic-induced lockdown have forced many parents to shift their children from private to government schools. In Himachal, an estimated 15,000 students have migrated to government schools since the pandemic outbreak last March.Education secretary Rajiv Sharma said, “This time, we have received orders for 30,000 additional dresses under the Atal Vardi Yojana.” The government had launched the Atal School Vardi Yojana for students of state-run school, under which all students of Classes 1 to 12 get free uniforms. Each student is provided two sets of uniform.As per information, in Classes 1 to 8, there has been an increase of 13,526 in the student strength while in Classes 11 and 12, there was a rise of 9,373. There was no change in the strength of Classes 9 & 10. Majority of the parents have opted for government schools in suburban areas.“The exodus is mostly from smaller private schools. It is possible that parents have more faith in government school but the exorbitant fees charged by private schools could also be the reason,” said the education secretary.Vijender Mehra, head of the Chatra Abhiwavak Sangh, a forum of parents opposing heavy school fees, said, “The fee charged by some of the private schools is too high, and some of the charges are totally uncalled for.”Parents across the states have been constantly demanding that the government regulate private school fee. In wake of the public outrage, Himachal Pradesh government had in June finalised a draft for bringing a legislation to regulate the school fee structure. However, the bill was not tabled in the House during the monsoon session. Himachal would have become the second state after Delhi to introduce such a legislation, if it was passed.The government had constituted a high-level committee, headed by the education minister, to look into the matter. The panel has already submitted its report to the government, which was submitted before the state cabinet for approval so that a necessary law is enacted. The draft of the Himachal Pradesh private schools (regulation of fee and other related matters) Bill, 2021, has already been uploaded on the website of the state education department for seeking suggestions and objections from the public. Despite government orders in the past two years, many private schools did not follow the directions, claiming there was no law in the state to regulate the fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/since-pandemic-outbreak-15-000-students-in-himachal-have-shifted-to-government-schools-101632347199482.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dowry death: Newlywed woman found dead in Ludhiana||A 24-year-old woman was found dead two-and-a-half months after her marriage in Gurpal Nagar on Tuesday. The victim’s mother has alleged that her daughter’s mother-in-law, husband, and his cousin had been demanding dowry from them, and had staged her murder to look like a suicide. The victim had been found hanging from the fan. The victim had married the accused, who works as an accountant at a private firm, on July 2. The complainant, a Gurugram-based schoolteacher, said the accused had started harassing her daughter for dowry soon after her marriage. They had been demanding ₹5 lakh from her.“On Sunday, around 3pm, my daughter spoke to me on the phone and said her in-laws and husband were torturing her and they might kill her. Three hours later, I received a phone call from her mother-in-law saying that her daughter had died by suicide,” the complainant said. Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, Division Number 6 station house officer, said a case had been registered under Sections 304B (dowry death), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dowry-death-newlywed-woman-found-dead-in-ludhiana-101632346599239.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Crop damage: Farmer thrashes patwari in Ludhiana, booked||A farmer was booked for assaulting a patwari (revenue official) on Tuesday for not issuing compensation for crop damage. The complainant said that the accused punched him repeatedly and also tore government records. The accused has been identified as Jagjot Singh of Bhagwanpura village.The complainant, Sandeep Kumar, said that the wheat crop was damaged due to a natural calamity and the farmer had sought compensation. “I told the officers that he had referred the case to senior officers and a response was awaited. However, the accused started hurling insults and opened attack on me. He punched my chest and also tore the documents,”said the patwari.“Before the people could nab him, the accused managed to escape. I informed the police and lodged an FIR against him,” he said.Assistant sub-inspector Lakhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been lodged under Sections 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt), 353 ( criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 ( voluntarily obstruct any public servant in the discharge of his public functions) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/crop-damage-farmer-thrashes-patwari-in-ludhiana-booked-101632346301702.html
23-09-2021||Other||Himachal logs 212 Covid cases, 4 deaths||Himachal Pradesh recorded 212 fresh Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 2,17,615 while the death toll mounted to 3,643 after four patients died of the contagion.Of the new cases, 60 each were reported in Kangra and Mandi, 52 in Hamirpur, 16 in Bilaspur, 10 in Una, five in Shimla, three in Solan, two each in Chamba and Kullu and one in Kinnaur. The active cases have gone up to 1,823 while recoveries reached 2,12,133 after 100 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,551 cases reported to date followed by 30,723 cases in Mandi and 27,078 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-212-covid-cases-4-deaths-101632346300303.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Snatching accused flees police custody||A snatching accused taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 for treatment escaped after pushing aside a Punjab Police constable on Wednesday. Yusuf, 24, of Dera Bassi, was arrested by Mohali police for snatching a mobile phone on September 18. Constable Dilsher Singh said that he, along with constable Kamaldeep, was deployed with Yusuf, who was referred to GMCH from Dera Bassi owing to his poor health condition. On Monday, the cop said, Yusuf complained of stomachache and Kamaldeep went to call a doctor. “He then told me that he wanted to use the loo, from where he fled. We chased him, but he couldn’t be caught,” Dilsher mentioned in his complaint. A case under Section 224 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-snatching-accused-flees-police-custody-101632346299167.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sajjan-Bholu gang carried out Vicky Middukhera’s murder in Mohali: Police||The Sajjan-Bholu gang, active in Delhi and Haryana, was behind the murder of Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera, aka Vicky Middukhera, 33, who was shot dead in Sector 71 on August 7, police said on Wednesday.Police have identified the gang’s leader, Sajjan, alias Bholu, from Jhajjar, Haryana, and Anil Kumar, from Dwarka in Delhi, as the two assailants who chased and shot dead Middukhera.Their involvement in the broad daylight murder was revealed by gangster Kaushal Chaudhary, who was brought by the Mohali police from Karnal jail in connection with another murder case. Following his revelation in a district court, he was sent to six-day police remand. Wanted in over 30 murder casesAccording to investigators, Sajjan and Anil were most-wanted gangsters in the Delhi and Haryana region, and were involved in more than 30 murders and several extortion cases.Police have despatched teams for their arrest, following which the motive behind Middukhera’s murder will be revealed, they said. On August 7, Middukhera was shot dead by two men while he was boarding his SUV after visiting a property dealer in Sector 71. He had sustained 12 bullet injuries.The same day, the Devinder Bambiha gang had claimed responsibility for the murder through a Facebook post.A day later, members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang had pledged revenge for the killing. In another post on the social media, gangster Sampat Nehra had vowed to kill four of the rival gang members.Since the broad daylight murder, the crime investigating agency of Mohali police has grilled three gangsters – Sukhpreet Singh, alias Buddha, Aman Jaittu and Bhupi Rana, suspecting their role in the case.But police ruled that they had nothing to reveal. Questioning of 55 other criminals associated with the Bambiha and other gangs also didn’t provide any leads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sajjanbholu-gang-carried-out-vicky-middukhera-s-murder-in-mohali-police-101632346186540.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||74-year-old loses battle to Covid in Chandigarh; 13 new cases in tricity||A 74-year-old man from Chandigarh’s Sector 48 succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Mohali on Wednesday.He was also suffering from diabetes mellitus and hypertension.The latest fatality pushed UT’s toll to 819. No death was reported in Mohali or Panchkula, where 1,063 and 377 people, respectively, have died till date. So far in September, Chandigarh has recorded six deaths, three people have died in Mohali, and Panchkula has confirmed no death.Meanwhile, tricity’s daily cases dropped to 13 from 17 on Tuesday.Among these, six were reported in Chandigarh, four in Mohali and three in Panchkula.The infected patients in the UT are residents of Sectors 30, 47 and 56. In Mohali, two cases each surfaced in Mohali city and Kharar, while all three cases from Panchkula came from Sector 16.Tricity’s active cases continued to remain over 100 for the second day in a row. Of the 102 infected patients, 44 are in Chandigarh, 40 in Mohali and 18 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/74yearold-loses-battle-to-covid-in-chandigarh-13-new-cases-in-tricity-101632346185370.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala man stabs wife to death with kirpan, held||A 40-year-old man has been arrested for stabbing his wife to death following an argument at their house in Ambala’s Saha town on Tuesday.According to police, the accused, Baljinder Singh, 40, a farmer from Kesari village, stabbed the victim, Manjit Kaur, with a kirpan, causing injuries in the stomach and other body parts. The victim’s brother Jasbir Singh told the police that she got married in 2006, and had an 11-year-old daughter and a nine-year-old son.He alleged that Baljinder often fought with his sister, and he had pacified him several times in the past.On Tuesday, he received a call from Baljinder’s brother Gurvinder, who shared that Manjit was injured and was being taken to a hospital in Mohra. But she died before he could reach there, Jasbir said in his statement. Sub-inspector Gurmail Singh, station house officer, Saha police station, said the accused was arrested from his house. He has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.The victim was cremated after an autopsy on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-man-stabs-wife-to-death-with-kirpan-held-101632346183647.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cop facing action for skipping duty during Punjab CM’s swearing-in||Inspector Harinder Singh Sekhon, in-charge of the UT Police crime branch, is facing departmental action for failing to report to duty during the swearing-in ceremony of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi.Recommending action against him, senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manisha Choudhary has forwarded a report to DIG Omvir Singh Bishnoi.For the swearing-in ceremony of the Punjab chief minister, different police officials were deployed on security duties and nakas were set up at different places in the city. Superintendent of police (City) Ketan Bansal had called up inspector Sekhon, who told him that he was on security duty. However, on checking, he was found missing. SP Bansal prepared a report in this regard and submitted it to SSP Manisha Choudhary . “Based on the preliminary inquiry report, departmental action by the disciplinary authority concerned has been recommended,” said the SSP. “I have received the report, but I am yet to go through it,” said DIG Bishnoi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cop-facing-action-for-skipping-duty-during-punjab-cm-s-swearingin-101632346182511.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: GMADA approves seven sites for rehabilitation of street vendors||Paving the way for the implementation of the Street Vending Act in the city, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has approved seven of the eight proposed sites to relocate vendors. The approval came during a meeting between the officials of GMADA and municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday evening. The civic body, which is to implement the Act, had been writing letters to the authority for past 18 months for approval and possession of sites. MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “Following the meeting, officials visited the earmarked locations and a consensus was reached on seven sites. We are hopeful of getting possession soon, which will help us begin the process to rehabilitate vendors.” Implementation of the Street Vendors’ (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, has been hanging fire since 2015, when MC had first ordered a survey to identify street vendors in the city. The Act is aimed at registering and rehabilitating street vendors, and also safeguarding them against exploitation at the hands of enforcement officers. It also calls for proper rationing of urban streets and spaces. Illegal vendors dot several main markets of the city, especially those in Phases 7, 3B1, 3B2, 9, 10, and 11.A private firm hired by MC to carry out the survey had initially shortlisted 2,295 vendors, but the MC House found gaps in the survey and ordered it anew. Later in 2017, the civic body concluded there were 993 moving and stationary vendors, a number that has since multiplied manifold.In January last year, MC had decided to implement the Act first in Phase 7, where as many as 139 vendors are registered. The MC commissioner had even asked the agency that conducted the survey to mark vending space in the parking areas, but the plan had fallen flat following objections by the market welfare association and area councillor. Thereon, MC issued identity cards to 200 of the 993 vendors, but they were never given designated spaces to carry out their trade. Later in August, GMADA earmarked eight sites, but failed to approve these, until now.Seven vending zonesSector 54, near Bassi Theatre Sector 55, near Phase-1 barrier Sector 56, UT-Mohali border Sector 68, near Temple of Knowledge Sector 77, near waterworks Sector 77, near Akal Ashram Colony Sector 78, near Fire Station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-gmada-approves-seven-sites-for-rehabilitation-of-street-vendors-101632346181109.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGIMER patients pained by long delays in elective surgeries||Despite the decline in Covid-19 cases in the region, patients’ struggle to secure appointment dates for elective surgeries at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) continues.While the number of Covid patients admitted at the hospital has also dropped sharply, the institute is performing only half the elective surgeries as compared to the pre-Covid times, and patients are being asked to wait for three to four months for a surgery date.Elective surgery is a procedure scheduled in advance because it does not involve a medical emergency.Before the virus outbreak, over 200 such surgeries were being conducted every day at various departments of the hospital, as per the authorities.But as Covid cases started surfacing in March 2020, elective surgeries and physical out-patient departments (OPDs) were suspended, with only emergency services continuing.Though elective surgeries were resumed in September, their number never returned to 200 per day. Patients’ long wait was extended further as the planned surgeries were once again called off in March 2021 due to the second wave of the pandemic.While appointments for surgeries resumed at the hospital in June, since then the number has risen to only around 100 per day, despite the huge pendency.Ritu Singla, a 37-year-old woman from Mansa, Punjab, said, “Due to varicose veins, I have been consulting PGIMER’s neurology department for the last few years. My condition worsened last year, so surgery was the only option for relief. But doctors asked me to wait till cases started declining.”“I approached the hospital again in April this year. But even with the Covid cases receding, my wait for an appointment date has not ended. Doctors still want me to wait for another three months. But I cannot bear the pain anymore, so I am approaching a private hospital,” she said.Suffering from kidney stones, Vijay Mishra, a resident of Kangra, Himachal Pradesh, is in the same boat: “I got operated for kidney stones at PGIMER a few years back. But I was again diagnosed with small stones again in June this year. Since then, I couldn’t get appointment for physical consultation at the OPD, despite trying the tele-consultation numbers several times. In August, I finally secured an OPD appointment, but now doctors have been telling me to wait for few more months to get surgery.”‘Covid protocols take time’As per PGIMER’s financial report of 2020-21, uploaded on the hospital’s official website, 2,61,837 minor and major elective surgeries were conducted at the institute in financial year 2019-20. Their number decreased to 34,428 in financial year 2020-21 due to Covid-19 restrictions – an 87% drop.Meanwhile, at 14,704, emergency surgeries also dipped in 2020-21 from 24,022 in 2019-2020.As per the medical records department of the PGIMER, as many as 1,693 emergency surgeries and 3,452 elective surgeries were done in August this year, followed by 1,057 emergency surgeries and 2,302 elective surgeries in September so far.“To handle the Covid-19 surge, various medical institutes in the country had to suspend the elective surgeries, leading to huge pendency. The PGIMER departments are working at full capacity at present and are performing maximum surgeries, keeping in mind the Covid-19 guidelines. Every patient gets tested for Covid-19 and comorbidities before the surgery, and the procedure takes time,” said Dr AK Gupta, dean (research)-cum-medical superintendent, PGIMER.He added, “We are gradually catching up to the pre-pandemic pace for providing medical facilities to non-Covid patients. Both elective surgery count and OPD facilities are being ramped up gradually.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-patients-pained-by-long-delays-in-elective-surgeries-101632346179966.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hit-and-run accidents snuff out three lives in Mohali||Three people were killed in different hit-and-run accidents in the district over the past 24 hours.Police said 62-year-old Raghuveer Singh, a resident of Ghadua village, Kharar, died after a speeding car hit him while crossing a road on foot.Investigating officer Balveer Singh said he was rushed to a private hospital in Sector 71, but was declared brought dead.In a similar accident on the Kurali Road in Kharar, a speeding vehicle claimed the life of 42-year-old Mahinder Kumar.Kumar, a resident of Bhukhdi Colony, Kharar, worked as a contractor with the water supply department in Phase 6. The accident took place when he was riding his motorcycle from work to home on Tuesday evening. He was declared brought dead at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh.Investigating officer Harminder Singh said they were checking the CCTV footage at the accident site to trace the vehicle. In the third case, a 40-year-old Nepal resident was killed in Sector 87 on Tuesday night. The deceased, Vishal, worked as a watchman in a housing society in Sector 97. He was going to work on his motorcycle when a speeding car hit him. Doctors at PGIMER pronounced him brought dead. The unidentified car drivers in all three cases have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hitandrun-accidents-snuff-out-three-lives-in-mohali-101632346119654.html
23-09-2021||Other||Jai Ram flies to remote Kwar village with vaccines||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday flew to Kwar, one of the remotest villages in Rohru assembly segment and took along 2,500 doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Thakur during his day-long tour laid foundation stones for developmental projects worth ₹7.02 crore.Addressing a public meeting, the CM announced the opening of HPSEB sub division at Dodra Kwar, Jal Shakti junior engineer section at Dodra, ₹20 lakh for Jiskun road, ₹15 lakh each for five panchayats of the area for carrying out developmental works in their respective areas. He announced the opening of the SMS office at Kwar, ₹10 lakh each for six newly created gram panchayats of Rohru assembly constituency for construction of a new panchayat bhawan and ₹15,000 each for 17 mahila manuals of the area from his discretionary fund. He said matters regarding setting up BSNL and Airtel towers would be taken up with authorities concerned to ensure better connectivity in the area. Thakur said efforts would be made to bring people of Dodra Kwar area under the OBC category and all formalities regarding this would be completed at the earliest. He said all vacant posts of different departments, including SDM, would be filled up on priority basis. He said the Chanshal area will be developed under Nai Raahein Nai Manzilein Scheme for Ski and winter sports destinations. He said this will give a new fillip for tourism activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jai-ram-flies-to-remote-kwar-village-with-vaccines-101632345879540.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||6 fresh Covid cases reported in Ludhiana, vaccination stock arrives||Six fresh cases of the coronavirus infection were reported in the district on Wednesday, while no casualty was reported.With this, the Covid count in the district has mounted to 87,533, of which 2,100 patients have succumbed . As many as 85,406 patients have recovered and 27 active cases remain active in the district. The administration also received a fresh stock of 1.08 lakh Covid vaccinations. Vaccination vamps will be organised at 260 sites on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-vaccination-stock-arrives-101632345819254.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rain damages paddy at Ambala mandis||Three days before the paddy procurement is expected to begin in Haryana, farmers have complained of crop damage due to incessant rain at several mandis in Ambala district. Several peasants have already reached the grain markets with their loaded tractor- trailers. The continuous spells of rain since Tuesday morning has mounted the worries of farmers, who are waiting for the procurement process to start at major mandis on Hisar Road and NH-44. Harjit Singh, a farmer from Raiwali village, said he was bound to bring his crop to market as it was ready for cultivation. “I came on Tuesday when it was raining and now, I’ve to wait till the purchase starts. It hasn’t stopped raining for almost two days and my crop needs to get dried, so that it is free of moisture content,” he said. His apprehensions were seconded by a fellow peasant, Soocha Singh, who also sought an early purchase.For these demands, a delegation of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) led by its district unit president Malkit Singh met deputy commissioner Vikram at his office.He said, “If the crop is not cultivated on time, it gets destroyed due to rain and other reasons and if it is brought to mandi, waterlogging affects its quality. The government should consider an early purchase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-damages-paddy-at-ambala-mandis-101632345639183.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||18-year-old crushed under bus in Ludhiana||A speeding bus mowed down an 18-year-old man to death on the Kohara-Sahnewal Road on Wednesday, while he was trying to overtake another vehicle. The victim, Narinder Ghumait, is a resident of Ghumait village. The unidentified driver abandoned the bus and fled from the spot soon after the accident. The father of the victim, Lakhbir Singh Ghumait, a scribe with a vernacular, said his son was going to Sahnewal on his motorcycle when the mishap took place. He died on the spot. A case has been registered against the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18yearold-crushed-under-bus-in-ludhiana-101632345219168.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||CBI court convicts former ASI in 1992 Amritsar fake encounter case||The CBI court in Mohali on Wednesday convicted a former police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) in a 1992 fake encounter incident at Sathiala village of Beas in Amritsar district. The quantum of punishment will be announced on Thursday. Another accused, inspector Wassan Singh, who was also charged with ex-ASI Amrik Singh, died during the trial. Judge Harinder Kaur Sidhu held Amrik guilty of kidnapping, illegal confinement, and killing Gurvinder Singh in a fake encounter. The accused, who was on bail and was present in the court, was taken into custody. The FIR in the case was registered in 1997 following the directions of the Supreme Court. The agency filed a chargesheet against Wassan Singh and Amrik for killing Gurvinder Singh, who was a resident of Pheruman village in Amritsar district. As per the case, a police party raided the house of Gurvinder and picked his father Chanan Singh. Then they picked Gurvinder from the house of his uncle in Jalandhar. The next day, Gurvinder Singh was shown as killed in an encounter with the police. The case was handed over to the CBI in 2000.Charges of kidnapping, illegal confinement and murder were framed against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-court-convicts-former-asi-in-1992-amritsar-fake-encounter-case-101632345039121.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||No stopping revolving chair of Ludhiana police commissioner as city gets 18 incumbents in 11 years||The 31-day tenure of Naunihal Singh as Ludhiana police commissioner was not really an aberration as the city has witnessed as many as 18 transfers of the top cop since the commissionerate system was introduced in 2010. It translates into an average tenure of a little over a year for each incumbent with some, like Naunihal, lasting barely for a few weeks. Naunihal was shifted out within three days of change in the state top leadership following the resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh as chief minister on September 18. With new police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar taking charge on Wednesday, the stint of Naunihal, who assumed office only on August 21, as the city’s senior-most cop will go down as one of the shortest. For now, RK Jaiswal holds the record of serving as commissioner for just 23 days in May 2014. Naunihal’s tenure of 31 days has now become the second shortest. The third shortest is of Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh who was transferred after just 38 days of assuming charge. Such transfers — overtly and covertly influenced by political considerations — are against the law. Section 15 of the Punjab Police Act says an officer of the rank of station house officer (SHO) and above shall have an assured tenure of one year, extendable up to three years. It can be cut short only in case of promotion, conviction, suspension, or if the officer is suffering from a grave illness, it adds. In 2014 alone, Ludhiana witnessed appointment of five police commissioners. As of now, Rakesh Kumar Agrawal is the only officer who managed to complete two years, the longest so far. Soon after his joining last month, Naunihal had prepared a roadmap for “improving” law and order in the city which included jurisdiction reorganisation of police stations, police posts and departmental offices. A detailed plan for managing traffic in the city was also chalked out. While he adopted the unconventional measure by summoning the force for patrolling at odd hours, the plans may either get a fresh push or are likely to go down the drain. The officer had also held meetings with industrialists twice. “It is a total wastage of resources and time as officers get changed so fast. Such frequent changes at senior level disrupt the functioning of the police force,” said Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-stopping-revolving-chair-of-ludhiana-police-commissioner-as-city-gets-18-incumbents-in-11-years-101632344919380.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Who is your chief minister face for 2022 Punjab assembly polls, Sukhbir Badal asks Congress||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday asked the ruling Congress to clarify as who was their chief ministerial candidate for the 2022 Punjab assembly polls. Talking to mediapersons in Chandigarh after inducting industrialist Jagdev Singh Boparai into the party fold, Sukhbir said the Congress high command was trying to befool the people of the state “by frequently changing names of its CM candidate”. “Initially, the name of Navjot Singh Sidhu as party candidate was announced but later they said that the party will go to the polls under Capt Amarinder Singh. Then, Sidhu’s name was floated, undermining the authority of newly appointed CM Charanjit Singh Channi. Not only the people of Punjab but also the state leaders of the Congress want to know who actually is their CM face,” said Sukhbir. Taking a jibe at the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the former deputy CM said both the parties are controlled by their leaders sitting in Delhi. “The Akali Dal is only party which has base in Punjab and has been working for the welfare of the people of the state since it came into existence,” he claimed. The Congress, he alleged, failed miserably in fulfilling the promises it had made to the people of Punjab ahead of the 2017. “Changing chief minister at the fag-end of the government’s tenure will not help the party’s cause. People of Punjab will give a befitting reply to the party in the upcoming elections,” he added. SAD legislator Bikram Singh Majithia was also present on the occasion. New CM being bulldozed by Sidhu: ChughBJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Friday questioned if the new Punjab chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, was being “bulldozed” by the state Congress president, Navjot Singh Sidhu. In a statement, Chugh said the way Sidhu has been overbearingly guiding and accompanying the chief minister was a clear indication from the Congress high command that Sidhu would be calling shots in Punjab and the rest of the cabinet would play second fiddle to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/who-is-your-chief-minister-face-for-2022-punjab-assembly-polls-sukhbir-badal-asks-congress-101632344799149.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Will ensure justice in 2015 sacrilege cases, says new Punjab CM Channi||Newly appointed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said he will ensure justice in the 2015 sacrilege incidents and that governance under his stewardship will be in consonance with propriety. The CM, who was accompanied by state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and his deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, attended early morning rituals at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. The two also shouldered the palanquin carrying Guru Granth Sahib from the Akal Takht to the shrine’s sanctum sanctorum. “We have come here to seek blessings of Guru Sahib. The governance will be within the boundaries of propriety and decorum. All faiths and social sections will get due respect,” Channi said.“I assure you that there will be justice in the sacrilege cases,” Channi said, referring to the series of desecration incidents of ‘birs’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib after the incident at Bargari in Faridkot district in June 2015 and subsequent protests that left two followers dead in police firing at Behbal Kalan in October 2015 during the Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP rule. Six years after the incidents, the delay in action was one of the reasons for the rebellion within the Congress against former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Five months to go for the assembly elections, the Congress leadership, at the instance of Sidhu, had asked Capt Amarinder to fulfil the pre-poll promise of bringing the perpetrators of the sacrilege and police firing cases to justice. Sidhu said: “Politics in Punjab had veered away from real issues concerning the state but our new CM has brought them back into focus. What I felt in the company of this humble CM in the last few days, I never did in the last 17 years of my political career. Now I am feel that the Congress can serve the people fearlessly. Now, every party worker will fight for truth and rights.”Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka, Golden Temple manager Gurinder Singh and others felicitated the CM, his deputies and Sidhu with ‘siropas’. The CM was also presented a replica of the Golden Temple.Later, the three paid tributes to the martyrs at the Jallianwala Bagh besides paying obeisance at the Durgiana Temple and the Ram Tirath Temple. Channi and Sidhu also visited residences of senior party leaders, including former minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, state working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Amritsar West MLA Raj Kumar Verka and Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, in Amritsar. BOX:CM has a brief stopover at tea stall, recites poetryCM Channi and Sidhu had a brief stopover ‘Giani Tea Stall’ near Bhandari bridge, where the CM recited poetry while sitting on a stool and sipping tea after pouring it in a small bowl.“Chalte firte hue mehtab dikhaenge tumhen, humse milna kabhi, ye Punjab dikhaenge tumhen. Chand har chhat pe hai, suraj hai har aangan mein, neend se jaago, naye khwab dikhaenge tumhen (Come, I will show you moonlight while walking around.. I will show you real Punjab. Here, there is moon at every terrace and sun in every patio; wake up, will show you new dreams),” Channi said.Sidhu offered fritters to the CM with locals gathered at the tea stall. He was also seen engaging in banter with those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-ensure-justice-in-2015-sacrilege-cases-says-new-punjab-cm-channi-101632344499627.html
23-09-2021||Dehradun||Himalayan black bear shot dead by Uttarakhand forest officials in self-defence||A Himalayan black bear was shot dead by Uttarakhand forest officials in Joshimath area of Chamoli district. The video of the incident has gone viral on social media. Forest range officer, Joshimath, Chetna Kandpal, said that after the bear attacked five people in last one week or so, permission was sought for tranquilising it. “When a team of two veterinary doctors shot two darts at it on Tuesday evening, it was still moving and attacked the team of forest officials which went ahead to catch it with a net. As it attacked them, they shot at it in self-defence,” she said. Kandpal said after being hit by the bullet, the team of forest officials tried to save it. “It was being taken for treatment to a nearby facility, but it died on the way,” she said., According to forest officials, with the onset of winters, bear attacks increase as bears come down from snowy higher reaches in search of food. Himalayan black bears can be found in and around Himalayan meadows at an elevation of 10,000 to 12,000 feet high. They come down to 5,000-6000 feet in winter months in search of food. The Himalayan black bear has been listed as a vulnerable species under the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species Incidents of man-bear conflict are reported in the state from time to time. In November last year, a 47-year-old man was killed by a Himalayan black bear in Chamoli district. In the first week of September last year, a 48-year-old man was killed by a bear in Pithoragarh district. The victim was a labourer working on a road project on Munsiyari-Milam road stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/himalayan-black-bear-shot-dead-by-uttarakhand-forest-officials-in-selfdefence-101632344379835.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||USA women’s cricket team selects former Punjab bowler Moksha Chaudhary||Back in 2012, cricketer Moksha Chaudhary from Patiala came very close to realising her dream of playing for India women’s team when she was selected in the probables for 2013 ICC Women’s Cricket World Cup. But she could not make it.Nine years on, the 31-year-old fast bowler has been selected in the United States of America (USA) women’s cricket team, which will compete in the 2021 ICC Women’s T20 World Cup Americas Qualifier in Mexico from October 18 to 25.Chaudhary had moved to the USA when she was married in 2017, and she carried her love for cricket overseas. “After my last season with Punjab Cricket Association, I moved to Gurgaon, where I worked with Decathlon and played club cricket. Before I moved to the USA, I got in touch with a few individuals who were part of the USA cricket system or in some way connected to the organisation back then. They provided me with guidance on the structure/pathway of women’s cricket in the USA. So, I started training as soon as I moved to the US, and I played my first official USA women’s cricket tournament in June 2018,” informed Chaudhary, who is a resident of Chelmsford, Massachusetts.The USA women’s team will be competing against Argentina, Brazil, and Canada in a double round-robin event that will decide which team will advance to the ICC Women’s World Twenty20 World Qualifier in 2022.Thapar alumna idolises Jhulan GoswamiA former student of Thapar Institute of Engineering And Technology, Patiala, Chaudhary has always idolised Australian fast bowler Glenn McGrath and India’s Jhulan Goswami.“I have played a lot of cricket since moving to the USA. Although getting selected for the national camp is the highlight of my cricketing career in India, I watched and learned a lot from some of the greatest in women’s cricket like Mithali Raj, Jhulan Goswami, Harmanpreet Kaur, and a few others. And now, I am thrilled to play in my first ever ICC event representing the USA,” added Chaudhary, who has also worked on her batting skills and is now a useful middle-order batter.Chaudhary was made aware of the structure of women’s cricket in the USA. She attended her first USA Combine (equivalent to selection trials in India) back in 2018. She then focused more on fitness and skills and developing as an all-rounder, and since then, she has been part of every USA women’s national camp.The USA women’s team has players of Indian origin and Sindhu Sriharsha will captain the 15-member team in the tournament in Mexico. Chaudhary is the only one with roots in Punjab.On the contribution of players from the subcontinent, Chaudhary said, “The women’s game in the USA has strong support from those with a subcontinent background. We do have players from the Caribbean and other parts of the world as well, and most are residents in the USA.”USA cricket growing by leaps and boundsUSA cricket has grown by leaps and bounds and wants to join hands with other big cricket nations in coming years. A lot of male Indian domestic cricketers have also quit cricket in India to pursue the game in the USA.“There has been a lot of progress in recent years. USA cricket has a solid domestic structure that has given players a lot of exposure and opportunities to showcase their talent. The USA women’s team has a very experienced support staff, including our head coach Julia Price, Burt Cockley, strength and conditioning coach, and others,” said Chaudhary, asserting on the team’s bright future ahead, which returns to action for their first international matches in over two years.Chaudhary, who doesn’t miss catching up with her coaches in Patiala on the phone, wants to shine for the USA in the coming years. “I want to play for the USA in the ICC Women’s World Twenty20 World Qualifier in 2022. And thereafter qualify for the Twenty20 World Cup to be held in South Africa in 2023,” said Chaudhary, who is known for bowling with the new ball and also extracting swing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/usa-women-s-cricket-team-selects-former-punjab-bowler-moksha-chaudhary-101632344259164.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gang of robbers busted in Sangrur, 11 held with arms||The Sangrur police on Wednesday claimed to have busted four gangs that allegedly committed robberies, burglaries and thefts in the district and arrested 11 persons in this connection with firearms. The crimes were committed in the last 24 hours, officials said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Swapan Sharma said four members of the Kala Kachha gang were targeting secluded houses in the night by obtaining information while posing as cloth sellers in the daytime. “Their kingpin Anwar Kumar, a resident of Indira Colony in Machhiwara was arrested. They were selling stolen ornaments to a Hoshiarpur-based jeweller who too will be booked. His accomplices Shekhar, alias Shankar, Duggo, Avinash and Anju, residents of Kangra in Himachal Pradesh will be arrested soon,” Sharma said. In the second case, four persons — Tarandeep Tarni of Mulowal in Dhuri, Harpal Singh Ghuggi, Gurwinder Singh, alias Godi of Tohana in Fatehabad and Ajay of Narwana in Haryana— were arrested in Dhuri, he added. “The police recovered a .32 bore pistol and two cartridges from them. Their interrogation led us to a man in Madhya Pradesh who was selling illegal weapons. They admitted to have looted ₹1 lakh in cash, 100 gram gold jewellery from a house under the jurisdiction of the Dhuri city police station around a week ago,” he said. Mandeep Singh, alias Babbu, Lakhvir of Janata Nagar and Sudhir Kumar of Dhuri were nabbed with a country-made pistol, 5 cartridges, jewellery and a motorcycle. “Their interrogation led us to a seller of illegal weapons in MP,” Sharma claimed. In the fourth case, the police arrested Jaswinder, alias Jassi of Bhammawaddi, who is already facing a drug case; Ajay, alias Robin of Sangrur and Satgur Singh of Chatha Sekhwan, who has six cases of drug and excise registered against him. A case under the Arms Act was registered against them at the Longowal police station. “The name of the MP-based arms seller will be included in the FIR,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-of-robbers-busted-in-sangrur-11-held-with-arms-101632344199194.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy smuggling: Increase vigilance on 16 interstate entry points, Mohali DC instructs officials||In view of the ensuing paddy procurement season, deputy commissioner Isha Kalia asked the police department to be extra vigilant on 16 interstate checkpoints to check smuggling of paddy in the district from other parts of the country.In a meeting with the police, and food supply, agriculture and other allied departments, the DC said that strict monitoring of rice shellers should be ensured so that the menace of recycling of paddy could be checked.Instructing officials to be extra conscious on 16 interstate entry points of the district, she said that proper arrangements in tandem with all stakeholder departments should be made to check smuggling of paddy.DC Kalia also asked agriculture and mandi board officials to gear up for the upcoming paddy procurement season so that farmers could be facilitated in the grain markets during the entire operation. She said that Covid-19 pandemic was posing a major danger to human life, thus it was the need of the hour to ensure strict adherence to medical protocol during procurement.The DC said that the state government will make elaborate arrangements to ensure that the harvest of farmers was lifted from the grain markets in a smooth and hassle-free manner. She said that farmers would not be allowed to face any sort of problem while selling their produce. Besides procurement, a proper mechanism will be evolved for the proper transportation and storage of the grains, she said.Kalia instructed that requisite arrangement of power, sheds for farmers, potable water supply and equipment to monitor the quality of produce at each procurement centre should be made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-smuggling-increase-vigilance-on-16-interstate-entry-points-mohali-dc-instructs-officials-101632343839524.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Book 5 former ministers, AAP tells Punjab chief minister Channi||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition in Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Wednesday asked chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to register cases against five former ministers who were embroiled in controversies during the previous Capt Amarinder Singh government in the state. Addressing a press conference here, Cheema said the AAP had been seeking action against cabinet ministers Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Sunder Sham Arora during the previous government, but then chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh kept defending them. “It is a test for new chief minister Channi and Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu whether they will take action against these tainted former ministers or forgive them,” he said. AAP state general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat and spokesperson Neel Garg were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/book-5-former-ministers-aap-tells-punjab-chief-minister-channi-101632343779163.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula bids a tearful adieu to Major Anuj Rajput||The mortal remains of Major Anuj Rajput, who had died in a chopper crash in J&K’s Udhampur on Tuesday, were consigned to flames with full military honours in Panchkula on Wednesday. Hundreds of city residents joined the army and Major Rajput’s family during his last rites. Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta was also present. The inconsolable father of Major Rajput, KS Arya said, “He was my only child. How will I live without him.”The 28-year-old had got engaged just a few months ago. While his father is a former commercial pilot and an advocate, his mother Usha is a government schoolteacher. Major Rajput’s parents had left for Udhampur on Tuesday to bring his body to his home town Panchkula. Major Rajput, along with Major Rohit Kumar, was on a training sortie when his Cheetah helicopter crash-landed in Shiv Garh Dhar near Patnitop in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, resulting in grave injuries. Both the pilots succumbed to the injuries at the Command Hospital in Udhampur where they had been evacuated for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-bids-a-tearful-adieu-to-major-anuj-rajput-101632343299039.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bail jumpers can’t seek parity with other accused, says Punjab and Haryana high court||The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that those jumping bail can’t seek parity in seeking anticipatory bail with those wherein there is an apprehension of arrest on institution of FIR or lodging of complaint or having been summoned by a court for the first time to face trial. The bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill said it is only when a person apprehends his arrest pursuant to an accusation having been made regarding commission of non-bailable offence that provisions of section 438 CrPC (provisions which deal with anticipatory bail matters) may be availed of. The court dismissed a plea filed by one Pawan Kumar against whom a complaint under the sections of Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act was filed in January 2018. He secured anticipatory bail but on account of absence before the trial court in July 2019 proceedings and thereafter, protection given to him from arrest was withdrawn and in January 2020, arrest warrants were issued against him. He had approached high court stating that his son left the house without telling anyone and his family members kept on searching for him and it was only in the first week of June, 2021 that he came to know about the whereabouts of his son. It was on account of the mental tension that he could not appear before the trial court. Another argument was that it was also on account of spread of pandemic that he was prevented from causing appearance. The court observed that the petitioner remained absent for a period of almost two years. On claim of son went missing, court found that there was nothing to support the said claim as even DDR was not submitted before the court. Apparently, the contention has been cooked up by the petitioner. His argument that he was prevented on account of Covid-19 can also not be accepted as the virus had not spread in July 2019. Taking note of provisions of the CrPC, the bench observed that it is only upon an apprehension of arrest consequent upon initiation of some criminal proceedings that the said provisions can be invoked. The bench also took note of an SC judgment in which it was held that when an accused is on bail, he is in a way in constructive custody and if the law requires him to surrender or to take him back in custody, it cannot be said that there is apprehension of his arrest on account of accusation as he is deemed to be in constructive custody already and that in such circumstances provisions of Section 438 CrPC cannot be availed of. The court further observed that court cannot lose sight of the fact that there would be certain cases where an accused is unable to appear before the trial court on account of genuine reasons. “In such cases, the accused can surrender before the trial court and it is expected that the trial courts would take a lenient view in genuine cases and decide the regular bail application expeditiously,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bail-jumpers-can-t-seek-parity-with-other-accused-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-101632343179417.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Three more PU departments reopen for final-year students||In view of limited Covid cases, Panjab University (PU) has decided to reopen its campus for the final-year postgraduate students enrolled at the departments of botany, geology and zoology from September 24, authorities said on Wednesday.The committee, constituted by the dean of university, had decided to reopen the campus for the students in a phased manner from September 13. In the first phase, the campus reopened for final-year postgraduate students of physics and chemistry departments along with the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) and dental college. “In the next phase, departments of botany, geology and zoology have been reopened for final-year postgraduate students but the university has limited accommodation in the hostel as the rule of single accommodation is being implemented due to the Covid situation. Therefore, limited eligible students will be allowed to stay in the hostel with some conditions,” the official notice read.However, the students’ bodies want PU to open all departments for at least the postgraduate students. “The university has decided to reopen campus for final-year students of few departments, while they have forgotten the other departments. We don’t welcome this move as the university should be open for every department for final-year students,” said Nikhil Narmeta, president, NSUI. Also, the university has scheduled online counselling for admission to three-year LLB course on Thursday (September 23) for general category students while reserved category can appear on Friday (September 24).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-more-pu-departments-reopen-for-final-year-students-101632342698972.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet rejig: Rahul, Priyanka back in Delhi, step up talks||The process of expansion of the council of ministers of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is likely to get accelerated with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra returning to Delhi on Wednesday. Rahul and Priyanka, who were holidaying in Shimla, went back to Delhi via Chandigarh. They travelled from Shimla to Chandigarh by road and then took a flight to Delhi. Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar also accompanied them from Chandigarh. Though there is speculation that Rahul is consulting the former PPCC chief on cabinet formation, Jakhar said that it was a chance meeting and nothing should be read into this. “I was travelling to Delhi and they (Gandhi siblings) were also on the same flight,” he said.Jakhar, a Hindu face, was a frontrunner for the chief minister’s post with Rahul’s backing after Capt Amarinder Singh resigned on September 18. However, some party leaders, including Ambika Soni and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, favoured a Sikh CM and later Channi’s name was finalised from among other aspirants.Channi, his two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu had met central leaders of the party in Delhi on Tuesday to discuss the probables for the state cabinet. The names doing the rounds for inclusion include Pargat Singh, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, and Raj Kumar Verka. There is speculation that some former ministers, including Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sunder Sham Arora may not find place in the new council of ministers. With Rahul back in Delhi, another round of deliberations is expected on Thursday to decide the names and portfolios.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-rejig-rahul-priyanka-back-in-delhi-step-up-talks-101632342459139.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sirsa challenges disqualification by gurdwara election body||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Wednesday moved the Delhi high court against the decision of the gurdwara election body to disqualify him from being co-opted as a member of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee.The matter is listed for hearing on September 24. The process of co-option means appointment to the membership of a committee or any other body by the invitation of existing members.The Directorate of Gurdwara Elections, New Delhi, disqualified Sirsa on the grounds that he is not well-versed with the reading and writing of Gurmukhi as per eligibility conditions for co-option laid down in the DSGMC Act-1971. “I have challenged the biased orders of the directorate….it is not written anywhere in the (DSGMC) Act that Gurbani has to be recited,” he said. “How can he (director) quantify what is less (knowledge of Gurmukhi) or what is more,” asked Sirsa. He added that 212 candidates contested gurdwara polls (held on August 22) and none of them, except him, were made to take the test. This despite the fact that the directorate had cleared my nominations thrice in the past, said Sirsa.. Sirsa, a former DSGMC president, had lost the August 22 election to Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) candidate Harvinder Singh Sarna. On August 25, when the result of the polls was announced, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced that Sirsa will continue as the DSGMC president.Sarna had filed a petition in the HC, seeking Sirsa’s disqualification for cooption on the grounds of lack of Gurmukhi knowledge. On September 15, the high court had ordered the directorate to submit a report by September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sirsa-challenges-disqualification-by-gurdwara-election-body-101632342399120.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Proclaimed offender lands in Chandigarh Police net after 3 years||Chandigarh Police on Wednesday arrested the director of a private company three years after he was declared a proclaimed offender following the registration of 149 cases of cheating against him. Gurpreet Singh Sidhu hails from Fazilka and is accused of duping people on the pretext of selling them plots. Many complaints as well as execution applications are pending with consumer courts against him. He was arrested following a tip-off from Ferozepur. His arrest comes almost after week after in-charge, PO and summon staff, Inspector Jasminder Singh was transferred to the police lines. Gurpeet has been declared proclaimed offender in 96 cases and convicted in 12 cases, while 41 cases are pending against him. Multiple execution applications and non-bailable arrest warrants were issued by the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, against him. He also has warrants issued against him in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. He was produced before the district court; State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh; District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, Chandigarh; and State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/proclaimed-offender-lands-in-chandigarh-police-net-after-3-years-101632342279124.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Police report: 1,600 drug peddlers active in Moga||Around 1,600 drug peddlers are active in Moga district, with border districts of Ferozepur and Tarn Taran being the main source of supply, reveals a report prepared by the police department. The Moga police have prepared the report based on disclosure statements of arrested drug peddlers, analysis of NDPS cases registered in the past 10 years, internal assessments and inputs of local cops, sarpanches and revenue directorate. According to the report, out of the 1,600 active drug peddlers, 45 are big fish who trade in commercial quantities. Another 700 drug peddlers are lodged in jails.“The report has been prepared to keep a check on activities of drug peddlers. Directions have been given to all police officials concerned to track these 1,600 drug smugglers and arrest them,” said Dhruman H Nimbale, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Moga. Police are in direct contact with sarpanches and are also launching a door-to-door in villages, said the SSP.15 hot spots in district The report also points to around 15 hotspots in the district, including Daulewala, Nurpur Haqiman, Chuhar Chak, Kot Ise Khan and a few wards of Moga city. A few days ago, police had raided Daulewala village and recovered 1.65 kilograms of heroin from nine drug traffickers.“Earlier, there were only 10 hot spots. Now, the number has gone up. Identification of these hot spots will help us in breaking the supply chain,” said Nimbale, adding that the most common drugs making their way into the district are poppy husk, opium and heroin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-report-1-600-drug-peddlers-active-in-moga-101632342039193.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Fake billing racket: Another Punjabi University employee held||Two days after arresting four people, including the main accused, in the fake billing racket at Patiala University, police made two more arrests on Wednesday. One of them is a university employee while the other is a female relative of the main accused, Nishu Chaudhary. The employee has been identified as Bhupinder Singh, a technical assistant whose name cropped up during investigation. Chaudhary, had deposited ₹4 lakh in Singh’s bank account, said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sourav Jindal. Chaudhary’s relative, whose name has been withheld, was also arrested from the university campus.Jindal said Chaudhary has also confessed to his role in the racket. Posted as a senior assistant, he was siphoning off university funds in the name of fake research scholars since 2016. His wrongdoings went unchecked for all these years before he was caught submitting fake bills with the accounts departments in May this year.The other three men arrested along with Chaudhary on Monday are Jatinder Singh, Ashu Kumar and Sonu Kumar. While Sonu is Chaudhary’s driver, the other two used to pose as research scholars. The DSP said investigations have not pointed to the involvement of any senior functionary of the university so far. “The exact amount of funds that were siphoned off will be disclosed once the investigation is over,” he said.According to the preliminary inquiry, Chaudhary and his aides pocketed up to ₹40 lakh. A police official privy to the investigation said Chaudhary has illegal moveable and immovable property in Himachal Pradesh and Patiala. “Police are also gathering records of all his properties so that they could be seized after completing legal formalities,” said the official.In May this year, the cash-strapped university’s internal audit department and finance wing had red-flagged five bills amounting to ₹6 lakh. The stamp and signatures of the department head were found to be fake and the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised turned out to be bogus. A three-member committee headed by registrar Varinder Kaushik probed the bank accounts of Chaudhary and others involved. The help of the university’s forensic department was taken to investigate the fake signatures and stamps, which nailed Chaudhary. Following this, police registered a case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-billing-racket-another-punjabi-university-employee-held-101632341979503.html
23-09-2021||Other||Canada polls: Re-elected for 5th time, Sukh Dhaliwal says he will help south Asian migrants get citizenship||Liberal incumbent Sukh Dhaliwal, who was re-elected as MP from Surrey, Newton, in Canada for the fifth time on Tuesday, said he had special plans for students and those migrating to the country from south Asia.Born in Sujapur village, Ludhiana, Dhaliwal is among the 16 Indo-Canadian Punjabis who won the Canadian elections on Monday. He had also won elections in 2006, 2008, 2015, and 2019.“Around 60% of the population in my riding (Canadian constituency) is south Asian. I will try to get Canadian citizenship for the maximum number of students and migrants, who are mostly from Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh,” Dhaliwal said, adding that his government had recently accepted 30,000 such applications.Dhaliwal, who received 54% votes in his riding, said, “I have personal relations with my voters, and am easily accessible to them. A personal connection is essential to know the problems of the people. I got a large mandate because I have always helped needy,” he said, adding, “Surrey, Newton now holds an important position across the globe.”“Our government is working hard on gun control and to check gang culture prevalent in the region. We have already banned military-style weapons which were accessible to the gangsters. Moreover, our policies have helped businesses to flourish. We sincerely worked to check Covid spread and initiated massive vaccination drives,” he said. Dhaliwal, who studied civil engineering from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana, in 1983, said he is waiting for the things to get back to normal in relation to the Covid pandemic, before planning a visit to India. Congratulating him, Sehijpal Singh, principal, Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, who was the MP’s junior in college said Dhaliwal as an all-rounder student.“He was cordial with his seniors and juniors. He was always accessible to everyone. He was a great sportsperson too. We had honoured him during his visit to the campus in 2019. He even provides financial help students who move to Canada for further studies,” said Sehijpal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/canada-polls-re-elected-for-5th-time-sukh-dhaliwal-says-he-will-help-south-asian-migrants-get-citizenship-101632341920430.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||36 nominated members of PU senate notified||The Vice-President of India, who is also the chancellor of Panjab University (PU), has notified a list of 36 nominated members to the varsity senate days before the first phase of the graduate constituency goes to polls on September 26. The list has left out many notable names, which took many members by surprise. This year’s most-notable exclusion is that of the former MP and Union minister Pawan Kumar Bansal’s. Senators said this is the first time that the former minister has not been included in the senate because of his association with the Congress. Bansal, meanwhile, said, “I am not surprised by this exclusion given the way things are going on at the university with the current leadership. For the past few months, I was convinced that this would happen.” Former Union minister Kapil Sibal’s brother VK Sibal, who was among the nominated members last time, has not been included as well.The name of former Chandigarh BJP head Sanjay Tandon has also been omitted. Meanwhile, former mayor Davesh Moudgil has been included as a nominated member for the first time in the PU syndicate. “I want that we work above the party lines for the betterment of students and foster an academic culture in the university,” Moudgil said.PUTA hails enhanced selection of teachersPanjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has hailed the inclusion of a high number of academicians and professors in this year’s nomination list. PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “Over 20 teachers associated with us have been selected and we hope that these teachers will now rise above their affiliation with political parties or groups and work with PUTA for the betterment of the university.” Interestingly, many of these selected professors had also stood for PUTA elections in 2019, but ended up losing. A senior senate member on the condition of anonymity said that many professors have been chosen due to their proximity to the V-C rather than their academic merit or experience.Another member added how “groupism” within the BJP is also visible in the selection. “This senate selection has many members of the group associated with Satya Pal Jain. Apart from Tandon’s exclusion, the group associated with him has also been neglected. Subhash Sharma, founder-director of Center for Economic Policy Research in Mohali, who was associated with the BJP-RSS group in the last senate, has also been neglected. People who belong to Punjab are also missing in the selections,” he added. The PU student council will once again have no representation here. The term of these nominated fellows would end on October 31, 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/36-nominated-members-of-pu-senate-notified-101632341918921.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 47 more cases in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday registered 47 fresh cases of Covid-19 while no virus-related death was reported in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, with the fresh cases, Punjab’s total tally reached 6,01,401 cases, according to a medical bulletin. Among fresh cases, the maximum seven surfaced in Hoshiarpur and Pathankot while Ludhiana reported six.The number of active cases in the state has witnessed a slight increase to 320. The daily positivity rate in the state stood at 0.13%. With 43 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 5,84,576. Till now, 16,501 people have lost their lives due to the virus. A total of 1,42,73,698 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, out of which 37,519 were tested on Friday. As many as 45,241 doses of vaccines were also administered on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-47-more-cases-in-punjab-101632341799215.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab mandis see 50-fold rise in cotton arrival this year||Amid high demand and better prices being offered by private players, Punjab has witnessed a 50-fold increase in the arrival of cotton crop at mandis as compared to the figures till September 21 last year.According to the Punjab Mandi Board, about 80,000 quintal crop has been purchased at various mandis in the cotton belt spread across south Punjab till September 21. In the corresponding period last kharif season, various purchase centres had reported the arrival of only 1,637 quintals.Industry sources attribute the sharp rise in arrival of the crop to better rates being offered by buyers, after last year’s uncertainty that had hit demand.Notwithstanding the deadly pink bollworm attack, Mansa and Bathinda districts have seen a brisk arrival of 27,000 and 12,000 quintals of cotton, respectively. In Fazilka, nearly 26,000 quintal cotton has been sold by farmers till September 21.According to the mandi board data, cotton is being bought for rates as high as ₹7,010/quintal. In fact, nearly 98% of the produce has been purchased at rates above the season’s expected minimum support price (MSP) of ₹5,925/quintal.This year, Punjab has an estimated 3.25 lakh hectares under cotton. In a few parts, where cotton is sown before May, picking of bolls commences in mid-August but the major harvest begins after September 15. Market watchers say last year, the demand for cotton was low due to uncertainty caused by Covid-induced restrictions.Mandi Board cotton state coordinator Rajnish Goel said the average rate of cotton in September 2020 was about ₹4,500/quintal. As the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) starts buying the non-perishable crop from October 1, farmers have a tendency to stock the produce till the market offers a higher price. “This time the average rate of cotton is ₹6,800-7,000/quintal, which is much higher than the expected MSP. A formal notification of MSP on long-medium varieties, that are commonly sown in Punjab, has not been issued yet, but it is expected to be ₹5,925,” said Goel, adding that Punjab is expected to surpass last season’s production of 50 lakh quintals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-mandis-see-50-fold-rise-in-cotton-arrival-this-year-101632341559093.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran: 5 men let off in illicit liquor cases as police delay challans||The failure of police to file chargesheet in four cases of illicit liquor seizures registered between 2016 and 2018 led to the acquittal of five men in Tarn Taran. The development comes a year after around 140 people were killed while several others lost their vision after consuming illicit liquor in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur.The four cases in question were registered at the Tarn Taran City police station under the Excise Act. Police were supposed to file challans against the accused within one year or with a special sanction of the state government in case of delay. However, the chargesheets were submitted in the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Rajesh Ahluwalia on Tuesday. The five men are Sarwan Singh alias Bholu (50), Akash Rajput (23), Sakattar Singh (44), Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sethi (35), and Baljit Singh, alias Katta (32), of Tarn Taran. They had been out on bail. Sarwan was booked after the alleged recovery of 200 litres of raw alcohol in May 2017. Akash was allegedly nabbed with 10 bottles of illicit liquor in October 2017, and Sakkattar was booked for allegedly carrying nine bottles of illicit liquor in April 2016. Sukhwinder and Baljit were arrested with 106 bottles of illicit liquor in September 2018.Citing provisions under Section 75 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, the court noted that no judicial magistrate shall take cognisance of such offences unless the prosecution is instituted within a year after the date on which the offence is alleged to have been committed or there is a special sanction. “There is no such sanction obtained by the prosecution for filing the challan beyond the period of limitation... Accordingly, the accused is discharged,” the judge said. Slamming the police apathy, senior advocate Sarabjit Singh Verka said action should be taken against those who failed to discharge their duty. “This could be just the tip of the iceberg. There may be many such cases in which challans were not filed on time,” he said.Senior superintendent of police OS Ghumman said: “The matter is not in my attention. I will check and seek a report. We have zero tolerance against all those involved in illicit liquor trade.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-5-men-let-off-in-illicit-liquor-cases-as-police-delay-challans-101632341199019.html
23-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: STF chief reviews works being taken up under Buddha Nullah project||Satguru Uday Singh, chairman of the Special Task Force (STF) constituted to clean Buddha Nullah, conducted a meeting with municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal at Baini Sahib on Wednesday to review the progress of works being taken up under the ₹650 crore project to rejuvenate the nullah. Apart from reviewing the progress of the project to construct a sewer treatment plant (STP) in the Jamalpur area, Satguru Uday Singh directed the MC officials to find a solution to put a stop to dumping of dairy waste into the nullah by owners of dairy units in Haibowal and Tajpur Road dairy complexes.Satguru Uday Singh has stated in the past that upgradation of the STPs will be of no use if the authorities fail to prevent dumping of dairy waste into the nullah. The project to shift dairy units out of city limits is hanging fire for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-stf-chief-reviews-works-being-taken-up-under-buddha-nullah-project-101632341138870.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Super CM Sidhu dictating terms to Channi: Amarinder||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday hit out at the “Super CM” Navjot Singh Sidhu and Congress advisers KC Venugopal, Ajay Maken and Randeep Singh Surjewala for their “ostensible” interference in the newly constituted Congress government led by Charanjit Singh Channi. Amarinder, whose resignation paved the way for the new chief minister, questioned his bête noire and state Congress president Sidhu’s interference in Channi’s domain, stating that the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) should just decide on party affairs. “I had a very good PPCC president (Sunil Jakhar). I took his advice, but he never told me how to run the government,” said Amarinder in a statement, contrasting it with the way Sidhu was virtually dictating the terms, with Channi simply nodding along. Amarinder, who had a running battle with Sidhu and several dissenting ministers and legislators for months, quit the CM’s post on Saturday after the All India Congress Committee (AICC) summoned a meeting of the legislature party without informing him. Channi was one of the four disgruntled cabinet ministers who had, at one stage, demanded the two- time chief minister’s removal. Interacting with some news channels, Amarinder said it was a sad situation for Punjab that Sidhu, who could not handle his own ministry, should be managing the cabinet. “If Sidhu behaves as the super CM, the party won’t function,” he said, adding that under this “drama master’s leadership”, it would be a big thing if the Congress managed to touch double digits in the upcoming assembly elections. Pointing out that as the CM, he had called the shots and appointed his own ministers, as he knew the capability of each one of them, he questioned how things were being run from Delhi and how Congress central leaders like KC Venugopal, Ajay Maken and Randeep Surjewala could decide who is good for which ministry. ‘Will pit a strong candidate to defeat Sidhu’ Amarinder declared that he would fight Navjot Sidhu’s elevation as Punjab’s chief ministers tooth and nail, and was ready to make any sacrifice to “save the country from such a dangerous man”. Amarinder said he will pit a strong candidate against Sidhu in the 2022 assembly polls to ensure his defeat. Asserting that he will only leave politics on a high, the former CM said: “I was ready to leave after victory, but never after a loss.” He said he had offered his resignation to AICC president Sonia Gandhi three weeks earlier, but she had asked him to continue. “If she had just called me and asked me to step down, I would have,” he said, adding that, “as a soldier, I know how to do my task and leave once I am called back.” He said he had even told Sonia that he was ready to hang his boots and allow someone else to take over as the CM after leading the Congress to another sweeping win in Punjab. “But that did not happen, so I will fight,” he said, taking strong exception to being subjected to humiliation after a CLP meeting was called in a secretive manner without taking him into confidence. ‘Priyanka, Rahul inexperienced, misguided by advisers’ “I would not have taken MLAs on a flight to Goa or some place. That is not how I operate. I don’t do gimmicks, and the Gandhi siblings know that is not my way,” he said, adding, “Priyanka and Rahul are like my children… this should not have ended like this. I am hurt.” He said the two sibling were quite “inexperienced” and their advisers were clearly misguiding them. Indicating that he was still keeping his political options open, the former CM said he was talking to his friends before deciding on his future course of action. “You can be old at 40 and young at 80,” he said, making it clear that he did not see his age as a hurdle. On allegations of inaccessibility, Amarinder said he had been elected to the Vidhan Sabha seven times, and twice to the Parliament. “There must be something right with me,” he said. Challenges new setup to throw Badals, Majithia behind bars Referring to complaints that he was not acting against the Badals and Bikram Singh Majithia in the sacrilege and drugs cases, Amarinder said he believed in letting the law take its course. “But now these people who were complaining against me are in power; let them throw the Akali leaders behind bars if they can!” he said. Taking a jibe at Sidhu over allegations of inaction against ministers involved in illegal mining, he said: “Those very ministers are now with these leaders!” While Channi was intelligent and well educated, he, unfortunately, had no experience in managing home affairs, which was critical for Punjab that shares 600-km border with Pakistan, said Amarinder. The amount of weapons and ammunition coming into Punjab from Pakistan is alarming, he said, once again slamming Sidhu for his “close personal relations” with the Pakistani leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/super-cm-sidhu-dictating-terms-to-channi-amarinder-101632340958951.html
23-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: SBS Nagar residents, BJP leaders seek shifting of garbage dump site||Lambasting the municipal corporation (MC) authorities over its open secondary garbage dumping point near Sunet railway crossing in Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, the residents and Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders staged a protest in the area on Wednesday.The protesters demanded that the MC should shift the garbage dump point from the site in 21 days, otherwise they will raise an agitation against the civic body and the elected representatives of the area. The residents rued that open dumping of garbage at the roadside and near the residential area creates nuisance and results in unhygienic conditions. Repeated requests of the residents living in the close vicinity of the dumping site to shift the same have failed to yield any results. They said they had even submitted complaints at the state level but to no avail. BJP leaders led by state executive member Bikram Sidhu stated that a complaint regarding the issue has also been forwarded to MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal.Sidhu stated, “The area looks filthy owing to the dump as it is established on the main road. The garbage spread on the road also creates traffic bottlenecks. Also, the presence of the dump encourages stray cattle menace. The dump is situated near the residential area and if the authorities fail to remove it in 21 days, we will raise an agitation in the area.”Despite attempts made to reach MC health officer Vipal Malhotra, he was not available for comments. Earlier, the officials stated that the MC is working to install a static compactor in the area to remove the open dumpsite. Garbage collected from houses is dumped at different secondary garbage dumpsites in the city, from where the waste is shifted to the main dumpsite at Tajpur Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-sbs-nagar-residents-bjp-leaders-seek-shifting-of-garbage-dump-site-101632340779230.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||More patrolling, mechanised sweeping: MCDs’ action plans||The three municipal corporations have submitted their action plans to control air pollution in the city before the annual winter spike, said officials of the civic bodies.Largely similar, the three action plans to curb pollution from waste burning and dust focus on intensive patrolling, increased mechanical sweeping, targeted operation of GPS monitored water sprinkling tankers and a new portal, being developed with the help of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to monitor large construction sites.Shyam Sunder Agarwal, mayor of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) said the civic body will once again focus on deploying water sprinklers and mechanical sweepers and is likely to broadly replicate last year’s plan.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) action plan said it will procure four new electrical road sweepers that can cover inner colony roads, and added that a dashboard has been set up to monitor in real-time the operations of 24 mechanical road sweepers and 83 water sprinklers that will be pressed into action.A senior official from the north corporation overseeing the formulation of the plan said the municipal corporations will, with DPCC, develop a common portal, on which it will be mandatory to register all construction sites above 20,000 sqm area. The civic body will also deploy 48 patrolling teams to check instances of waste burning in the city.“Earlier, the patrolling teams operated at night, but we have decided that they will now function round-the-clock over the coming months. We have kept the target of planting 20,000 trees and 30,000 shrubs, of which 17,098 trees and 25,493 shrubs have been planted till August 31,” the official said.The north MCD has also set up a separate dust control and management cell headed by its chief engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-patrolling-mechanised-sweeping-mcds-action-plans-101632340125993.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||What do the new targets mean for Delhi?||The World Health Organization’s (WHO) new standards for acceptable pollution levels announced on Wednesday mean that Delhi’s prolonged battle for clean air is going much worse than previously thought. Even the handful of good air quality days that Delhi was getting each year were not really so as per the new “safe” norms, shows an analysis of recent years’ data by HT.The rare days that Delhi met the 24-hour targets of air pollution in 2019 and 2020 go down drastically if seen against the revised standards, while in 2021, not a single day has passed where the Capital’s air has been acceptable by the new threshold, according to the analysis.The revised standards were issued by WHO on Wednesday for six air pollutants which include PM2.5 and PM10. For daily PM2.5 levels, the safe zone was brought down from 25µg/m³ in 2005 to 15µg/m³, while it was reduced from 50µg/m³ to 45µg/m³ for PM10.
23-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Speeding car hits four PAU students on campus||A speeding car hit four students of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) near hostel number 1 of the varsity’s campus on Tuesday night and left them injured.The victims were rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). Three of them were discharged after first-aid, while one was admitted to the hospital as he had suffered a hairline fracture in his leg.According to a university official, the victims belong to Faridkot and were residing in Hostel number 1. After having dinner, they had gone out of the hostel for a walk when the speeding car hit them. The car driver is also a resident of the same hostel. All of them are students of the College of Agriculture, he added.Inspector Jaskanwal Singh, SHO, PAU police station, said that the boys knew each other and reached a compromise, therefore no FIR was lodged in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-speeding-car-hits-four-pau-students-on-campus-101632340418851.html
23-09-2021||Kolkata||Someone else will be CM if I don’t get every vote, says Mamata at campaign meet||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday told voters in Ekbalpore that someone else would become West Become chief minister if she did not manage to get all their votes. She was referring to the September 30 bypoll at south Kolkata’s Bhawanipore from where she is contesting.“Cast your vote even if it rains. I will suffer if I don’t get even one vote. Don’t be complacent and assume that my victory is ensured. Please don’t do that. If you want to see me as chief minister you must vote for me. Every vote is crucial. If I do not win, someone else will become the chief minister since we are in the majority,” Banerjee said at her first election meeting in Ekbalpore area where members of the Muslim community comprise a sizeable chunk of voters. Speaking in Hindi and Bengali and using a few Urdu words such as taqdeer (destiny), Banerjee said, “I contested from Nandigram but there was a conspiracy to defeat me. The matter is being heard by a court. It is destiny that I am contesting from Bhawanipore again to become chief minister.” For the record, TMC trailed the BJP at two Hindu-dominated civic body wards in Bhawanipore in the last two polls that Banerjee won. Around 20% voters in this constituency are Muslims. “Voters of Kidderpore (of which Ekbalpore is a part) supported me six times when I contested and won the Kolkata South Lok Sabha seat. I am sure you will support me again,” said Banerjee. “The BJP is a party of liars. They allege that Bengalis are not allowed to perform Durga Puja and Kali Puja. People from all communities freely practice their religions here whereas in Tripura, the government has imposed Section 144 (of the Cr. PC). How can Tripura residents perform Durga Puja?” said Banerjee. She was referring to the prohibitory orders the Biplab Deb government has imposed till November citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Because of this, TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee could not hold the TMC’s first rally in Agartala. Before the March-April assembly polls, Banerjee surprised everyone when she announced in East Midnapore’s Nandigram that she would contest the local seat against her protégé-turned-adversary, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari, and not Bhawanipore, her old seat. In the polls held on April 1, Adhikari, the incumbent candidate, defeated her by around 1500 votes and subsequently became the leader of the opposition in the state assembly. Reacting to Banerjee’s appeal to Ekbalpore voters, Adhikari said, “The person responsible for this bypoll is Suvendu Adhikari. A defeated chief minister is making desperate efforts. She did not learn from the Nandigram lesson.” Bhawanipore witnessed a flurry of activity on Wednesday as Banerjee, Adhikari, Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta and Bengal BJP’s new president Sukanta Majumdar campaigned in different parts of the constituency. Majumdar entered into an altercation with the police when he and the BJP workers were stopped from visiting homes of voters at Harish Chatterjee Street where the chief minister lives. The area is marked as a high security zone. Akash Magharia, deputy commissioner of police (south), who stopped the BJP team, said, “There are restrictions in this zone. Moreover, we could not allow so many people in view of the pandemic. Nobody could show vaccination certificates.” The highest concentration of Kolkata’s Sikh community is based in Bhawanipore. Puri offered prayers at Gurdwara Sant Kutiya Ji and also visited the ancestral homes of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose and Bharatiya Jan Sangh founder Shyama Prasad Mookerjee before meeting voters at several locations. Banerjee took a dig at Puri saying he should tell voters why price of cooking gas has touched the ceiling. In a rebuttal, Puri said, “The chief minister should tell people why the state is against imposition of goods and services tax (GST) on petrol and diesel. A major component of fuel prices in Bengal comprises state tax. She should think before making this a political issue.” While addressing residents of Lord Sinha Road, where non-Bengali Hindu voters and members of the business community are in the majority, Adhikari attacked the chief minister. “What has this government given in five months? The defeated chief minister only offers doles and subsidies. Bengal’s debt burden is hovering around ₹5,00,000 crore. Never expect jobs and industries here,” said Adhikari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/someone-else-will-be-cm-if-i-don-t-get-every-vote-says-mamata-at-campaign-meet-101632340118986.html
23-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana residents stage protest over contaminated water supply, choked sewers||Irked over choked sewer lines and contaminated water supply, residents of EWS colony, Kishore Nagar, Karam Colony, among other areas of ward number 17, staged a protest at Zone B office of MC on Wednesday. The protesters warned that they will lock the gates of the MC office if the authorities fail to resolve the issue by Monday.Area councillor Jasmeet Kaur’s husband Balwinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Halqa in charge of East constituency former MLA Ranjit Singh Dhillon also participated.Handing over the memorandum to zonal commissioner Ankur Mahindroo, the residents rued that they have been facing trouble due to choked sewer lines and contaminated water supply in their area for the last two months.Balwinder Singh stated that people are forced to live in unhygienic conditions with sewer water accumulated outside their houses. Further, the contaminated water supply is adding to the wones of the residents, and they are continuously living under the threat of an epidemic, he said. Potable water is being supplied through water tankers.“The authorities have turned a blind eye towards the problems. The residents were forced to stage a protest due to negligence on the part of the authorities. Zonal commissioner Mahindroo has assured us that he will visit the area on Thursday and will resolve the problem by Monday. If the authorities fail to do so, we will raise an agitation and lock down the gates of MC office as it has failed to provide basic facilities to the residents,” said Singh.Mainline damaged by NHAI contractor: MCMC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh stated that the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is constructing a flyover near Tajpur Road at NH-44.“In that course, the contractor has damaged the main sewer line of MC, which led to the choking of the sewer lines in ward number 17. Most of the repair work is complete, and the accumulated water has started draining out. The issue will be completely resolved in a day or so,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-residents-stage-protest-over-contaminated-water-supply-choked-sewers-101632339998834.html
23-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: BJP leaders allege misuse of land, seek cancellation of allotment to Nehru Sidhant Kender||Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders submitted a memorandum with deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma’s office on Wednesday, seeking cancellation of the allotment of land to Nehru Sidhant Kender. The leaders alleged that the trustees of the kender were illegally using the allotted land for commercial purposes.The BJP leaders led by Vineet Pal Singh Monga stated that 4,927 sq yd of land was allotted at a throwaway price by Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) to the trust in 1976 for the lone purpose of propagating the ideals and principles of former Prime Minister Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru but it has established shops and commercial establishments illegally to earn revenue.The leaders also sought CBI and vigilance inquiry into the matter and marked copies of the complaint to different departments, including CBI, vigilance, chief minister’s office, etc. Action has also been sought against concerned officials of LIT for failing to act against anomalies.Monga stated that the land was allotted at ₹27 per sq yd even when the market value of commercial properties in the area at that time was ₹349 per sq yd.“Most of the trustees were Congress leaders. The allotment was done in connivance with LIT officials,” he added.“Clause 15 of allotment agreement stated that the land can only be used to propagate the ideals and principles of former Prime Minister Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru by constructing an educational institute. Clause 16 states that the land cannot be sold, leased, or rented out. However, 30 illegal shops and a commercial building have been established and rented out. The trust has also established an exhibition centre and an auditorium and rent them out for holding events,” alleged Monga.LIT superintending engineer Buta Ram said that no such complaint has been received by his office.“I will look into the matter and check the record. If any anomalies are found, required action will be taken by LIT,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-bjp-leaders-allege-misuse-of-land-seek-cancellation-of-allotment-to-nehru-sidhant-kender-101632339638898.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Offered to resign 3 weeks ago: Captain Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh lashed out at the Congress leadership, and vowed to defeat his arch rival, state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, underlining that a recent change-of-guard had failed to stem factional tensions in the party months before polls.In interviews with local news channels, Singh called party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra “inexperienced”, said he had offered his resignation to party chief Sonia Gandhi three weeks ago, and warned that with Sidhu as the CM face, Congress will struggle in elections scheduled for early next year.“Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi are like my children...this should not have ended like this. I am hurt,” Singh said. “Fact is the Gandhi siblings are inexperienced and their advisors are clearly misguiding them.”The two-time CM also said he was humiliated by the party calling a meeting of all lawmakers without informing him beforehand. “I would not have taken the MLAs on a flight to Goa or some other place. That is not how I operate. I don’t do gimmicks,” he added.This is the first time Singh has publicly spoken about the Congress leadership since a feud erupted between him and Sidhu in early May. The party attempted to resolve the differences, but the fight raged on, ultimately culminating in Singh’s dramatic resignation on Saturday.A day later, three-time MLA and senior Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi took over as CM.Two senior Congress leaders, HT spoke to, refused to comment on Amarinder’s remarks.Singh also said that he had tendered his resignation to party president Sonia Gandhi three weeks before he was removed, but that she had asked him to continue. “If she had just called me and asked me to step down, I would have,” he said, adding, “as a soldier, I know how to do my task and leave once I am called back.” Singh said that he asked the Congress president to ask someone else to take over as CM and lead the party to another sweeping victory. “But that did not happen, so I will fight,” he said, adding that he will leave politics on a high.In his comments, Singh praised Channi but questioned his lack of experience in tackling border issues. He reserved the sharpest attacks for Sidhu, a former state minister who resigned from the cabinet in 2019 after Singh changed his portfolio. Singh said he would fight any attempt to name Sidhu the party’s CM face tooth and nail , and added that he was ready to make any sacrifices to save the country from such a “dangerous” man. “Will pit a strong person against him to ensure his defeat in the 2022 assembly polls,” Singh said, without adding more details.On Saturday, the former CM had said he was not looking to change parties and would remain in the Congress.He also accused Sidhu and other central Congress leaders of meddling in the state’s affairs, naming senior leaders KC Venugopal, Ajay Maken and Randeep Singh Surjewala in particular.“If Sidhu behaves as the super CM, the party won’t function,” he said, adding that under this “drama master’s leadership”, it would be a big thing if the Congress managed to touch double digits in Punjab in the next elections. The Congress holds 80 of the state’s 117 seats.“I had a very good PPCC president (Sunil Jakhar). I took his advice but he never told me how to run the government,” said Singh.On allegations of inaccessibility, Singh said he had been elected to the state assembly seven times and twice to the Parliament. “There must be something right with me,” he said,Responding to the charge that he didn’t take action against Akali Dal leaders in the sacrilege and drugs cases, the former CM dared the new leadership in the state to take action. “Let them throw the Akali leaders behind bars if they can,” Singh retorted.Despite repeated attempts, Sidhu and Channi couldn’t be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/offered-to-resign-3-weeks-ago-captain-amarinder-singh-101632339474762.html
23-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana farmers warm up to crop residue management||Several farmers who used to earlier burn their stubble are slowly warming up to crop residue management. The practice has been ensuring enormous benefits to farmers harvesting the stubble in the fields for the past few years.The farmers who have been decomposing the stubble in the fields are now using fewer fertilizers, saving their money, witnessing improved soil health, and increased fertility.Lakhwinder Singh, a farmer from Jagraon’s Agwar Pona village, said he has been managing stubble through the in-situ technique for the last five years.“I have been using 20% less DAP and urea in the field. The soil structure has also improved considerably,” told Singh.He added that he has been using a paddy stubble chopper to harvest residue in the soil that has helped increase his yield of potato crop considerably and reduced his dependence on fertilizers.While sharing his experience, he said the practice had improved soil health and led to a significant increase in the yield of wheat, moong, and potato.Agriculture development officer (ADO) Raminder Singh said if all farmers adopt these techniques, they can save crores of rupees that they incur on purchasing nutrients like nitrogen, phosphorus, and potash.He said the management of paddy stubble would add up substantial amounts of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potash. Singh said residues help protect the soil from wind and water erosion and keep the soil cool by preserving precious water.Exhorting the farmers to adopt in-situ crop residue management wholeheartedly to manage the stubble, he said that burning paddy stubble is very hazardous for the farmers and land, which is considered a mother by our agriculturalists. He said that the burning of paddy ruins the health of soil besides casting a castigating effect on the environment.He added that due to stubble burning, several major and micronutrients of soil get destroyed, adding that the burning of paddy stubble produces several poisonous gases which harm human health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-farmers-warm-up-to-crop-residue-management-101632339278951.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hooda to start public connect programme from October||With the Congress MLAs in Haryana expressing their concerns over the lack of organisational structure in state and minimal penetration of leadership in the masses due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) on Wednesday decided to start a public connect programme from October.Sources said it was decided at the CLP meeting on Wednesday that the programme will be named ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ (the opposition is before you) and the contact programme is likely to be kicked-off from Karnal, the assembly constituency represented by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.CLP leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda will lead the contact programme.The state Congress has failed to make appointments to the key grassroots level positions in block and district Congress committees for past several years.Many party MLAs including Geeta Bhukkal, RS Kadian and Shamsher Singh Gogi expressed their concerns at the party’s failure to make organisational appointments at the grassroots level and the losing touch with people due to the pandemic restrictions.A few MLAs also suggested that the CLP leader should also involve state Congress president Kumari Selja in the mass contact programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hooda-to-start-public-connect-programme-from-october-101632339158876.html
23-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: PAU student bags international fellowship||Harneet Kaur, a student of five-year integrated MSc (honours) programme (chemistry), Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, has been awarded a fellowship by the University of Arkansas, USA, for pursuing her PhD in Cell and Molecular Biology, besides getting teaching assistantship of $ 22,800/ year for her PhD programme. Kaur did her master’s under the guidance of Urvashi, chemist, department of chemistry, PAU. Navtej Singh Bains, director of research, PAU. Shammi Kapoor, dean, College of Basic Sciences and Humanities, congratulated the student.CTU holds three-day orientation programme CT University, Ludhiana, held ‘Neophyte’- a three-day-long orientation programme for students and parents from Monday to Wednesday. The aim was to make students familiar with their campus, faculty, and academic programme. Students also attended guest lectures, seminars, workshops and took part in fun-filled activities, including Zumba. Presentations on industry interface research, placements, goal setting, future planning, student support, sports, and welfare were also given.PCTE organises food festPCTE faculty of hotel management, in collaboration with Lodhi Club, organised Dawat-E- Hindustan, a food festival focussing on different ‘Gharana Biryanis’ on Wednesday. The students catered to 500 people and displayed 20 dishes including, biryanis, kababs, gravies, and starters. Around 12 different types of biryanis, kababs, and gravies, were served during the event. Anirban Gupta, dean, PCTE, IHM, said that involving students in such activities exposes them to the culinary world. KNS Kang, director-general, PCTE Group of Institutes, said that PCTE has always provided students with practical exposure.Webinar on universal brotherhoodThe department of history of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College, Ludhiana, organised a webinar on universal brotherhood on Wednesday. Resource person Vishal Sharma told students about the value of universal brotherhood and its need in present times. “All religions preach mutual love and non-violence. We should rise above religious differences and maintain universal brotherhood,” he said. President Nand Kumar Jain also addressed the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-pau-student-bags-international-fellowship-101632339099148.html
23-09-2021||Other||Bharat Bandh will give strength to farm agitation: SKM leaders||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders have urged farmers, members of trade unions and government employees to support the Bharat Bandh call given by the Morcha leaders for September 27.Farm leaders including Gurnam Singh Charuni and Darshan Pal held a kisan mahapanchayat at Ismailabad in Kurukshetra on Wednesday.Addressing the farmers, Pal said, “We have come to seek support for complete Bharat Bandh on September 27 to ensure all roads, trains, markets and educational institutions will remain closed from 6am to 4pm.”He said the SKM has urged all student unions, trade unions, transporters and employees unions and BJP’s opposition parties to support the Bharat Bandh.He praised farmers of Haryana for their ongoing protests against the ruling parties despite the FIRs and lathi-charge.“It is because of farmers that leaders the ruling parties could not attend any programme and not even visit to any village,” he said, adding that Haryana played an important role in this agitation.Charuni said the Bharat Bandh will give a new strength to the ongoing agitation against the Centre. “We are also requesting all government officials to support the Bandh by not going to their offices,” he said.On questions about a committee formed by the Haryana government to open roads at the Delhi borders, Pal said the roads are not blocked by farmers but the barricading has been done by the Delhi Police.Pal skipped question about the differences between farm leaders from Punjab and Charuni, saying that all leaders are united in this agitation. Controversial activist Lakha Sidhana also addressed the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bharat-bandh-will-give-strength-to-farm-agitation-skm-leaders-101632338920111.html
23-09-2021||Other||Six booked for former sarpanch’s murder in Mahendergarh||The former sarpanch of Dhanonda village in Mahendergarh’s Kanina area, who was out on parole in a murder case, was shot dead allegedly by six persons after attacking him with sharp-edged weapons near his house on Tuesday night, police said on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Vikram Singh, who was out on parole in connection with murder of co-villager Vinod Kumar and injuring Manjeet on June 11, 2016 over village panchayat election enmity.In his complaint to the police, the deceased’s cousin Devi Ram said the incident took place at around 7.30pm on Tuesday when he along with victim Vikram came out of their office in the village.“Six persons, led by Manjeet, came there and attacked Vikram with sharp-edged weapons before shooting at him. We rushed him to civil hospital in Rewari, where the doctors declared him brought dead,” he added.The Kanina police have booked Manjeet, Manoj, Vindra, Rohit, Pawan Jogi and Vijay under Sections 148, 149 and 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act, 1959 and have started a manhunt to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-booked-for-former-sarpanch-s-murder-in-mahendergarh-101632338678775.html
23-09-2021||Kolkata||Someone else will become cm if I don’t win: Mamata at first Bypoll campaign||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said someone else from her party would become the chief minister of West Bengal if she did not win the Bhabanipur assembly bypoll, scheduled on September 30.“Cast your vote even if it rains. I will suffer if I don’t get even one vote. Don’t be complacent and assume that my victory is ensured. Please don’t do that. If you want to see me as chief minister you must vote for me. Every vote is crucial. If I do not win, someone else will become the chief minister since we are in the majority,” Banerjee said at her first election meeting at Ekbalpore area, where members of the Muslim community comprise a sizeable chunk of voters.“I contested from Nandigram but there was a conspiracy to defeat me. The matter is being heard by court. It is destiny that I am contesting from Bhabanipur again to become chief minister,” she said.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday said, “The person responsible for this bypoll is Suvendu Adhikari. A defeated chief minister is making desperate efforts. She did not learn from the Nandigram lesson.”Bhabanipur witnessed a flurry of activities on Wednesday as Banerjee, Adhikari, Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta and Bengal BJP’s new president Sukanta Majumdar campaigned in different parts of the constituency.Majumdar had an altercation with police when BJP workers were stopped from visiting homes of voters at Harish Chatterjee Street, where the CM lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/someone-else-will-become-cm-if-i-don-t-win-mamata-at-first-bypoll-campaign-101632338469084.html
23-09-2021||Other||CBSE, ICSE schools oppose Haryana board’s move to conduct Class 8 boards for all students||After the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) decided to hold board exams for Class 8 students enrolled under various boards in state, schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) boards opposed the decision of the Haryana government to hold the board examination for Class 8.On September 13, the board secretary of BSEH wrote a letter to all district education officers (DEOs) to ascertain details of Class 8 students studying in boards other than BSEH in their district.Board chairman Jagbir Singh said they have started making it adequate to conduct Class 8 exams after an interval of 12 years.“Amendments will also be made to the Haryana Right to Education (RTE) Rules 2011. We have decided to conduct an annual board exam for Class 8 students across state for the current academic session of 2021-22,” he added.In 2010, the Haryana board had conducted Class 8 exams last time in which 3.44 lakh students, of 3.67 lakh, had passed the exam.Pawan Kumar, principal of a private school in Bhiwani which is affiliated to the CBSE, said the decision taken by the Haryana board is creating a lot of problems for their students.“We have separate boards and we follow different rules than the schools affiliated with the BSEH. Moreover, there is some difference in the curriculum opted by us. This move will decrease the level of education and lead to instability in the career of the children,” he added.The union bearers of the CBSE and ICSE school unions have decided to go to court against this decision.“The decision of the state education department is illegal. We will talk to the state government about it. If needed, we will also approach the court. This move will curtail the level of education in CBSE and ICSE schools. If the board wants to experiment with its students it is free to do so but it should not intervene in the CBSE and other boards matters,” said the principals of two Rohtak-based CBSE schools.Talking over the phone, BSEH chairman Jagbir Singh defended the government’s decision to conduct Class 8 board exams of all students studying in Haryana irrespective of their boards.“The BSEH used to conduct board exams for Classes 5, 8, 10 and 12. With implementation of the RTE 2011, the board exams are being held only for Classes 10 and 12. From this academic session, the annual examination of the children of Class 8 of all the boards in Haryana will be taken by the Haryana school board,” Jagbir said.“Those who are opposing the move can go to court to challenge our decision. The state has a right to conduct Class 8 exams for all students,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbse-icse-schools-oppose-haryana-board-s-move-to-conduct-class-8-boards-for-all-students-101632338442862.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: ‘Mohabbat’ trumps all||Love has spread like a virus. This being the chaotic Walled City, it is more appropriate to say that love has leaked along the gallis and kuchas of Shahjahanabad like sewage water from a broken drainage pipe.To cut the story short: love, which is mohabbat, has transmuted into mohabbat ka sherbet. This cooling drink has trumped all the other drinks one would encounter in the historic Mughal-era quarter, such as meethi lassi, karadi ka doodh, bel sherbet, sattu ka ghol, ganne ka juice, jal zeera pani, and of course Rooh Afza, the legendary rose drink that was born in Old Delhi at the turn of the last century. (Although mohabbat ka sherbet does have Rooh Afza as one of its principal ingredients.)The stalls for this drink are particularly ubiquitous in the main street of Matia Mahal. Just too many establishments happen to be of mohabbat ka sherbet. Many of these are mere carts. Others are part of a larger enterprise, such as Salim Tea House that recently started to stock the drink in a separate street-facing counter. Even some garment stores are selling it.One sherbet place has a large billboard that, at night, lits up in red—disco style—with the signage ‘sharbat e mohabbat.’ It claims to be the original shop that started this drink nine years ago.The sherbet consists of watermelon juice mixed with a concoction of milk, Rooh Afza syrup and lots of sugar. A few sellers garnish the drink with rose petals. Most prepare the sherbet in advance and keep it cold with slabs of ice. Sometimes artfully cut slices of water melons are arranged symmetrically upon the pink tetra packs of full-cream Amul Gold Milk. The stalls remain crowded throughout the day, throughout the long evening and way beyond the midnight. The sweating drinkers swallow down the entire glass in one or two gulps, and quickly move on.Curiously, no sherbet seller is able to confidently tell that just why is this drink named after mohabbat.One imaginative stall owner explains that may be because the sherbet is as sweet as mohabbat. But then Old Delhi’s sickly sweet street chai too ought to be called mohabbat ki chai.Whatever, the winters are about to start, and while most mohabbat ka sherbet stalls will continue to serve the drink (“since these days melons remain available the year round”, according to one hawker), the pleasure of such an icy drink will not be as thrilling in the cold season.Come after the sunset, when the aforementioned billboard of the “original” sherbet landmark (shop no. 1125) lights up the night sky.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-mohabbat-trumps-all-101632338230026.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet approves insurance cover for horticulture crops||The Haryana cabinet has accorded approval to implement the Mukhyamantri Bagwani Bima Yojana (MBBY) to compensate horticulture crop losses due to adverse weather and natural calamities.As many as 21 vegetable, fruit and spice crops will be covered under the scheme to cover losses due to hailstorm, frost, rainfall, flood, fire, etc.The horticulture department has examined various crop insurance schemes covering horticultural crops and felt the need of a new scheme to cover crop loss due to natural calamities and adverse weather conditions.The scheme has been designed as a horticulture crop assurance scheme with an aim to encourage farmers to cultivate high-risk horticulture crops, an official spokesperson said.Under this scheme, farmers need to give only 2.5% ( ₹750) for vegetables and spice crops and ₹1,000 for fruit crops against a sum assured of ₹30,000 and ₹40,000, respectively.The claim compensation will be based on survey and extent of loss in four categories of 25, 50, 75 and 100%. The scheme will be optional and will cover the entire state.Farmers will have to opt for the scheme while registering their crop and area on ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cabinet-approves-insurance-cover-for-horticulture-crops-101632338260052.html
23-09-2021||Other||Haryana takes steps to counter bogus foodgrain procurement||Faced with corruption and bogus procurement in mandis, the Haryana government has issued strict directions to the ground-level officials to ensure transparency in procurement from this paddy harvesting season.As per information, procurement of paddy will start from September 25 but the arrival of paddy has already started. The state agriculture marketing board has already deputed its staff at the entrance of all mandis and they are maintaining records of all farmers, paddy varieties and quantity of the paddy that they are brining in.Mandi officials said there were some loopholes and traders, with the help of farmers, took advantage causing loss to the government with fake or bogus procurement.The chief administrator of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) has already given a strong message as three secretaries of grain markets of Karnal, Taraori and Indri have already been suspended for alleged discrepancies in arrival of paddy.As per reports, the mandi secretaries of Karnal and Indri were suspended for not following the instruction issued by the department to deploy employees on gates for record of arrival of paddy in the mandi.Vinay Yadav, chief administrator of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board, said, “We have taken steps to bring more transparency and corruption-free procurement from this season.”“We have taken steps and now the records of all varieties coming in the mandis is being maintained and strict action will be taken against officials for any irregularities or complaints of bogus procurement,” he added.What need to be fixed?Even the registration on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Bayora’ portal has been made mandatory for all farmers to sell their Parmal paddy on minimum support prices, but there were some loopholes as many farmers who grow basmati varieties and also have other crops also get the registration of Parmal varieties.This will help commission agents to sell the produce on non-registered farmers, especially those from UP, on the portal of local farmers.But now, the government is maintaining records of all varieties of paddy coming into the mandis and this will help the government counter the fake procurement of Parmal varieties.Instructions have also been issued to the officials to mention the variety of paddy – Basmati or Parmal – to ensure that farmers cannot sell Parmal varieties on registration of Basmati varieties.“As the government has already started direct payment to farmers in the last rabi season, there were reports that the farmers also sell their registration to the commission agents helping them sell the produce of UP farmers on their registration and the registered farmers would return the payment to them after deducting their commission,” said an official, on condition of anonymity.The government has also decided to conduct a physical verification of all registered farmers with the help of officials of the revenue department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-takes-steps-to-counter-bogus-foodgrain-procurement-101632337903474.html
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Commission of inquiry set up to probe Karnal violence||The Haryana cabinet on Wednesday approved the constitution of one-man commission of inquiry, headed by former Punjab and Haryana high court judge justice SN Aggarwal, to inquire into the sequence of events leading to violence including police lathi-charge on protesting farmers at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on August 28.The Commission will inquire into the circumstances leading up to and including the action by police at Karnal on August 28 and the use of force against the demonstrators.The Commission will also find out the persons responsible for the violent situation and will inquire into the role of the then Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer, in action by the cops.Sinha was purportedly heard in a video instructing the cops to thrash farmers if they tried to breach the barricades near the spot where a BJP event was going on. Sinha later said that the video was edited and selective portions of his instructions were shown to create a controversy.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had admitted that the choice of Sinha’s words was not right.“He (Sinha) should not have used such language though it is the job of officials to enforce law and order. I’m not saying he should not have enforced the rule of law strictly,” Khattar had said.The chief minister also clarified that Sinha was deputed at a spot about 10-12 kilometres away from the spot where the lathi-charge took place.The Commission will complete the inquiry and submit the report to the state government within a month from the date of publication of notification in the official gazette, an official spokesperson said.The August 28 lathi-charge on protesting farmers who were allegedly trying to disrupt a BJP meeting had led to a standoff between the farmers’ organisations and the state government. The police said four farmers and 24 cops were injured in the clash.The agitating farmers, led by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders, on September 7 had laid a siege at the Karnal mini-secretariat. The farmers demanded registration of a criminal case against IAS officer Ayush Sinha and compensation for injured farmers.Even as the talks remained inconclusive for a couple of days, a breakthrough was achieved when the state government deputed additional chief secretary Devender Singh to hold negotiations.The farmers called off the protest after the state government made a commitment to hold a judicial inquiry into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/commission-of-inquiry-set-up-to-probe-karnal-violence-101632337719053.html
23-09-2021||Pune||Boost for air quality forecasting : Safar gets international recognition||PUNE: In a significant boost for air quality forecasting across the country, Safar (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research) - the first official indigenous framework to forecast air quality in the four megacities namely, Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad as mandated under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) - has been accepted internationally.The findings of Safar were published in the form of a research paper titled, ‘India’s maiden air quality forecasting framework for megacities of divergent environments’ in the peer-reviewed international journal, ‘Environmental Modelling and Software’ on Tuesday. The Safar -project was led by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) Pune in association with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Utkal University, Bhubaneshwar.Founder and project director Dr Gufran Beig said that the Safar framework is a one-stop solution for air quality management leading up to mitigation, and also helps formulate micro specific air action plans based on robust science. “Air pollutant forecasting is an important part of the air quality early warning framework reported in this work for Indian megacities of vivid micro-environments. But the chaotic nature and complexity of air pollution itself makes prediction a challenging task, particularly in a city which is highly influenced by meteorology due to its geographical location which is considered in this work,” Dr Beig said.According to the research analysis in the peer-reviewed journal, the estimated total emissions of particulate matter (PM2.5) from all sources across the megacities were calculated as 77 gigagram per year (Gg/Yr) for Delhi; 57 Gg/Yr for Ahmedabad; 45 Gg/Yr for Mumbai; and 30 Gg/Yr for Pune. “High population density due to urbanisation is the main reason which directly or indirectly drives PM2.5 emissions in all four metropolises,” said Dr Beig.The most predominant emission source of PM2.5 is transportation, whose share was found to be 41% in Delhi, followed by 40% in Pune, 35% in Ahmedabad, and 31% in Mumbai. The uncontrolled combustion pattern in the highly dense slum population was significantly high in Mumbai. The share of biofuel emissions was the highest in Mumbai (15.5%), followed by Pune (11.4%), Ahmedabad (10.2%), and Delhi (3%). Industrial emissions were found to be the highest in Mumbai (31.1%), followed by Pune (21.6%), Ahmedabad (18.8%), and Delhi (18.6%).Dr Beig said, “Now that India has championed the capability to develop its own air quality framework, we need to take advantage of it and replicate in other cities as originally envisaged in the NCAP plan document rather than borrowing foreign framework at a cost. We need to upscale as per the NCAP plan.”Safar chose to demonstrate its forecasting model in four different and contrasting micro-climates namely, Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad. The prototype can be scaled up to the remaining 128 non-attainment cities (cities that do not meet the prescribed air quality standards set by the Union environment ministry of India) of the country as per the commitment to NCAP, Dr Beig said.“Using this forecasting model, all urban local bodies (ULBs) can also issue timely health advisories publicly, to alert citizens on ‘bad air’ days, which will help save vulnerable groups from the severe health impact of air pollution,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/boost-for-air-quality-forecasting-safar-gets-international-recognition-101632336819740.html
23-09-2021||Pune||FIR against BJP’s Pravin Darekar for saying NCP “kisses painted cheeks”||PUNE: The Pune police have registered a case against Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) leader Pravin Darekar for his statement against the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) during a rally in Shirur about a week ago. Darekar said that the NCP kisses painted cheeks and has no time for the poor. His statement came days before well-known laavni dancer Surekha Punekar was set to join the NCP. A case has been registered against Darekar under section 509 (insult to a woman’s modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sinhagad road police station.In a video posted on her Twitter handle, Rupali Chakankar, president of the Nationalist Mahila Congress Party, the women’s wing of the NCP, said, “Opposition party leader Darekar made highly perverted statements in Shirur. He made these remarks insulting women’s modesty while speaking at a public rally. Since that day, many women have expressed their anger towards his statement. He should have shown some shame and apologised but he said instead that he does not give much importance to such things. Projecting women as second-class citizens and insulting them and then reacting in this manner to criticism is a sign of intellectual turpitude. Therefore, I have registered a case against him at Sinhagad road police station.”Reacting to this, Jagdish Mulik of the BJP pointed out some controversial statements made earlier by Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut and how the police refused to register a case against him even after a complaint was lodged. A statement made by Mulik in this regard issued by the BJP read, “BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil was referred to in a series of statements invoking violence made by Sanjay Raut on September 4. The city BJP unit on September 6 demanded that a case be registered against Raut. However today, police inspector Sanjay Mogale of Deccan police station sent a written letter as per which, Raut’s statements were not foul and not directed at any specific person.”While the outcome of the case registered against Darekar remains to be seen, the sexism in his comment can hardly be ignored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fir-against-bjp-s-pravin-darekar-for-saying-ncp-kisses-painted-cheeks-101632336518491.html
23-09-2021||Other||Minor girls’ skeletons found in Harra forest of Mirzapur||The skeletons of three minor girls were found in the Harra forest of Halia, in Mirzapur, on Wednesday, police said.Though relatives claimed that the skeletons belonged to the missing girls from their family, police said only a post-mortem examination report would confirm that.An officer said that Seema, wife of Devidas Kol, resident of Belahi village, in Halia police station area, had gone out with three daughters Mamta (8), Munni (10) and Golu (12) on August 16. From that day, all four had gone missing.Family members told the officer that on August 18, Seema reached her maternal home in Sukhda Belgawan village, alone. When her family members asked Seema about the three girls, she told them that she sent her daughters to a woman in Indore.Devidas and his brother-in-law, Ramakant, went to Indore to bring the girls back. However, the girls were not found there. It was then that the family members launched a search for the girls.On Wednesday, shepherds saw three skeletons lying in the Harra forest. They informed locals. Devidas and Ramakant also reached the forest as soon as information about the skeletons spread. By the umbrella and the clothes lying nearby, they identified the girls.The police were informed and reaching the spot, the police took possession of the skeletons and began investigations.Soon after, the girls’ mother, Seema, fled her parents’ house.ASP Naxal Mahesh Singh Atri said that the skeletons have been sent for a post-mortem examination. Identification of the skeletons will be possible only after the report arrives, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-girls-skeletons-found-in-harra-forest-of-mirzapur-101632336280861.html
23-09-2021||Pune||FYJC admissions Pune: Merit list for special round out||PUNE The merit list for the first special round for admissions to Class 11 (first year junior college - FYJC), online and centralised, was declared on Wednesday by the director of Education (Secondary and Higher Secondary), Pune. Cut-off percentages for admission to colleges in the city have also been declared.In this first special round of admission, a total of 60,999 seats were available, for which 23,146 students applied. Of these applicants 20,740 have been allotted a college.The remaining 2,406 students did not meet the cut-off marks of colleges of their choice.Of the 20,740 who got admission, 16,306 have been given a college of their first preference, 2,939 students got a college of their second preference and 1,023 students were given a college which is their third choice. This academic year, a total of 86,918 students registered for the Class 11 admissions, for a total of 113,205 seats in 317 colleges in Pune and Pimpri- Chinchwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fyjc-admissions-pune-merit-list-for-special-round-out-101632336218597.html
23-09-2021||Lucknow||'Sit together and suggest how to regulate bail pleas': SC tells UP govt, Allahabad HC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked both the Uttar Pradesh government and officials of Allahabad High Court to sit together and jointly submit the suggestions for regulating the matters of bail applications during the pendency of the appeals of the convicted persons.The top court said that if the suggestions are not given, then it may formulate some guidelines on its own.A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai said that Allahabad High Court registry has 20-25 page suggestions, which are like counter-suggestions to those already given by Uttar Pradesh government.The top court was informed that Allahabad High Court had filed the suggestions last evening.“State government has said something and now you (Allahabad High Court) have said something. They have given suggestions and now you have given counter-suggestions of 20-25 pages. How are we supposed to zero in on the most suitable ones? If you are unable to give suggestions then we will formulate some guidelines on our own,” the bench said.Additional Advocate General Garima Prashad, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, said that sometime be given to them as now they have come to know about the thinking of the High Court and they will sit together and compile the most suitable suggestions.The bench said that the High Court may itself issue some directions which may meet its expectation and both the UP government and registry staff of the High Court can sit together and sort out the problem.It posted the matter for further hearing on October 5.The top court is hearing 18 criminal appeals of the convicts in heinous offences seeking bail on the ground that they have spent seven or more years in jail and be granted bail as their appeals against the convictions are yet to be listed for regular hearing in the high court due to the long pendency.The High Court has given a slew of suggestions to the top court like in cases of serious and grave offences, rights of the victim and his family should be considered before granting bail to an accused.It suggested to the top court that a ‘victim impact assessment’ report should be obtained after consulting the victim and the report should clearly state all concerns along with vital information on physical, mental and social impact of the crime and impact the bail may have on the victim.The high court's registry has given its suggestions to the top court in pursuance of an earlier order asking it to help in laying down “broad parameters” for regulating the matters of bail applications during the pendency of the appeals of the convicted persons.“That when a person is convicted, the presumption of innocence vanishes and a heavy presumption of guilt supplants it. However, a person accused of crime shall not, until he has been finally adjudged guilty in the court of last resort, be absolutely compelled to undergo imprisonment or punishment, but may be admitted to bail also after conviction and pending the appeal”, it has said.The high court further said that priority should be given to hearing those criminal appeals where the accused has undergone more than half sentence in view of provisions of CrPC.“A different yardstick will have to be evolved for grant of bail to more serious crimes like white collar and organised crimes against the State and its citizens since the criminals involved here are habitual and hardened criminals who commit crimes in a planned and sophisticated manner,” it said.To address the huge pendency of cases, the High Court suggested that dedicated benches should be constituted for hearing long pending criminal appeals."If a person is released after spending - years in jail, the very object of imposing a life sentence would be defeated. If an accused of heinous crimes is released on bail after spending - years in jail, he will never make any effort to decide his appeal early,” it said.On August 25, the top court had said that before the court gives its "imprimatur" or authoritative approval to any suggestions/proposals given by the UP government it would be appropriate that the high court itself examines it and makes its own suggestions.On August 23, the UP government had suggested to the top court that bail pleas of life convicts, if they have undergone 10 years of jail term, and in other cases where half of the period of the maximum sentence awarded have been spent, can be considered by the High Court.It has said that to ensure “public peace and the well-being of the society, life convicts who are hardened criminals, repeat offenders, kidnappers, in crimes related to massacre (three or more than three murders), habitual criminals, and fall in prohibited categories as per the U.P Jail Standing Policy - no bail should be granted”.“As of August 2021, there are approximately 1,83,000 Criminal Appeals pending both at Lucknow Bench and Allahabad High Court,” it said.“As of August 2021, there are 7,214 convicts in various jails across Uttar Pradesh who have already undergone more than 10 years of their conviction and their Criminal appeals are pending before the High Court,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-court-asked-to-sit-together-and-suggest-steps-to-regulate-bail-pleas-101632335401910.html
23-09-2021||Other||Three-member wards in Pune, PCMC: If NCP and BJP both gain, where is Congress?||PUNE The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to introduce a three-member ward system for municipal corporations, including Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, as part of a delimitation exercise. The three-member ward system introduced by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is likely to help three parties - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – during seat-sharing arrangements if they decide to fight the upcoming polls together. In the elections, the new system – a deviation from four-member wards - can lead to fewer defections and may help the BJP in Pune more than the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which was insisting on a two-member panel, observed political leaders. The cabinet also cleared a proposal for municipal councils by introducing two-member wards, while the Nagar Parishads will have a single-member ward system. Earlier, the election commission had asked the government to prepare a draft report for delimitation of wards under a single-ward system in 18 municipal corporations including Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Various leaders including the NCP’s Ajit Pawar had however, advocated a two-member ward in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, where the party hopes to wrest power from the BJP in civic elections slated for early next year. “The decision of three-member wards in all the municipal corporations was taken unanimously. The earlier system of a four-member panel made the ward too large and was problematic for carrying out development,” said minister for Urban development Eknath Shinde. The Urban Development ministry had originally brought the four-member panel proposal before the cabinet, though NCP ministers opposed it during the coordination committee meeting that took place earlier this week. The NCP officially welcomed the decision saying the party is prepared to contest the polls. “The previous government had introduced four-member wards, which often became too big for development. For elected representatives also, it was difficult to reach out to all citizens since the ward was big. The NCP welcomes the three-member ward system,” said NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakade. Political observers noted that those with a strong connect and a strong network of workers can be beneficiaries, as much as those wanting to tide over a party’s image. With a ground-level network of workers, the new system can be beneficial to the BJP while for the Congress, which is struggling to get back in the game in Pune, it is likely to pose a challenge. “For the BJP, which often fights elections on the basis of the party’s overall image instead of individual candidates, the new system can work,” said a BJP corporator. The BJP currently rules PMC with 99 corporators while NCP has 42, Congress 10, Shiv Sena 10 and MNS 02, in the house of 164 members. With the merger of 23 villages under PMC, the tally of corporators is likely to go up to 166. As per the reservation system for local bodies, 50% of wards have to be reserved for women. The BJP, with a strong women’s wing may benefit under this system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/threemember-wards-in-pune-pcmc-if-ncp-and-bjp-both-gain-where-is-congress-101632335919940.html
23-09-2021||Pune||PMC GB okays Swargate to Katraj underground Metro route||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), at its general body meeting on Wednesday, cleared the extension of the underground metro rail route from Swargate to Katraj, a distance of 5.4km. This will be part of the official Nigdi to Katraj metro route, effectively a new route for Pune.As the central government decided to reduce its financial share for the proposed Swargate-Katraj stretch, the general body had to ratify the proposal again, which will now move to state government. Once the state government clears it, the proposal will move to the Centre, whose clearance will allow the work to begin.Maha-Metro officer Atul Gadgil said, “Permission is due from the Maharashtra government and then it would take three months to get permission from the central government. The work should be able to start by July 2022.” Gadgil added, “Originally, the first corridor was between PCMC and Swargate, but now PMC has given the nod for the route between Swargate and Katraj. PCMC also allowed it to run upto Nigdi on that end. It will be now known as the Nigdi to Katraj route. From Swargate to Katraj, Maha-Metro has recommended it all be underground.” On permission from the centre, a Maha-Metro official requesting anonymity said, “The central government will bear 10 per cent of the cost rather than 20 per cent because it is an extension to the original plan. Hence, the Urban development department can give the ok for this proposal. There is no need for it to go before the Union cabinet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-gb-okays-swargate-to-katraj-underground-metro-route-101632335620432.html
23-09-2021||Pune||PMC to handover land for Hinjewadi to Shivajingar Metro corridor||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has cleared the handing over of various plots of land in its possession for the Hinjewadi to Shivajingar Metro corridor, as well as for a multi-level flyover at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) chowk.The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) will construct the metro corridor between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar, the third metro line in Pune. The PMC general body, on Wednesday, cleared the PMRDA proposal requesting for the plots of land for metro stations.A plan to construct underpasses on Ganeshkhind road was also cleared by the GB.The Congress party and the Shiv Sena have demanded that the PMC calculate the cost of the lands before handing them over to PMRDA and Maha-Metro. “PMC should consider the cost of the land as its share in the metro project,” a corporator said, on condition of anonymity. All political parties have objected to a PMC proposal that allows certain cases where property tax is disputed, to be mediated upon by the Lok Adalat.‘Why give property tax defaulters any concession?’ The standing committee of the PMC had allowed 500 such cases to move before the Lok Adalat, also offering defaulters a concession for in the penalties due. Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “PMC is giving the wrong message to the citizens who are paying property tax regularly on time. Ideally, PMC should give concessions to honest tax payers, but in the name of revenue increase, PMC is giving concessions to defaulters.”The Shiv Sena also made the same demand and said that the administration should consult with elected members before allowing such proposals.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol instructed the municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar to check the legality of all issues involved with property tax defaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-handover-land-for-hinjewadi-to-shivajingar-metro-corridor-101632335318535.html
23-09-2021||Other||Merged villages: Corporators blame PMC admin for failure to provide basic amenities||PUNE: Elected members across parties spoke in favour of the villages merged with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) at the general body meeting held on Tuesday. They blamed the civic administration for its failure to provide basic services to the residents of these villages.The corporators said that with 11 villages earlier and 23 villages more recently having been merged with the PMC, their expectations had gone up and they were hoping for good water supply, garbage management and other basic infrastructure in these villages. However, despite instructions to the administration to provide basic services, it was dragging its feet on the matter.BJP corporator Dilip Vede Patil said, “Many citizens are demanding adequate water supply but the civic body is not able to provide it. It is unable even to get possession of properties from the zilla parishad.”MNS corporator Vasant More said, “As the villages were merged, we immediately starting the process of collecting tax. If we are collecting tax, it is our responsibility to also provide basic services.”NCP corporator and opposition leader Deepali Dhumal said, “The administration needs to carry out basic works from the departmental budget. If we are not able to provide basic services, we should stop collecting taxes.”Meanwhile, BJP corporator and leader of the house Ganesh Bidkar said, “We are trying to give justice to the merged villages. The PMC has provided Rs5 crore for road works and Rs12 crore for various developmental works. It is also the state government’s responsibility to provide funds for creating infrastructure in these areas. The PMC has earmarked Rs72 crore from its annual budget for these newly merged areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/merged-villages-corporators-blame-pmc-admin-for-failure-to-provide-basic-amenities-101632335084149.html
23-09-2021||Noida||Noida: Day after anti-encroachment drive, illegal vendors back at Brahmaputra Market||A day after the Noida authority carried out an anti-encroachment drive at Sector 29’s Brahmaputra Market, illegal vendors who were removed from the spot returned on Wednesday and transacted business. The Noida authority carried out an anti-encroachment drive on Tuesday after several complaints from residents of Arun Vihar, which comprises wards in sectors 29 and 37. Members of Arun Vihar Residents’ Welfare Association (AVRWA) said that the authority’s move on Tuesday seemed nothing less than an eyewash. “This is not the first time that this has happened. We have been living here for the past 30 years; we have lost count of the number of times the vendors have come back hours after an anti-encroachment drive. The Noida authority needs to take strict action so that the vendors do not encroach the market and conveniently shift to the new vending zone that has been created for them in the area,” said Colonel (retired) IP Singh, chairman of AVRWA. Brahmaputra Market is one of the oldest and popular market complexes in Noida. According to officials of the Noida authority, the illegal vendors here have been asked to shift to a separate vending zone that has been created nearby but the vendors resisted the move. Before carrying out the drive on Tuesday, authority officials made public announcement in the market asking licensed vendors to shift to the vending zone created near the post office along the T-junction of the Ambedkar Market in Sector 37.“We have taken note of the matter and will take strict action against the vendors who violated our orders and again encroached upon the public place in the market,” said Indu Prakash Singh, Noida authority’s officer on special duty.SK Gupta, president of Rehri Patri Sanchalak Welfare Association, said vendors who have licence are under the impression that they are allowed to conduct operations at the Brahmaputra Market.“The vendors at the Brahmaputra Market have been given licences by the Noida Authority to shift to the vending zone. However, after a survey of the market, we have found that the vendors are under the impression that they are allowed to continue operating from the Brahmaputra Market. We will inform them and try to resolve the matter,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-day-after-anti-encroachment-drive-illegal-vendors-back-at-brahmaputra-market-101632333819813.html
23-09-2021||Noida||Health centres in Ghaziabad told to inoculate those above 45 who have not taken a single shot of Covid vaccine||The district health department has directed the primary health centres to take efforts to inoculate beneficiaries in the 45+ age group, who have still not taken the Covid-19 vaccine. According to officials, a week long door-to-door survey conducted from September 7 to 16 found that 102,698 beneficiaries in the 45+ age group have not even taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. In a communication on Tuesday, U P chief secretary R K Tiwari issued directions to the districts to identify clusters, where most of the beneficiaries in the 45+ age group have still not taken the vaccine and get them inoculated at the earliest. “We have asked all our health centres to ensure that beneficiaries who have been left out of the inoculation drive get vaccinated. For this, we are calling up such beneficiaries from the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre. We are expecting to finish the work of calling up most of the beneficiaries and asking them to come to the vaccination centres to by this week,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer. “The door-to-door survey figures have been shared with the respective health centres and they have been asked to get maximum beneficiaries vaccinated. With this, we are also trying to increase the second dose coverage, which has improved following the increased allocation of vaccines,” said the CMO. Till end of August, the daily vaccine allocation to the district was about 17,000 doses per day, which has now been scaled up to about 25,000 doses per day. In terms of overall coverage, the district has set a target of vaccinating 2,806,929 beneficiaries, which includes healthcare workers, frontline workers, those in the 18-45 years age group and those above 45+. According to data available with the health department, so far, 1,874,577 beneficiaries have taken the first dose, which accounts for 66.78% of the targeted population while 633,239 beneficiaries have been completely vaccinated, taking the second dose coverage to 33.78%. “Both beneficiaries who are scheduled to take their second dose and those who have still not taken a single dose should be vaccinated on a priority basis ahead of a third wave of Covid-19. It is only after the second dose that proper protection is achieved against infection,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). According to official figures, there are 1,880,267 beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group, of whom 276,475 have taken both doses. In the 45+ category, the district has set a target of vaccinating 878,250 beneficiaries, 312,773 of whom have been completely vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/health-centres-in-ghaziabad-told-to-inoculate-those-above-45-who-have-not-taken-a-single-shot-of-covid-vaccine-101632333699788.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||Consultant finalised for work on phase 2 of Delhi’s Chandni Chowk, will restore facades in heritage market||The Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD) has finalised a consultant for carrying out restoration of facade of the buildings in Chandni Chowk in the second phase of the heritage market’s redevelopment project. Under the second phase, all buildings on the 1.4-km Chandni Chowk stretch will get a facade uplift. A senior PWD official, who asked not to be named, said the consultant for façade restoration was selected last week. “The consultant was finalised last Friday. They will look after the façade restoration and other projects,” the official said. Officials from Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), the nodal agency for the redevelopment project, said work on façade restoration will be initiated soon. Garima Gupta, managing director, SRDC, said façade restoration will be done keeping in mind the diverse architectural and heritage value of buildings in Shahjahanabad. Gupta added that the agency will brainstorm on ideas that can be adopted for the area. “A uniform façade may not go with the heritage character of Shahjahanabad. We will come up with ideas and adopt the best possible practices for the preservation of the area’s heritage,” said Gupta. She said that work on façade restoration will start immediately after the appointment of the consultant. “If the consultant appointment has been done, we intend to start immediately,” she said. Annabel Lopez, project consultant, INTACH Delhi, said any exercise entailing façade restoration at Chandni Chowk should be focused on preserving the unique character of the place. “Each building in the area is unique in architectural style. Each building has to be conserved but its identity has to be retained. There are a number of notified heritage buildings in the area. Standardisation of façade should not be done the way it has been done in Amritsar where original identity and architecture of the buildings was completely lost,” said Lopez. Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said that it was important to curb illegal construction activity in the area before proceeding for façade restoration. “All unauthorised construction in the area should be stopped on the main road since people are spiling the façade. Everything should be restored as per the original ethos,” said Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/consultant-finalised-for-work-on-phase-2-of-delhi-s-chandni-chowk-will-restore-facades-in-heritage-market-101632332800335.html
23-09-2021||Lucknow||8 more test positive, Lucknow’s active Covid case count up to 33||LUCKNOW With eight fresh Covid cases, the number of active cases under treatment in Lucknow rose to 33 on Wednesday. The number of active cases doubled over the past week. From 15 on September 15, it went up to 33 now. The peak of active cases was recorded on April 24 (40,000) but the steady downtrend began with the second wave ebbing, as per state health department data.“We have to keep in mind that Covid infection spreads fast in a geometrical manner. From one case it will multiply into 2 but from 4 cases it can multiply into 16. This is unlike mathematical manner where cases rise in a set pattern,” said Prof Kauser Usman, HoD, geriatric medicine at KGMU. “Even if there is one active Covid case, we have to keep utmost precaution,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Since the pandemic began, Lucknow had reported 2,38,752 Covid cases, including 2,36,068 recovered patients and 2,651 deaths. The state had reported 17,09,708 cases and 22,888 deaths till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/8-fresh-covid-cases-in-lucknow-active-patient-count-up-to-33-101632331358469.html
23-09-2021||Delhi||AAP accuses BJP of trying to sell Delhi civic schools to coaching centres; party calls claims ‘baseless’||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of trying to sell the premises of municipal schools in Delhi to private coaching centres, a claim that the party, which runs Delhi’s civic bodies, called “baseless”.While the AAP is in charge of the government in Delhi, the BJP rules the city’s three municipal corporations (MCD), which go to the polls next year.“The BJP has floated tenders to sell 14 MCD schools to private coaching centres. The BJP has made MCD a corruption, theft and deception factory. While the number of students studying in Delhi government schools is rising exponentially, the headcount in MCD schools has reduced from three lakh (300,000) to two lakh thirty thousand (230,000) in the last few years, thanks to dismal conditions sponsored by the BJP,” said Saurabh Bhardwaj, the AAP’s chief spokesperson, while addressing a press conference.Bhardwaj said that the schools are located in Narela, Paharganj, Civil Lines and Karol Bagh, which come under the jurisdiction of the North Delhi municipal body.He further said, “The Kejriwal government spends 25% of its budget on education, and the MCD spends only 1.5% on education. The BJP-ruled MCDs claim they don’t have enough land for Mohalla clinics, but sell school buildings to private players without thinking twice. There are only 30-40 children left in several MCD schools; they do not even have enough students to run those schools.”Dismissing the allegations as “baseless”, Delhi-BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The MCD is not leasing or selling any of its schools to private coaching centres and it seems in his fervour to defame municipal corporations, AAP leader Saurabh Bhardwaj does not verify facts before speaking. The North MCD has several school buildings lying empty as certain areas especially, in the city zone have gone commercial, with very little population left thus rendering schools useless... All over the country, municipal primary schools run on funds given by the Centre and state governments under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. So, the North MCD doesn’t have to use its funds on education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-accuses-bjp-of-trying-to-sell-delhi-civic-schools-to-coaching-centres-party-calls-claims-baseless-101632328959626.html
23-09-2021||Mumbai||With highest seven-day Covid positivity rate, Ahmednagar is cause for concern for Maharashtra||Ahmednagar, which has 5.3% seven-day Covid positivity rate — the highest in Maharashtra, is now the biggest concern for the state public health department. Officials attributed it to violation of Covid-appropriate behaviour after restriction relaxations were announced in the second week of August, as well as robust testing.In the first week of September, the district had a seven-day positivity rate of 4.8%, which has now increased by 0.50%, as per the latest report of the public health department. Though officials do not have an exact answer for the high positivity rate in the district, they have ramped up testing along with genome sequencing — an exercise to study the changes in the structure of a virus over time.“Several reasons can be contributing factors, such as thick tail which means the virus keeps circulating in the area, infecting the susceptible population. Trend shows the infection rate is higher in rural parts of the state than in cities,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state on Covid-19.Health officers claimed the district is conducting around 10,000-12,000 tests daily, which is adding to positivity rate. In the past seven days, the district has conducted 96,824 tests — the third highest number of testing done in the state after Mumbai and Pune.Violation of Covid safety norms has been a major contributor in the spread of Covid-19, said district collector Rajendra Bhosale. “People have been attending family functions without wearing masks. This is leading to circulation of the virus in the crowd. Recently, we have raided a few such functions and police complaints have been registered against the violators,” said Bhosale.Neighbouring districts like Beed and Nashik have also been asked to keep an eye on new Covid-19 patients.Meanwhile, the cumulative seven-day positivity rate of Maharashtra has remained 2.5% for the past two weeks. However, medical experts are anticipating a surge in cases in the next two weeks due to the violation of Covid-appropriate behaviour during Ganesh Chaturthi.“Amid the festival season, Mumbai has already witnessed a slight 0.10% rise in seven-day positivity rate compared to the previous week. The virus has an inoculation period of 14 days, so, we have to wait and watch,” said a senior health officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-highest-seven-day-covid-positivity-rate-ahmednagar-is-cause-for-concern-for-maharashtra-101632328658304.html
23-09-2021||Lucknow||Narendra Giri learned to record videos a day before his death||PRAYAGRAJ Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri had learned how to record videos from his cell phone from one of his disciples a day before his death. One such video in his phone showed him saying things that he mentioned in the purported suicide note found in his room after his death. People close to him said that Mahant Giri was not tech-savvy and usually used his mobile for talking to people. He did not use WhatsApp and Internet and his disciples used to operate his cell phone for him. After his death, police questioned his disciples and recorded their statements. One of his disciples informed cops that Mahant Narendra Giri had asked him to teach him how to record videos from his phone a day before he was found dead. Giri even carried out a trial of video recording in the presence of the disciple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/narendra-giri-learned-to-record-videos-a-day-before-his-death-101632327098168.html
23-09-2021||Lucknow||Mahant’s 2 disciples in judicial custody; temple priest’s son also arrested||PRAYAGRAJ Anand Giri and Aadya Tiwari, disciples of late Mahant Narendra Giri, accused of harassment by the seer in his purported suicide note, were sent to14 days’ judicial custody on Wednesday while the police arrested Sandeep Tiwari, son of Hanuman temple priest, Aadya Tiwari, whose name also figured in the letter. Anand Giri was arrested on charges of abetment of suicide on Tuesday evening while Aadya Tiwari, priest of Bade Hanuman Temple, was also held later in the day. After being questioned for long hours, Anand Giri and Aadya Tiwari were taken to Beli hospital for medical examination and then taken to the district court amid heavy security. They were produced before the court of chief judicial magistrate Harendra Kumar who sent them to 14-day judicial custody, said a senior police officer. Sandeep Tiwari could also be produced in court on Thursday after interrogation, a senior police official said. The police had a tough time controlling the crowd of lawyers at the district court and escorting Anand Giri and Aadya Tiwari out from the court premises. A case of abetment of suicide was lodged against Anand Giri at George Town police station on the complaint of sewadar Amar Giri. The FIR did not include Tiwari’s name, but his name was also added to the FIR later on the basis of the purported suicide note in which he was also accused of harassing Mahant Narendra Giri, said police. Death due to asphyxiation: PM report The post-mortem report of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri, who was found hanging from a ceiling fan in Prayagraj earlier this week, indicated that the death occurred due to asphyxiation, people familiar with the matter said. The entire procedure, which was conducted for over two hours, was videographed and the report handed over to authorities in a sealed envelope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mahants-two-disciples-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-101632319717683.html
23-09-2021||Lucknow||Thousands pay last respects as mahant Giri given Bhu Samadhi||PRAYAGRAJ Mahant Narendra Giri, president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), was given a ‘Bhu Samadhi’ in a huge pit near a lemon tree in the open garden of his Bagambari Gaddi Math here on Wednesday in accordance with his wishes conveyed in his purported suicide note.His body was kept in a sitting posture in a square-shaped cave, which was prepared on one side of the pit. And all the offerings – flowers, honey, milk, sugar, salt and gems – were showered on the body before being covered. Members of the Niranjani Akhada of Prayagraj and his disciples including his close aid Balbeer Giri (whom the mahant had named as his successor in his purported suicide note), placed his mortal remains in the cave portion of the pit. The entire area was veiled by a large saffron cloth, which was later removed. The 30-minute ceremony was held amidst chanting of Vedic mantras by seers, keeping with the traditions of the akhada. Seers paid homage by offering a handful of soil each on the mortal remains of the mahant. Earlier in the day, Giri’s mortal remains were handed over to the office-bearers of the Niranjani Akhada after the post-mortem examination of the mahant’s body at the SRN hospital by a team of five experts. From here, the mortal remains were kept in an open vehicle, decorated with flowers. Thereafter, the Nagar Yatra (procession) was taken to the Sangam, the holy confluence of the Ganga, Yamuna and the Saraswati. A huge number of the Giri’s followers, disciples, seers and locals along with political leaders including deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya participated in the large procession taken to the Sangam where his body was given a holy dip in the Ganga before the yatra culminated at the math. On the way, the procession took a brief halt at the Bade Hanuman temple where Giri served as chief priest right for years till his last breath. In the morning, seers had reached the Sangam city from various corners of the country for the last darshan of Mahant Narendra Giri. Schools up to Class 12 were closed in Prayagraj on Wednesday in view of the huge turnout of people for Giri’s last rites. Secretary of the Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani, Shri Mahant Ravindra Puri said, “A saint can be given samadhi in two forms, either Jal (water) Samadhi or Bhu (land) Samadhi. As it is our moral duty to protect the river from any pollution and respect the wishes of Mahant Narendra Giri, we had decided that Narendra Giriji would be given Bhu Samadhi.” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/thousands-pay-last-respects-as-mahant-giri-given-bhu-samadhi-101632316897640.html
