24-09-2021||Noida||Noida: Ban on transfer, sale of plots allotted for industries||The Noida authority has banned the transfer or sale of plots that were given for setting up an industry, but are lying vacant and not being used for the said purpose, as it causes losses to the city, in terms of business, and defeats the purpose of allotment.The authority took this decision in its 203rd board meeting that headed by chairperson Sanjiv Mittal and attended by officials from Gautam Budh Nagar. Earlier, the authority used to charge 4% of total property cost, according to the prevailing allotment rate, as transfer fee on industrial property if the owner set up some business on the plot. Around 10% of the total property cost was charged as transfer fee if the plot owner did not start any business and kept the plot vacant. Now, as per the new order, the authority has banned the transfer of plots, which are vacant and the owner has not started any business activity, for which the land was allotted.“We have stopped transfer of non-functional industrial plots because if there is no business on a plot that we have allotted for industrial purposes, we cannot generate employment opportunities in the city. The move may encourage all industrial plot owners to set up businesses,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO of the Noida authority.There are around 10,000 industrial plots in the city, most of which are lying vacant. However, the authority has no data of such plots, which are lying vacant after allotment. Some of the industrial plot owners do not set up industries as they want to sell the plot when they get a better rate in the market, said officials. “Vacant plots in the middle of a sector is a nuisance to residents living nearby because it not results in hygienic issues but also becomes an eyesore,” said Vipin Malhan, president of Noida Entrepreneur association. Meanwhile, the authority has also fixed the transfer fee for commercial plots in the range of 2.5% to 5% of total property cost. Earlier, it was 10% and even higher for some properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ban-on-transfer-sale-of-plots-allotted-for-industries-101632507910750.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||UP transporters threaten fare hike, send proposal to state transport authority||In a move likely to boost inflation, transporters in the state have decided to increase charges/fares by 30%. The move came after a meeting of the UP Goods and Transport Association, on Thursday evening, after which they sent the proposal to the state transport authority for approval.Pankaj Shukla, regional in-charge, UP Goods and Transport Association, said, “The Association has taken a unanimous decision to increase charges. The last time – in 2013 – a 7% increase was affected when diesel was around ₹45 per litre. Today it is around ₹90 per litre. We were not increasing rates expecting slashing of diesel rates by the government but it has not happened. Instead the rates are going up.”Not only that, truckers also have to pay toll tax, insurance instalments have increased manifold, motor parts and maintenance have become expensive, Shukla added.However, RP Dwivedi, RTO, administration, said, “Any proposal to increase transport freight charges will be forwarded to the state transport authority because only the state transport authority can decide the rates of transporters.”Sanjay Gupta, president, Uttar Pradesh Adarsh Vyapar Mandal, said, “If transporters increase fares then there will be a proportional increase in rates of all essential commodities. If the proposal to hike fares by 30% is approved then inflation will surely increase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-transporters-threaten-fare-hike-send-proposal-to-state-transport-authority-101632507849171.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||Centre’s no to caste census exposes BJP’s OBC politics: Maya||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has said the categorical refusal of the Centre to get a caste census of backward classes done has exposed the OBC politics of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for electoral gains as well as the differences in its words and deeds.In a series of tweets on Friday, she said, “The filing of an affidavit by the central government in the Supreme Court regarding refusal to caste census is very serious and contemplative. Like SC and ST, the demand for conducting a caste census of OBC has gained lots of emphasis across the country.”“The outright refusal by the central government will hurt the whole society as well as the future of the OBC people in the same manner as non-filling of the OBC backlog in government jobs,” Mayawati added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/centres-no-to-caste-census-exposes-bjp-s-obc-politics-maya-101632507671321.html
24-09-2021||Noida||Police foil farmers’ bid to disrupt meeting of Noida authority||A group of farmers on Friday tried to barge into the administrative building of the Noida authority in Sector 6 and disrupt its 203rd board meeting, where the authority was taking key decisions, to press their demand for better compensation and residential plots among other benefits. However, their attempts were foiled by the police, who intercepted them at the traffic intersection of Harola and Sandip Paper Mill. The farmers have been staging protests against the Noida authority regularly since September 1, demanding better compensation for the land that they have given to the authority for the development of Noida. The authority did not allow them to protest outside its administrative building as it affected their public work. Therefore, the farmers’ protest was confined to a vacant plot adjoining a community centre of Harola village-- around 800 metres away from the administrative building. On Friday, a group of farmers tried to reach the authority’s office but were stopped by the police.Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “The farmers have been given adequate space for their protest. But we had to stop them when they tried to march towards the Noida authority office.” Among the many demands of farmers are 64% hike in compensation of the total compensation they received during land acquisition since 1990, 10% (of total land acquired for development) residential plots for habitation, Abadi settlement in villages, construction of a park in each village, construction of a stretch on the lines of an outer ring road around each village and better civic amenities. Sukhbir Yadav, who was leading Friday’s protest, said, “Our agitation will continue until the authority accepts our demands. We will intensify our agitation if the authority does not pay heed to our demands.” “We are talking to farmers and trying to resolve their issues,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-foil-farmers-bid-to-disrupt-meeting-of-noida-authority-101632507610600.html
24-09-2021||Other||Punjab Roadways, PRTC staff shuts down Ludhiana bus stand yet again||The contractual employees of Punjab Roadways and PRTC shut down the Ludhiana bus stand on Friday as a part of their ongoing protest against the state government for its failure in regularising their jobs.As a result, chaos was witnessed outside the bus stand, and the passengers were left a harried lot.The movement of private buses continued from outside the stand. Around 100 scheduled buses including, a few private ones, were cancelled during the protest, which continued from 10 am till noon.The passengers were waiting for the buses inside and outside the stand. The movement of many buses also got delayed due to the protest. Traffic snarls were also witnessed outside the bus stand as many private buses were parked at the roadside.Gurmeet Singh, a passenger, said,” I had to visit Jagraon for business but, as the movement of buses was delayed due to the protest, I had no other option but to wait for a private bus. The employees should not harass the public during their protest.”The female passengers, who generally avail free travel facility in government-run buses, also raised a hue and cry over the agitation as they had to shell out for a journey in a private bus.One of the passengers, Daljit, said that she had to visit her relatives in Malerkotla and had to wait for around an hour to catch a government bus.Meanwhile, the employees also protested against the state government and announced that they will go on a three-day strike from October 11 if their demands aren’t fulfilled.Shamsher Singh, the district president of the contractual employees’ union, said that in the meeting held on September 14, the state government had announced that it will fulfil most of their demands.“But the government has not regularised the staff yet. We will announce an indefinite strike if our demands are not met,” he said.Tarsem Singh, sub-inspector, Punjab Roadways, said that over 100 scheduled buses, including government-run and few private ones, were cancelled due to the two-hour agitation. The operations were resumed after the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-roadways-prtc-staff-shuts-down-ludhiana-bus-stand-yet-again-101632507549260.html
24-09-2021||Noida||NMRC to get approval for Greater Noida west Metro project by November||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC), in its board meeting held on Friday, decided to expedite the Greater Noida west Metro project by getting the approval of the Centre for the detailed project report (DPR) by November. Ritu Maheshwari, managing director of NMRC said, “The board has decided to expedite the Greater Noida west Metro project by getting the approval of the Government of India for the DPR positively by November. We are also exploring efficient routes to run bus services by engaging small-size buses to enhance metro ridership and provide last-mile connectivity to commuters,” The 14.95km extension of the Aqua Line in Greater Noida west will comprise nine stations from Noida Sector 51 to Knowledge Park V in Greater Noida. Manoj Vajpayee, general manager of NMRC, said they have issued a tender to select a developer for the Greater Noida west Metro project. “We have received three applications so far. These tender applications are under evaluation,” he said adding that the NMRC submitted the DPR to the Centre, which is expected to give its final approval by mid-November. The metro project will be funded by the state government, the Centre, the Noida authority and the Greater Noida authority. As per the tender document, the estimated cost of the works proposed in the first phase is approximately ₹491.99 crore. The board also decided to restart feeder bus services in Noida and Greater Noida. On December 25 last year, the NMRC decided to terminate the contract of the city bus service, four years after its operation. Sources in the know of the matter said the NMRC’s city bus service was incurring losses since its operation. Vajpayee said the modalities of the new feeder bus service will be discussed soon.The board has also decided to provide an alternate connectivity between NMRC’s Aqua Line and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s Blue Line between Noida’s Sector 51 & 52 metro stations. “A skywalk has been proposed for the stretch to facilitate commuting,” said Vajpayee. The NMRC commenced operations of the Aqua Line, comprising 21 stations, connecting Sector 51 in Noida to Depot station in Greater Noida on January 25, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nmrc-to-get-approval-for-greater-noida-west-metro-project-by-november-101632507489346.html
24-09-2021||Other||Conversion racket case: AMU students protest against arrest of Islamic scholar Kaleem Siddiqui||Agra The recent arrest of Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui, an Islamic scholar and senior cleric of western Uttar Pradesh, was opposed by students of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) and members of civil societies in Aligarh on Friday. Maulana Siddiqui was arrested on Wednesday from Meerut by Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on charges of running a conversion syndicate, on the clues obtained from the arrested activist, Umar Gautam, during an interrogation the by ATS. A group of students from Aligarh Muslim University took out a protest march on the AMU campus on Friday against the arrest of Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui. They warned district administration that they would intensify their agitation if Maulana was not released at the earliest. AMU students gathered at ‘Bab-e-Syed’ gate of the university and reached Jama Masjid on the campus and offered Friday namaaz there before starting their protest march till ‘Bab-e-Syed’ gate to press for their demand. The angry students also raised slogans against Islamophobia. Police was deployed at the Bab-e-Syed gate where students read out charter of their demand addressed to the President and called for stopping the witch hunt of Muslim preachers, activists, Ulemas, political and community leaders. “Students would not settle until Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui and activist Umar Gautam were released,” said a student leader at Bab-e-Syed gate. Meanwhile, members of civil societies, including former president of Aligarh Muslim University Student Union, M Salman Imtiaz, also staged a separate protest and handed over a memorandum addressed to the governor of Uttar Pradesh to express their anguish for uncalled arrest of Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui. “Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui has been illegally arrested in a false case of illegal religious conversion. It is all part of a conspiracy hatched by the ruling party in the state. All are free to have their religious belief and practice religion of their choice. The Muslim preachers never force others to accept Islam by coercion or threat,” stated Salman M Imtiaz, the former president of Aligarh Muslim University Student Union. In the memorandum, they said the arrest of some Muslim clerics over alleged unlawful religious conversions and the “harassment and eviction of Muslims in Assam on the citizenship issue were creating an atmosphere of fear and insecurity in the minds of Muslims”. “Such witch-hunting of minorities would pose a threat to the peace and stability in the country,” the memorandum added. In Lucknow, the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad asked people to share any information related to Siddiqui and another accused Mohammad Umar Gautam. The ATS has so far arrested 11 people, including Siddiqui, in connection with a religious conversion racket case. Those arrested were booked under relevant sections of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act, 2020 and the Indian Penal Code, the officials said.Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/conversion-racket-case-amu-students-protest-against-arrest-of-islamic-scholar-kaleem-siddiqui-101632507310046.html
24-09-2021||Other||Beauty course in Ludhiana government schools helping students land jobs||Government schools in Ludhiana are equipping students with various skills related to the beauty and wellness industry under the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) to help make them self-reliant.A total of 934 students of Classes 9 to 12 are enrolled in the beauty and wellness vocational course in 20 government schools across the district.Special beauty labs constructedFunded by the state government, special beauty labs have been constructed in these schools. The labs are a replica of professional luxury salons of the city.Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla had sanctioned a budget of ₹2.5 lakh for each lab in March.Many students have started earning after completion of the course and are also supporting their families.Palwinder Kaur, 18, who completed her Class 12 this year from GSSS, Cemetery Road, is working in a beauty parlour while pursuing her graduation from a private college in the city.“My father died a few years back. My mother is a caretaker in a private play way. I manage my college expenses along with my mother now. I am grateful to my school for teaching me the basics,” said Kaur.Another alumna of the same school, Jyoti Mehra, 18, stated that she is working at a beauty parlour and earning over ₹5,000 a month.“I am pursuing my graduation from Panjab University, Ludhiana, and am also working at a beauty salon where I make over ₹5,000 per month. Though I didn’t have the same facility or equipment which my juniors in the school now have, I learned the art of threading, mehndi, manicure, and pedicure there, which is helping me now. I want to be a renowned makeup artist”, told Jyoti. Sarbjit Kaur, the beauty and wellness teacher at the school, said one of her Class 11 students, Riya Dhaliwal, is already working in the field.“Students show a lot of interest in this course, and it is helping them a lot,” said Sarbjit.Principal Taskim Akhtar said that students are also sent for industrial training, which enhances their skills.“It is a great initiative by the government as the children from the economically weaker background become efficient to earn their livelihood. We introduced this course in December 2017 in our school, and the lab was constructed this year in April,” said Akhtar.The schools offering this programme include GHS Chak Mafi; GMSSS, Cemetery road; GMSSS PAU; GSSS Ajitsar Raikot; GSSS Ayali Khurd; GSSS Chonta; GSSS Doraha; GSSS Gill G; GSSS Goslan; GSSS Jagraon G; GSSS Kotala; GSSS Lalheri; GSSS Lalori Kalan; GSSS Machhiwara G; GSSS Mangli Nichi; GSSS Multipurpose; GSSS Sahnewal G; GSSS Threeke Kishori Lal Jethi; GGSSS Khanna and Shaheed-e-Azam Sukhdev Thapar GGSSS Bharat Nagar Chowk.Pvt companies don’t hire our students: Teachers of construction trade Meanwhile, teachers of construction trade at a government school, on the condition of anonymity, said that private companies don’t recruit students even after they have pursued a vocational course in construction in their school.“We approached various companies to ask for jobs for our students but, the officials there refused as they felt that students require more knowledge of the trade,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/beauty-course-in-ludhiana-government-schools-helping-students-land-jobs-101632507070783.html
24-09-2021||Noida||Residents rejoice as transfer charges on resale of property halved in Noida||In a move that may boost homebuyers’ sentiments, the Noida authority has reduced the transfer charges it levies on the resale of a property by 50%.In its 203rd board meeting held on Friday, the authority decided to reduce the transfer of memorandum (TM) fee, commonly known as transfer fee/charge, from 5% to 2.5% on residential category, which includes plots and flats. Officials said that the new charges will be applicable on the properties allotted after 2011. The transfer fee is levied on the resale of plots and flats at the time of registry.The move comes after the Uttar Pradesh government issued directions to the authority to reduce the fee as it will benefit homebuyers.“We have reduced the TM fee in order to provide relief to residents and those who want to buy a property in this industrial town,” said Sanjiv Mittal, chairman of the Noida authority, after the board meeting held at the authority’s main administrative building in Sector 6.In a resale property transaction, the Noida authority at present charges 5% of total flat/plot cost as per the prevailing allotment rate as transfer fee. For example, for a ₹1 crore flat, a buyer will now have to pay ₹2.5 lakh as transfer charge instead of ₹5 lakh earlier. Residents have expressed happiness at the decision by the authority.“We are happy that the Noida authority finally accepted our long standing demands on TM charges. We hope it will benefit the realty sector in the city,” said Rajesh Sahay, general secretary of the Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations, an umbrella body of Noida’s AOAs.However, a section of residents said that the authority should do away with the transfer fee completely.“The government charges around 7% of total property cost as registry fee. Then why did they levy additional transfer fee in Noida. The authority should remove this fee completely,” said SK Nagrath, a retired army official and president of Jaypee Aman AOA. Anti-smog tower at DND The Noida authority also approved a proposal to install an anti-smog tower along the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) road, near the Film City in Noida, to mitigate air pollution in the area. The 20-metre tower -- the first one in the city -- will be installed by November 15 this year and will cover a space of 400 square metres.“Air pollution is a big problem during the winters. If this tower becomes a success, the authority may also install anti-smog towers at other locations in the city,” said a Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-rejoice-as-transfer-charges-on-resale-of-property-halved-in-noida-101632507014769.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Seminar on trends in school education held at Chandigarh||A Chandigarh-based ed-tech organised a seminar ‘School education: Going Forward’ in association with TiECON at the Hyatt Regency to gain insights from education stalwarts and policy makers on the trends in school education.The keynote address was delivered by Chandigarh secretary education Sarpreet Singh Gill and a special session was conducted by moderator Chitkara University Centre for Entrepreneurship and Development (CUCEED) director Sumeer Walia.The panel included Chitkara International Schools director Niyati Chitkara, SchoolPad Technologies co-founder Abhiraj Malhotra; and Jalandhar Learning Wings Education Systems (LWES) academics director Deepa Dogra; and Mohali Learning Paths School director Robin Aggarwal.Speaking on the occasion, Niyati Chitkara said, “Chitkara International School believes in developing a learning-centered approach among students by providing a positive environment for each to ensure success. We are able to achieve this with the help of SchoolPad which helps in running our school efficiently by digitising and automating daily tasks and improving parental involvement through better parent-teacher communication.”The event was attended by over 100 dignitaries, school owners, principals, directors and teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seminar-on-trends-in-school-education-held-at-chandigarh-101632507011745.html
24-09-2021||Other||Over 35% students dropping out after class 8 in 13 UP dists: Govt data||More than 35 per cent children drop out after class 8 in 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh. The most worrying situation is in Siddharthnagar district where over half (53.5 per cent) of children do not enrol in class 9 after passing class 8, says a report sent by the state government to the union education ministry. The findings were even discussed during the last meeting of the Project Approval Board (PAB) of Samgara Shiksha Abhiyan in New Delhi, minutes of which were made available in public domain only on September 17.The report concedes that the overall transition rate in the state is 87% at secondary level, which means that only 87% children of previous year grade 8 enrolment were admitted to grade 9 in 2019-20. Moreover, in case of girls’ transition rate, it is only 81.5% and girls transition rate from elementary to secondary in 13 districts is less than 65%.The districts in which transition rate from is below 65% include Siddharthnagar (53.5%), Sitapur (56.2%), Hardoi (56.9%), Shravasti (57.1%), Sambhal (61.2%), Budaun (61.5%), Shahjahanpur(61.8%), Chitrakoot (62.4%), Farrukhabad (63.2%), Pilibhit (63.6%), Banda(64.5%), Bahraich ( 64.8%) and Basti (64.9%), say the minutes of the meeting that also finalised the annual work plan and budget of Samagra Shiksha for UP for 2021-22.“The report sent to the union ministry of education also points out that the annual average dropout at elementary level is 2.46% in the state. For boys, dropout rate at elementary level was 1.9 % and for girls it was 3% in 2019-20. At secondary level, it is around 14.4%. For boys, dropout rate at secondary level was 14.5% and for girls it was 14.2% in 2019-20,” said a senior state education department official requesting anonymity.In terms of gender parity index (GPI) at secondary levels, the minutes of PAB meeting duly note that GPI at secondary (0.93 per cent) and higher secondary level (0.94 per cent) in UP remains an area of concern. “In this regard, state needs to focus specially on those districts where the gender gap in gross enrolment ratio (GER) is more than 10% at secondary level like Aligarh (25.08), Hathras (17.67), Mathura (15.19), Mainpuri (12.82), Etah (12.61), Baghpat (12.33) etc,” add the minutes of the PAB meeting a copy of which is with HT.Academician and former vice chancellor, Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University, prof MP Dube said the districts identified as having high annual average dropout at secondary level as well as those having higher gender gap in GER at secondary level are lesser developed ones.“The inability of educated youngsters to secure jobs based on their educational qualifications works as a major factor in parents getting reluctant to allow kids to pursue secondary or higher education. High degree of insecurity in this regard as well as the feeling that an educated youngster failing to secure a job may be reluctant to join the family trade like farming etc also acts a deterrent,” he added.Prof Dube said there was a need to undertake district specific interventions where these problems exist like counselling of parents and students alike, providing opportunities of acquiring vocational skills for them and extending financial or material support to bright kids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-35-students-dropping-out-after-class-8-in-13-up-dists-govt-data-101632507009348.html
24-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Opening ceremony of BCM Arya School’s annual cultural fiesta held||BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Ludhiana, organised the opening ceremony of its five-day-long annual cultural fiesta ‘R & D Opera, the joy of rhythm and dance’. The celebrations will witness about 1,300 students from Nursery to UKG showcase their talent in performing arts at four different venues. The programme began with the ceremonial lighting of the lamp. Various dance and drama performances with a blend of cosmic tunes, valuable messages, and folk dances mesmerized the audience. Rajesh Arya, an eminent industrialist and vice-president of Arya Samaj, graced the occasion.NSS Foundation Day celebratedBCM Senior Secondary School, Focal Point, Ludhiana, celebrated NSS Foundation Day. As many as 105 volunteers and six teachers participated in it. The programme began with the chanting of Gayatri Mantra and shabad recitation. Programme officer Neelam Behl spoke about the aims and objectives of the NSS. Volunteer Mehak of Class 11 shared her views about the plans of NSS. Volunteers cleaned the classrooms, library, and surroundings. A chart-making competition on’ Plant trees’ was also organised. Sunshine World holds yoga session for grandparentsLudhiana Sunshine World School, Ludhiana, organised fun-filled activities for grandparents to mark Grandparents Day. Sanjeev Tyagi, owner, Everest Yoga Institute, conducted a yoga and laughter session. The parents of the students joined the grandparents during the session. They also took part in memory and balloon games and played ‘Antakshari’. The winners of all the games were awarded gifts.Shri Harkrishan Sahib student brings laurels to schoolHarleen Kaur of Class 12 of Shri Harkrishan Sahib Public School, Daba Road, Ludhiana, bagged the gold medal at the district level in Veer Kwon Do Martial Arts in the 50 to 55 kg weight category. Director Ramandeep Singh Sehgal and principal Poonam felicitated Harleen for this achievement. They further added that all students must follow in the footsteps of Harleen to accomplish their goals.BCM students excel in PU examinationStudents of BCM College of Education, Ludhiana, brought laurels to the college by clinching top positions in the Panjab University BEd examination. Rajan bagged the top position in the varsity by scoring 93.94%. Amanpreet Kaur and Kritika Sharma secured second and third positions, respectively, with 93.63% and 93.50% marks. Palak Gupta and Chahat Garg shared the eighth position with 92.44% while, Shivani scored 92.13% and got the tenth position. A total of 107 students scored more than 80%, and 14 got more than 70%.CTU celebrates World Pharmacist DayThe School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, CT University, Ludhiana, marked World Pharmacist Day in association with the Punjab State Pharmacy Officers’ Association (PSPOA) and Association of Pharmaceutical Teachers of India (APTI). The aim was to encourage activities that promote and advocate the role of pharmacists in improving health in pandemic Covid-19. Narinder Mohan Sharma, president, Punjab State Pharmacy Officers’ Association, was the chief guest. He, along with CTU officials, felicitated 25 known pharmacists from across the region.GNKCW celebrates Rashtriya Poshan MaahGuru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Gujarkhan Campus, Ludhiana, celebrated Rashtriya Poshan Maah 2021 as a part of the 75th Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. The theme of the week was ‘Distribution of regional nutrition kits to beneficiaries of Anganwadi in high burdened districts’. The IQAC and the NSS unit of the college organised various activities. Shikha Kalra, assistant professor, department of home science, prepared the traditional dish Phirni to create awareness about the importance of its nutritional content. NSS volunteers distributed nutrition kits to the children in slum areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianaopening-ceremony-of-bcm-arya-school-s-annual-cultural-fiesta-held-101632506709202.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Congress minority dept begins distribution of sankalp patra targeting SP||The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) minority department on Friday launched a campaign to distribute a 16-point sankalp patra that contains some promises, which target the Samajwadi Party (SP). The Congress proposes to make these promises to the minorities in the 2022 UP assembly election.The promise to open tanneries closed during the SP regime, a judicial probe into the riots that took place during the tenure of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav as chief minister and action to punish those found guilty by the Mathur Commission (that probed the communal violence in Kanpur in 1992) are some of the major points incorporated in the sankalp patra.It mentions that the SP-BSP (Samajwadi Party-Bahujan Samaj Party) government led by the then chief minister and SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav failed to act on the recommendations of the Mathur Commission.“We are distributing this 16-point sankalp patra drawing the attention of people in front of the main mosques in all the assembly constituencies after Friday prayers. We will make the distribution in front of 8432 mosques on four Fridays (September 24 to October 15) to reach out to nearly 2.5 million people. We will distribute the sankalp patras in front of at least six mosques every Friday across the state,” said UPCC minority department chairman Shahnawaz Alam.“A committee headed by former Union minister Salman Khurshid has been constituted to work out the Congress manifesto for the 2022 assembly election. We will request the manifesto committee to incorporate some of the points in the party’s election manifesto for 2022 polls,” he said.The other promises that the minority department proposes to fulfill if the Congress is voted to power in 2022 in the state include withdrawal of cases registered during the protests against CAA-NRC (Citizenship Amendment Act-National Register for Citizens), enactment of a law to check mob lynching, Maulana Azad hostels for minorities in every district on the pattern of Ambedkar hostels and compensation to the “innocent” persons against whom the cases under cow protection law have been dismissed by the high court.The UPCC also brought out a booklet recently targeting the BSP, SP and the BSP alike for taking the state on what it called the path of decline. There are indications that more such sankalp patras may be brought out by the party’s other departments and wings in the coming weeks.“Muslims have been a traditional vote bank for the Congress. The Muslims vote for a candidate who can defeat the BJP. This is an obvious effort to bring back the traditional voters back to the Congress. The move though has been made close to 2022 elections may work to some extent only,” said professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-congress-minority-dept-begins-distribution-of-sankalp-patra-targeting-sp-101632506110645.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||Expelled BSP leaders meet Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav||Expelled Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leaders Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar met Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow on Friday.Amid speculation about their political future, the two leaders said it was a preliminary meeting with Akhilesh Yadav to discuss next year’s Uttar Pradesh assembly election.Akhilesh Yadav shared a picture of the meeting with the two leaders on Twitter, describing it as a courtesy meeting.Verma said it was a cordial meeting with the Samajwadi Party chief. “We discussed various political issues, including the coming assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. Once the talks about contesting the assembly election are completed, I will formally join the SP,” he said.Rajbhar said, “We had a discussion about the assembly election and seats with the SP chief. It was an initial meeting before the joining. Once all the issues are discussed and finalised, we will join the Samajwadi Party,” he said. Both Verma and Rajbhar said they will contest the 2022 assembly election from their stronghold in Ambedkarnagar district of eastern Uttar Pradesh.BSP chief Mayawati had expelled Verma and Rajbhar on June 3 on the charge of indulging in anti-party activities during the panchayat election earlier this year. Verma held the post of the leader of the BSP legislature party in the state assembly while Rajbhar was the national general secretary of the party. The expulsion of the two top BSP leaders before the assembly election had surprised the political observers as well as BSP workers.At that time, Verma and Rajbhar had said that they would meet Mayawati to clear misunderstandings. “We will wait for communication from the BSP chief. When she refuses to withdraw the expulsion, we will think about joining another political party,” Verma and Rajbhar had said. Mayawati refused to open the door to the duo, stating that she will not tolerate indiscipline by senior leaders or workers.Earlier, seven rebel BSP MLAs Aslam Raini, Aslam Ali, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Hargovind Bhargava, Sushma Patel and Vandana Singh had also met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav. There was speculation that these rebel MLAs will join the SP soon. Recently, former minister and BSP leader Ambika Chaudhary rejoined the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/expelled-bsp-leaders-meet-samajwadi-party-chief-akhilesh-yadav-101632505809003.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Maha schools to reopen from Oct 4, religious places from Oct 7||With the daily caseload of Covid-19 cases showing a slight drop over the past few weeks, the Maharashtra government announced opening of schools from October 4 and religious places of all faiths from October 7, the first day of Navratri festival. Primary and secondary schools will reopen after almost 18 months after the closure of the schools because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Offline teaching for Classes 5 to 12 in rural areas and 8 to 12 in urban areas will begin in the first phase, with the option of online teaching open for students. After consultation with the task forces of doctors, experts from education sector, officials from other department, the school education department announced the decision. The department has issued a detailed SOP for schools, teachers and parents to follow to avoid schools from becoming super spreaders. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has given the nod to the proposal, but district collectors and municipal commissioners have been given the final authority to take a call on the basis of the local Covid-19 situation. Local bodies in cities and districts with a high number of cases are likely to defer the decision. The guidelines issued by the government have recommendation for health clinics on school premises, linking schools with local health centers, roping in local doctors, identifying students with the Covid-19 symptoms, taking them to doctors and taking a call on their attendance in the school. The guidelines have also recommended psychological management of students in the backdrop of the Covid-19 caused stress and repercussions. It has also stressed on need for sensitisation of the teachers over treatment to the students, especially those infected of the virus. The guidelines also mandate social distancing, proper sanitisation and ventilation in classrooms during working hours. They also talk about the precautions to be taken by students and parents at home. The guidelines have also pressed for the parent-teachers meetings for better awareness about the pandemic, precautions and implementation of the protocol. The government has also suggested use of CSR for health-related expenditure for sanitizers, masks, oximeters and even for fans, etc. The department had issued an SOP on August 10 after announcing to reopen the schools from August 17. The decision was stayed by Thackeray after task forces raised red flag amid the threat of a potential third wave. The task forces had opposed the plan in the wake of the threat of the third wave, rise in cases in Kerala and instances of shutting down of schools in parts of the world because of the infection among students. The state, while deferring the decision, asked district administrations to aggressively vaccinate teachers and non-teaching staffs. “We had issued guidelines while opening the schools for Classes 5 to 12 in July and had issued one in August. Additional guidelines are being issued after our detailed discussion with the paediatric task force and health department. The guidelines issued today are comprehensive and what we feel the best in the country,” she said. The minister said that physical attendance will not be mandatory for students. “The consent of parents for attendance of the ward will be mandatory. Students can opt for online classes through the App, Youtube channels and other facilities made available to them. The schools will have to make the online modules available for students who want to avail the facility. We have also not made uniform compulsory to enable students to follow the protocol related to changing of clothes after returning home,” she said. Gaikwad said teachers and non-teaching staff are expected to be fully vaccinated and local administrations have been taking due efforts for it. “Bringing back dropped out children because of the crisis arising out of pandemic and lockdown is a task before us. We are chalking out a plan to ensure it,” she said. Head of state paediatric task force Dr Suhas Prabhu said monitoring the guidelines was important and the state authorities have been asked to do it properly. “We have asked the government to form a committee of stakeholders including people from health, education, local authorities, local representative for the effective monitoring and disseminating the information. It will help in monitoring and resolving the problems faced by the students, parents. We have also recommended norms for steps need to be taken in case of infection among students. We have suggested closing down the school if 10 people (including teachers, staff) or 10% of the total attendees are infected. The measures also have been suggested to take in case of less infections are reported,” he said. “We cannot keep the schools shut as the virus is not going to go altogether and physical schooling is important for all-round development of children. It is the emotional need of the children as they get to go out, play with friends, mingle around in the peer groups. In the absence of these things, they get upset, depressed and show unusual symptoms or develop bad habits,” he added. Meanwhile, about the reopening of religious place, Thackeray said that devotees will have to follow Covid-19 protocol and the management of the religious places will have to ensure it. “We prepared for the potential third wave after the number of cases from second wave started subsiding. We will have to be more cautious while opening up activities,” he has said. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party had staged state-wide protests last month demanding reopening of religious places. Party leaders had also criticised Thackeray government for imposing restrictions only on Hindu festivals The state has advised devotees above 65 years and below 10 years and those with comorbidities to not visit religious places. The detailed SOP issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, also clarified that religious places in the containment zones announced by the local authorities are not allowed to open. The management of such places has been directed to determine the time slots and the number of people to be allowed per slot to avoid crowding. They have also been told to properly manage the queue and maintain a distance of 6-ft between devotees. The managements have also been mandated with the responsibility of crowd management at parking lots and keeping separate entry and exits of the premises, distribution of prasad, sprinkling of holy water and touching idols, statues and holy books too has been banned. The entry inside the premises without mask and of the person with Covid-19 symptoms has been prohibited. Managements have been mandated to follow due procedure of isolation and proper sanitisation if any person found infected on the premises. Schools reactSchools are shocked with the decision. “Reopening of schools especially when children are not even vaccinated makes no sense. We assumed the government will first reopen colleges and then focus in schools, but this new announcement has shocked us all,” said the principal of a state board school in Dadar. While state board schools have time and again complained about the need for better infrastructure and more teachers in order to implement hybrid teaching model, many non-state board schools have been open to hybrid classrooms. “In international boards, Classes 10, 11 and 12 have board exams and already these students have suffered because of missing school and practical classes for one academic year. Our schools have not more than 25-30 students per class, plus we have the infrastructure to ensure students follow social distancing protocols while in school,” said Kavita Aggarwal, chairperson of Mumbai International Schools’ Association (MISA) and director of D G Khaitan School, Malad. Parent groups, too, are unhappy. “The government is expecting schools to reopen without any preparation. The government has no data on how many teachers and staff are vaccinated. And what’s worse is that children are not vaccinated. It’s risky to open school knowing that many students will be using public transport to travel,” said Anubha Sahai, president of Indiawide Parents’ Association. Inputs from Shreya Bhandary||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-schools-to-reopen-from-oct-4-religious-places-from-oct-7-101632505148959.html
24-09-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand red-flags ‘demographic change’, says one community forced to migrate||Dehradun: There has been an “unprecedented” increase in population in parts of Uttarakhand forcing “members of a certain community” to shift out, the Uttarakhand government said on Friday evening, ordering police and administrative officers in the hill state’s 13 districts to set up peace committees, track “illegal land deals” and prepare a list of outsiders with criminal antecedents.“Due to unprecedented rise in population in certain areas of the state, the demography of those areas has been majorly affected. And due to this demographic change, members of a certain community are forced to migrate from those areas. Also, there are possibilities that the communal harmony in those areas may be disturbed,” a government statement issued on Friday evening said.It also said that there is a possibility of an exodus of people because of this demographic change.The government order was finalised after a high-level meeting on Thursday, people familiar with the matter said.The Congress alleged the government order was aimed at polarising the politics in the state on communal lines ahead of the assembly elections in early 2022. “They are trying to do what they have been doing in UP,” said Suryakant Dhasmana, the Congress’s state vice president.Devendra Bhasin, vice president in the state BJP, countered him, insisting that the decision was aimed at securing national security since the hill state is a border state.The police and the district administrators have been ordered to ensure regular meetings of the proposed district-level peace committees and “identify areas where antisocial elements are living”.“A list of all such people should be made who have a criminal background and are living in Uttarakhand. A verification of their profession and domicile status should be done to make their records. The DMs (district magistrates) should also monitor the illegal land dealings in their districts and check whether someone is selling his land out of fear or pressure. If it is found so, then they should stop it and take strict action against those responsible for it”, the statement added.The district authorities have also been told to identify foreign nationals who are using forged voter identity cards and other government ID proofs.“I can only say that the police will take action as per the directions of the government,” director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said, refusing to elaborate on the government order.Former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Aloke B Lal, who retired as Uttarakhand’s Director-General (Prosecution), expressed his apprehension about involving the police.“Demographic change, if any, should be checked by the revenue department and not the police…. It is not the job of police. However, if it is found that the crime rate has increased in areas due to the increase in population or demographic change, then the police could be involved. Similarly, police can be involved if it receives communication from their counterparts in other states about criminal elements from there settling in parts of Uttarakhand,” said Lal. Soon after the government announcement, BJP leader from Rudraprayag Ajendra Ajay said the move was linked to his letter to chief minister PS Dhami about what he called “increasing land-jihad” in the hill areas.“I had urged Dhami that concrete steps should be taken to check this land-jihad as people from the state are migrating to other states and people of a certain community from plains are migrating to hilly areas of the state, which is resulting in demographic changes here,” he said. BJP’s Devendra Bhasin said it was a good decision to identify outsiders and figure out what they are up to. “This exercise is meant to ensure such elements are identified and unable to disturb the communal harmony of Dev Bhoomi, the land of Gods”, he said.Congress’ Suryakant Dhasmana, however, dubbed it as an attempt to divert the attention of people. “This attempt at polarisation on communal lines is being made as the BJP government doesn’t have much to show to people in the election year. But such gimmicks won’t succeed in the state, where people of all communities have been living peacefully for centuries”, he said.Dehradun based political analyst SMA Kazmi also opined that politics could have dictated the decision. “Why should BJP suddenly issue such an order that demographic changes are happening, attempts are being made to disturb communal harmony in the state. One of the BJP leaders had even written to the chief minister PS Dhami to take cognisance of the zameen-jihad (land-jihad) in the hilly areas of the state. All this is being done to demonise a particular community and gain politically from such an exercise”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-red-flags-demographic-change-says-one-community-forced-to-migrate-101632505028971.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet meet: Schools in Himachal to reopen on Sept 27||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet in a meeting held on Friday decided to reopen the schools for classes 9 to 12 from September 27 (Monday). The meeting was presided over by CM Jai Ram Thakur. Students of classes 10 and 12 will attend the schools on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays whereas those studying in classes 9 and 11 will come on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays. Online classes and examination for junior classes would continue. The cabinet also decided to create and fill up to 8,000 posts of multi-task workers in the educational institutions under higher and elementary departments. They would be provided a consolidated honorarium of ₹ 5,625 per month for 10 months in one academic year.The cabinet decided to amend the transfer policy for interdistrict transfer of JBT and C&V teachers by reducing the existing tenure from 13 years to five years, including contract period, for transfer to another district and also increase the quota from existing 3% to 5%. It also decided to enhance honorarium of outsourced IT teachers by ₹ 500 per month from April 1. It also gave its approval to rename the Forest Training Institute and Rangers College in Sundernagar as Himachal Pradesh Forest Academy.The state cabinet gave its consent to draft proposal for customised package of incentives for mega industrial projects under Himachal Pradesh Industrial Investment Policy and Rules 2019. Approval was also given to fill up to 20 posts of naib tehsildar through direct recruitment on regular basis. The cabinet gave green signal for policy of replacement/maintenance of damaged crash barriers, while deciding to open a new division of Jal Shakti department at Baijnath.Approval was also given to upgrade government high schools in Palchaan, Janna and Shirad and government middle school in Hallan-I. It also decided to open new primary schools at Shililarji and Damsed in Seraj. The cabinet gave its consent to create and fill up 10 posts of different categories in HPSSC, Hamirpur. It also approved to upgrade sub-tehsil Sainj in Kullu district to a tehsil.Highlights• Students of classes 10 and 12 will attend the schools on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays whereas those studying in classes 9 and 11 will come on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays• Online learning for students of Class 8 and below• Posts of 8,000 multi-task workers to be filled in education department• Transfer policy for JBT and C&V teachers amended• Honorarium of outsourced IT teachers enhanced by ₹500• Name of Forest Training Institute changed to Himachal Pradesh Forest Training Academy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cabinet-meet-schools-in-himachal-to-reopen-on-sept-27-101632504549047.html
24-09-2021||City||Rohini shootout: Crime branch to probe ‘sensational’ case, announces Rakesh Asthana||Delhi Police's crime branch will probe Friday's shootout at a court complex in Rohini, Rakesh Asthana, who heads the force, announced, even as it faced severe flak for the incident, in which a dreaded gangster was shot dead by two assailants, who, in turn, were shot dead by security personnel in retaliatory fire.Also Read | Firing at Rohini court, 3 killed including jailed gangster“The case has been transferred to the crime branch,” Asthana told news agency ANI, describing the turn of events as “sensational.” However, he clarified that except the three who were killed --gangster Jitender Mann “Gogi” and his attackers -- there was no injury to anyone else. “It seems like this incident was executed with advanced planning,” the city police commissioner further said. One of the two accused was from Baghpat while the other one was from Delhi. Revolver and pistol recovered from them. We are examining CCTV footage to ascertain if anyone else (accused) was also involved: Delhi CP Rakesh Asthana to ANIAlso Read | Who is gangster Jitender Gogi shot dead at Rohini court?One of the attackers, Asthana said, was from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh, while the other was from the national capital itself, adding that revolver and pistol were recovered from them. On the possibility of a third or more suspects, he said that CCTV footage was being examined to ascertain if more people were involved. Reiterating the sequence of events, the senior officer said that Gogi was shot while he was being produced in connection with a case. “In view of his criminal record, he was being taken under strict security arrangements. However, two people, who were dressed as lawyers, opened fire at him, and killed him. Officers responded, and neutralised them both,” Asthana remarked. #WATCH: "...The case has been transferred to Crime Branch for thorough investigation, to find out why such an incident happened": Delhi Commissioner of Police Rakesh Asthana on shootout at Rohini Court pic.twitter.com/Hb8tTIGQXnThe incident, which has been called a gang-war, took place in broad daylight, with several people present inside the court premises.Also Read | ‘Such incidents have been recurring’: Bar Council of Delhi chairman on Rohini court shootoutJitender Mann “Gogi” led the Jitender Gogi gang, which was involved in several cases of murder and extortion in Delhi. In 2016, he escaped from police custody within just three months of being arrested, but was later caught. At the time of his escape, he had a reward of ₹4 lakh on his head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohini-shootout-crime-branch-to-probe-sensational-case-announces-rakesh-asthana-101632501988318.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||Religious conversion racket: UP ATS issues helpline number seeking info from public||LUCKNOW The UP Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS) on Friday issued a helpline number 9792103156 and mail ID controlroom.ats-up@gov.in inviting people to share any information related to Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui and Maulana Umar Gautam, two key accused in the religious conversion racket.People could share information related to the duo’s properties, assets and investments anywhere across the country, people having links with him, their friends, relatives or any type of audio, video or documental evidence, stated the press note by the UP ATS. A senior ATS official said a team led by an ASP rank officer had taken the custody of Maulan Kaleem Siddiqui from Lucknow jail on Friday morning to interrogate him further about his links and others’ involvement in the religious conversion racket. Maulana Siddiqui, an Islamic scholar from Meerut, was arrested three months after Delhi’s Jamia Nagar resident Mohammad Umar Gautam was apprehended on June 21. Gautam was allegedly running Islamic Dawah Centre, an outfit allegedly working on ISI funding for converting deaf-mute students to Islam, he said.The ATS had so far arrested 11 people in connection with the conversion racket. Those arrested were booked under relevant sections of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act, 2020 and the Indian Penal Code, as per officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/religious-conversion-racket-up-ats-issues-helpline-number-seeking-info-from-public-101632503048721.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||Mahant named Balbeer as successor in his last will, says lawyer||PRAYAGRAJ: Even as all eyes were on the Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani for the appointment of the next mahant of Baghambari Gaddi Math and Bade Hanuman Mandir in Prayagraj, the lawyer of late Narendra Giri claimed that the Mahant had made three wills in the capacity of the head of the math.“The first will was made by the late Mahant on January 7, 2010. In this, he had mentioned his disciple Balbeer Giri as his successor. However, he got the will changed in 2011, after I became his lawyer,” said Rishi Shankar Dwivedi, Mahant’s advocate.The second will was made by Mahant Narendra Giri on August 29, 2011. He declared his disciple Anand Giri as his successor, added the lawyer, a resident of Allahpur locality of Prayagraj. At that time, yoga guru Anand Giri was very close to Mahant Narendra Giri and managed most of the affairs of the Bade Hanuman temple and the Math in his absence. However, cancelling both the earlier wills, the late Mahant made his third and last will on June 4, 2020, in which he again nominated Balbeer Giri as his successor, said advocate Dwivedi. The lawyer said Narendra Giri had called him around 12.45pm on the fateful day (September 20) and said he wanted to discuss something very important, but did not disclose the issue over the phone. “The will dated June 4, 2020 was signed by Narendra Giri in my presence and that is his last will, which is registered,” said Man Singh, a lawyer of the lower court and one of the two witnesses to Narendra Giri’s last will.The second witness of the will is another lawyer of the city, RK Upadhyay. In the purported suicide note recovered from the room of the Baghambari Gaddi Math where Narendra Giri’s body was found also mentioned Balbeer Giri as his successor. A video recording found by the police in the late Mahant’s mobile phone was also said to reiterate the content of the suicide note, including naming Balbeer Giri as his successor. However, many senior seers including Acharya Mahamandaleshwar of Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani Kailashanad Giri dubbed the purported suicide note as fake and maintained that the Niranjani Akhada would be taking the final call on Mahant Narendra Giri’s successor. Significantly, the appointment of the successor at Baghamabri Gaddi Math had always been made on the basis of the will left by the preceding head, informed a senior seer of the Akhada. He said even Mahant Narendra Giri was appointed the head of Baghambari Gaddi on the basis of the will left behind by his predecessor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mahant-named-balbeer-as-successor-in-his-last-will-says-lawyer-101632502388727.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||Pandemic effect: More than 80% dip in UP’s tourist footfall last year||LUCKNOW The tourism sector was among the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and footfall of both domestic and foreign tourists in Uttar Pradesh went down by more than 80% in 2020 as compared to 2019. Footfall of domestic tourists went down by 83.92% and foreign tourists by 81.22% in 2020, according to the state government. A total of 8,61,22,293 domestic and 8,90,932 foreign tourists visited UP in 2020. While in 2019, footfall of domestic and foreign tourists was 53,58,55,162 and 47,45,181, respectively, according to figures released by the state government. This headcount of tourists in 2019 also included 23,94,70,000 domestic and 10,30,000 foreign tourists who visited Kumbh in Prayagraj. According to experts, UP’s tourism industry will gradually recover as the pandemic situation normalises. Till May this year, 1,81,13,395 domestic and 3,398 foreign tourists had arrived in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pandemic-effect-more-than-80-dip-in-up-s-tourist-footfall-last-year-101632501968842.html
24-09-2021||Other||1st phase of panchayat polls over, turnout 60%||PATNAThe first phase of panchayat polls in Bihar, held at 2,119 polling stations spread over 12 blocks in 10 districts, passed off largely peacefully, except stray incidents of skirmishes and police firing to disperse miscreants at a booth in Aurangabad, state poll panel officials said.The overall voter turnout was 60% and females surpassed male voters in exercising their franchise to elect representatives for three-tier rural local bodies. “The first phase of polls passed off peacefully and voting was held in a free and fair manner. The voter turnout is also encouraging,” State Election Commissioner Dr Deepak Prasad said at a press conference after the polling was over at 5 pm. Asked about the police firing at Navgarh panchayat in Aurangabad, the SEC said it was a minor incident. Sources said police had to fire six rounds to disperse miscreants who were trying to capture a booth at the behest of a Mukhiya candidate around 9.30 am. The police arrested four persons in this connection. In another incident, anti-social elements partially damaged a police jeep at Tarapur in Munger. Prasad said complaints related to polling malpractices or other discrepancies were negligible due to measures like verifying voters identity through biometric machines and webcasting. “However, 26 persons were rounded up for bogus voting,” he said. Asked about complaints of biometric system not working at a few places, the SEC said these snags were promptly addressed. In the first phase, polling was held for 4,646 posts, for which 15,078 candidates were in the fray. As per SEC data till 3 pm, male voter turnout was 46.67% and female 55.06%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1st-phase-of-panchayat-polls-over-turnout-60-101632501668742.html
24-09-2021||Other||Cash van guard killed in Madhubani, ₹40 lakh looted||PATNAArmed robbers on Friday shot dead guard of a van carrying cash to a bank in Madhubani and looted ₹40 lakh before fleeing the spot while firing in air, the police said. Quoting eyewitnesses, the police said that six masked men riding motorcycles intercepted the LIC cash ban bringing money to Madhubani branch of Axis bank just when it was about to unload the cash. One of them, wearing a red shirt, entered the van and shot the guard. The injured guard, identified as Shiv Kumar Rai, was rushed to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. Police are scanning footages from CCTVs in the area.Eyewitnesses said the miscreants fired more than 10 rounds in the air to scare away people while fleeing. Madhubani superintendent of police (SP) Dr Satya Prakash, who visited the spot, said, “Three suspects have been detained and police are carrying out several locations. Some CCTV footages captured images of criminals and police are trying to ascertain their identities.”Police investigation has also found that the private company handling cash had not taken adequate security measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cash-van-guard-killed-in-madhubani-rs-40-lakh-looted-101632501488670.html
24-09-2021||Other||Transactions worth crores done through ‘fraud’ account created on daily wage earner’s, probe on||A savings account in the name of a daily wage worker was opened in 2016 and crores of rupees was transacted through it in three months thereafter. The matter came to light recently when Bipin Chauhan, a resident of Sisauni village under Kisanpur police station, approached a nearby State Bank of India’s customer service point (CSP) in Supaul to open an account to get a job card under National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA).However, much to his surprise, the CSP officials informed him that there was already an account in his name at the Union Bank of India, Supaul branch, with ₹9.99 crore as balance. The account was opened on the basis of Chauhan’s Aadhar number, but the photograph and signature were not his.Declaring it as a case of fraud, the bank officials said they were shocked as to how the account was opened without mandatory KYC (know your customer) documents.Santosh Kumar Khan, chief manager, Ranchi circle office, who was probing the incident, on Friday said it was a case of cyber crime. “The account in the name of the daily wage labourer was opened in October, 2016. Till February 2017, transactions worth crores were done in the account. I have directed the branch manager to inquire into the matter,” he said.On the other hand, branch manager Ravi Shankar denied that the account had a balance of ₹9.99 crore. “I have checked the account, no such amount is in it.” He, however, remained tight-lipped over claims that transactions worth crores were done through the account.This is the third such incident in quick succession in Bihar. Recently, ₹962 crore was credited to the accounts of two school students, while a man in Khagaria district was arrested after he refused to return ₹5.50 lakh erroneously credited in his account in April last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transactions-worth-crores-done-through-fraud-account-created-on-daily-wage-earner-s-probe-on-101632501368583.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||Nobody can glorify terrorists when BJP is in power: Yogi||GorakhpurGORAKHPUR Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said that the previous regime in UP adopted a soft approach towards terror outfits and withdrew cases filed against terrorists. “But today, when the saffron party is in power nobody can dare to glorify terrorists,” said the CM while addressing the crowd during a programme to mark the 152nd death anniversary of Mahant Digvijay Nath and seventh death anniversary of Mahant Avaidyanath, former head priests of Gorakhnath temple, of which Yogi Adityanath is current Mahant. “All of you are aware of the success we have achieved under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. With his inspiration, home minister Amit Shah scrapped Article 370, revoking the special status of J&K. The government also gave citizenship to persecuted Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Buddhists from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan by making laws and welcomed everyone who was stuck abroad. The earlier government did not have the courage to do this all,” said Yogi Adityanath. Enumerating the achievements of his government, the chief minister said with the construction of Ram temple, development of Ayodhya Dham and grand Deepotsav celebrations, Ayodhya has become the first Puri (pilgrimage cenre) among the seven in India and it’s grandeur is being watched by the entire world. Underlining the contribution of Gorakshpeeth in the Ram temple movement, the CM said the Ram Lalla idol came up at the Babri site in 1949 and seers fought a long battle for the temple under the guidance of Mahant Digvijay Nath and then under the guidance of Mahant Avaidyanath. Mahant Paramhans (litigant in Ayodhya case) fought the Ram temple suit under the guidance of Mahant Digvijay Nath. “Today, when the construction of Ram temple is underway, the soul of saints associated with the movement would be happy and at peace,” he added.Yogi Adityanath said a large chunk of Indian population, more than that of UP, attended the Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj and this grand event was recognised as cultural heritage by Unesco. “Residents of Uttar Pradesh are representatives of Lord Ram, Krishna, Gorakhnath, Gautam Buddha and Kabir and they should feel proud of this,” said the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nobody-can-glorify-terrorists-when-bjp-is-in-power-yogi-101632501308738.html
24-09-2021||Other||Unease in NDA after Centre affidavit on caste census||PATNAUnease among constituents of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) as well as Opposition paries in Bihar was palpable on Friday, a day after the central government, in an affidavit in the Supreme Court, virtually ruled out a caste census. Recently, an all-party delegation from Bihar, led by chief minister Nitish Kumar, had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to press for a caste enumeration in Census 2021.First to react was former CM and Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad. “All types of birds, animals, trees and plants can be counted but not humans belonging to the other backward classes and the extremely backward classes. Wow! Why does the BJP-RSS have so much of antipathy for the backwards? Caste census would have benefited all. It would have given an exact idea of population of respective segments,” he tweeted in Hindi.Leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav served an ultimatum to CM Nitish Kumar and asked him to clear his stand within three days. “We will continue our fight for caste census and will request the CM to clear his stand in three days. After that we will decide how to take this fight forward,” said Tejashwi while talking to mediapersons. Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said the CM should clarify whether he is with BJP or with the people’s sentiment. Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, whose party HAM-S is an NDA constituent, said, “It was agreed to conduct caste census in the all-party meeting, then why was the affidavit not given as per the decision. We will again request the central government to consider it.” Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh, president of the ruling Janata Dal (United) to which CM Kumar belongs, said one should wait for the SC decision. “The census has not started yet. The Centre has only placed before the SC its views,” he said. The BJP, which was part of the all-party delegation that met the PM, justified the Centre’s stance. “The central government has clarified the whole situation by stating the reasons for not getting it done in the affidavit. It has been said that in the SECC (Socio-Economic Caste Census) conducted a few years back, four lakh 28,000 castes have been mentioned, “said BJP’s Bihar unit president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unease-in-nda-after-centre-affidavit-on-caste-census-101632501249107.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to reopen religious places from October 7||Maharashtra government on Friday announced that it will reopen all religious places starting October 7. The chief minister’s office in a tweet said that all religious places of worship will reopen on the first day of Navratri.“All temples in Maharashtra to be reopened from October 7 - the first day of Navratri,” the Maharashtra chief minister’s office said. The government faced a lot of criticism from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for not opening religious places of worship.The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government earlier did not reopen places of worship fearing a rise in Covid-19 cases. It also cited that a rise in cases could also accelerate the chances of a probable second wave.The Maharashtra government imposed several restrictions on the Ganesh Chaturthi festival, which is one of the most important festivals in the state, due to Covid-19. Maharashtra saw muted celebrations for the second year in a row as the state welcomed the Hindu deity under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic.The state government asked citizens to strictly adhere to Covid-19 preventive measures. “The Maharashtra government has prepared itself for a third wave, but with all precautions, the state is allowing relaxations in various activities,” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said.“Although daily Covid-19 cases are showing a declining trend, everybody should take care and follow Covid-19 protocols. While religious places are going to be opened, people still need to wear face masks and use hand sanitisers. The management of religious places will be responsible for the implementation of such measures,” Thackeray was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Places of worship were reopened in the state in November last year. They were closed down when the second wave hit the nation and also took a toll on the state. Maharashtra was among the states which saw a record number of cases, hospitalizations and deaths due to Covid-19.Maharashtra also reopened schools for classes 5 to 12 in rural areas and 8 to 12 in urban areas starting October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-reopen-religious-places-from-october-7-101632501111311.html
24-09-2021||Other||Bihar boy tops UPSC exam, CM tweets best wishes||PURNIAShubham Kumar, 24, who hails from Katihar district in Bihar, has topped the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination, 2020, the results of which were announced Friday. For Shubham, a civil engineering graduate from IIT Bombay, this was the third attempt at the examination held to induct officers for elite all-India administrative, police and revenue services, besides others. In 2019, he had secured 268th rank. In 2018, he could not make the cut. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar congratulated Shubham Kumar and said he has made Bihar proud. “Amir Subhani too had topped the exam,” Kumar tweeted, referring to the state’s top bureaucrat Subhani who is currently the additional chief secretary.Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who also comes from Katihar, spoke to parents of Shubham and expressed his desire to participate in the function to be organized to honour Shubham in his village Kumhari, according to the minister’s aides.Shubham, son of Devanad Singh and Punam Devi, received his primary education in his native village and later got admitted at Vidya Vihar Residential School, Parora in Purnia, where he cleared his Class X in 2012.Later, he went to Chinmaya Vidyalaya at Bokaro in Jharkhand and cleared his XII exam in 2014. He then got into IIT-Bombay.In the UPSC exam, he chose anthropology as his optional subject.Shubham is currently undergoing training at the National Academy of Defence Financial Management (NADFM), Pune. “My dream was to get into the IAS as it gives a wider platform to work for the betterment of the people. It has been realised and I would like to work for the underprivileged people, especially in rural areas,” he said.Shubham is younger of the two siblings. His elder sister work as a scientist in Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC).“He never gave up,” says Shubham’s father, who works in Uttar Bihar Gramin Bank. “I got the news through my son who called me from Delhi after the result.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-boy-tops-upsc-exam-cm-tweets-best-wishes-101632501068530.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||14.6 lakh beneficiaries in Lucknow got their 1st dose and over 4.20 lakh fully vaccinated: Admn||LUCKNOW Of the 26 lakh eligible beneficiaries in Lucknow (age group of 18-45 years), over 14.61 lakh had got their first dose of the Covid vaccine while over 4.20 lakh so far were fully vaccinated, according to data shared by the district administration. The total number of beneficiaries in Lucknow was above 35 lakh.Among those above 45 years of age, over 24.62 lakh got their first dose and over 10.13 lakh their second dose. Authorities said the focus will be increased on the second dose of Covid vaccine in Lucknow where 35,29,733 doses had been administered till now (including 24,96,306 first doses). “We have identified people who have their second dose due and contacting them to motivate them for taking the jab,” said Dr MK Singh, in-charge of vaccination in Lucknow. “The first dose of the Covid vaccine gives good protection against the virus but the second dose is essential for complete protection,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In all, 56% of the beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years had got their first dose and 16% their second dose while among those above 45 years about 70% got their first dose and 38% their second dose, according to the district administration. “On Saturdays, the second dose is particularly administered to ensure all eligible complete their vaccination,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer. Among the health workers, 97% had got their first dose and 89% their second dose, while among frontline workers, over 100% got their first dose and 86% second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/146-lakh-beneficiaries-in-lucknow-got-their-1st-dose-and-over-4-20-lakh-fully-vaccinated-admn-101632500589880.html
24-09-2021||Other||RTI activist shot dead in East Champaran||BETTIAHAn RTI (Right to Information) activist, who had exposed several cases of encroachment of government land, was shot dead by unidentified assailants in East Champaran district on Friday, police said.The assailants, riding a motorcycle, shot Vipin Agrawal, 47, from a close range near at Harshidih while he was on his way back to home from the local block office, the police said, quoting eyewitnesses.“Raids are on to arrest the assailants,” said Pramod Paswan, station house officer (SHO), Harshidih police station. “Some locals saw him lying in a pool of blood on the road on Friday. He was rushed to primary health centre (PHC) and was referred to the sadar hospital at Motihari where he was declared brought dead,” SHO Paswan said. “The RTI activist sustained four bullet injuries. We are looking at all angles,” said Abhinav Dhuman, a trainee Indian Police Service (IPS) officer posted as subdivisional police officer (SDPO), Areraj. Agrawal, who has been working as an RTI activist since 2009, had survived an attempt on his life on February 16, 2020. “He has fought a long battle to remove land encroachment in and around Harshidih area. Miscreants attacked and ransacked our house on February 16, 2020. His wife was dragged on the road in broad daylight. He had sued many people in this regard, but no one was arrested. We applied for protection several times, to no avail,” said Vijay Agrawal, the slain RTI activist’s father. Vijay Agrawal said his son had brought to light houses illegally built on eight acres of land worth crores near Gudri Bazar, Jadavpur Road and Pakadia Road (in Harshidih area). “In the 2020, a house situated on encroached land in Dhankhariya near Harshidih was demolished by the administration. Following a case filed with the Lokayukta in Patna, a petrol pump operating on encroached land was also sealed. Cases were also filed over a cold storage and residential house built on the encroached land,” he said. The RTI activist had earlier lodged a complaint in the subdivisional court at Areraj, accusing nearly hundred local people of implicating him in a false case of murder.When contacted, Navin Chand Jha, East Champaran’s superintendent of police, said, “A special investigation team has been formed under SDPO Areraj to probe the matter and arrest the assailants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rti-activist-shot-dead-in-east-champaran-101632500588583.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Eight hours work shift for women police personnel in Maharashtra||The director-general of police (DGP) of Maharashtra Sanjay Pandey on Friday said that the women police personnel in the state will no longer have to work for more than eight hours. Their work shifts would be of only eight hours. At present, the plan is already in effect in cities like Nagpur, Pune, Amravati and Navi Mumbai and now it would be extended in the entire state, he said.The move intends to reduce work stress on the women cops, who along with doing professional duties also have the burden of family responsibilities. According to police sources, the DGP office had received many complaints from women police personnel from across the state informing the top administration that their personal life was being adversely affected as they were on duty, longer than their shift hours. Previously, like others, the women cops were doing 12-hours shifts. Taking cognisance of the issue, the top cop first implemented the new working hour set-up for women in four cities as a pilot. After it received a good response, the top administration has now directed all the district police superintendents, commissioners and other unit commanders to start implementing the new order. The police department plans to implement the new order across the state in a month’s period, an officer said. Commenting on the development National Congress Party leader and MP Supriya Sule tweeted, “The Maharashtra government has decided to reduce the working hours of women police officers from 12 hours to 8 hours a day. This is a good initiative by the state government as this will help to have better balance between family and the duties of women officers.” Sule, added, “I thank chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Dilip Walse-Patil for taking this decision.” The decision is being welcomed by the female police personnel as it has come at a time when the festival season has just started in the state. During festive season due to regular bandobasts, nakabandi, preventive action drives and other duties, the workload is very high on cops and especially women cops find it difficult to make a balance between professional and family responsibilities.Earlier, former Mumbai police commissioner Datta Padsalgikar had also implemented 8-hours duty for constables, in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eight-hours-work-shift-for-women-police-personnel-in-maharashtra-101632500288357.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Fire Brigade to serve notice to Khar building over defunct firefighting system||The Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) has found violations of fire safety measures in Nutan Villa building in Khar, where a medium fire occurred on Thursday evening killing one woman. MFB will send a notice to the building owner and cut off electricity and water supply, fire brigade authorities said on Friday. The fire occurred in an electric duct on the first floor and spread to the ground floor of the building. However, as the duct connected all eight floors of the building, the entire building was smoked logged during firefighting. The fire brigade found the building’s firefighting system was not operational. A medium intensity (level-2) fire was reported in the residential building in Khar (West) at 6.58pm on Thursday, trapping three residents including a 10-year-old on the seventh floor. Among those who were trapped, Hema Jagwani, 40, was rescued and moved to Hinduja Hospital where she was declared dead on arrival by doctors. Sangita Thakur, 45, and Palak Jagwani, 10, were rescued by MFB using turn table ladders. A senior MFB official said, “While all three women were trapped on the seventh floor, two of them (Palak and Thakur) moved toward a window of the room, hence the fire brigade was able to rescue them from the outside. However, the deceased (Hema) was in an external room with access to the lobby where she got stuck while trying to take the staircase to exit the building. If she had also moved toward a window, we would have been able to rescue her.” All the eight floors of the building are occupied by one family. The fire brigade official said, “Other members of the family who were on lower floors were probably alerted sooner and were able to exit using the staircase. We are not able to determine exactly what happened regarding the deceased, but she probably did not have visibility as the entire building was smoke logged.” The fire was doused after about four hours of firefighting at 11.08pm on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-brigade-to-serve-notice-to-khar-building-over-defunct-firefighting-system-101632500168512.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Maha promulgates ordinance to ensure OBC quota in local body polls||The Maharashtra government on Friday promulgated an ordinance to ensure reservation to Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates of rural local body elections six months after the Supreme Court struck down the 27% reservation available stating that it breached the cap mandated by the apex court.With this ordinance, the state will amend two laws — the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 and Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for Zilla Parishads, Panchayat Samiti and Gram Panchayats — to ensure reservation.However, the amendments will not be applicable for the upcoming district bypolls to be held on October 5 in Palghar, Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim and Nagpur, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte clarified. “Considering the SC decision, it is clear that the reservation for OBC communities in local bodies no longer exists. To provide representation to the OBC community, it has decided to reserve 27% seats for the (OBC) community without exceeding the 50% total reservation quota in the local bodies’ as an alternative solution, hence, proposed the amendments in Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 and Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act. Since the state legislature is not in session and the governor is convinced with the urgency of the matter, this ordinance is promulgated,” the rural development department issued a statement on Friday.Kunte said that the state election commission (SEC) clarified to the government that the ordinance would not be implemented in bypolls. “Soon after the cabinet decision, we wrote to the state election commission requesting to consider the fresh reservation quota for holding bypolls in the backdrop of the ordinance. We told them if not considered then it may antagonize the OBC community, which may lead to a law-and-order situation in the state but they said they are unable to consider it at this stage and are following SC orders,” Kunte said“The commission further assured to consider the amendment for OBC reservation if the Apex Court issues fresh directives,” he added.On March 4, the Supreme Court ruled that the reservation for OBC in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in reservation quota mandated by it. It also directed the state to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which, the reservation quota of the community be fixed and also allowed the state election commission to hold local bodies polls without having reservations for OBCs.There are five laws that govern urban and rural local bodies and their elections. The remaining three are the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act and Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayats and the Industrial Townships Act — fall under the state urban development department.A decision to bring amendments for OBC reservation in the above three legislations was also taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday and the ordinance to this effect (to amend the laws) will be sent to the governor for final approval soon, the officials said.“Any change in the bypolls has to be done at the directions of the Supreme Court because it has directed us to hold the bypolls based on open category candidates. If there is any change for whatever reason, the direction has to come from SC. We are following their directives and can’t change on our own,” state election commissioner UPS Madan told HT last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-promulgates-ordinance-to-ensure-obc-quota-in-local-body-polls-101632499928534.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Robbery at gunpoint: ₹35 lakh snatched from two gold-trading firm staffers in Ludhiana||A gun-wielding man robbed two employees of a gold-trading firm of ₹35 lakh cash at Kismat Complex near Miller Ganj Chowk on Friday evening and fled on a motorcycle with his accomplice who was waiting nearby. Police said one of the employees even possessed a licensed revolver, but he let the robber flee without resistance. Police suspect the involvement of some insider in the crime. Questioning of the employees is on, police said. The incident occurred around 5pm when Gagandeep Singh and Prince, employees of Shankar Metals, reportedly entered the building after collecting cash from the market. According to the employees, they were waiting for the lift to reach the firm’s office on the fifth floor when a man walked up to them and flashed a gun. The robber asked them to hand over the bag and threatened to kill them. The accused snatched the bag containing the cash and fled. The employees said before they could react, the robber had already fled from the scene. The firm’s owner Deepak Arora alias Shankar said his employees informed him about the incident and he immediately alerted the police. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Industrial Area-B) Randhir Singh said the matter “looks fishy”. “The complainant has no record of the money transaction or the document to show the sale of gold. The employees neither resisted nor raised an alarm,” he said. The CCTV cameras captured the robber fleeing with his accomplice on a motorcycle after the incident. “An FIR has been registered at the Division 6 police station. Questioning of the employees is being done. The matter will be solved soon,” the ACP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robbery-at-gunpoint-35-lakh-snatched-from-two-gold-trading-firm-staffers-in-ludhiana-101632499628416.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Bollywood movies used to lure Thane rural residents to get their vaccination||When nothing else worked, good old Bollywood came to the rescue of the district authorities and social workers who were struggling to deal with the vaccine hesitancy by those in the rural belt of Thane district.Social worker, Baban Harne, from Shahpur made use of popular movies and shared the photos of these celebrities getting vaccinated to encourage and motivate the villagers to get jabbed. Like Baban, many Anganwadi teachers, Asha workers and other social workers have worked hard to remove the sceptical mindset and with the help of freebies and other perks, motivated many to come forward and get vaccinated in rural areas.Since mid-July, when the response from villagers were low and so were the number of vaccine doses available across the district, the vaccination drive has increased to more than 96%. Not only has the availability and the number of centres increased but also the awareness related to getting inoculated. Such is the response that Thane District’s health department has requested the Collector to make provisions for a mobile vaccination facility in rural areas.“Not every village or tribal settlement has a health centre in its vicinity. In many places, we have converted schools and gram panchayat offices into vaccination centres for the convenience of physically-challenged, bed-ridden and aged individuals. Hence, there is a need for a mobile vaccination centre that will help provide better facilities to villagers. We have requested permission from the District Collector for the same,” said Dr Manish Renge, District Health Officer, Thane.Those residing in the rural areas and especially in tribal hamlets within Bhiwandi, Shahpur and Murbad areas had a lot of misconceptions about the vaccine. This led to a low turnout initially in these areas. Many used to hide within their homes or in the fields to avoid interacting with Zilla Parishad officials. Some also feared that they would be forced to get vaccinated.“Villages in areas like Talwada, Rodvahal, Jambhulpada, Chillarvadi, Junavali are complete Adivasi Padas, wherein resistance to get vaccinated was quite evident. Many feared that the vaccination would impact their fertility. We started providing stationery to kids in these villages and used this as an opportunity to show movies of well-known Bollywood actors. Later, we showed them pictures of the same actors getting jabbed,” said Harne.“Children would go home and tell their family members, especially mothers. In many instances, the mothers also watched movies with us and get inspired to get vaccinated. Along with the womenfolk, their husbands and senior citizens also stepped forward to get inoculated. Thus, almost 60% of the population in these tribal villages changed their mind and have now taken the first dose,” added Harne.In mid-July, rural areas of Thane district had vaccinated hardly 25% with at least the first dose. “Currently there is a continuous supply of vaccine doses. This has also helped us to conduct around 90 sessions also in a day within the rural areas. If we have enough manpower, we can definitely conduct more sessions,” added Renge.Thane district’s rural areas comprise Ambernath, Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Murbad and Shahpur. Till now, seven lakh people have been vaccinated with at least the first dose in rural pockets from among the 14.89 lakh population. Out of these, 5.57 lakh (75%) have received the first dose and 1.84 lakh (24%) are fully vaccinated in the rural areas till now.Instances of vaccinators not providing proper guidance to the beneficiaries regarding the side effects causing the villagers to panic have also occurred. “We have strictly asked vaccinators to guide and provide basic medication to the beneficiaries getting vaccinated. Moreover, they are kept under observation for a while after getting jabbed. Our team of Asha workers also visit the vaccinated senior citizens and inquire about their health condition,” said a senior officer from District Health Department, Thane.Many are daily wage workers, not savvy with online booking and it becomes difficult for them to travel long distances to the health centre just to get jabbed. “There have been instances when these villagers have visited the centre but were turned away due to lack of doses initially. To encourage them, we have been adapting various methods like providing books and raincoats for children, groceries for women and initiating conversations with other family members while distributing these items. We also tried our best to gain their trust. While doing so, we also educated them about Covid and the importance of getting vaccinated,” said Kundan Patil, a Bhiwandi resident and a health committee member of the Zilla Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bollywood-movies-used-to-lure-thane-rural-residents-to-get-their-vaccination-101632499508484.html
24-09-2021||Other||Kapurthala police arrest fugitive couple in a drug case from train||Jalandhar In a dramatic sequence of events, Kapurthala Police have arrested a Delhi-based fugitive couple, on the run since 2019, in a 5-kg drug (heroin) supply case from a train near Jalandhar Cantonment railway station on Friday. Both the man and the woman were proclaimed offenders.Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said a special operation was launched, based on a tip-off. “The couple, Deepak Kumar and wife Preeti, have been arrested as part of a special drive to act against proclaimed offencers, especially the big fish involved in drug trade cases in the district.” He added that couple was wanted in a case where 5kg drug (heroin) was recovered, with later a court declaring them proclaimed offenders. During interrogation on Friday, the couple had revealed that they were going to deliver a consignment of heroin. Kapurthala police produced them before a magistrate and took police remand. “After their interrogation, the entire chain of drug supply can be busted and other members of their gang will also be arrested,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kapurthala-police-arrest-fugitive-couple-in-a-drug-case-from-train-101632499328417.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Dombivli gang rape: Timing of FIR helped make speedy and maximum arrests, say cops||The timing of the first information report (FIR) registered by the Dombivli sexual abuse victim helped the police officers apprehend a majority of the accused within a single night.The victim, who stays with her family in Dombivli (East), was allegedly blackmailed and sexually assaulted by 33 accused from January to September this year. The FIR was registered late on Wednesday night, and by Thursday morning, the police had arrested 22 accused and detained two more, who were minors.According to the Manpada police, the victim’s aunt and a local social worker were trying to trap the accused on Wednesday. Six of the accused had called the victim to a house rented by one of them in the Kole village in Dombivli, and the plan was to catch them red-handed at the time. However, the autorickshaw, in which the aunt and the social worker were following the victim had a flat tyre, after which they immediately called up the Manpada police.“As soon as we got the call, we rushed a team to the house based on the live location that the victim had sent to her aunt. Four of the six accused were caught from the spot and brought to the police station. We started questioning them right away. Two others had left by the time we reached,” an officer said.Based on the results of their questioning, as well as the victim’s statement, a list of names was drawn up and four teams were formed immediately.“We briefed all the teams about the seriousness of the offence as well as the task at hand. The priority was to apprehend the accused before they started fleeing the city. Fortunately, since the FIR was registered late at night, none of the accused learned about it and this worked in our favour,” the officer said.Another officer added that to further eliminate the chances of the news of the FIR leaking out, it was decided to coordinate the raids as much as possible. Hence, several of the arrests were made at the same time.“Our orders were to make a majority of the arrests before morning and reveal nothing to anyone other than the immediate family of the accused. True to our hunch, the news of the FIR broke out by Thursday morning, but by then our teams had already reached the locations of the remaining accused. A lot of social workers and politicians started visiting the police station. Had this happened immediately after the FIR was registered, the arrests could have been delayed,” the officer said.As of Friday evening, the police had arrested 27 and detained two more — who are minors — out of the total 33 accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dombivli-gang-rape-timing-of-fir-helped-make-speedy-and-maximum-arrests-say-cops-101632499148248.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Prepaid taxi fare from Mumbai domestic, international airport revised||Fares of prepaid taxis from Mumbai domestic and international airports have been revised. Passengers from international airport will have to pay less while those from domestic airport will have to pay more for their commute, as per the Khatua committee report.There has also been a hike in fares of intercity taxis between Mumbai and Pune. As per the Khatua committee report, on the basis which the Mumbai Metropolitan Transport Authority (MMRTA) has implemented the fare revision, prepaid taxi charges from international airport for a minimum of 7km was ₹135 and from domestic airport for minimum of 4km was ₹77, as of June 2015.However, the taxi airport union said the present minimum fare for 4km from domestic airport is ₹110 and minimum fare of 5km from international airport is ₹140.The minimum fare now has been set ₹127 from the International Airport for 6km and ₹85 for prepaid taxis from domestic airport for 4 km. The new fare structure will be implemented immediately.Fares of non-AC taxis between Mumbai and Pune will be ₹450 per passenger and for AC taxis it will be ₹525, instead of ₹350 and ₹425, respectively.The decision was taken by MMRTA in a meeting of implementing recommendations of Khatua committee.“We do not have the information presently as it is possible that the fares that are being charged presently are higher than permitted. However, the revised fares will be implemented immediately,” said an MMRTA official who did not want to be named.Further, the transport authority has stated that if a passenger takes AC black-and-yellow taxis, they will have to pay 10% higher fare than the per km base fare while that in a cool cab will be 20% higher than the base fare of black-and-yellow taxis.“The fares will be implemented immediately and were under discussion for a long time on the basis of Khatua panel recommendations,” said a senior regional transport office official.The revision comes after the fares of autorickshaws and black-and-yellow taxis in the city were hiked recently. The minimum base fare of autos is ₹21 and the minimum base fare of black-and-yellow taxis is ₹25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/prepaid-taxi-fare-from-mumbai-domestic-international-airport-revised-101632499088567.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Dombivli rape case: 3 more arrests take tally to 27||The Manpada police on Friday arrested three more people in connection with the gang rape of a 15-year-old girl from Maharashtra’s Dombivli, taking the total arrests in the case to 27, while two minors have also been detained. The survivor has named 33 men as accused in the case, said police.According to the complaint filed by the survivor on Wednesday, she was raped multiple times at different places across the Thane district between January 29 and September 22 this year. The survivor has alleged that the man she was in a relationship with threatened to leak their private videos and forced her to have physical relations with some of his friends and acquaintances.“We have arrested three more accused in the case on Friday. The total number of accused has also increased from 32 to 33. The remaining accused will be arrested soon,” Deputy Commissioner of Police Sachin Gunjal, Zone III, Thane Police said.Based on the girl’s complaint, the Manpada police in Dombivli on Wednesday registered a case against 33 persons under IPC sections 376 (rape), 376 (n) (repeated rape), 376 (d) (gang-rape), 376 (3) (rape on a woman under sixteen years of age) and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Gunjal added that the investigations are still underway at all the locations where the offence is alleged to have been committed. “Some of these locations are houses where one or more of the accused stay on rent, while in other cases, the victim was called to deserted locations like construction sites. Our teams are visiting all these locations,” he said.The police, however, have not found any compromising videos of the victim in the cell phones of any of the accused arrested so far. “We are submitting all the cell phones for forensic analysis to find out if the accused have deleted the videos, and whether a digital trail of the same can be obtained. We are also seeking details of whether the videos were forwarded to anyone other than those named in the FIR, or whether the videos were uploaded on any pornographic websites,” Gunjal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dombivli-rape-case-3-more-arrests-take-tally-to-27-101632499028321.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi’s name sends shivers down the spine of criminals: Rajnath||GORAKHPUR Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday showered praise on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath “for maintaining law and order situation in the state” to ensure holistic development.He said the CM had done commendable work and his name sends shivers down the spine of criminals.“If we want to make any state the best state, we need to maintain law and order and today the same work is done by Yogi Adityanath and the mafia is scared of the CM,” said Singh.The defence minister said the CM was following the path showed by Mahant Avaidyanath. “I believe the country’s seers could see the future. Mahant Avaidyanath had seen the future and that’s why he chose such a capable successor, and today the successor is turning Uttar Pradesh into Uttam Pradesh (best state),” said Singh after he and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath unveiled the statue of Mahant Avaidyanath in Maharajganj on his seventh death anniversary.Mahant Avaidyanath was the chief priest of Gorakhnath temple and also the guru of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Adityanath succeeded him as head priest of Gorakhnath temple after the Mahant’s death in 2014. Rajnath Singh said that Mahant Avaidyanath’s name will be written in golden words in the history of the Ram temple movement. “The Nath sect has done work for unifying the society. For his key contribution in the Ram temple movement, Mahant Avaidyanath’s name will be written in golden words in the history of Ram Janmabhoomi. The society will always be indebted to the great saint,” he said.“Indian Sanatan Sanskriti (ancient culture) gives the message of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family) and does not believe in untouchability. The heart of a seer is very big and a person with a small heart can’t become a seer and he can never benefit society,” added Rajnath Singh.Singh, who was a student at DDU Gorakhpur University in the early 70s, recalled his association with Mahant Avaidyanath. “In 1971, when I was doing M.Sc from Gorakhpur University, terrorists had taken an Indian aircraft hostage and Indians were angry. I built a student organisation and went to Avaidyanathji and told him that I want to lead a bandh (shutdown) in Gorakhpur. He said no one should be inconvenienced,” he said.The chief minister also showered praise on the defense minister, saying, “We all know about the nation’s internal and external security before 2014. Many used to infiltrate into the country and even hijacked planes. Bomb explosions and Naxalite attacks were also frequent. But since Prime Minister Modi took charge of the country and Rajnath Singhji took charge of the home ministry and defence ministry, enemies are turning back.” Input from agency||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogis-name-sends-shivers-down-the-spine-of-criminals-rajnath-101632498728427.html
24-09-2021||Pune||Pune district’s active Covid-19 cases fall below 10k||PUNE According to the state health department, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the Pune district fell below the 10,000-mark on Friday at 9,530 cases. The drop has come after seven months as the last time the district’s count went down below 10,000 cases was on February 23, before the second wave hit when Pune district reported 9,399 active Covid-19 cases.On Friday, the district reported 640 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.13 million out of which 1.10 million have recovered, 19,753 deaths reported and 9,530 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.Pune district also saw 54, 018 vaccinations on the day.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 399 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 356,549 and the death toll stood at 6,764 as two more deaths were reported.Pune city reported 141 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 516,283 and the death toll stood at 9,146 as six more deaths were reported on the day.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 100 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 265,820 and the toll stood at 3,494.Pune also saw 54, 018 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-Win dashboard on Friday and in total 10,069,278. Out of which 69,54,528 are first doses and 3,114,750 are second doses. A total of 439 sites saw vaccination out of which 162 were government centres and 277 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-s-active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-10k-101632496988071.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||BJP open to alliances with other smaller parties in Uttar Pradesh, says Dharmendra Pradhan||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is open to alliances with other smaller parties in Uttar Pradesh , the BJP’s UP election in-charge Dharmendra Pradhan said on Friday. The BJP has already sealed pacts for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election with the OBC-based Apna Dal (Sonelal) and the Nishad party. Dharmendra Pradhan didn’t make it clear as to which other “smaller parties” the BJP was still wooing, but dropped enough hints that efforts were on to form more alliances to ensure what he described as “social inclusiveness”. “Our state leadership is in touch with many (smaller parties) and as we proceed, we would let you know,” said Dharmendra Pradhan, the Union education minister. In the 2017 UP assembly election, the BJP had fielded 150 mostly non-Yadav OBCs and this time, too, the party leaders admit that the template is going to be the same. Political experts said that both the BJP and the SP were in a race to have a substantial chunk of the OBC pie.“At the moment it does appear that the two parties leading the race to woo OBCs are the BJP and the SP because these are the two political players witnessing the maximum footfalls of leaders from other parties,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist and political observer.While the Nishad party is now officially with the BJP, the SP, too, has stepped up efforts to win over the riverine community that comprises fishermen and boatmen.In July, the SP chief had unveiled a statue of Nishad community leader Manohar Lal in Sarosi village of Unnao. The SP leaders have also said that they would put up a statue of former bandit-turned- politician the late Phoolan Devi, belonging to the Mallah (Nishad) community. The SP also got Bhojpuri actor Kajal Nishad to join the party in August. The entry of Bihar’s Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), Jaalvanshi Morcha led by Gyanendra Nishad and the Eklavya Sena run by Phoolan Devi’s husband Umed Singh has further queered the pitch. It is in this backdrop that Dharmendra Pradhan’s statement about the BJP being open to more smaller parties assumes significance. The statement made during the announcement of a pre-poll pact with Nishad party coincided with two former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) heavyweights Lalji Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar, both OBC leaders, meeting former chief minister and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar, people familiar with the issue said, may join the SP in October. Earlier this month, first-time BJP MLA from Sitapur Rakesh Rathore too had similarly met Akhilesh Yadav, indicating that like the BJP, the SP too was trying to weave a rainbow coalition of OBCs, easily the dominant political caste group in UP. Rathore, too, is an OBC leader. The SP already has the support of the Mahan Dal that claims to have influence among Shakya, Saini, Maurya and Kushwaha communities, as well as the Janwadi Socialist Party of Sanjay Singh Chauhan which largely comprises members of the Bind and Kashyap communities. Asked if the BJP was also in touch with former ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), which has the support of the Rajbhars, an OBC group that is strategically spread over several assembly segments of east UP, a BJP leader said that the party would make attempts to “take everyone along.” Since his party fell out with the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar has set up the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, an alliance of eight small parties. These parties are the SBSP, Jan Adhikar Party, Apna Dal (K), Bhartiya Vanchit Samaj Party, Bhartiya Manav Samaj Party, Janata Kranti Party (R), Rashtriya Bhagidari Party (P) and Rashtra Uday Party. They comprises members of various OBC groups like Bind, Gadariya, Kumhar, Dhivar, Kashyap, Patels and have been demanding adequate ‘hissedari’ (representation) in government. In August, OP Rajbhar’s meeting with UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev had triggered a buzz about the former ally returning to the BJP fold. The meeting was arranged by UP BJP vice president Daya Shankar Singh who had claimed that both the parties would contest the 2022 UP polls together. Ever since, Om Prakash Rajbhar has gone back to attacking the BJP but the ruling party strategists indicated that “backchannel talks were on.”Another BJP leader said: “I think by the time elections draw closer, we would have more OBCs than anyone else. But it’s not just about OBCs. It’s just that no other party can offer the people bouquet of all-round development, charismatic global leadership and social inclusiveness and that’s where we prevail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-open-to-alliances-with-other-smaller-parties-in-uttar-pradesh-says-dharmendra-pradhan-101632495849559.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Covid warriors, uniformed personnel can get loan under CIDCO housing scheme||Applicants under CIDCO’s special housing scheme for Covid warriors and uniformed personnel can now get loan from CIDCO’s empanelled banks to pay Earnest Money Deposit (EMD). The decision is expected to make it easier for the Covid warriors to get the flats earmarked for them.CIDCO launched a special housing scheme for Covid warriors and uniformed personnel on August 15 this year.Sanjay Mukherjee, VC&MD, CIDCO, said, “Following request from many applicants, we approached CIDCO’s empanelled banks and suggested to them to make arrangements for providing financial assistance to applicants for the payment of EMD amount.”The list of empanelled banks has been published on the scheme website https://lottery.cidcoindia.com.Officials have said that CIDCO will play no role in the transactions between the applicants and the banks and that the applicants should carry out transactions at their own responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-warriors-uniformed-personnel-can-get-loan-under-cidco-housing-scheme-101632495608029.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Two booked under Pocso Act for obscene acts during online class in Mumbai||The Shahunagar police has registered a case under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act against two unidentified students for allegedly indulging in obscene acts during an online class of a Dharavi-based English medium school. On the complaint of the school principal, a first information report (FIR) has been registered. The police are now scanning the details of the list of the user IDs and passwords (of the online conference app) provided to students for online class.Police officers said that two students, who attended the online class of Class 9, used names of Jethalaal Gada (a famous character from a popular Hindi sitcom Taarak Mehta Ka Oolta Chashmah) and the name of a girl as their profile names.The two indulged in obscene acts and laughed. The accused addressed a girl student while doing obscene acts. The students and teachers were left shocked by the acts, said a police officer. The school’s complaint with the police says that it has been going on for the past 10 days. Finally, on Thursday, the school approached the police and reported the incident.“We have registered an FIR under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code, Pocso Act and Information Technology Act for obscene acts, using computer resources for obscenity and obscene acts against children. We are trying to figure out how the accused persons got the link to join the online session,” said an officer from the Shahu Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-booked-under-pocso-act-for-obscene-acts-during-online-class-in-mumbai-101632495247839.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court asks Centre, Maharashtra govt to address issue of potholes on highways||Observing that a distance that was traversed in 15 minutes on the Mumbai-Nashik highway was now taking two hours due to the potholes that had come up there, the Bombay high court (HC) has asked the Centre and the state government to take cognisance of the potholes on the said highway and other highways and initiate coordinated efforts to ensure that commuters do not lose lives due to the menace. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, which has been hearing a public interest litigation complaining of potholes on the Mumbai-Goa highway, while referring to news reports (has not referred to a news report of any particular media organisation) that highlighted the pathetic state of the highway said, “A distance that can normally be covered in a period of 15 minutes now takes at least two hours all because of the potholes.” The bench sought to know from the advocate general (AG) as to why such a situation had arisen and no action was taken to address the pothole issue. According to the September 23 report of the Hindustan Times, ‘Commuters had to endure a nightmarish commute on both Tuesday and Wednesday as 15km-long serpentine queues of vehicles were witnessed on the Mumbai-Nashik Highway. The traffic snarls spilled over to Ghodbunder Road, Waghbil, Kalwa, Majiwada and other areas in Thane city.’ The report also cites Vinay Rathod, DCP (traffic), Thane, explaining the reason for the traffic snarls, “The poor condition of roads and the heavy rains that damaged the temporary filling of potholes led to a slow pace of traffic. We have approached the local authorities and asked them to do the needful.” The bench further added, “It is not a good situation. Precious lives will be lost if this situation continues. We were dealing with the same potholes issue the other day in a PIL pertaining to Mumbai-Goa Highway.” In the PIL about the Mumbai-Goa highway, the bench on September 20, had asked the state government to consider a state-wide policy to deal with the issue of potholes on public roads and highways to safeguard the lives of citizens. The bench had warned the concerned authorities and contractors especially the state government that it would not allow the Konkan coastal road project which would pass through three districts if the road widening and pothole issue of the Mumbai-Goa which had commenced in 2010 is not completed in a time-bound manner. AG Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the bench that the Mumbai-Nashik highway was under various authorities of the central government and the state government was only the overseeing authority. However, the bench observed that these issues had to be sorted out between the authorities and all agencies needed to come together and co-ordinate on addressing the pothole issue. The bench then asked the governments to respond on the issue on October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-asks-centre-maharashtra-govt-to-address-issue-of-potholes-on-highways-101632495127899.html
24-09-2021||Bangalore||In further relaxations, Karnataka allows schools to function 5 days a week; cinema halls can open at 100% capacity||The Karnataka government on Friday announced further relaxations to the state’s Covid-19 restrictions, declaring that schools for classes 6-12 can now function for five days a week. Additionally, places such as cinema halls and auditoriums will be allowed to open at 100 per cent capacity, the government said.Also Read | Karnataka Covid rules to be relaxed? Minister gives a timeline“Classes from 6th to 12th standard permitted to operate for five days a week, at full strength, in districts with positivity rate of less than 1 per cent. Strict surveillance to continue at border posts in districts adjoining Kerala and Maharashtra,” news agency ANI reported, citing a statement from the Basavaraj Bommai-led government.Also Read | Schools reopen for students of classes 6 to 8 in Karnataka “From October 1, Cinema halls, auditoriums can operate at 100 per cent audience strength though at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine and strict adherence to protocols will be mandatory,” the order further stated, adding that pubs will be allowed to reopen from October 3.Night curfew shall continue to be implemented across the state, from 10pm to 5am, from September 25, the government said.
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to study role of mangroves in serving as buffer against cyclones||Maharashtra has launched the first scientific, empirical evidence-based study to assess the effectiveness of mangroves in serving as a buffer against cyclones. The study, which has been commissioned by the state government’s Mangrove Foundation, will seek to gauge how effective the mangrove patches in Raigad and Ratnagiri districts were in restricting or preventing damage to the coastline by the Nisarga and Tauktae cyclones.“This will be a comprehensive study and impact assessment of the Nisarga (2020) and Tauktae (2021) cyclones on mangroves and non-mangrove areas. The study will assess how effective mangroves were in preventing damage to the coastline,” said Deepak Apte, executive director of the Srushti Conservation Foundation, which is conducting this study. Apte, who is the former director of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), added that they would identify the key vulnerable sites in the two districts by using and analysing the satellite data, drone footages as well as field surveys of all such sites to reveal the changes before and after the cyclones.The study will quantify the impact of the two cyclones on mangrove and non-mangrove areas, the damage caused in these two areas and also identify patches that are vulnerable to cyclones and such adverse weather events. The site visits are currently being undertaken to verify if the mangroves, whose presence had buffered the impact of the two cyclones, have survived or have suffered mortality due to the severe nature of the storms. Apte said that the study, which cost ₹14 lakh and is expected to be completed next year, will help the state government evolve a comprehensive shoreline restoration plan. While mangroves grow in creeks and muddy areas, non-mangrove habitats may require a combination of soft and hard engineering interventions to prevent the impact of cyclones and adverse weather events.The complex root systems of mangroves dissipate the energy of sea waves, thus protecting coastal areas from tsunamis, storm surges and soil erosion. They also enhance sediment deposition and prevent coastal erosion. Mangroves serve as a breeding ground for fish and aquatic ecosystems and are carbon sinks.While such impact assessment studies on mangroves have been conducted on the east coast of India, which is vulnerable to cyclones and coastal erosion, and in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Apte said this was the first such integrative study in Maharashtra. “This study will help the state government evolve a systematic shoreline protection policy,” he explained while adding that as part of this assessment, their team will also interact with members of the coastal community. This will help them know about the native species of trees and vegetation that have served as buffers on these parts of the coast.Maharashtra has a 720-km coastline. According to the India State of Forest Report-2019 released by the Forest Survey of India, Maharashtra’s mangrove cover has been estimated at 320.27 sq km, of which Mumbai city and the suburbs have 2 sq km and 64.30 sq km respectively. Maharashtra accounts for 6.44% of India’s 4,975.22 sq km mangrove cover.Mangroves form 1% of tropical forests in the world or 15 million hectares and are distributed over 123 countries.In 2012, the state forest department established a mangrove cell to ensure the protection and conservation of mangroves on the coastline. The Mangrove Foundation has been established as an autonomous body to implement mangrove and marine biology conservation initiatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-study-role-of-mangroves-in-serving-as-buffer-against-cyclones-101632495068006.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||MBA aspirants to move court over discrepancies in CET paper pattern||Days after the common entrance test (CET) for admissions to various undergraduate and postgraduate professional courses ended, Master of Business Administration (MBA) aspirants have pointed at discrepancies in the question paper format. Many took to social media to highlight how different students who appeared for the exam received questions with different paper patterns, and called the exam unfair. Some students have decided to move the Bombay high court (HC) and seek a stay on the results.CET exam is an entrance test for admissions to professional undergraduate degree courses including engineering, management, architecture, hotel management, pharmacy, agriculture and allied courses among others. After an initial delay due to the pandemic, the exam is being conducted in multiple sessions starting September 20 and will go on till October 10.As per the official CET website, MBA aspirants’ entrance exam has a total of 200 questions which are divided in four topics—Logical Reasoning (LR), Abstract Reasoning (AR), Quantitative Aptitude (QA) and Verbal Ability (VA).“The paper pattern mentioned in the official examination brochure states that LR will have 75 questions, AR will have 25 questions and the remaining two topics will have 50 questions each. What happened, however, is that some students got 90 questions in LR instead of 75 and others got 30 questions in the same topic. Similarly, some students got 70 questions in QA while others got only 50. This means the exam was not held on a common platform,” said one of the students who appeared for the entrance exam this year.Students have raised their queries with the state CET cell, but yet to get a response. “The questions asked in the CET exam have been based on the syllabus decided by the state government. No out of syllabus questions were asked,” said CD Joshi, commissioner of the state CET cell. He added that the office in Mumbai has not received any complaints from students regarding discrepancies in the question paper as yet.A state-based student group, Maharashtra Students Welfare Association has approached state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant in this matter. “Some of us, who had jobs, have already quit because we had all our hopes on the entrance exam going well and scoring well too. But with the discrepancies in the way exam was conducted, we are worried about scoring well,” said a student from Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mba-aspirants-to-move-court-over-discrepancies-in-cet-paper-pattern-101632495007915.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Scientists, educators oppose panel set up to develop new curriculum framework under NEP||Scientists in Mumbai and around the country are opposing a steering committee set up by the Central government to develop a national curriculum framework under the National Education Policy (NEP).In a statement issued on Thursday, the All India People’s Science Network (AIPSN) — a network of over 40 people’s science organisations spread all over the country — said, “It is a matter of deep concern that the entire span of educational curriculum reform, from the early childhood years to adult education, has been entrusted to a small committee with no expertise in these crucial areas. Members include educational administrators and even entrepreneurs. This seems to be in line with the trend of the NEP 2020 to usher in private players while making subservient established institutions of public education.”On Wednesday, the Union ministry of education set up national steering committee for the development of national curriculum frameworks according to the perspectives of NEP. The committee is expected to develop four national curriculum frameworks — for school education, for early childhood care and education, for teacher education, and for adult education.According to the terms of reference, the 12-member committee chaired by former ISRO chief and space scientists K Kasturirangan will have tenure of three years. It will “discuss different aspects of school education, early childhood care and education (ECCE), teacher education and adult education keeping in focus all the recommendations of NEP 2020 related to these four areas for proposing curriculum reforms”.“Indeed surprisingly, no faculty members of NCERT are included, even though it is the apex national body responsible for the development of curricula; rather, the director of NCERT is expected to “assist” the Steering Committee,” said the AIPSN in its statement.AIPSN has called for a re-constitution of the steering committee with persons having a deep understanding about learners in diverse and disparate socio-cultural contexts, disciplinary knowledge of school education and domain expertise in teacher education/adult education, as well as sound experience of the pedagogical processes required to develop a national curriculum framework. “Moreover, if there is serious concern for the future of all our learners, the committee will need to address the challenges of education with commitment to the Constitution and a focus on equity, quality and inclusion,” said the AIPSN.Vivek Monteiro, a city-based science educator, member of AIPSN and secretary of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Maharashtra, said, “NEP is a non-starter. Its disconnect with reality is shocking. Though released in 2020, there is not a single mention of the pandemic which was raging at the time of its release. Its following implementation document Sarthaq, published in 2021, continues this oblivion to the ground reality of a learning crisis arising out of the pandemic. On the contrary, the ministry is busy celebrating the business opportunities provided by online education. The committee set up to revise national curriculum framework is educationally incompetent and the only criterion of selection seems to be political proximity to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/scientists-educators-oppose-panel-set-up-to-develop-new-curriculum-framework-under-nep-101632494827832.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Kharghar residents file writ petition against Panvel civic body for wrong taxation||The Kharghar Forum, which was created by Kharghar residents to fight for their own causes, have recently filed a writ petition about the wrong taxation on the residents in the High Court against the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and CIDCO, too, has been made a party to it.Leena Garad, chairperson of Kharghar Forum, said, “Twenty five different services are provided through CIDCO and service charges are recovered. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation has levied 12% property tax for these services. Under Section 130 and Section 131 of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, the corporation has the right to levy property tax only if such services are provided.”She added that as per Section 99 of the Municipal Corporation Act, a resolution on property tax must be passed every year on or before February 20 and this is known to the administration.Garad said, “However, no such resolutions have been passed in 2016, 2017, 2018 (excluding 2019) as well as in 2020 and 2021. The municipal commissioner has also agreed in writing in resolution number 118 dated January 17, 2019 that this matter is a serious mistake. Even then, property tax has been imposed on two-and-a-half lakh property owners.”The Kharghar Forum members have claimed that the PCMC authorities have failed to come up to the development expectations of the residents. “Around 80% citizens of the corporation totalling nearly two-and-a-half lakh people are living in the CIDCO Colony area and ever since the establishment of the corporation, no development has been done in this area by the PCMC. Despite this, unjustified property tax has been levied by PCMC retrospectively with effect from October 1, 2016,” Garad said.The Kharghar Forum had been repeatedly bringing the issue to the notice of the authorities and the administration. “Tax is the government’s right and it can’t be forgone. Tax demanded is as per the rules. The tax has been reduced by 10% till September 30. There is also a 2% rebate for paying taxes online. Citizens should take advantage of this concession and pay taxes as soon as possible,” said commissioner, Ganesh Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kharghar-residents-file-writ-petition-against-panvel-civic-body-for-wrong-taxation-101632494407822.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC starts Covid test of citizens in Mumbai with travel history during Ganesh festival||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is keeping an eye on citizens who have travelled to neighbouring districts during the Ganesh festival. This week, 272 people who travelled to the Konkan region from Mumbai have been found Covid-19 positive in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. Following this, all ward officers have been instructed to run RT-PCR tests on people with travel history in the city.For Ganesh festival, a large number of citizens travel to their respective native towns in and around Mumbai. Although the seven-day positivity rate in Mumbai stands at 1.5%, there are some districts like Ahmednagar (5.3%), Pune (5%), Sangli (4%) which are still recording high infection rate. This makes them vulnerable to contracting Covid-19. So, to curb the transmission rate, BMC has already started identifying such individuals. Ward officers are sending their health officers for door-to-door inspections especially in areas with a high population with recent travel history.“We generally get the travel history of the individuals when they contract Covid-19. So, this time without any delay, we have asked the ward officers to make a list of these returnees and test them immediately,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.During any festive season, the daily cumulative testing in the past has been reduced to around 25,000, which was widely criticised by health care activists and medical experts. However, in the last three days, the number of tests has escalated to around 40,000 daily.Prashant Sapkale, assistant municipal commissioner and in-charge of K/East (KE) ward that covers the Andheri East and Jogeshwari said that they have already boosted up the testing in the slums. “We are tracking the recent travellers in the areas with high Marathi population. If anyone is showing any symptoms like fever and cough, we are immediately isolating the suspected patient,” he said.BMC has also instructed officials to tighten the testing in railway and bus stops which record the highest number of floating population. “Early detection of patients helps to stop the chain of transmission among the crowd. So, we will also randomly run rapid antigen tests in crowded places including malls, markets among others,” said Kakani.At present, the city has around 4,800 active Covid-19 patients who are on treatment. Of these, 60% of them are symptomatic and around 390 of them are critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-starts-covid-test-of-citizens-in-mumbai-with-travel-history-during-ganesh-festival-101632494348003.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Be dignified, get rid of ‘super CM’: Sukhbir to Channi||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday urged chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to conduct himself with dignity to match the sanctity of the office he holds. In a veiled attack at state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Sukhbir advised Channi not to allow “an extra-constitutional super CM” treat him like a “rubber stamp”. Sukhbir was talking to the media after a party delegation met Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit, seeking adequate compensation for the agricultural land acquired for Bharat Mala road project, and monetary relief to Malwa farmers who have suffered losses due to spurious seeds and pesticides. Sukhbir said 25,000 acres of land in 19 districts was in the process of acquisition for various road projects and the compensation being offered was meagre. The delegation led by Sukhbir also had party leaders Tota Singh, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal, Daljit Singh Cheema, Hira Singh Gabria, NK Sharma and Harcharan Bains. Referring to CM’s statement on Thursday, wherein he had said that Sukhbir roams around with a large convoy of cars and security men, the SAD president termed the statement as “ridiculous”. “Let me remind the CM that his party president Navjot Sidhu begged for a car from Capt Amarinder Singh and made his party leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi intervene to secure it. He is not in government but is using the same car,” added Sukhbir. The former deputy CM said the government was planning to arrest some Akali leaders on “cooked-up charges”, adding, “We are ready and they are targeting us because they know that their days are numbered and Akali-BSP alliance is forming the next government in Punjab.” Sukhbir said the recent developments within the Congress show that they are trying to divide Punjab on communal and caste lines, which is dangerous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/be-dignified-get-rid-of-super-cm-sukhbir-to-channi-101632493689437.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Panvel City Municipal Corporation approves construction of swanky new headquarters||The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will soon get a swanky new building as the proposal for the construction of the new headquarters has been approved in Friday’s general body meeting. The new building will be constructed on plot No. 4 at Sector 16 in New Panvel.The general body meeting was conducted on Friday by mayor Kavita Kishor Chautmol at Vasudev Balwant Phadke Natyagriha.“As there is a need for an up-to-date, spacious office for the functioning of PCMC and for providing facilities to the citizens, a resolution of the construction of new headquarters of the corporation was presented in the general body meeting, which was unanimously approved by all the corporators,” PCMC PRO, Varsha Kulkarni, said. The expenses for the first phase would be ₹117Cr.The proposed headquarters building has six floors and will have a drivers room, fan room, service room, STP room, and parking. The ground floor will have a citizen facility centre, store department, press room, restaurant, room for handicap, library. There will be a computer room on the first floor and a bank ATM. The second floor will have a multi-purpose hall, fire department, environment department, tree authority department, disaster management department, tax department, accounting department, auditor department and solid waste management department. The third floor will have a water supply, electricity department, drainage department, medical health department, security department, information and technology department, property department, sports department, law department.On the fourth floor, there will be space for the town planning department, city engineer department, executive engineer (project) department, records room and space for future expansion.The fifth floor will have Mayor’s Hall, Deputy Mayor’s Hall, Standing Committee Hall, House Leader’s Hall, Opposition Leader’s Hall, Conference Hall, Committee Meeting Room, as well as Commissioner’s Hall, Additional Commissioner’s Hall.The top-most floor will have General Assembly Hall, Secretary’s Office, Women Corporator’s Room, Women-Child Welfare Committee Hall while also a Press viewing gallery, VIP gallery, Audio Visual Room and an art gallery on the terrace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/panvel-city-municipal-corporation-approves-construction-of-swanky-new-headquarters-101632493147806.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Magic Realism||“There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle.” A man arrives in Mumbai for a short work trip and discovers he has Covid and has to quarantine. Alone, ill and isolated for 17 days, away from his family and friends, how does he cope? How does the city treat him? What impressions does he take away with him? “Since moving to Goa from Mumbai seven years ago, I hardly look forward to returning to Mumbai. Yes, I have family and friends here, but issues of parking, noise, and just the travails of the city are daunting, and I find myself visiting less and less,” says photographer David Desouza, who is currently working on a book to commemorate the 400th year of sainthoods of St Francis Xavier and St Ignatius of Loyola, which come up next year. Finding himself quarantined in an apartment in Churchgate, after his RT-PCR proved positive, Desouza says he was “super impressed” with the BMC. “They were actual women with cultured voices and clear and precise instructions, who called daily to monitor my progress,” he says. What’s more, he says he was bowled over by the care and concern of kind friends and neighbours who, unsolicited, had offered food and assistance. “In Goa, we look at Mumbai and think that Covid has been handled much better than in our state. Here it appears that the municipal commissioner has done an incredible feat. And I never thought I’d ever want to credit the Shiv Sena, but I have to admit that Uddhav Thackeray has been statesmanlike. My sister-in-law, who heads the ICU at Nair’s Covid ward, bears testimony to this,” he says. It’s not the handling of the Covid situation alone that has impressed David, it appears. Before his RT-PCR test during his initial stay, he says he was awestruck at the progress of infrastructure development when he visited a friend in Worli. And driving past the glass and steel skyscrapers of Parel he could barely believe that he was in Mumbai. “Ultimately, it’s not just the rich who will benefit,” he says, “Those skyscraper offices will be populated with the working class and the Metro, when completed, will bring ordinary commuters some much-needed relief.” Of course, Desouza knows all is not hunky dory. “There are areas in Mumbai that the CM and MC seem to have forgotten. These happen to be localities where very poor people live. If the powers that be look at the needs of all its citizens not just where commissions are greater, this will be a magnificent city,” he says. But as impressed as Desouza may be by Mumbai, he says he is in no hurry to move back. “Moving to Goa was one of the best decisions I’ve made,” he insists. Still, his farewell message to me from Goa is heartening. “Mumbai/Bombay of my youth, you are superb. What you need is a government that takes care of everyone, not just those who voted you in. I’m inclined to believe for the first time you are experiencing that kind of governance. Hopefully you inspire Goa, our magnificent state, that politics is a tool to help its citizens, all of them.” ***********************************************If a picture is worth a thousand words, then the one you see below, is worth more than seventeen thousand. Yes, at first when you look at it, you will see an ordinary man, sitting on an ordinary plastic chair, on an ordinary pavement in Mumbai, looking (perhaps, a trifle wistfully) at an ordinary white envelope. But look again. Because, according to me, this is no ordinary man, but a veritable Mumbai hero, deserving of applause and acclaim. A man who, in the split-second real-time that this photograph was taken, was most likely wrestling with an ethical issue that you and I would never surmount. Consider the back story behind the photograph: At the beginning of every month, the man, who happens to be my neighbourhood fruit and vegetable seller, is supposed to receive payment for last month’s purchases, sometimes by online transfer and other times in cash. Now, a couple of months ago, I had duly, in the first week of the month, sent him in cash, contained in a white envelope, the seventeen thousand rupees owed to him for the previous month’s purchases. The standing instruction for such payments is that the member of staff delivering the amount, snaps a picture of the person receiving it, so that there is some record of the payment made. But, due to a minor miscommunication error that month, unbeknownst to me, the amount had already been transferred to him online, by my assistant. Which is perhaps what accounts for the fleeting wistfulness, which you might notice on the man’s countenance, on receiving the envelope containing an additional seventeen thousand rupees. Perhaps what is going through his mind is if he ought to pocket the money quietly, hoping no one would be any wiser for it. After all, in the pandemic-induced fog, there could be many a slip betwixt cup and lip. Perhaps what he is thinking about are the toys he could buy for his children, the sarees for his wife, or the much-needed household durables that his family needs... After all, which one of us is above a bit of laxity, when it comes to a sudden windfall due to someone else’s error? How many of us would emerge, our conscience shining? But not even a few seconds after receiving the amount, realising the error, my fruit seller had returned the envelope, intact with all the cash inside. “Tell Madame I have already received the payment online,” he’d said, while handing it back. Just another ordinary, everyday, Mumbai hero, on an ordinary everyday Mumbai pavement, who’d performed an extraordinary everyday act of honour… ***********************************************And if you still need convincing that magic and miracles can be ordinary, everyday occurrences, consider this photograph of an ordinary, everyday Mumbai stray, blissfully snuggled up for an afternoon siesta, in an ordinary, everyday corner of a Mumbai institution. No magic or miracles in sight, right? Ah, but look again. The institution just happens to be one of Mumbai’s snootiest private membership-only clubs, where the strictest rules and regulations apply, to some of the city’s most celebrated denizens. So how come an indolent pooch, relishing its afternoon siesta, has been allowed to curl up so resplendently in a corner, unchecked for membership or any protocols? The answer to that, gentle reader, is revealed perhaps if you look carefully at the words inscribed on the bin the pooch has snuggled happily around. There, in large letters, for all to read, are the words “Ratan. Extra Strong”… Of course, it could be a happy coincidence, but don’t the words bring to mind a benevolent Parsi philanthropist and ardent dog lover? Someone who has long championed the cause of Mumbai’s strays, some whose very name spells care and shelter for them? But wait, can pooches read? Or could this be yet another of the city’s instances of magic realism, that occur daily — if only one looks out for them?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-magic-realism-101632492908305.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Kharghar residents demand closure of nullah as mosquito menace worsens||For more than four years now, the mosquito menace at the housing societies around the nullah near Sectors 20 and 21, Kharghar, has been increasing. The residents have been demanding with the local authorities to take some action.With the increase in the mosquito breeding spots in the area, the residents are in constant fear of contracting dengue or malaria. Local corporator, Netra Kiran Patil, has now approached CIDCO demanding a closure of the nullah following appeals from the residents of the area.“Every year, annually, CIDCO cleans the nullah during the monsoon. Instead of spending money for cleaning, we suggested building a ‘pay and park’ over the nullah like how it has been done by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) at Sector 17, Vashi. The closure of nullah would bring an end to the problems of the people as well,” Patil said.Dnyaneshwar Pinglay (59), a retired employee of NMMC and a resident of Jalvayu Vihar in Kharghar, said, “The nullah is surrounded by a lot of trees and grass. The grass cutting was done recently but the main issue is mosquito breeding. The problem is more, especially during the monsoon when the breeding of mosquitoes and other insects in the vicinity increases due to the nullah water.”Meanwhile, Avinash Khedkar (40), a local resident, pointed out that besides the mosquito, the stench is also unbearable. “The water is there in the nullah throughout the year while it’s more during the monsoon. The stagnant water also emits stench. Also, many people just keep dumping their garbage in the nullah, worsening the stench,” Khedkar said.“We clean the nullah annually and this year’s cleaning has been done. I have received the request letter to consider covering the nullah and making it a ‘pay and park’ area. It has been forwarded ahead,” a CIDCO officer from Kharghar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kharghar-residents-demand-closure-of-nullah-as-mosquito-menace-worsens-101632491171459.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||MSEDCL disconnects electricity supply of 42K consumers for non-payment of bills in Kalyan division||Over the last three weeks, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) disconnected the power supply of 42,000 defaulters in Kalyan-Dombivli, Thane rural, Badlapur, Ambernath, Shahapur, Vasai-Virar and Palghar regions.Meanwhile, around two lakh more consumers who have defaulted in payment of electricity bills are still under watch.More than two lakh household, commercial and industrial consumers who have each defaulted more than ₹500 electricity bill are under watch and will be facing disconnection of electricity supply anytime if they don’t pay the bills within the given time, according to the MSEDCL officials. “Consumers should pay the electricity bills on time and also clear the defaulted amount so that there is no disruption in the power supply,” said Dhananjay Aundhekar, chief engineer, MSEDCL.In the last three weeks, Kalyan zone 1, which caters to Kalyan and Dombivli, disconnected the electricity supply of 5,465 consumers. Kalyan zone 2, which includes Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Badlapur, Shahpur, Thane rural, disconnected electricity supply of 7,972 consumers while the rest are from Vasai-Virar and Palghar division.Apart from this, the power supply to 25 water supply systems and 149 streetlights were also disconnected. Meanwhile, 20,211 consumers have managed to pay the bills and get the electricity supply resumed.In Kalyan division, around 6.72 lakh consumers have defaulted payment totalling ₹669Cr.“We appeal to all these consumers to pay the bills on time and help the company. Once the power supply is disconnected, the consumers are expected to pay the present bill, default amount and also reconnection charges. Then only the power supply will be resumed,” added Aundhekar.The MSEDCL also warned consumers from not using the electricity illegally once their connection is cut due to non-payment of bills. “We keep a watch on such consumers if they are consuming the electricity from their neighbourhood and we take action against them,” said Vijaysinh Dudhbhate, PRO, MSEDCL, Kalyan zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/msedcl-disconnects-electricity-supply-of-42k-consumers-for-non-payment-of-bills-in-kalyan-division-101632491053436.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Police constable in Navi Mumbai suspended for rape, goes into hiding||The Navi Mumbai police commissioner, Bipin Kumar Singh, on Thursday suspended a police constable after a rape case was registered against the latter at Khandeshwar police station.The accused constable, Rupesh Kohli, 23, was a driver with the city crime branch (central unit). He went into hiding after he learnt about the complaint against him and the police are now searching for him.According to the police, Kohli had met the 23-year-old survivor a few months ago on social media and befriended her. He later established a physical relationship with her promising marriage.In her statement, the survivor has mentioned that she had conceived and Kohli forcefully got her pregnancy terminated by giving her some medicines. After all these, he refused to marry her.Bhagawat Sonawane, assistant commissioner of police (Panvel division), said, “The survivor approached the Khandeshwar police four days ago and narrated the entire episode. We booked the accused under Sections 376 (punishment for rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 417 (punishment for cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the relevant sections of the Atrocity Act as that is also applicable in this case.”The police commissioner of Navi Mumbai, Singh, later reviewed the entire case and issued Kohli’s suspension order.Sonawane said, “Before coming to the police station, the complainant had a fight with the accused and she told him that she was going to register a complaint against him. So, the accused went into hiding to evade arrest. We have sent our teams to different places searching for him and hope to arrest him soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-constable-in-navi-mumbai-suspended-for-rape-goes-into-hiding-101632490747464.html
24-09-2021||Bangalore||BS Yediyurappa becomes first-ever recipient of Karnataka's ‘Best MLA Award’||Former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Friday that he endeavoured to "honestly to carry out the duties of the Legislature,” as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader became the first-ever recipient of the “Best MLA Award” of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly.“As a representative, I have endeavoured to honestly carry out the duties of the Legislature. I fully realise the great responsibility of fulfilling the aspirations of the people. I have been honoured with the most honourable legislator award, which has been instituted for the first time in the history of the state Legislature,” a rough translation of Yediyurappa's tweet, posted in Kannada, read. ಜನಪ್ರತಿನಿಧಿಯಾಗಿ, ಪ್ರಜಾಪ್ರಭುತ್ವದ ದೇಗುಲದಲ್ಲಿ ಜನರ ಆಶೋತ್ತರಗಳ ಈಡೇರಿಕೆಯ ದೊಡ್ಡ ಜವಾಬ್ದಾರಿಯ ಅರಿವಿನೊಂದಿಗೆ, ಶಾಸಕಾಂಗದ ಕರ್ತವ್ಯಗಳನ್ನು ನಿರ್ವಹಿಸಲು ಪ್ರಾಮಾಣಿಕವಾಗಿ ಪ್ರಯತ್ನಿಸಿದ್ದೇನೆ. ರಾಜ್ಯದ ವಿಧಾನಮಂಡಲದ ಇತಿಹಾಸದಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಥಮ ಬಾರಿಗೆ ನೀಡಲಾದ ಅತ್ಯುತ್ತಮ ಶಾಸಕ ಪ್ರಶಸ್ತಿಯನ್ನು ಅತ್ಯಂತ ವಿನೀತ ಭಾವದಿಂದ ಸ್ವೀಕರಿಸಿದ್ದೇನೆ. pic.twitter.com/gd2P6gmNuSThe former four-term chief minister, who was succeeded by the incumbent Basavaraj Bommai in July this year, received a memento from Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who addressed a joint session of the House.Also Read | Om Birla rues lack of extensive discussions on proposed laws in legislaturesSpeaking on the occasion, Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said that the award was constituted on the suggestions of Birla, who had previously remarked that all Legislative Assemblies should honour their “best members.” In Yediyurappa's case, the BJP MLA was recognised for his long stint in politics, as well as performance as a member of the House.Hegde further noted that the award will be given annually, though he also clarified that only MLAs will be eligible for it, and not ministers.The committee to select the best legislator is headed by the Assembly Speaker, and comprises the chief minister, law and parliamentary affairs minister and members of opposition parties. Yediyurappa, who is seventy-eight years old, was first elected to the Karnataka Assembly in 1983. He has also served as a Lok Sabha MP, as well as a member of the southern state's Legislative Council.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bs-yediyurappa-becomes-first-ever-recipient-of-karnataka-s-best-mla-award-101632487157897.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Entrepreneur Tawheeda Akthar is the wind beneath the wings of unskilled Kashmiri women||Mir EhsanArmed with a sewing machine, Tawheeda Akthar, who grew up in abject poverty, went on to become a successful entrepreneur. Now, she is the wind beneath several unskilled women’s wings. With her father doing menial jobs for a living, money was always tight in the Akthar household, so much so that she could only study till Class 12. However, she had a burning desire to do something for her family and siblings. “My father was a labourer and couldn’t afford to educate me. However, I refused to sit idle at home and enrolled myself at the Bemina Industrial Training Institute (ITI) where I learnt how to sew and stitch clothes. I worked hard and graduated at the top of my class, which gave me the confidence to do new things in life,” says the 30-year-old. However, her journey was not smooth sailing, “At times, I did not even have enough money to cover the bus fare. However, the tough times only motivated me to work harder to fulfill my dream of giving my siblings a decent education.” Won her first sewing machine Akthar has three elder brothers and a younger sister. Her first break came when she participated in a competition organised by the Zainab Institute, Maisuma. “I won the contest and received a brand new sewing machine as the prize, which changed my life. I honed my skills on the machine and started earning well.”Akthar set up a small boutique, which is now a successful venture, which provides employment to around 12 women. However, just earning well for herself and her family was not enough, and she decided to empower women who came from a humble background and opened a training centre at Lawaypora. Has trained 1,150 girls “There are 12 workers in my boutique. I teach them sewing and mehandi art. I have trained more than 1,150 girls and charge a meagre sum from them. I do not charge anything from those who are very poor or orphans,” says Akthar, who also runs a society, Shining Star, through which she provides free training to women at her boutique or at the ITI. “Recently, I arranged a three-month free fashion designing course for 80 girls and a one-year ITI course for 15 girls and three boys.”Akthar’s inspiration is her maternal uncle, Nazir Ahmad Rather, who always encouraged her. “After sewing, I learnt embroidery work, knitting and aari work. I always tell my students that learning a skill will help them be gainfully employed, which will boost their confidence and make their lives more comfortable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/entrepreneur-tawheeda-akthar-is-the-wind-beneath-the-wings-of-unskilled-kashmiri-women-101632487266927.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to reopen schools for classes 8 and above from Oct 4||Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday announced that the state will reopen schools for students above classes 8 starting October 4. The education minister also said that a detailed SOP will be sent to teachers and school administrators across the state as the nation continues to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Maharashtra earlier on Thursday reported 3,320 fresh Covid-19 cases and 61 deaths. The state currently has 39,191 active cases. The state has recorded 6.53 million cases so far and lodged 138,725 deaths.The paediatrician Covid-19 task force of the state, earlier on Tuesday, asked school administrations and teachers to undertake vaccination of teachers and non-teaching staff on war-footing ahead of reopening of schools. This task force was formed in May to ensure that children are not affected massively if a possible third wave of Covid-19 hits the state.“Primarily, teachers and non-teaching staff in schools should get the vaccine first. This would enhance their immunity and make schools safer for children,” Dr Bakul Parekh, a senior Mumbai paediatrician and a member of the task force told PTI earlier. He also said that the task force will likely recommend that only one student should be allowed to sit on a bench and classes should be planned accordingly. Suggestions have been made to simultaneously hold physical as well as online classes and physical attendance should be made in a rotational manner.Maharashtra government says that it is taking all steps to ensure that the loss of life and large numbers of hospitalisation which marked the second wave. The state was also among the most adversely affected during the second wave which hit India between March and June. Experts however say that the second wave has not receded and have asked people to exercise utmost caution and stick to Covid-19 appropriate measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-8-and-above-from-oct-4-101632487030209.html
24-09-2021||Patna||5 years on, Bihar tweaks its Prohibition rules||A little over five years since a total ban was imposed on sale and consumption of liquor in the state, Bihar has tweaked its stringent Prohibition law to make it more practical, said officials of the prohibition and excise department.Now, instead of sealing the entire premises in cases of liquor haul, only the portion from where recoveries are made would be sealed, according to the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Rules, 2021, which got state cabinet nod on Wednesday. The relaxation, however, would not apply in case of detection of liquor manufacturing or bulk storage from any premises or sale/purchase and supply from there. In that situation, the entire premises would be sealed as per provisions of the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016. The new rules will also allow storage of liquor in Cantonment areas and military stations, though there will be no permission to serving or retired defence personnel to consume or possess liquor outside the Cantonment area.”The provision for allowing storage of liquor in Cantonment area and military stations was there in the Act earlier also, but nobody can carry or posses it outside or move in an inebriated condition beyond the area. They have just been incorporated in the rules. If anybody is caught drunk outside the Cantonment area, law will take its own course without any distinction,” Bihar’s excise commissioner B Kartikey Dhanji said.The new rules are aimed at making implementation of the 2016 Act easier by removing the practical difficulties that have surfaced after over five-year experience during which mounting litigations related to liquor cases saddled the courts and led to a lot of criticism from the Opposition. As per official statistics, nearly 25 per cent of the total pending cases in lower courts and 20% in the high court are prohibition related cases. In 2019, alarmed by the growing pendency, the Patna High Court had asked the state government to present a plan for how it plans to dispose these cases related to excise. Though special courts were mandated in the new law for trial of liquor related cases, they could not be set up till then. Later, the state cabinet cleared a proposal for setting up 74 special courts. However, they are not yet functional.The new rules have also provided permission to distilleries in the state for manufacturing of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) and ethanol. Bihar has nine functional distilleries, but the number is set to grow substantially after it became the first state in the country to have its Ethanol Production Promotion Policy, 2021, which promotes new standalone ethanol manufacturing units by providing them additional capital subsidy at 15% of the cost of plant and machinery up to a maximum of ₹5 crore.However, the manufacturing of ethanol and ENA will be closely monitored and will be under surveillance of close circuit TV camera to prevent their misuse. The footage will be kept safe for one month for inspection.ENA is a grade of ethanol derived from sugarcane molasses and is distilled multiple times. They are used in alcoholic beverages like whisky, vodka, gin, cane, liqueurs, and alcoholic fruit beverages due to their higher levels of purity.Ethanol is an organic compound. The government has set a target to blend 10% fuel-grade ethanol with petrol by 2022. It is also used extensively as a solvent in the manufacture of varnishes and perfumes; as a preservative for biological specimens; in the preparation of essences and flavourings; In many medicines and drugs; as a disinfectant and in tinctures (e.g., tincture of iodine); in alcoholic beverages and as a fuel and gasoline additive.The new rules also make it binding for vehicles transporting liquor to other states leave the state boundaries within 24 hours. As soon as they will enter the state limits, the vehicles carrying liquor will have digital lock at the check post. The digital locks will be removed at the exit points.Excise commissioner B Kartikey Dhanji said the new rules were in keeping with the changes required due to the advent of the new ethanol policy, which would lead to opening of new units and require more monitoring, and experiences of over five years, without in anyway diluting the force of law.In July this year, the Patna High Court had directed that all proceedings related to confiscation of property under the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016, must positively be initiated/concluded within a period of 90 days from the date of appearance of the parties concerned and the appeal/revision, if any, be also decided within a period of 30 days from the date of initiation, failing which the “things” (vehicle/property/ etc.) shall be deemed to have been released in terms of several orders passed by the HC in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/5-years-on-bihar-tweaks-its-prohibition-rules-101632486727177.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: BJP announces alliance with NISHAD party||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday announced it has allied for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls with Sanjay Nishad-led Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (NISHAD) representing the state’s Other Backward Class (OBC) fishing community“Under the leadership of Sanjay Nishad and our cadres, we will ensure that lotus (BJP’s election symbol) blooms again,” said Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev at a press conference. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who was also present at the conference along with Nishad, cited his three-days stay in Uttar Pradesh and said he can say that people have a lot of faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. He added they will contest the elections under their leadership.Sanjay Nishad’s son, Praveen Nishad, won the 2018 Lok Sabha by-poll from Gorakhpur as a joint Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party candidate. NISHAD allied with the BJP in the 2019 national polls when Praveen Nishad was re-elected to Lok Sabha from Sant Kabir Nagar.BJP earlier tied up with another OBC party Apna Dal for the 2022 polls.Sanjay Nishad did not speak at the press conference on Friday as BJP leaders evaded queries on understanding about seats between the two parties.A BJP leader said Sanjay Nishad could be named as a member of the legislative council along with Jitin Prasada, who quit the Congress to join the BJP this year, and Baby Rani Maurya. Maurya this month quit as Uttarakhand governor two years before the end of her five-year term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upassembly-polls-bjp-announces-alliance-with-nishad-party-101632483246156.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||30-year-old woman killed as bike skids on Mumbai’s Vashi creek bridge||A 30-year-old woman died after the bike she was travelling on skidded on Vashi creek bridge in Navi Mumbai on Thursday afternoon, officials said. According to police, Naziya Khan stayed with her family at Annabhau Sathe Nagar at Mankhurd. She was travelling towards Panvel with her husband and two sons on the bike.“Naziya’s husband, Javed was riding the bike. As four people were travelling on it, the man somehow lost his balance and the bike skidded on the road. Naziya suffered severe injuries at different parts of her body in the accident and was rushed to a nearby hospital. However, she succumbed after some time. The husband and the sons escaped unhurt in the accident,” said a police officer from Vashi police station.The police have registered a case under sections 279 and 304a of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the husband. “We sent the deceased’s body to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) hospital at Vashi for conducting postmortem and then it will be handed over to the family. We will arrest the husband soon,” the police officer said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/30yearold-woman-killed-as-bike-skids-on-mumbai-s-vashi-creek-bridge-101632482648754.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Zambian national held with Heroin worth ₹18 crore at Mumbai Airport||The Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) of Mumbai Customs arrested a Zambian national travelling from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia to Mumbai and seized 3.5 kg of Heroin valued at ₹18 crore from her possession. The drug packets were cleverly concealed in a hidden cavity in the passenger’s trolly bag. She has been booked under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.This is the second big drug seizure made by AIU in a week. Earlier this week, a mother-daughter duo traveling from Johannesburg to Mumbai through Doha were arrested with Heroin worth nearly ₹25 crore at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport.AIU senior officials said that based on specific inputs the 41-year-old foreigner was intercepted at the CSIA Mumbai on Thursday and subsequent examination led to the recovery of the drugs. She has arrived in India on a business visa. The arrested woman is a housewife from Zambia and comes from a poor background. This is the first time she has come to India. She was roped in by the narcotics gangs as a carrier and was offered $2,000 (equivalent to around ₹1.47 lakh) for the risky job, said an AIU official.“This is unusual. Usually South American drug cartels send Cocaine to India through this modus operandi as there is high demand for Cocaine in the country, but demand for Heroin is not that high. We suspect that the seized contraband was not destined for India. India was just a transit point,” a senior AIU officer said.AIU officials are now scanning her phone call details to know more about her associates and to whom she was to hand over the smuggled drugs. The accused was produced in court and remanded to judicial custody on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/zambian-national-held-with-heroin-worth-rs-18-crore-at-mumbai-airport-101632482406744.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||‘Such incidents have been recurring’: Bar Council of Delhi chairman on Rohini court shootout||Bar Council of Delhi chairman Rakesh Sherawat described Friday's shooting at Capital's Rohini court complex as a “major security lapse,” adding that such incidents have been taking place at courts repeatedly.Also Read | Firing at Rohini court, 3 killed including jailed gangster“The shootout at the Rohini court is a major security lapse. We condemn it. Such incidents have been repeatedly happening, and court's security is at stake. Despite raising this issue with the police commissioner, no concrete step has been taken,” Sharma, who was elected to the post on September 7, told news agency ANI. “It is due to carelessness of the security personnel that such incidents have been recurring. We will take up this issue in an urgent meeting. We will try to meet the police commissioner either today or tomorrow, and demand action against officers responsible for today's incident,” he further said. It's due to the security personnel's carelessness that such incidents have been recurring. We will take this issue up in an urgent meeting, will try meeting Delhi CP either today or tomorrow...and demand action against responsible police officers: Rakesh Sherawat pic.twitter.com/XuCKlc0CneAsthana, on his part, said that the firing took place when gangster Jitender Mann “Gogi," who was shot dead by his assailants, was being taken to the Rohini court for a hearing. “In retaliation, the police shot dead both the attackers, one of whom was carrying a reward of ₹50,000 on his head,” the city police chief said. Two criminals opened fire at gangster (Jitender Mann) 'Gogi' when he was taken to the (Rohini) court for a hearing. In retaliation, police shot dead both the attackers. One of them was carrying a reward of ₹50,000: Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana to ANI pic.twitter.com/xOFnPMvTKUTotal three people – Gogi and the two assailants – were killed in fire and counter-fire. When the shooting took place, a hearing was taking place inside a courtroom, police said.A dreaded criminal, Jitender Mann “Gogi” ran the Jitender Gogi gang which was involved in several murder and extortion-related cases in the national capital. In 2016, he was caught after escaping from police custody within just three months. At the time of his escape, the now-deceased gangster had a reward of ₹4 lakhs on his head.In 2018, Gogi and his associates shot dead gangster Virender Mann on a busy road in Burari. A passer-by was also killed by the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shootout-at-rohini-court-a-major-security-lapse-says-bar-council-of-delhi-chairman-101632479295846.html
24-09-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: September 24-30||LIFFI 2021The 6th Lonavala International Film Festival India (LIFFI) 2021 will be held online on September 24-26; October 1-3; and October 8-10, from 6pm each of the days.Viewers can watch films and participate in panel via an app. For details and registrations go to www.liffi.inWhen: September 24-26Where: Online Devnagiri calligraphy Learn the art of traditional Indian calligraphy with Avdhut Vidhare. He will teach basics of this traditional art form using a broad-edged pen and introduce you to the Indian lettering style - Devnagiri. When: September 24-26; 8pm to 11pmWhere: OnlineEco-weekend – the exhibitionGirija Oak-Godbole and Opash Socio-Commercials present this exhibition of businesses dealing in eco-friendly products and services. With participation from brands like ReCharka, Earthpoorna, Leafage Studio, Ordnyanic , and Eco Serve, this exhibition aims to bring all eco-friendly and sustainable brands under one roof. The event is organized at Aayaam- House of Aadya. To register and for more details go to aayaam.in/When: September 25, 26; 11am-7 pm Where: House Of Aadyaa, 1206, A-32, Shirole Road, ShivajinagarVegetable gardening Do you know about 60% of the food you consume can be grown at home? And what’s a better time than now to start growing? Thus KhetiBuddy brings to you an online vegetable gardening workshop that will guide you to grow clean and safe green veggies right at home. Dr Ashvini Motaphale, a crop consultant will be answering questions.To register go to ws@khetibuddy.comFees: Rs299 per personWhen: Saturday, September 25; 11am- 12:30pm Where: OnlineIn memory of Guru Dutt: A man ahead of his timeRashmi Sabale presents this interactive session, with visuals and film clippings of Guru Dutt. She will throw light on his relationships with various film makers Urdu poets and composers of his times. His way of looking at Indian society and its reflection on his movies like “Chaudhvi Ka Chand”, “Mr & Mrs 55” and “Pyasa Kagaz Ke Phool”. amongst others. Rashmi has worked with All India Radio Varanasi as lead announcer and a news reader. She is an artiste who is also passionate about poems.When: Saturday, September 25; 5:30pm to 7pmWhere: Raah - Literacy & Cultural Centre, office no 730, 7th & 8th floor, Marvel Vista, LullanagarCamping on Pavana lakeside Enjoy nature in a group size of 30 at this campsite, and visit Lohagad fort Tikona fort, Tung fort and Visapur fort.To register call 9561965967When: Saturday, September 25, 4pm to Sunday, September 26, 12:30 pmWhere: Pavana lakeRamayana: Connecting the dotsThe Ramayana tells us of a way of life. Lavanya Prasad tries to bring to you the awe that she felt when she happened to connect the dots in the epic through the stories of the Ramayana, some known, and some rarely known, that helped her see the bigger picture. In this session explore the stories of boons and curses, through the beasts that came in just when needed to make things happen for Rama. To register email contact@artkhoj.com or call +91 89714 92903When: Saturday, September 25; 8pm to 9pmWhere: OnlineDa High CookoutStuvi and Midland Sparks performing at this Sunday favourite, Da High Cookout, where your Sunday brunch meets some funky grooves.When: Sunday, September 26; 1.30pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon Park||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-september-2430-101632480966297.html
24-09-2021||Other||Global village idiot: Why charade of responsible gaming is anything but a safe bet||So Mr D and I have been talking about cricket. And also playing some. With plastic bat and plastic ball. On the terrace. In the living room (at our own peril, since we are always likely to whack someone watching TV, or knock a favourite vase over). Mr D has chosen cricket as his sport. Which means he is going to talk cricket. Which means he’s going to talk about Kohli. Now Virat Kohli is big in our house. The younger kids don’t look up to any sports celebrities, but they know Virat Kohli and are willing to fight anyone who says anything critical about him. I don’t know why they took to him, but they just love his personality, style and we-are-the best attitude.During the third test with England, I managed to get some TV time in the evenings and caught a few overs as and when I could. Mr D would walk in and out of the living room and chit chat about who’s batting… that’s a great shot… and then, during an ad break, he suddenly stood still and watched because Kohli was in the ad… and he soon got mad.“Why is he dancing like that ?”“Do you like the ad?”“No! That is Virat Kohli, India’s cricket captain! How can that company make him dance like that?”A bulk of commercials nowadays are made for younger audiences irrespective of product targeting, which is why we see a lot of different kinds of music and attention grabbing tactics. What companies and ad agencies don’t realise is that you may catch the younger generations’ attention and then lose them as influencers or potential customers forever by misreading their values.But that’s their problem. What could quickly become my problem is also related to TV commercials, sporting commercials to be precise, but not about sports. These are the ads for online betting and gambling platforms. So if you have been watching the Test matches you would have noticed ads from several such betting/gaming platforms. Most of these are based outside India, though they are actively wooing and pitching Indian viewers as “responsible gaming” platforms. Here’s how it could be a problem. Gambling (online or otherwise) and specially sports betting is illegal in most states of India, definitely in Maharashtra. Most states have some rudimentary regulation or law governing what is legal gambling and what’s not. Responsible Gaming is a clever invention on the part of the industry (already a multi-billion dollar industry in India).I like the government’s approach of self-regulation in industries. But like with all things, there are some exceptions where one ought not to leave it to the better judgment of those making money - better judgment in those cases are always detrimental to broader society.At its best, self-regulation is a bit of a non-starter, especially for industries that are on “dubious grounds” to begin with. Gambling I understand, and most would because by its name you realise it carries great risk. Words like morality, ethics and the law are all quickly part of the debate depending on where you are… thus, if you still go gamble, one can’t really turn around and claim ignorance, or cry foul. Responsible Gaming is different. It is like renaming smoking as “conscientious inhalation of nicotine-supplemented air”. By introducing the term “responsible”, one clubs together the “dubious” with legitimate sporting activities, with the aim of providing legitimacy, or credibility, to the endeavour.There are serious issues at several levels: Governance, Taxation, Industry and Social at the very least.From where I sit, sportspeople train and play and get paid. People watching sportspeople play and predicting an outcome and making or losing money is gambling - irrespective of whether there is analysis or thinking involved or not. If you want to legalise gambling, please do, but please don’t do it with an elaborate legal, judicial and professional charade of what’s good for society and how to protect society from the possible fallouts. One should not take a vice, let it loose in society, then regulate it to organise the aftermath of foreseeable problems, and then manage the social devastation.Arguments aside, there is a very real problem with blurring the line between vice and entertainment, between sport and chance, and between ethical uses of skill and non-ethical uses thereof. What’s sad in all this is that there is a genuine gaming industry that’s has emerged and it’s likely to be clubbed together with “responsible gaming”.What concerns me are the commercials. Should we stop children from watching sports now? Because if something is illegal in a state should that be advertised? Gambling is right up there with smoking and alcohol consumption in terms of health risk. If you read through the reams of language that passes off as self-regulation or guidelines of advertising, most of it is aimed at how to circumvent genuine issues, not at being responsible by saying “no” to advertisements that could harm children. Does the flash of 18+ seriously address the real danger of youngsters and children accessing gambling or “responsible gaming” from a prime time ad on a sports channel? Shouldn’t there be a credible decision-making deterrent so that sports channels understand that they could be held accountable (not just responsible) for bringing gambling to the immediate attention of a minor?All this is being debated and government and judiciary and industry will decide what’s good for us. Meanwhile, I may just have to stop watching sports and read event reports instead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-why-charade-of-responsible-gaming-is-anything-but-a-safe-bet-101632480487201.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Villagers pull out truck driver’s body from Kasara ghat nullah amid rain, total darkness||For more than five hours before dawn on Thursday, amid thick fog, heavy rain and total darkness, villagers from in and around Kasara Ghat near Igatpuri helped pull out the body of a truck driver stuck in the middle of a 40 feet nullah.Five villagers and several officials were also injured in this rescue operation. The villagers claim that the burden of working in such difficult conditions is due to the lack of disaster management and rescue equipment for the ghat section.More than 220 people from different villages of Kasara are trained to handle accidents, natural calamity or any other emergency even before help from the authorities reaches them. On Wednesday night, they got a call from police officials informing them about a multi-axle trailer containing more than 200 iron rods falling off the road into the nullah. Due to lack of visibility on the ghat at night, the truck driver could not see a retaining wall of the road. He rammed into it and toppled into the nullah with all rods falling on him.Shyam Dhumal, a villager and rescue team head, said, “We reached the spot at around 12 midnight but the visibility was low due to the fog. We wanted to save people who were stuck under the rods. Therefore, we made a human chain with police officials and decided to pull out all the iron rods first. Till around 2.30am we were only removing the rods. We desperately needed a crane or an excavator to speed track the process as doing it manually took more than three-and-a-half hours.”He added that the rods were so sharp that some of them suffered injuries. “We continued to work for more than three hours despite heavy rain and low visibility after which a JCB arrived and removed the remaining rods. We pulled out the driver. However, it was already late by then. He was taken to a hospital. We also had to go to the hospital to treat our injuries. All our clothes were torn and some of us were bleeding.”He said that had there been at least one basic rescue equipment, this would not have happened. Police Inspector of highway police, Amol Walzade said, “The accident happened around 11.30pm and we could remove the driver’s body around 5am. Villagers helped us a lot to do the same in low visibility, rainy and foggy environment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/villagers-pull-out-truck-driver-s-body-from-kasara-ghat-nullah-amid-rain-total-darkness-101632480127659.html
24-09-2021||Jaipur||REET exam: Govt says personnel found leaking question paper will be terminated||On Sunday, Rajasthan will be witnessing a massive movement of students across the state as close to 16 lakh candidates will travel to appear for Rajasthan Eligibility Exam for Teachers (REET) 2021. The state government is providing free travel facilities to all the candidates appearing in the examination. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has also approved the proposal for termination of government personnel found leaking the question paper and withdrawal of affiliation and recognition of private institutes if any of their staff is caught facilitating cheating. Addressing a meeting to review the preparations for REET-2021, Gehlot said that when incidents of cheating done by gangs in competitive exams come to the fore, the hard work put in by the candidates goes to waste. In such a situation, strict action should be taken against such gangs involved in fraud. The candidates appearing in the exam should not bring mobile phones to the examination centres. The chief minister said that strict action should be taken against all those who are responsible for incidents such as paper leaks and cheating in REET-2021 and all the competitive exams to be held in the future. In the event of the candidates coming to appear in exams, especially women, facing any problems, public representatives, social workers and voluntary organisations should come forward to help them. He said that district collectors should engage the voluntary organisations in their respective districts to help the candidates. He directed to set up a control room in every district so that candidates, especially women, can call directly in case they face any adverse situation. State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said that all roadways buses are available for free travelling of candidates. Besides this, Lok Parivahan and other private buses are also being arranged for. Officers of the transport department have been given necessary directions regarding this, he said. Minister of State for Education Govind Singh Dotasara suggested that there should be a complete ban on mobile phones inside the examination centres to check paper leaks and cheating. The candidates should be provided with new masks at the examination centre to avoid any cheating devices. Additional chief secretary, school education, PK Goyal said that 16,22,19 candidates have applied for the exam and 3993 examination centres have been set up across the state. The Railways has agreed to run 11 special trains for the candidates and a request has been made for a few more special trains. Director-General of Police, ML Lather, said that all necessary preparations have been made to maintain the law and order situation during the exams. The available police force will be deployed at railway stations, bus stands, towns, markets and near examination centres. SOG and other agencies are vigilantly working on intelligence inputs and technical surveillance to prevent any incident of cheating and paper leak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/reet-exam-govt-says-personnel-found-leaking-question-paper-will-be-terminated-101632479945853.html
24-09-2021||Patna||Bihar Unlock 7: Primary schools to reopen, announces Nitish Kumar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday announced relaxations for phase 7 of unlock from the state's coronavirus lockdown. Kumar's announcement came a day before Unlock 6 is scheduled to end, though the chief minister clarified that all previously announced guidelines will continue to remain in force.Also Read | Bihar Unlock 6: Religious places to open from Aug 26, shops, schools to function normally“Covid-19 related restrictions have yielded positive results. In today's review meet, it was decided that all Anganwadi centres and primary schools in Bihar will reopen by November 15,” a rough translation of Kumar's tweet, posted in Hindi, read. कोरोना महामारी संबंधी प्रतिबंधों के सकारात्मक परिणाम आए हैं। आज स्थिति की समीक्षा कर 15 नवंबर, 2021 तक सभी आंगनवाड़ी केंद्र एवं छोटे बच्चों के विद्यालय को खोलने का निर्णय लिया गया है। (1/3)All universities, schools, colleges, technical institutions etc. in the state began functioning normally from August 25, when Unlock 6 came into effect. Previously, these were functioning in a limited capacity.Kumar, meanwhile, also urged people to exercise caution during the upcoming festive season. “District administrations will issue instructions for processions and crowd management. Passengers arriving from states with high number of cases will undergo mandatory testing,” he tweeted.
24-09-2021||Mumbai||2 more arrests made in Thane sexual abuse case||Two more accused were arrested on Friday in connection with the alleged sexual abuse of a 15-year-old girl in Dombivli in Maharashtra’s Thane district. So far, 26 people have been arrested in the case. They include two minors, who have been sent to a juvenile home.The First Information Report (FIR) in the case was initially filed against 29 accused on Wednesday night. The number of accused has since gone up to 32.The girl has told investigators that she was repeatedly sexually assaulted since January this year. The main accused, with whom she was in a relationship, allegedly recorded an intimate video of them. He then allegedly used it to blackmail her. Police said the two accused were arrested on Friday on the basis of the interrogation of the arrested co-accused.“Both the accused were placed under arrest after preliminary inquiries established their involvement in the offence. We have some leads on the whereabouts of the remaining accused, and further arrests are expected soon,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-more-arrests-made-in-thane-sexual-abuse-case-101632475027562.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||The Silver Lining is here! Bounce Back Bharat Festival is here to inspire India||One of the most prestigious media houses from India along with its Flagship radio brand Fever FM, is creating a digital confluence of the most influential new age icons who’ll come together to Inspire Millions of Indians to Bounce Back.Fever FM presents Bounce Back Bharat Festival- A mega virtual celebration streaming from 24th to 26th September, 5 pm to 10 pm daily, when the entire nation comes together on the Digital Space and creates Positivity, Hope & Optimism. The second Wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic threw huge challenges at us. Now that we have overcome it, It’s time to come together and Recreate our Future… It’s time for Bounce Back Bharat (India) Fest!The digital extravaganza promises an array of speakers and guests which includes, Sports heartthrobs, top Indian Musicians lifting the mood of the nation with their power-packed performances, Indian movie stars talking about their personal Bounce Back stories and Indian business leaders sharing how their companies are Bouncing Back.The list of speakers is testimony to the star studded gala that the Bounce Back Bharat Fest is going to be. Celebrated Indian Icons, Neeraj Chopra, Akshay Kumar, Manoj Bajpai, Pankaj Tripathi, Pratik Gandhi, Tapsee Pannu, Kapil Sharma, Sunil Grover, Zakir Khan, Amit Tandon, Kaliash Kher, Bhuvan Bam, Kunal Bahl, Vipul Prakash are part of this festive event. Catch all the action on https://www.facebook.com/FeverFMOfficialRamesh Menon, CEO – Radio and Entertainment, HT Media Ltd and Next Mediaworks Ltd. said, “Bounce Back Bharat Fest is an initiative by Fever FM to celebrate the extraordinary spirit of India and it’s exceptional people from all walks of life. The stellar line up ensures that we get the audience hooked to the screens all throughout, as the biggest celebs from the Indian diaspora join hand with us to uplift the mood of the nation. The event would be premiered live across Facebook and YouTube handles of Fever FM on 24th, 25th and 26th Sept. I will not miss it for the world, so should you!”About Fever Network :The Fever Network (operated by HT Media Ltd.) comprises of three distinct radio stations – Fever FM, Radio Nasha and Radio One. While Fever FM and Radio Nasha are leaders in the Hindi Contemporary Hit Radio (CHR) and Retro Bollywood space respectively, Radio One is a pioneer in the International format.The coming together of the three brands positions the network as the strongest radio player with three stations each in Delhi & Mumbai and two stations each in Bengaluru, Chennai & Kolkata. Apart from the above we also have our presence in UP, Pune, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad. The Fever network spans across 22 stations and 15 cities, reaching 31 million listeners with a digital reach of 2.5 million, while providing the widest array of content, music and advertising options for our listeners and advertisers.* Source RAM 2021, IRS 2020||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-silver-lining-is-here-bounce-back-bharat-festival-is-here-to-inspire-india-101632472004849.html
24-09-2021||Indore||30 trainees, officers at Mhow’s Army War College test positive for Covid-19||As many as 30 trainees and officers at the Army War College in Mhow in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday, said a health official. After June 16, for the first time, over 30 people have tested positive in a day in Indore, said BS Setiya, chief medical and health officer.“The 24 trainee officers and six officers, who returned from different states after training, have tested positive. All are asymptomatic and have received both vaccine doses. They are under observation at the military hospital,” said Setiya.Block medical officer Faizal Ali said 115 officers have recently returned to Mhow after training in different states. “We are tracing the contact history of all the infected people.”Officials said Indore now has the highest--53-- active Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh. As many as 36 people have been tested positive in the state since Thursday. The positivity rate of the state is 0.05%.Home minister Narottam Mishra said the Covid 19 is under control in the state. “There is no need to panic as all the officers tested positive at the Army War College have travel history. Their condition is absolutely fine as they all are vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/30-trainees-officers-at-mhow-s-army-war-college-test-positive-for-covid19-101632472386782.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Bio-decomposer solution cheaper than other alternatives to stubble burning: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday the bio-decomposer solution developed by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in association with the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, is cheaper than other alternatives to stubble burning. The solution will be sprayed across farmlands to stop stubble burning, which leads to air pollution in Delhi. Kejriwal said the solution will cost less than ₹1,000 per acre and it will be entirely borne by the government. The AAP earlier said that farmers will only have to fill a form and the bio-decomposer solution will be sprayed in their fields free of cost.“By spraying the bio-decomposer solution in the fields, it decomposes the stubble into compost in 15-20 days,” Kejriwal said while addressing a press conference after inaugurating the preparation of the solution.This bio-decomposer is cheaper than other alternatives to stubble burning. It cost less than ₹1000 per acre. Delhi government bearing its cost in the national capital, neighbouring states should also support their farmers: Delhi CM KejriwalA video shared on AAP's social media platform showed the Delhi CM mixing ingredients into the solution.Kejriwal told reporters that last year, nearly 300 farmers in Delhi opted for the bio-decomposer solution and it was sprayed to nearly 1,900 acres and this time, it will be sprayed in 4,200 acres and 844 farmers will use it. The Delhi CM also urged governments of neighbouring states such as Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab to support their farmers with the solution.The expenditure of the drive to stop stubble burning will be around ₹5,000,000. In 2020, the bio-decomposer solution was sprayed only in fields growing non-basmati rice last year. But this time, the government will spray it in all fields including those that grow basmati rice.A committee of 25 members has been formed to approach farmers and carry out the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/biodecomposer-solution-cheaper-than-other-alternatives-to-stubble-burning-cm-101632469301873.html
24-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal teacher arranges for ‘vaccine rath’, gets 500 tribal women vaccinated with 1st dose||A 34-year-old primary school teacher from West Bengal’s Paschim Bardhaman district single-handedly ensured that at least 500 women, including lactating mothers and senior citizens, from a remote tribal village, get their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. To accomplish this daunting task he not just counselled the women, but even arranged for a few hundred mobile numbers from his friends, relatives and neighbours to get more than 1,000 women registered on the CoWin app. He turned a bus into a ‘Vaccine Rath’ to help women reach the nearest vaccination centre from the village. “I regularly go to some of the tribal villages in Jamuria block to teach a few hundred students and their parents free of cost. There, I found that even though the government was pressing for everyone to take the vaccine, particularly women, as there is an apprehension of a third wave, none of the tribal women in the villages was vaccinated. This, not only made them vulnerable, but even their children were at risk,” said Deep Narayan Nayak, who works as a teacher in a state-run free primary school for tribal children. Fondly called ‘Rastar Master’ (teacher of the street) and respected by young and old in the villages, Nayak started collecting the names and found that the number was huge – more than 500 in Joba Attpara and its adjoining three to four villages. They were all from tribal communities like Munda and Tudu. Then came the challenge of registering the women on the CoWin app. Coming from very poor families, the women didn’t have any smartphones. Nor can so many women be registered on one mobile. “At the most, only four persons can be registered through one mobile number on CoWin. I had three numbers. So, I started gathering numbers from my friends, relatives, neighbours and anyone in the villages where I go to teach. Initially, I registered around 500 women,” said Nayak. On the day of vaccination, he hired a school bus and named it ‘Vaccine Rath’ on which 500 women were picked up from the village in phases and taken to the Akhalpur Block Primary Health Centre, around 10 kilometres away, to vaccinate them. They were again dropped back to the village after their vaccination. “Had it not been for ‘master’, a few hundred women like me would have never gone to the vaccination centre to get the first dose. Now that we have received the first dose, the fear is gone and I would definitely go when I need to take the second jab,” said Belmuni Marani, mother of a year-old child and resident of Joba Attpara village. Seeing these 500 women, more women from adjoining villages started coming forward with their fear fading away. So far, Nayak has registered around 1,160 women for vaccination. Now they don’t need any bus or ‘rath’. Many have started going to the vaccination centre on their own to get the jab.“Earlier, I used to fear that I may die if I take the vaccine or I may fall sick. But when the master told us that nothing of that sort would happen and the vaccine was necessary for me and my child, I took the first jab. I am fine and didn’t fall ill. I would definitely return for the second dose,” said Kiran Tudi, a resident of an adjacent village named Joba Kathalpara. Tudi is the mother of one of Nayak’s students. The job didn’t end after just vaccinating these women. For the next three days after the first jab, Nayak enquired with the village women to find out if there were any complaints of adverse events following immunization (AEFI). “It was really a challenging task. Nayak single-handedly counselled the tribal women as they were afraid of taking the vaccine, registered them on the app and arranged a vehicle to ensure that at least 500 get the first jab. Now, more women from adjoining villages are coming,” said Dr Abinash Besra, Block Medical Officer of Health at Jamuria Block – I.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-teacher-arranges-for-vaccine-rath-gets-500-tribal-women-vaccinated-with-1st-dose-101632471247262.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Indian Railways to restore MEMU services in Mumbai from today. Details here||Indian Railways will be restoring Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) services on Mumbai Division on the Vasai Road-Diva-Panvel sections from Friday, the ministry of railways announced on Twitter. Existing Covid-19 protocols mandated for EMU suburban services on Mumbai division will be followed for the issue of tickets/passes and travel in MEMU services, the railways ministry said.The MEMU services on the Vasai Road-Diva-Panvel line will run as per revised schedule details of which have been given below.Diva-Vasai Road section:01338 dep Diva 05.49 am Vasai Road arr 06.50 am01339 dep Vasai Road 09.50 am Diva arr 10.50 am01340 dep Diva 11.30 am Vasai Road arr 12.30 pm01341 dep Vasai Road 12.55 pm Diva arr 01.55 pm01342 dep Diva 02.33 pm Vasai Road arr 03.25 pm01343 dep Vasai Road 03.55 pm Diva arr 04.55 pm01344 dep Diva 05.55 pm Vasai Road arr 06.55 pm01345 dep Vasai Road 07.15 pm Diva arr 08.07 pmPanvel-Diva-Vasai Road section (except Saturday and Sunday):01353 dep Diva 09.25 am Panvel arr 10.05 am01354 dep Panvel 10.30 am Diva arr 11.10 am01357 dep Diva 4.25 pm Vasai Road arr 5.25 pm01358 dep Vasai Road 5.35 pm Diva arr 6.35 pmThe following trains will run daily:Train No 01339 Vasai Road-Diva will depart Vasai Rd at 09.50 am and reach Diva at 10.50 am.Train No 01341 Vasai Road-Diva will depart Vasai Rd at 12.55 pm and reach Diva at 1.55 pm.Train No 01343 Vasai Road-Diva will depart Vasai Rd at 3.35 pm and reach Diva at 4.35 pm.Train No 01345 Vasai Road-Diva will depart Vasai Rd at 7.15 pm and reach Diva at 8.07 pm.Train No 01337 Boisar-Vasai Rd will depart Boisar at 08.30 am and reach Vasai Rd at 09.45 am.Train No 01338 Diva-Boisar will depart Diva at 05.49 am and reach Boisar at 08.00 am.Train No 01340 Diva-Vasai Rd will depart Diva at 11.30 am and reach Vasai Rd at 12.30 pm.Train No 01342 Diva-Vasai Rd will depart Diva at 2.33 pm and reach Vasai Rd at 3.25 pm.Train No 01344 Diva-Vasai Rd will depart Diva at 5.55 pm and reach Vasai Rd at 6.55 pm.The following trains will run 5 days a week (except Saturday & Sunday):Train No 01358 Vasai Road-Diva will depart Vasai at 5.35 pm and reach Diva at 6.35 pm.Train No 01357 Diva-Vasai Rd will depart Diva at 4.25 pm and reach Vasai Rd at 5.25 pm.Train No 01353 Diva-Panvel will depart Diva at 09.25 am and reach Panvel at 10.05 am.Train No 01354 Panvel-Diva will depart Panvel at 10.30 am and reach Diva at 11.10 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-railways-to-restore-memu-services-in-mumbai-from-today-details-here-101632468356181.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends stay on eviction, demolition in view of pandemic||The Bombay high court on Friday extended till October 8 the general stay on eviction, demolition, or dispossession in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It said if the pandemic situation improves, it is unlikely to extend the interim stay beyond that date.A bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta, justices A A Sayed, S S Shinde and P B Varale issued the order while hearing a Public Interest Litigation.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told the bench that experts say the incubation period after the end of Ganesh Chaturthi festival was not yet completed. As such, he added, the government would give an opinion on the Covid-19 situation later.Kumbhakoni said the festival was celebrated by individuals and families over a period of one and half-day to seven days. He added many who travelled to their home towns have returned to their workplaces. Kumbhakoni said if the incubation period was calculated according to one and a half-day, then the stipulated waiting period has been completed and there was no indication of the Covid-19 situation deteriorating. He added that there was less likelihood of the state extending Covid-19 lockdown norms. Kumbhakoni requested the bench to extend the protection only up to October 8.“...if the current improvement in the pandemic situation continues, the general interim orders in all likelihood will not be extended beyond two weeks,” the court said. It also clarified that it would take up the matter for fresh consideration if the situation deteriorated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-stay-on-eviction-demolition-in-view-of-pandemic-101632468606682.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||‘Underwent severe mental breakdown’: Delhi hotel ordered to pay woman ₹2 cr for wrong haircut||A luxury hotel chain has been ordered to pay a compensation of ₹2 crore to a woman after a salon at their Delhi-based hotel allegedly gave her a wrong haircut and hair treatment more than three years ago, according to reports. The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) observed that it shattered her dream to become a top model. "There is no doubt that the women are very cautious and careful with regard to their hair. They spend a handsome amount on keeping the hair in good condition. They are also emotionally attached to their hair. The complainant was a model for hair products because of her long hair," a bench of president RK Agrawal and member Dr SM Kantikar said, according to news agency ANI. The commission noted that the complainant was a model for hair products because of her long hair and modelled for big hair-care brands but due to the haircut against her instructions, she lost her expected assignments and suffered a huge loss. “She was also working as a Senior Management Professional and earning a decent income. She underwent severe mental breakdown and trauma due to negligence in cutting her hair and could not concrete her job and finally, she lost her job,” the bench said in an order dated September 21.The commission also held the hotel guilty of medical negligence in hair treatment and said that the woman’s scalp was burnt and she developed an allergy and itching because of the staff’s fault. The commission noticed that the complainant’s WhatsApp chat shows that the hotel admitted its fault and tried to cover it by offering free hair treatment.The woman said in the complaint visited the salon at the Delhi-based hotel a week before a job interview and specifically asked for “long flicks covering her face in the front and at the back and four-inch straight hair trim from the bottom” in April 2018. However, she alleged that the hairdresser did not follow her instruction and chopped off her hair leaving only four inches from the top. She complained about this to the management of the salon, which in turn offered her a free hair treatment. She claimed the treatment caused permanent damage due to excess ammonia, which resulted in excessive irritation in her scalp.She brought the incident to the notice of the higher authorities of the hotel but “in vain”. “Rather, they misbehaved and threatened her to face consequences,” she said in her complaint and approached NCDRC, according to PTI. She sought a written apology from the management as well as compensation of ₹3 crore for harassment, humiliation, and mental trauma. She claimed that she stopped seeking herself in the mirror, avoided social activities, lost her self-confidence due to little hair.However, the hotel chain claimed said her hair was cut as per her request and was not chopped off and that no harm was caused to her scalp with the excess ammonia during the hair treatment. The hotel’s lawyer also said that the complainant is not a “consumer” as the payment was declined and the hair treatment was also provided to her free of charge. It claimed that the woman filed the complaint with a malafide intention to malign its reputation and goodwill and to extract unreasonably high and exaggerated compensation.However, the commission ordered the hotel chain to compensate the woman. “The complaint is allowed partly and we are of the considered view that it would meet the end of justice in case the complainant is granted compensation of ₹2,00,00,000. Hence, we direct the Opposite Party No.2 to pay a compensation of to the Complainant within eight weeks,” it ordered.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hotel-ordered-to-pay-woman-rs-2-cr-for-wrong-haircut-101632466179256.html
24-09-2021||Other||Odisha forest officials launch operation to rescue elephant stuck in river||A team of 80 forest officials from two forest divisions of Odisha launched a major operation to rescue an adult tusker that was trapped inside the swirling floodwaters of Mahanadi river near Mundali bridge of Cuttack district on Friday morning, officials said.Assistant conservator of forest of Chandaka forest division, Sangram Mohanty, said the tusker, part of a 17-member herd that was trying to cross the river from Chandaka side to Banki late Thursday night, got swept by strong water current in the river that is now in spate. “All other elephants, except the tusker, could cross the river. The level of water was a little too high near the spot where the elephant got stuck. Though elephants are good swimmers it got tired and was looking for ways to get out,” said Mohanty.Officials said on Friday locals found the tusker trumpeting and converged over the Mundali barrage as fire brigade personnel thought of ways to rescue the elephant. They first put a net around it to stop it from getting swept away and then planned to bring a crane to lift it out of the swirling waters.A couple of hours later, the elephant however slowly regained its strength and started wading through the water though the water level kept on rising covering half its body. “Our personnel are throwing tree branches so that it eats something. The elephant has been stuck in the river for over six hours and needs to cross at least 20 metres to reach the riverbank. We are very hopeful that the elephant will make its way to the riverbank,” said Mohanty.Wildlife expert and member of Odisha State Biodiversity Board, Jayanta Mardaraj said though elephants are good swimmers and regularly cross rivers without any problem, the water current may have been the stumbling block. After floodwaters were released from Hirakud reservoir over last week, Mahanadi has been in spate,” said Mardaraj.He said the fragmentation of the elephant corridors was the main reason for the tusker’s woes. “The riverbank has been encroached by farmhouses and elephants are now taking longer routes to cross rivers. In my youth, I have seen elephants regularly crossing the river from Chandaka to Banki effortlessly. But encroachment on the riverbanks is a major issue,” he said.In August this year, the National Green Tribunal ordered the Odisha government to notify 14 elephant corridors in the state within the next two months culminating in the realisation of the long-standing demands of elephant conservationists for declaration of the same that would give legal sanctity to the elephant paths.Responding to a petition by wildlife conservationist Biswajit Mohanty the Eastern Zonal bench of the NGT said that the 14 corridors identified by Asian Nature Conservation Foundation, a non-profit public charitable trust involved in the conservation of Asian elephants in 13 of the 30 districts be notified within two weeks.Mohanty had alleged that that though the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) had submitted details of elephant corridors in Odisha to the forest and environment department in 2012 for identification of 14 corridors with a length of 420.8 kms and a width of 0.08 km to 4.6 kms, no action was being taken for their formal notification under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-forest-officials-launch-operation-to-rescue-lone-tusker-stuck-in-mahanadi-river-101632466507053.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 case count dips||Even as Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 case count is reducing, experts and the state public health department are monitoring the situation closely as they expect a spurt in infections by October first week due to increased movement during the Dahi Handi and Ganeshotsav festivals. Officials from the health department said that so far there are no signs of the potential third wave of Covid-19 infections.Maharashtra on Thursday added 3,320 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking its tally to 6,534,557. The state recorded 61 deaths due to the virus, pushing the toll to 138,725. Mumbai reported 500 cases on Thursday and five fatalities. The active caseload in the state has dropped to 39,191, the lowest in seven months.Ahmednagar rural reported 577 cases, Ahmednagar 21, Pune rural 437 cases, Pune city 182 and Pimpri-Chinchwad 125 on Thursday.The daily positivity rate in the state has been around 2% over the last week. On Thursday, the positivity rate was 1.95%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-active-covid-19-case-count-dips-101632465126426.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Hate speech case: Delhi HC grants bail to organiser of Jantar Mantar event||The Delhi High Court on Friday granted bail to Preet Singh, one of organisers of an event at Jantar Mantar where communal slogans were allegedly raised last month. “The petition is allowed. The petitioner has been granted bail,” said Justice Mukta Gupta.Singh, who was remanded to judicial custody on August 10 after his arrest, is accused of creating enmity between different groups and inciting the youth to propagate against a particular religion at a rally at Jantar Mantar here on August 8.In his plea filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, Singh claimed that he was “not involved in giving any inflammatory speech or raising any slogan against any person or community”.He asserted that the demand of establishing a Hindu nation did not attract Section 153A (hate speech) of the IPC and that he was not even present at the site at the time of sloganeering.The Delhi Police had opposed Singh's plea for his release on bail.On August 27, Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil had refused bail to Singh, arrested by the Delhi Police in the case, saying right to assemble and freedom to air one's thoughts are cherished under the Constitution.However, these are not absolute and have to be exercised with inherent reasonable restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hate-speech-case-delhi-hc-grants-bail-to-organiser-of-jantar-mantar-event-101632463554984.html
24-09-2021||Other||Congress district unit seeks lawmaker’s expulsion amid power tussle in C'garh||Congress’s Bilaspur district unit in Chhattisgarh has sought the expulsion of lawmaker Shailesh Pandey for alleged anti-party activities amid a power tussle within the ruling party. Pramod Nayak, the unit’s chief, said they have sent the recommendation to state Congress chief Mohan Markam.The demand for Pandey’s expulsion comes days after he and his supporters rushed to a police station on Wednesday and opposed the registration of a case against Congress leader Pankaj Singh for allegedly assaulting an employee of a government hospital. Pandey claimed Singh was being implicated because he is close to state minister TS Singh Deo, who has been involved in a power tussle with chief minister Bhupesh Baghel.Nayak said Pandey has said he is a supporter of Deo. “Every Congressman is a member of the party first... He also told journalists that police took action (against Singh) at the behest of higher authorities. Slogans against the chief minister were also raised.” He added Pandey’s conduct amounted to a breach of the party’s discipline.Rajkumar Tiwari, the unit’s vice president, moved a proposal for Pandey expulsion for six years. The proposal was seconded by general secretaries of the unit. Later all the members of the unit supported it before it was sent to Markam.Singh has questioned the case registered against him asking if he was being targeted for being close to Deo.Baghel, Deo, and Tamradhwaj Sahu, now home minister, emerged as the front runner for the chief minister’s post when Congress returned to power in the state In December 2018.The case against Singh put the focus back on the leadership struggle in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-district-unit-seeks-lawmaker-s-expulsion-amid-power-tussle-in-chhattisgarh-101632464465901.html
24-09-2021||Kolkata||BJP's Sukanta Majumdar, Priyanka Tibrewal booked over Kalighat protests||Sukanta Majumder, the newly-appointed president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s West Bengal unit, said on Friday that the Kolkata Police have registered a ‘suo moto’ case against him and other party leaders in connection with protests with the body of a BJP leader near chief minister Mamata Banerjee's residence in the city earlier this week. The case has been registered at the Kalighat police station against Sukanta Majumder and other party leaders, including Arjun Singh, Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, and Priyanka Tibrewal. According to officials familiar with the development, the FIR was registered under sections 143, 147, and 283 of the Indian Police Code (IPC), which relate to unlawful assembly, rioting, obstruction, and using criminal force to deter public servants from discharging their duties.The Kalighat area in Kolkata, which houses the chief minister's residence, saw a high-voltage drama on Thursday after BJP activists led by Sukanta Majumder engaged in a scuffle with the police after being stopped from holding a “peaceful demonstration” with the body of Manas Saha.According to police officials cited by PTI news agency, activists of the BJP were on their way to a crematorium from their party office for Dhurjati Saha’s last rites, when the flower-bedecked hearse suddenly took a detour through Harish Chatterjee Street, a part of the poll-bound Bhabanipur assembly constituency. As policemen threw a cordon and put guard rails to stop the hearse, forcing its driver to change direction, Majumder was seen running behind the carrier. He then sat in the middle of the road in front of the TMC supremo’s residence, with supporters raising slogans against the ruling party, as the hearse moved forward. BJP lawmaker Arjun Singh and the party’s candidate for Bhabanipur by-elections, Priyanka Tibrewal, were also seen protesting against the police action.Later, after a brief scuffle with the police, Majumder along with party colleagues was forced to leave the spot. He opposed the “manhandling” by the police personnel and alleged that the Mamata Banerjee government was stopping peaceful protesters instead of investigating the death of the BJP leader and apprehending the “murderers”.Dhurjati Saha allegedly come under attack in May when the counting of votes was in progress. Violent protests erupted on Wednesday when Saha, who unsuccessfully contested the March-April assembly polls from Magrahat Paschim constituency, died at a nursing home in the city; with BJP leaders claiming that ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) supporters assaulted him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjps-sukanta-majumdar-priyanka-tibrewal-booked-over-stir-near-didi-s-residence-101632461895105.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi’s move to appoint Channi as Punjab CM bold decision: Jakhar||Punjab Congress leader Sunil Jakhar on Friday hit out at the party’s opponents for attributing motives to its choice of the chief minister in the state. Terming Charanjit Singh Channi’s appointment a bold decision, Jakhar said that the political opponents of the Congress are literally missing the forest for the trees in attributing political motives to the party’s choice of chief minister. Also read: Channi meets central leadership in Delhi to discuss cabinet expansion“What Rahul Gandhi has done by choosing Channi as CM is that he has broken the barely perceptible glass ceiling,” the former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president tweeted. Channi is Punjab’s first Scheduled Caste chief minister. Jakhar, a Hindu face, was a frontrunner for the chief minister’s post with Rahul’s backing after Capt Amarinder Singh resigned following months of internal strife that left the state unit divided. His name was more or less final at one stage, but a section of party leaders, including Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Ambika Soni and some MLAs, pressed for a Sikh CM. He later even took a dig at “petty-minded small people occupying high positions” for trying to divide Punjab on the basis of race/caste/identities. Says Punjabiat being put to test again Jakhar said the bold decision (Channi’s appointment), though rooted in the ethos of Sikhism, is nevertheless a watershed moment not only for the polity but also for the social fabric of the state. “The warp and weft of this fabric is a complex interplay of aspirations and anxieties of all sections of society. This must be respected, maintained and nurtured as ‘raj dharma’ at all times,” he said, adding, “But there is clear and present danger of Punjabiat being put to test once again with usual divisive forces already weaponising this transformative initiative to fragment society”. Jakhar said this threat cannot be wished away and if handled in inept and/or biased manner the prevailing robust brotherhood and amity, which has always been the pride of Punjab even in testing times, can be just as fragile and shatter just as easily as a “glass house”. The new Congress dispensation is being keenly watched to see whether it has what it takes, he added. Chance meeting with Rahul Gandhi Jakhar’s statement came after he travelled with Rahul and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to Delhi on Wednesday evening when they were returning from Shimla. Though it was speculated that Rahul took feedback from him on expansion, Jakhar called it a “chance meeting”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rahul-gandhi-s-move-to-appoint-channi-as-punjab-cm-bold-decision-jakhar-101632462364601.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal landslides: Rail traffic to Shimla suspended today||The Northern Railway authorities on Friday suspended traffic on the world heritage Kalka-Shimla narrow gauge line for a day as a precautionary measure after multiple landslides triggered by heavy rains led to the derailment of rail car near Barog on Thursday. Also read: BSE Sensex crosses 60,000 mark for the first time as tech, property stocks lead“Continuous rain in the Kalka-Shimla section has resulted in incidents of boulders falling and landslides. In order to ensure the safety of passengers, traffic movement on the track has been suspended for today (Friday),” said a communiqué by the Ambala railway division. Nine passengers had a narrow escape after the rail car ferrying them from Kalka to Shimla went off track on Thursday. Over 100 roads blocked due to landslides More than 100 roads in Himachal Pradesh are still blocked due to landslides after heavy rain. The Nahan to Kummarhatti national highway is blocked at Sadhna Ghat near Naina Tikkar, while the Sataun-Renukaji road is blocked near Tikaar in Sirmaur district. The Powari to Kaza section of National Highway 5 is blocked due to shooting stones in Kinnaur district. However, traffic has been restored on the Manali-Leh highway, which was blocked due to a landslide at Nehru Kund near Manali earlier this week. Seven houses and nine cowsheds were also damaged. Kharif crop harvest affected The incessant rain has caused widespread damage to kharif crops, including paddy and maize, besides affecting the harvest of fruit crops such apple and pomegranate and sowing of potato in Una district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-landslides-rail-traffic-to-shimla-suspended-today-101632460744683.html
24-09-2021||Other||Congress functionary, wife found dead in Chhattisgarh||A local Congress functionary and his wife were found dead at their home in Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh district on Wednesday, police said on Friday. The couple, Madan Mittal, 54, and Anju Mittal, 52, is suspected to have been strangled.“Initially, it seemed that it was a case of loot but their jewellery and cash, which were kept in open suitcases, were not touched. The incident took place on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Mittal’s son and daughter-in-law were also sleeping in the same house,” said Raigarh Police superintendent Abhishek Meena. He added there were no signs of resistance suggesting someone close to the family had entered the couple’s room before they were killed. “We have got some leads in the case... Around 10 people are under the scanner and quizzing is going on.” Meena said they were awaiting the couple’s post-mortem reports. “The post-mortem reports will throw some more light on the case.”Police said Mittal owned a rice mill and was also the representative of a local Congress assembly member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-functionary-wife-found-dead-in-chhattisgarh-101632459725229.html
24-09-2021||Other||Labourer killed, vehicles set afire in Chhattisgarh Maoist attack||Suspected Maoists allegedly killed a labourer and torched four vehicles at a road construction site in Chhattisgarh’s Left-wing insurgency hit Narayanpur district, a police officer said on Friday.Inspector-General of Police (Bastar Range) Sunderaj P said that the incident took place on Thursday evening at Madhoner village of the district. He added around two dozen Maoists were involved in the attack. Sunderraj P said the attackers thrashed the labourer at the construction site before setting ablaze a JCB machine, two tractors and two motorcycles there. The labourer who died has been identified as Sandip Bajan, who belonged to a village near the construction site.A police team was rushed to the spot and began a combing operation of the nearby areas to track down the attackers. The operation was still on. Police said they recovered a pamphlet from the attack scene warning villagers against participating in the developmental activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/labourer-killed-vehicles-set-afire-in-chhattisgarh-maoist-attack-101632458706724.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Dewan Housing Finance Ltd moves HC, seeks discharge in corruption case by CBI||The Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) has moved the Bombay high court challenging a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court’s refusal to discharge it from the corruption case involving its promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, and Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor.It argued it has undergone a Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) and a new entity has been appointed as a resolution applicant, as per the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). DHFL said it should be discharged of all criminal proceedings registered against it prior to the CIRP after the resolution plan was approved. But the special court rejected the plea and forced DHFL to move the high court.Senior advocate Ravi Kadam, representing the DHFL, told a single-judge bench of justice S K Shinde that the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had conducted the CIRP and approved Piramal Capital and Housing Finance Ltd (PCHFL) as the resolution applicant. Kadam added thereafter DHFL filed an application in the special court seeking discharge or dropping of proceedings against it as per section 32A of the IBC.Kadam said yet the special court rejected the application for discharge saying DHFL would be prosecuted through its promoters the Wadhwan brothers as they were conducting its affairs when the alleged offence was committed.Advocate Hiten Venegaonkar, who appeared for the CBI, opposed the plea saying the NCLT order was under challenge.PCHFL also filed an intervention application through senior advocate Aabad Ponda and concurred with the arguments of Kadam about section 32A of IBC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dewan-housing-finance-ltd-moves-hc-seeks-discharge-in-corruption-case-by-cbi-101632457986064.html
24-09-2021||Patna||Todarmal’s diary to offer authentic information about land revenue system during Mughal age||Would it not be interesting to learn about the land measurement and revenue system introduced by Raja Todarmal, the finance minister and counsellor of Mughal Emperor Akbar during the medieval age? A far more fascinating reading can be the details of the kind of habitations and the farming patterns available in Bihar at that time, especially in Bhagalpur district and the information related to the revenue administration system in the state during the Mughal period.All these details and information are available in Raqababandi Todarmali of Pargana Bhagalpur, the diary of Raja Todarmal who was one among the Navaratans of Emperor Akbar. And to bring these facts and figures among people, Bihar State Archives, part of the Cabinet Secretariat Department of Bihar Government, has got this diary translated from Persian into English and is preparing to get it published under the title, Raqababandi Todarmali, Pargana Bhagalpur, Sarkar Munger, Mazaf Suba Bihar.The Todarmali Diary was originally written in Persian in 1594 and after more than 500 years, the state archive is coming up with its English version.On Wednesday, some experts on medieval history and the Persian language were invited by the state archive to review the forthcoming English version of Todarmali diary. It has been translated by Muzaffar-e Islam, former assistant director, National Archives, Delhi.“We have been pursuing this project for the last two years. Todarmal’s diary has for years been available at the state archive and many wanted to go through it, but couldn’t because of the language problem,” Mahendra Pal Singh, director, state archive, said. Even for the translation work, getting an expert on this script of the diary was quite difficult.“Some of the numerical used in the diary seems to be in vogue during Mughal age,” he said.It’s for the convenience of historians and researchers, the state archive is getting it published in English. “People may get it from our office. The state archive is also preparing to put Todarmal’s diary in the e-library of the state archive. Anyone in any part of the world will be able to go through it on the state archives’ website,” he said.Muzaffar-e Islam, the man who has prepared the English version of Todarmali diary, said the content is related mainly to the land measurement and land revenue system in the Bhagalpur district.“One can find here the way Todarmal maintained facts and figures about the area under habitations and cultivation in Bhagalpur,” he said. The diary has revealed that over two and a half percent of the total land area in Bhagalpur was under cultivation at that time while villages over two lakh Bighas were under cultivation. The total area was more than seven lakh Bighas, he added.“In fact, land was the only source of revenue at that time and its details were maintained meticulously. Even today, we can maintain a database of the land under cultivation, for habitation and for other purposes,” he said. The second part of the diary has the list of Mauja or land, under the title Tarikhe-e Fehrist Diwat, he added.“All these details were written in 1594 over handmade papers of the diary or the Raqababandi Todarmali of Pargana Bhagalpur. In 1862, a British collector named Renny got the pages preserved and made it hardbound,” a former official of the National Archives, said.The official said this diary can be considered the most authentic information about the land revenue system in the state during the Mughal period. “There has been no tampering with the facts. To ensure that there will be no fraud or confusion with the facts, the then British age collector, Renny, had got all the 400 pages of the diary signed,” he said.Dr Imtiaz Ahmad, a former Patna University teacher and an expert on medieval history, said, the English version of Todarmal Dairy would definitely benefit many researchers and historians who have been trying to get to the authentic information. “In fact, many parts of Todarmal’s land revenue system were adopted by the British rulers. It would be easier now to understand those aspects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/todarmals-diary-to-offer-authentic-information-about-land-revenue-system-during-mughal-age-101632457025255.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi may see light rain or drizzle today, says IMD||The weather in Delhi is expected to be overcast with the possibility of light rain or drizzle on Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The minimum temperature is expected to be 24 degrees Celsius and the maximum 34 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Thursday was 33.3 degrees Celsius and the minimum 24.7 degrees Celsius.Earlier this week, the IMD issued a “green” alert for Friday. The IMD uses four colour codes and “green” means “all is well”. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, a cloudy sky with light rain is expected over the weekend.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 76. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 68 in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.With the presence of a moist surface and light rainfall, AQI is expected to be in good to the satisfactory category for the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-or-drizzle-likely-in-delhi-on-friday-101632455044535.html
24-09-2021||Bangalore||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to address joint sitting of K’taka legislature today||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will on Friday address both houses of the Karnataka legislature, state legislative assembly speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said on Wednesday. Om Birla will address Friday's session at 2.30pm on the topic "Democracy - Safeguarding Parliamentary Values." This is the first time he will address the joint session of the two houses of a legislature. Friday will be the last day of the 10-day long legislature session which started on September 13.According to an official statement, the Lok Sabha Speaker's address will see the participation of the chairman of the state legislative council Basvaraj Horatti, assembly speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, state ministers, MLAs, MPs and MLCs and other dignitaries.However, the Congress party, which is the main opposition in Karnataka, will boycott Om Birla's address. The Congress said that Birla's address at the legislative assembly chamber will set a "wrong precedent" as no one other than the country's President and Karnataka governor has addressed such joint sittings till now."When the matter came up at the Business Advisory Committee meeting, I had said, it will set a new precedent, as so far no Lok Sabha speaker has addressed the joint sitting in the assembly. Let's not set a new precedent, also there is no scope for it in the constitution," the leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah told reporters on Thursday.He said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government was not ready to extend the session by at least one week, adding that both houses met after six months and there are numerous issues to be discussed. "We have decided to boycott in protest," the former Karnataka chief minister said.Echoing his concerns, state Congress president DK Shivakumar said on Thursday that there is no scope of an address by Om Birla speaker inside the assembly "as per our parliamentary system and our business rules." Taking a jibe at the Lok Sabha Speaker's topic of address, Shivakumar said it seemed that the ruling dispensation agreed to the fact that democracy and parliamentary values have deteriorated under their rule.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-to-address-joint-sitting-of-k-taka-legislature-today-101632445895336.html
24-09-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat election 2021: Voting for first phase begins today||The first phase of the Bihar panchayat election began on Friday as voting for 4,647 posts are being held in 12 blocks spread over 10 districts in the state amid tight security. Election officials have said that 14,000 people have been deployed at 2,119 polling stations in Kaimur, Rohtas, Gaya, Nawada, Aurangabad, Jehanabad, Arwal, Munger, Jamui and Banka where both electronic voting machines (EVMs) and ballot papers will be used for voting.“So far, 362 illegal arms and 1,606 cartridges have been seized from anti-socials in the ongoing pre-poll checking drives by the police. Moreover, 12,065 illegal liquor manufacturing units have been destroyed in different districts while 5,46,143 litres of illicit liquor has been seized,” the State Election Commission (SEC) said in a press release on Thursday.According to the notification announced by state election commissioner Deepak Prasad in August, the 11-phase election for more than 2.55 lakh representatives of the three-tier panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) will end on December 12. Votes will be counted on the following day of polling of each phase of the election during which about 6.39 crore electors are expected to vote.Also read | Reserve EVMs to stay closer for faster replacement in Bihar panchayat pollsThere will be 8,072 mukhiyas, 113,307 panchayat members, 11,104 panchayat samiti members, 1160 zila parishad members, 8,072 gram kutchery sarpanch and 1,13,307 gram kutchery panchs of the total representatives for PRIs.Prasad said electronic voting machines (EVMs) would be used for the first time in the rural bodies elections. Elections for panch and sarpanch will be conducted through the ballot papers and polling for mukhiya, panchayat samiti members, panchayat members and zila parishad members will be held through EVMs, he said.The last panchayat elections were held five years ago in 10 phases, which had nearly 6.44 crore electors. This time, the number of electors and panchayat bodies have been reduced due to the reorganisation of urban bodies, in which 315 panchayats lost their existence and 186 panchayats were partially hit.Also read | Bihar panchayat polls: Trend reverses, women emerge as ‘better half’ after 50% quotaThis time, the SEC has made arrangements for webcasting polling at sensitive and super sensitive booths and has also set up a state-level control room where any complaint about poll malpractices or other discrepancies can be lodged by dialling 18003457243. Voters will also be verified through biometric machines at the booths to prevent bogus voting.About 1 lakh polling personnel would be engaged along with nearly 90,000 security personnel. Elections officials have said they have received around 2.21 lakh EVMs against its requirement of 2.56 lakh.About 2 lakh ballot boxes will be used in the elections to elect sarpanchs and panchs to make up for the absence of EVMs with desired specifications.In the last phase of election on December 12, polling will be held in 38 blocks of 20 districts, areas mostly affected currently by floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-election-2021-voting-for-first-phase-begins-today-101632446316146.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi to prepare bio-decomposer solution from today to fight stubble burning||The Delhi government will start preparing a bio-decomposer solution from Friday for spraying across farmlands in order to stop stubble burning which leads to air pollution in the national capital. The bio-decomposer solution will be ready by October 5 and the government will spray it free of cost. The expenditure of this drive will be around ₹5,000,000.According to news agency ANI, the government, in association with the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, developed the bio-decomposer capsule. This capsule can be converted into a solution that can be sprayed on crop stubble in farmlands. Once sprayed, the solution decomposes the stubble into compost in 20 days, ANI added.“Last year, the Delhi government, in association with Pusa Institute, sprayed bio-decomposer on the fields. We got a lot of positive responses. We presented that entire report to the Central Commission for Air Quality Management and they asked for a third-party audit. The audit has been done and the report has been handed over,” Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said while addressing a press conference on Monday.Also Read| ‘Neighbouring states ready to try bio-decomposer for stubble pollution’: Delhi minister Gopal RaiPointing out that stubble burning contributes to the national capital’s pollution which reaches a dangerous level; Rai said that previously, many laws were made to deal with this problem. “Penalties were imposed on the farmers but no solution was found,” the environment minister also told reporters on Monday.The solution was sprayed only in fields growing non-basmati rice last year. However, this year the government will spray it in all fields including those that grow basmati rice.A committee of 25 members has been formed to approach farmers and carry out the drive. The Delhi government also said that farmers will only have to fill a form and the bio-decomposer solution will be sprayed in their fields free of cost.Hindustan Times earlier reported that farmers in Delhi only burn only 1% of stubble and the smoke from stubble burning in states such as Haryana and Punjab contributes majorly to the winter pollution in the national capital.Environment minister Gopal Rai said on Thursday that neighbouring states are willing to experiment with the bio-decomposer solution to combat stubble burning, adding that such states and the Centre should prepare to spray the solution on a war-footing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-prepare-bio-decomposer-solution-from-today-to-fight-stubble-burning-101632444741381.html
24-09-2021||Other||Chaos, security lapse at Ludhiana railway station amid rain||With no cop present to regulate traffic, a major chaos was witnessed at the Ludhiana railway station as drop-off vehicles were seen entering the station even through the exit gates.Though passengers are required to get dropped off at the entry gate or the parking area, many were seen driving all the way up to the nearest entry point, to avoid getting drenched.To add to trouble, a large number of three-wheelers, rickshaws and private cabs were also seen stationed near the gate, thus obstructing free passage.In wake of the high-alert being declared in Punjab following the busting of four terror modules by the state police, railway authorities had recently held a meeting with MC and traffic police officials, and asked them to remove encroachments and not allow any three-wheelers to wait near the gates. This was aimed to keep a check on anti-social elements.Station director Tarun Kumar said railways has no jurisdiction outside the premises of the station area. “We have already conveyed our concerns to the traffic police and the municipal corporation regarding this menace. Now, clearing the traffic from the gates is their responsibility,” said Kumar.Meanwhile, joint commissioner of police, city, Deepak Pareek claimed that a 24/7 naka is installed outside the railway station as it is a crucial spot from safety point of view. “Our forces remain deployed there and they keep moving the traffic outside the railway gates,” said the JCP.Deepali Arora, a passenger carrying a luggage bag, waiting to board the Amritsar-Delhi morning Shatabdi, said, “I wasn’t frisked and neither did anyone ask me to put my luggage through the baggage scanner machine. Such negligence can prove risky.”HT on Tuesday had highlighted that the lone baggage scanner at the station which has three entry points was lying defunct.A senior railway security official at the station said, “I have already told the maintenance team to expedite the repair of the baggage scanner. It will be made functional soon. Our teams carry out manual checking of security too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chaos-security-lapse-at-ludhiana-railway-station-amid-rain-101632433982385.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||In brief: ‘Take action against fake social media account handlers’||Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer has taken serious note of the fake accounts active on social networking sites in his name. Two of such accounts are @Raghavlanger(Twitter) and Dr Raghav Langer (Facebook). Langer has appealed to the general public not to pay attention and fall prey to any of the tactics adopted by these fake account-holders as none of them belongs to him. He has also directed the cyber police to take appropriate action against the creator(s) of these fake accounts. Langer has also made it clear that he has no Facebook or Twitter account. The divisional commissioner is the head of ten districts across Jammu region. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday flagged off Central Reserve Police Force’s cycle rally from Jammu to Raj Ghat, New Delhi, as a part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations. Four cycle rallies of CRPF from Jorhat, Sabarmati, Kanyakumari, and Jammu passing through various historical places will culminate at Raj Ghat memorial on October 2. Union minister Anurag Thakur will inaugurate the first Himalayan Film Festival in Ladakh on Friday. The festival will be held at Sindhu Sanskriti Kendra in Leh from September 24 to 28. It’s a part of the celebration of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. ‘Shershah’ movie will be screened on the opening ceremony, which will be attended by the makers and cast. Himachal governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar was presented literary works by state’s deputy director of information and public relations department and litterateur Gurmeet Bedi in Chandigarh on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-brief-take-action-against-fake-social-media-account-handlers-101632433321827.html
24-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Man hacked to death, police suspect wife’s hand||A day after the body of a missing man was found near Lohara Bridge, Sidhwan Canal, the post mortem report revealed that he was hacked to death with sharp weapons. The board of three doctors that conducted a postmortem on the body found injuries inflicted by sharp-edged weapons on his throat, stomach, face, and hands. The police are waiting for a detailed report to lodge an FIR.The deceased was identified as Ram Lagan, 30, of Uttar Pradesh. He was living in Pratap Nagar, Dholewal, with his family.According to the wife of the deceased, he had left the house on Monday and never returned. She filed a missing report with Division Number 6 police on Tuesday. The police asked her to get a picture of her husband, following which she didn’t return to the police station.Wife claims to have seen deceased in dreamLater, the woman allegedly found her husband’s body near Lohara Canal Bridge and informed the police. On being inquired how she came to know about the location of her husband’s body, she said he had told her about it in her dream.The police are suspecting her role in the murder and have initiated an investigation.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that the cops will solve the case soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-hacked-to-death-police-suspect-wife-s-hand-101632432841498.html
24-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Allegedly harassed by wife, man ends life||Allegedly harassed by his wife, a man ended his life in his house in Baldev Nagar, Rahon Road, just four months after marriage.On the complaint of the deceased’s sister, the Basti Jodhewal police lodged an FIR against his wife for abetment.The complainant stated that her brother, a labourer, had got married four months ago. Four days after their marriage, his wife went back to her maternal house and filed a complaint of dowry harassment against her husband, mother-in-law, and sisters-in-law.The woman added that after 15 days, her brother and mother brought his wife back to their house but, she again left within two weeks and lodged a complaint with the women’s cell at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr).The police had summoned the victim for a hearing on Wednesday. Hours before the hearing, he hanged himself. His family immediately sounded the police.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harcharan Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code was lodged against the accused. A hunt is on to nab her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-allegedly-harassed-by-wife-man-ends-life-101632432601373.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Celebrations in Jammu on 127th birth anniversary of Maharaja Hari Singh||Several events were on Thursday organised here to mark the 127th birth anniversary of Maharaja Hari Singh amid demands that the day be declared a public holiday.Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha paid tributes to the ruler on his birth anniversary. “He made immense contribution to India’s freedom movement. His distinguishable and unmatchable services in the field of education, agriculture, administrative, social and economic reforms will always be remembered,” he said.On the occasion, many social and political organisations of the Jammu region, including the Congress, demanded that September 23 be declared as a public holiday.Hari Singh was a Dogra ruler, who had signed the Instrument of Accession on October 26 1947, the legal document that ceded J&K to the dominion of India as per the Indian Independence Act 1947. The BJP also celebrated the day by installing a statue of the ruler at the party headquarters in his memory. J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina, along with Lok Sabha member Jugal Kishore Sharma, Major General Govardhan Singh (retd) and other senior party leaders unveiled the statue amid much fanfare and presence of large number of prominent civil society members and party leaders and activists. The statue of Hari Singh was made and gifted by famous Jammu sculptor Ravinder Jamwal. Raina, while unveiling the statue, recalled how the BJP installed various statues of Maharaja at prominent places in Jammu. Maharaja Hari Singh’s grandson Vikramaditya Singh, said, “Our demand for this day to be marked as state holiday remains unequivocal.”President of J&K High Court Bar Association, Jammu, MK Bhardwaj also urged L-G Sinha to declare September 23 as a gazetted holiday. “We feel proud and realise how great visionary Hari Singh was. We, being Dogras, feel proud in glorifying the great visionary ruler,” he said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/celebrations-in-jammu-on-127th-birth-anniversary-of-maharaja-hari-singh-101632432422293.html
24-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Labourer arrested for rape of teen daughter||A labourer was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping his 13-year-old daughter at Raikot’s Bhaini Arora village. The accused is a native of Bihar and lives in a rented accommodation with his daughter and two sons. His wife had left the house on September 13 following a verbal spat.The Raikot sadar police have registered an FIR based on the statement of the victim’s teacher. The complainant said that the 13-year-old victim had an exam on Wednesday and was reluctant to return home after that. On being asked, she told her teacher that her father had raped her on Sunday night and also on Wednesday morning, prior to the examination. He also threatened her to keep mum. ASI Syed Shakeel, in-charge of Lohatbaddi police post, said a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered, following which the accused was arrested. He was produced before a court on Thursday and remanded to three days in police custody.The ASI added that the custody of the children has been handed over to their maternal uncle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-labourer-arrested-for-rape-of-teen-daughter-101632432001044.html
24-09-2021||Other||9 more cases of dengue detected in Ludhiana||Nine more cases of dengue were reported in the Ludhiana in the last 24 hours, as per the Ludhiana health department officials.The total count of dengue cases in the Ludhiana has now reached 125, out of which 106 cases have been reported from city areas, while others are from Payal Khanna, Sudhar, Sahnewal among other areas. So far, 1,158 suspected cases of dengue have been detected in the Ludhiana.Apart from these, 104 confirmed dengue patients from other districts and states are also admitted in Ludhiana hospitals.As per the health department officials, no dengue death has been reported in the Ludhiana this season. A suspected dengue death was reported in the Ludhiana on August 25, when a 65-year-old resident of Balloke village died after testing positive for dengue at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, as per the kin of the diseased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9-more-cases-of-dengue-detected-in-ludhiana-101632431461116.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Former J&K Bank chairperson joins People’s Conference||Former J&K Bank chairperson Parvez Ahmad Nengroo, who is under investigation for corruption charges, on Thursday joined the People’s Conference led by Sajjad Lone.PC chairperson Sajjad Lone said Nengroo would play a key role in scripting JKPC’s economic agenda for change.“I wholeheartedly welcome Nengroo into the caravan of change. He had an illustrious banking career and is a leader who has risen from the ranks. During his tenure, we saw one of the fastest turnarounds in the banking industry. He will play a pivotal role in scripting JKPC’s agenda for socio-economic upliftment of the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” Lone said.Lone said that he was confident that Nengroo’s experience and technical expertise in economic matters will benefit the party in formulating a futuristic economic policy to “steer J&K from changelessness to change”.“Our collective objective is to make J&K economically prosperous, self-reliant and progressive. Nengroo’s competence and domain expertise will be critical for the party to offer a viable, progressive and inclusive economic roadmap to the people of Jammu and Kashmir, especially in wake of insurmountable economic challenges being faced by the people and economic institutions here. He is also an influential personality commanding a lot of goodwill among the people. I am confident that he will work together with existing leadership and play a pivotal role in offering a new leadership to the people of south Kashmir.”Soon after the governor rule was imposed in J&K in 2019, Nengroo was arrested for graft.The case pertained to illegal allotment of tenders by Jammu and Kashmir Bank regarding housekeeping to a Mumbai-based company, SILA Solutions, without following proper tendering norms as provided in the contract to the said firm which did not fall into the criteria of any such allotment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-j-k-bank-chairperson-joins-people-s-conference-101632431222297.html
24-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 82-year-old woman dies of Covid, no new cases||An 82-year-old woman admitted at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) succumbed to Covid on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths due to the virus so far to 2,101. No fresh case was reported. The total number of cases since the beginning of the pandemic in Ludhiana is 87,533. There are 23 active cases at present. It was on September 16 last that the previous casualty due to Covid 19 was reported. The total number of deaths due to coronavirus in the month of September so far is four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/82yearold-woman-dies-of-covid-no-new-cases-101632430741662.html
24-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana sees 3-fold rise in normal rainfall for September||With 295.8mm rain recorded in the city so far this month, Ludhiana has seen a three-fold increase in the normal rainfall for September this year.The normal rainfall for September is 106.2mm, as per the Met department. The highest rainfall for the month of September was previously seen in 1990, when the figure had gone up to 420.9mm. But in the subsequent years, it remained well below the 295.8mm- mark. Experts at the department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), said the pattern of monsoon has changed over the past few years and the withdrawal of monsoon has been delayed. Normally, withdrawal starts from mid-September but this time, heavy showers are being witnessed even in the penultimate week of the month. Prabhjyot Kaur, head of the department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, PAU, said, “The pattern seems similar to 1988 when floods were witnessed in the state. At that time too, monsoon withdrawal was delayed and heavy rainfall was witnessed towards the end of the month.”This year, deficit rainfall was witnessed in the month of August at 107.6mm, against the normal of 190.3mm. However, the cumulative rain of four months, starting June, was higher than the normal (599.6mm), at 759.4mm, said Sidhu.Maximum temperature lowest in five decadesAfter Thursday’s downpour, the maximum temperature of the city dipped to 24°C, the lowest recorded for the month of September in the last five decades.The minimum temperature stood at 23.4°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-sees-3-fold-rise-in-normal-rainfall-for-september-101632430320881.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||11-day-old child among three dead due to Covid in HP||Himachal Pradesh recorded 161 fresh Covid infections on Thursday taking the state’s tally to 2,17,776 while the death toll mounted to 3,646 after three patients, including an 11-day-old infant, died of the contagion. The child was admitted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College in Tanda. Of the new cases, 45 were reported in Kangra, 34 in Mandi, 32 in Shimla, 22 in Hamirpur, 11 in Bilaspur, seven in Una, four in Kullu, three in Chamba and one each in Kinnaur, Sirmaur and Solan. The active cases have come down to 1,778 while recoveries reached 2,12,336 after 203 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,596 cases reported to date followed by 30,757 in Mandi and 27,110 in Shimla. 172 fresh cases in J&KJammu and Kashmir recorded 172 fresh coronavirus infections on Thursday.Of the total infections, 151 were reported in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 21 cases. The summer capital Srinagar saw the highest count of 67 cases.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 91 with active cases crossing 1,600 to reach 1,617. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 813 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 162 and 165 such cases, respectively. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,22,554, prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.16%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have reached 3, 28,590 and the death toll stands at 4,419.Officials said that 53,785 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.With 67 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 36 cases in Baramulla district. As many as 15 other districts had no or single-digit cases.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,143 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 838 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11dayold-child-among-three-dead-due-to-covid-in-hp-101632430200995.html
24-09-2021||Other||96.4mm rain turns Ludhiana into a water park||With 96.4mm rain recorded till the afternoon, several areas in the city were left inundated on Thursday, leading to traffic jams and other hassles for the residents. In several areas, residents complained of water entering their homes and shops, washing away the municipal corporation’s tall claims of rain readiness.Main roads, including the Ferozepur road, Model Town-Jawaddi road, Gill Road, Hambran Road, Dugri, BRS Nagar, underpass of the Southern bypass on Ferozepur road and the underpass near Lodhi club remained inundated. The problem persisted even near the Dholewal Chowk and Clock Tower, where MC officials had claimed that corrective steps had been taken to prevent flooding. The civic body authorities had claimed that a storm sewer line had been installed near the Clock Tower and a choked internal drain has been reopened in Dholewal area to drain out the rainwater fast. Officials stated that the drain line was choked due to dumping of garbage by residents and shopkeepers. Potholes on roads across the city added to the commuters’ misery. Water enters shops, housesIn New Kundanpuri, Shivaji Nagar, Hargobind Nagar, Haibowal and other areas, water entered people’s homes and shops, prompting many to make desperate attempts to drain out the accumulated water. Many resorted to setting up temporary barricades at the entrance while others were seen using buckets and other utensils to drain the water.Gurjeet Singh, a resident of New Kundanpuri, said, “After the water-level in Buddha Nullah increased, the sewer lines in adjoining areas got choked and rainwater mixed with sewage entered our houses. We saved our furniture and other belongings, but could not stop the sewer water from entering our house.” The situation was no better in city markets, especially those situated in old city areas. Heavy waterlogging was seen in Talab Bazar, Gur Mandi, Chaura Bazar, Gill road and other areas.Gurdeep Singh, a shopkeeper in Talab Bazar, said, “It was difficult for us to even reach our shops in the morning due to waterlogging. Authorities claim to be turning the city into a smart city, but they are not able to find a solution to even the most basic problems here.”Waterlogging was witnessed even near the deputy commissioner’s residence in Rakh Bagh. What was more embarrassing, however, was that even the roads outside the municipal corporation’s own offices in Sarabha Nagar, Gill Road and Mata Rani Chowk were inundated. A small portion of road caved-in near the residence of former mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria in Dugri Phase 2. As per MC officials, the incident was reported due to sewer line leak and field staff was deputed to repair the damaged portion.Mayor, Ashu oversee ops While municipal corporation (MC) officials remained on their toes to expedite the work of draining out accumulated water, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu moved around the city to oversee the work. Mayor Sandhu said water accumulation took place due to heavy rainfall and the drain lines got choked due to dumping of garbage and plastic material by residents. Mayor Sandhu said if the weather remains clear after Friday, the hot mix plant will be made operational to repair the pothole-ridden city roads at the earliest. Residents take sarcastic dig on social media:Furious residents meanwhile took to social media to lash out at the civic body and other elected representatives for their failure to rein in on the problem of waterlogging. Many residents posted videos and pictures of waterlogging and potholed roads. Buddha Nullah overflows, sewer water enters fields, homes The Buddha Nullah overflowed from at least three points near Peeru Banda area in Salem Tabri, leading to sewer water entering the adjoining fields. Residents said that the civic body had reduced the height of the embankments around the nullah on New Kundanpuri side for road construction, which is why the nullah overflowed. Due to this, waterlogging was witnessed in New Kundanpuri, Upkar Nagar, Chander Nagar among other areas. Residents said they suspect that the water-level may have also increased as the authorities release 100 cusecs of water in the nullah under the project to reduce pollution. MC officials, however, stated the process of releasing water was stopped on Wednesday in anticipation of rain. MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said teams were deployed around the nullah to keep tabs on the situation.Power outages add to residents woes in various partsAmid the downpour and waterlogging, several parts of the city, including BRS Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Sant Isher Singh Nagar, Model Town, Haibowal and Janta Nagar, experienced power cuts. In some parts, there were scheduled cuts due to maintenance work by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited. Ritu Raj, junior engineer, Janta Nagar, said, “We did not receive many complaints today. However, usually, electricity supply gets affected during rains due to sparking issues and other fault in cables.”In Bawa Colony, Vishal Colony, Vishal Nagar, Pink City, Shimla Colony, Gagandeep Colony, Om Vihar, Kakowal village, Dhir Colony, New Basant Vihar, Grewal Estate, Noorwala village, Dream City Colony, Nanaksar gurudwara, Ganpati Colony, Star Colony, Sujatwala road, Jamalpurlaili road, Kasabad road and adjoining areas, an eight hour-cut from 10am to 6pm was experienced. Scheduled cuts were observed in Hawas village, Jeewanpur, Mangli, Boothgarh, Rour, Sasrali Colony and adjoining areas from 10 am to 4 pm.In Chander Lok Colony, Indera Colony, Baldev Nagar, Krishana Colony, Gehelwal, Vardhman Nagar, Ekta Colony, Model Colony, Amrjeet Colony, Jaspal Colony , Anand Vihar Colony, Jagirpur, Utam Colony, industry on Bajra road and adjoining areas from 11 am to 3 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/964mm-rain-turns-ludhiana-into-a-water-park-101632430021005.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP govt withdraws notification issuing 11% DA to IAS officers||Himachal Pradesh government has withdrawn the notification issuing 11% dearness allowance (DA) to Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers. The government withdrew notification after drawing criticism from various employees’ unions. “The dearness allowance will be given to officers along with other employees and pensioners,” said CM Jai Ram Thakur when asked about the strong resentment among employees and other officers. There are about four lakh employees in the state. They were expecting the government to hold a meeting of the joint coordination committee. The government had announced 6% DA to employees on August 15. The enhanced DA would provide financial benefits amounting to ₹450 crore to employees and pensioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-govt-withdraws-notification-issuing-11-da-to-ias-officers-101632429660738.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi shows interest in ‘Mission Lal Lakir’, orders drone survey in his constituency Chamkaur Sahib||The ‘Mission Lal Lakir’, a Punjab government’s project to empower the village residents by providing them rights of properties they have been living in for generations, has caught the attention of new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. In the first cabinet meeting he chaired after taking charge, instructions were issued to start drone surveys to be started in from Ropar district’s Chamkaur Sahib, the assembly constituency he represents. “The CM directed to cover Ropar district on priority,” said an officer who attended the cabinet meeting. “We will start flying drones over villages in Chamkaur Sahib within a week,” said a senior official, who is part of the mission. There are at least 200 villages in the constituency along with two municipal towns of Morinda and Chamkaur Sahib. The project, a part of the central government’s Svamitva (‘Survey of Villages for Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Area) scheme, called Mission Lal Lakir in the state, was launched last year for an integrated property validation solution in rural areas. It started in Gurdaspur district and is now being taken to 5 more districts. As per initial plans, the project for giving proprietary rights to dwellers inside ‘lal dora’ was to be expanded to Fazilka, Bathinda, Barnala, Faridkot and Fatehgarh Sahib districts but with the change of guard the expansion plan is being reworked. It was a long-pending demand of the rural residents to prepare a detailed inventory of all properties within the ‘lal lakir’ and give ownership rights so that villagers can monetise their immovable assets. The state revenue department has constituted a steering committee led by chief secretary with district-level monitoring committees headed by the deputy commissioners, said mission director Keshav Hingonia. So far, survey has been completed in 350 villages and maps of 20 villages have been verified and sent back to the Survey of India, the National Mapping Agency (NMA). Objections have been invited by displaying maps in 40 villages. The state has 12,500 villages which will be covered under the Svamitva scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-shows-interest-in-mission-lal-lakir-orders-drone-survey-in-his-constituency-chamkaur-sahib-101632429420591.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases drop to six||After staying in double digits for four straight days, tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases dropped to six on Thursday.Both Chandigarh and Mohali logged just one case each, while Panchkula reported four.Also, no casualty was recorded in any of the three jurisdictions.After 10 cases each on September 19 and 20, the tricity saw the daily case count jumping to 17 on September 21 – a first since the 20 cases on August 27, but the figure dipped to 13 a day later.Those found infected in the UT and Mohali on Thursday are residents of Sector 15 and Mohali city, respectively. In Panchkula, the infections were reported from the CRPF complex, Pinjore, Saketri and Sector 2.Meanwhile, the active cases, too, decreased to 95 on Thursday after staying over 100 for the past two days.At 40, Chandigarh has the highest number of infected patients, followed by Mohali with 35 and Panchkula with 20.Since the pandemic began, Chandigarh has recorded 65,202 positive cases, of which 64,343 patients have successfully recovered and 819 have died.Mohali’s caseload stands at 68,708, including 67,610 recoveries and 1,063 deaths.A total of 30,726 cases have been reported in Panchkula, where 30,329 persons have been cured and 377 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-drop-to-six-101632429306526.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||UK firm pulls out investment from GBP Group: Hopes of 2,500 investors dashed, ₹500 crore hanging in balance||Over 2,500 allottees’ hopes for revival of long-pending realty projects have all but vanished with global conglomerate SRAM & MRAM Group pulling out its ₹700-crore investment committed to the GBP Group.While managing director Satish Gupta remains off the grid, all offices of the GBP (Gupta Builders and Promoters Private Limited) Group, in and around Mohali, stay locked, leaving allottees in the lurch.The realty firm has several ongoing projects in Mohali. Among them, Camelia, offering both residential and commercial units, in Kharar, and GBP Centrum (commercial) in Zirakpur have been under construction since 2016, with not a single allottee given possession.At two other projects – Athens (residential and commercial) and Aeroze (residential) – both on the Airport road, construction has remained stalled for years, and at a residential colony in New Chandigarh, where plots have been sold, construction has not even begun.Nearly ₹500 crore, invested by over 2,500 people from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pardesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and several NRIs, are riding on these projects.Criteria not met, investment pulled outIn June this year, UK-based SRAM & MRAM Group had signed an agreement with the GBP Group to invest around ₹700 crore in its projects, giving allottees new hope. But it has now backed out.In a letter to the GBP Group, director (finance), SRAM & MRAM Group, Thomas Mathew stated, “Our teams have verified all the documents and other information available through other sources. We are unable to proceed further with the investment proposal due to non-fulfilment of criteria of internal policy and guidelines.”“While we have already paid them the first instalment of ₹6.5 crore, they failed to fulfil the criteria. So, the investment will be cancelled,” Chaittnya Aggarwal, director, SRAM & MRAM Group, India, told HT.MD on the run, facing several casesGBP Group’s managing director Satish, Gupta, who could not be contacted as his mobile phone was switched off, is already facing multiple cases in Mohali and Chandigarh.“One FIR is registered in Mullanpur for carving out plots without permission. There are several complaints by allottees as well. Gupta and his family remain at large,” said Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh.In Chandigarh, Harjit Kaur, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), economic offence wing, said, “We have also received several complaints against the builder, who is already booked in two cases for selling commercial sites in Sector 66 without the approval of the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority.” What the investors say“I invested ₹67 lakh in a hotel site at GBP Centrum in 2019. But two years later, construction has not progressed. The MD and his family are absconding, and giving us no answers,” said Kush Bagroy, an investor from Mohali.In the same boat, Murthi Devi, an investor from Panipat, said, “ ₹45 lakh of my hard-earned money is riding on a food court at GBP Centrum. I paid the money in February 2020, but they sold the same area to another person too. We have been visiting their office, but it remains locked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uk-firm-pulls-out-investment-from-gbp-group-hopes-of-2-500-investors-dashed-500-crore-hanging-in-balance-101632429305449.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Misuse charges against SCF owner: Chandigarh estate office concedes mistake, ₹18 lakh penalty waived||A property owner’s two-decade struggle to get unwarranted ₹18 lakh misuse charges waived has come to an end, with the UT Estate Office finally conceding its mistake.In 2002, the Estate Office had resumed a shop-cum-flat (SCF) in Sector 18, owing to misuse at the site. Thereon, the owner filed a revision petition before the UT adviser, following which the adviser, on June 19, 2002, restored the site to the owner, subject to the payment of 10% penalty. The petitioner was also directed to apply for change in trade within 30 days.However, even after the owner complied with the order, the assistant estate officer (AEO) on October 27, 2003, while initiating fresh proceedings of misuse, issued a fresh show-cause notice to the owner.Vide an order dated March 5, 2014, the AEO also demanded misuse charges amounting to ₹18 lakh.Appeals were filed in the court of Dr Vijay Namdeorao Zade, UT chief administrator, by the SCF owner and his son, the co-owner, as they had already complied with the order passed by the adviser.In the appeals, advocate Vikas Jain, counsel for the appellants, submitted that in the order, the adviser had specifically mentioned that as per the amendment in the Building Rules, the change of trade had been allowed by the Chandigarh administration and as such the petitioner was free to apply for change in trade.The Estate Office agreed with the contentions of the counsel that the owner had duly complied with the adviser’s order and admitted the applicability of the amendment notification in the present case.Thereafter, the UT chief administrator set aside the orders of the AEO waived the ₹18 lakh penalty imposed on account of misuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/misuse-charges-against-scf-owner-chandigarh-estate-office-concedes-mistake-18-lakh-penalty-waived-101632429303954.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||30 passengers not allowed to board Sharjah flight at Chandigarh airport on Day 1||As many as 30 passengers were not allowed to board the Sharjah flight that resumed at the Chandigarh International Airport on Thursday after a gap of nearly six months. According to airport authorities, while some passengers could not clear the immigration check, most did not fulfil the Covid guidelines issued by the UAE. Among these violations were not having a negative RT-PCR report or not having received both vaccine doses.Police were called in as passengers raised a hue and cry after being denied entry to the flight.. The Air India Express flight arrived at 2.55pm from Sharjah and departed at 6pm. Airport CEO Ajay Bhardwaj said 131 passengers boarded the flight from Chandigarh, whereas 29 arrived from Sharjah. The AXB188/187 flight will operate on every Thursday and Sunday. An RT-PCR testing laboratory has been set up on the airport premises, which will provide results in 30 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30-passengers-not-allowed-to-board-sharjah-flight-at-chandigarh-airport-on-day-1-101632429302229.html
24-09-2021||Other||Middukhera murder: Bambiha gang hired shooters from Sajjan-Bholu gang, says Mohali SSP||A day after the police revealed that the Sajjan-Bholu gang, active in Delhi and Haryana, had murdered Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera, aka Vicky Middukhera, 33, SSP Satinder Singh said the Davinder Bambiha gang had hired the shooters for the crime.After Middukhera was shot dead in Sector 71 on August 7, the Davinder Bambiha gang had claimed responsibility for the murder.In a press release on Thursday, the Mohali SSP said Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, a resident of Khuda Ali Sher, Chandigarh, was calling the shots for the gang, since their leader Davinder Bambiha was killed in a police encounter, and his aides Dilpreet Singh Dahan and Sukhpreet Singh Buddha were behind the bars.The SSP said during investigation into the murder, it was found that Lucky, who is currently in Armenia, had conspired to kill Middukhera with the help of Kaushal Chaudhary and Amit Dagar, who were both lodged in jails. He said on Dagar’s instructions, Sajjan, alias Bholu, from Jhajjar, Haryana, and Anil Kumar, from Dwarka in Delhi, had shot dead Middukhera in Mohali. “Chaudhary has been arrested from Karnal jail after securing his production warrant and more facts are expected to emerge during his interrogation. Dagar will also be brought from Mandoli jail soon,” Singh said.The official said it was also revealed by Chaudhary that Lucky had carried out the murder of Sukhmeet, alias Deputy, a resident of Jalandhar on June 20, this year. The murder was executed by Chaudhary’s fugitive accomplice, Vikas Mahale of Dhanwapur village, Gurugram; Puneet Sharma of Jalandhar and another unidentified person. Chaudhary was arrested by Jalandhar police in this case after getting him on production warrant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/middukhera-murder-bambiha-gang-hired-shooters-from-sajjan-bholu-gang-says-mohali-ssp-101632429300873.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jalalabad MLA issuing threats to me, alleges Fazilka officer, files complaint||The Fazilka district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) has submitted a written complaint with the state rural and panchayat department and the deputy commissioner, accusing Congress’ Jalalabad MLA Raminder Singh Awla of intimidation and issuing threats.DDPO Sukhpal Singh, who urged the deputy commissioner to initiate legal action against the MLA for obstructing a public servant from discharging duties, proceeded on leave from Thursday. “Awla has been pressuring me to appoint administrators in various panchayats of the Jalalabad assembly segment. He phoned me around 11.30am yesterday and used foul language for not towing his line. I told him the DDPO office will proceed as per the rulebook to ensure elected gram panchayats representatives could work independently,” said the official.If a gram panchayat is unable to maintain a quorum for any reason, the state authorities appoint an administrator who then can spend the grants for village development. In his complaint, the DDPO alleged the MLA was using extraneous pressure and intended to harm him physically.Rejecting the allegations, MLA Awla said he did not threaten the DDPO or used unparliamentarily language against him.“There are numerous complaints of harassment by sarpanches against the DDPO. He is accused of unnecessary delay in public works. Being an MLA, I have every right to contact an official in public interest and fix his responsibility,” he added.Director (rural development and panchayats) Manpreet Singh Chhatwal confirmed that the matter was brought to his notice by the DDPO.Fazilka DC Arvind Pal Singh said he was yet to get the details. “We will sit and settle the matter amicably,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalalabad-mla-issuing-threats-to-me-alleges-fazilka-officer-files-complaint-101632429060705.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC to send delegation to meet Shah seeking ‘direct control’ on 30 historic gurdwaras||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Thursday announced to send a delegation to meet Union home minister Amit Shah over its long-pending demand of bringing nearly 30 historic Sikh shrines under its “direct control”.The decision was taken in meeting of the gurdwara body’s executive committee. SGPC chief Jagir Kaur said, “We have written several times to the Centre for bringing 30 locally managed historic gurdwaras under the SGPC’s direct control as per the Sikh Gurdwaras Act. But the government is not responding to our repeated requests in this regard besides other demands. It is due to this non-serious attitude of the Union government that even the SGPC general elections are not being held on time.”Kaur also expressed concern over the alleged disrespect shown to the beard of Sikh men in Delhi during a protest in support of the farmers’ agitation. “I appeal to the farmer leaders to issue statements to clarify their stance on this. The guilty should be punished,” she said. Action should be taken on the recommendations of a sub-committee formed to look into the evidence of army action at the Golden Temple and the Akal Takht in June 1984, she added. “The pain of the genocide is still there in the hearts of Sikhs,” Kaur said. Also, the historic well of the sixth Guru in the basement of Akal Takht Sahib will soon be opened for the devotees, she further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-to-send-delegation-to-meet-shah-seeking-direct-control-on-30-historic-gurdwaras-101632428400520.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||3 British Sikhs freed in 2009 Rulda Singh murder case||A UK court on Wednesday discharged three British Sikhs — Piara Singh Gill, Amritivir Singh Wahiwala and Gursharanvir Singh Wahiwala — held in connection with the 2009 murder of RSS leader Rulda Singh, who was shot in Patiala, due to insufficient evidence. The arrests followed early morning raids on Indian extradition warrants executed by the West Midlands Police in December last year.They were held in connection with the 2009 murder of Rulda Singh, a senior RSS member, who was shot in Patiala and died a week after the attack. District judge Michael Snow presided over an appeal hearing at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London. He ruled: “The accused have been discharged,” said the UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which appears in court on behalf of the Indian authorities.Crowds of supporters of the so-called “West Midlands 3” gathered outside the court in support of the accused. An investigation into the case by the West Midlands Police dates back to 2011, with the judge noting that the issue had been a “long running saga” for the three men.Their lawyer described the allegations against them as “wholly unjust”. The prosecution conceded that the evidence was “not sufficient to make out a case” against them. Two men, aged 37 and 40, were arrested in Coventry and a 38-year-old man was arrested in Wolverhampton last year. They were granted bail under “strict conditions”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-british-sikhs-freed-in-2009-rulda-singh-murder-case-101632428100201.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy rain worries paddy farmers in Punjab, Haryana days ahead of procurement||Heavy rain accompanied by high-speed winds in several parts of Punjab and neighbouring Haryana on Thursday left the farmers and the agriculture departments worried days ahead of the start of paddy procurement in the two states. In Punjab, paddy procurement will start formally from October 1 while the Haryana government has announced to start the process from Saturday (September 25). The agriculture departments rushed their field teams to assess the damage and issue advisories to the farmers. Waterlogging of fields and flattening of the standing crop was reported in several districts. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has ordered a special girdawari to assess the damage caused to crops because of rain and waterlogging.Agriculture experts said not only the procurement will get delayed but the crop health will also be affected if it continues to rain in the coming days. Also, the grain will be vulnerable to shrivelling, blackening and discolouration. Nearly 31 lakh hectares was under cultivation of paddy, including basmati, this year. As per reports from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Haryana received 20.5mm rainfall on Thursday. Heavy rain was witnessed in several districts, including Jind, Sonepat, Panipat, Kaithal, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Rewari Karnal, Kurukshetra and Ambala. Punjab agriculture commissioner BS Sidhu said it was a cause of worry but there is no emergency-like situation. “We are observing the ground situation as the district agriculture authorities have been asked to remain stationed on the ground. The weather conditions remained perfect for the growth of crop this kharif season but more rain in the coming days will affect procurement. The meteorological department has issued a warning of more rainfall in the days to come,” Sidhu said. Aditya Dabas, deputy director of Haryana agriculture department, Karnal, said, “Rain at this stage is harmful for paddy as it may lead the attack of white-backed plant hopper insect in the standing crop. And this insect spreads in the entire field within a few days if its population was not controlled at the early stage.”Amandeep Singh Chahal , a farmer from Dhadhera village of Punjab’s Patiala district, said the farmers were staring at losses as rain at this stage will reduce the yield. “More rain would add to our woes as it will increase the moisture content in the grain. Till Tuesday, the crop was in good condition and we were expecting high yield,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rain-worries-paddy-farmers-in-punjab-haryana-days-ahead-of-procurement-101632427800352.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab Police ASI gets 10-year jail in 1992 Amritsar fake encounter case||The special CBI court in Mohali on Thursday awarded 10-year rigorous imprisonment to former Punjab Police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Amrik Singh in a 1992 fake encounter incident that took place at Sathiala village of Beas in Amritsar district. CBI judge Harinder Kaur Sidhu had on Wednesday held Amrik guilty of kidnapping and murder of Gurvinder Singh (20), a resident of Pheruman village in Amritsar district. Another accused, inspector Wassan Singh, who was also charged with ex-ASI Amrik Singh, died during the trial. Besides, the judge on Thursday imposed a fine of ₹20,000 on the convict and in case of default of payment of the penalty he will have to undergo one-year extra rigorous imprisonment. The convict, who was sentenced under section 364 (to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 10 years) of the Indian Penal Code, broke down in the courtroom. He was sent to the Patiala jail. The judge said even as the convict had no criminal background, the offence committed by him was “grave and of serious nature”. On July 21, 1992, a police party raided the house of Gurvinder and picked his father Chanan Singh. On the disclosure of Chanan, Gurvinder was picked from the house of his uncle in Jalandhar. Though Chanan was released, Gurvinder was shown as killed in an encounter the next day. The case was handed over to the CBI in 1997 and charges were framed against two accused three years later. The police claimed that Gurvinder was involved in murders, extortions and kidnappings, but the allegations turned out to be false during the trial. It took us 30 years to get justice, says victim’s family The family of the fake encounter victim, Gurvinder Singh, on Thursday said it was unfortunate that it took them nearly three decades to get justice in the case. The deceased brother, Parminder Singh (47), who was present in the court, said, “After the incident, my family was completely shattered. My father became mentally unstable due to the cold-blooded murder of Gurvinder who wanted to join the police force. He had just completed his intermediate and was planning to get enrolled in college, but he was picked up by police and killed in a fake encounter. Even I was sacked as a police constable eight days after the incident.”“Will they give me justice now?” he questioned. The deceased’s cousin Jagtar Singh said, “When the CBI registered a case in 1997, we were hopeful of getting justice soon. But even then it took 29 years to get justice. The CBI should have booked other associates of the accused who killed our brother.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-punjab-police-asi-gets-10-year-jail-in-1992-amritsar-fake-encounter-case-101632427680200.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cop slaps Moga deputy mayor, Congress activists stage protest||Congress workers blocked the Ferozepur-Ludhiana highway after a station house officer posted in Ludhiana allegedly slapped Ashok Dhamija, a Congress leader and deputy mayor of Moga municipal corporation on Thursday late evening. The Congress leader and his supporters staged a protest seeking legal action against Kuldeep Singh, Ludhiana Division-5 SHO.In the CCTV camera footage of the incident, the cop can be seen coming from behind and slapping Dhamija. The police have taken the footage in possession and started investigation. Police said the incident took place when the SHO, along with other cops, came to the scrap market in connection with the investigation of a two-wheeler theft case. A local scrap dealer called Dhamija to the market where he was allegedly slapped.Tension gripped the area as the scrap dealers and locals gathered at the spot. However, Moga police intervened and saved the Ludhiana cops from backlash.Advocate Parampal Singh Takhtupura, chairman of market committee Nihal Singh Wala, said, “The CCTV footage clearly shows that the SHO came from behind and slapped the deputy mayor without any reason. Dhamija was called to the spot as he represents the area.”Dhamija did not respond to repeated calls and messages. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Moga, Dhruman H Nimbale, said, “Ludhiana Division-5 SHO Kuldeep Singh had come to the scrap market for verification in a two-wheeler theft case. We have seen the CCTV footage and investigations are on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cop-slaps-moga-deputy-mayor-congress-activists-stage-protest-101632427561290.html
24-09-2021||Other||50-year-old Ludhiana man held for desecrating Gutka Sahib||In yet another incident of sacrilege, torn pages of the Gutka Sahib were found scattered in a vacant plot in Amarjit Colony on Wednesday evening. Rakesh Kumar, 50, of Amarjit Colony has been arrested for sacrilege. The torn pages were spotted by Fateh Singh, a resident of the same colony. It was found that Rakesh had dumped two Gutkas - Japji Sahib and Dukh Bhanjani Sahib in the plot. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, east), Davinder Chaudhary, said a case has been registered under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code at the Tibba Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50yearold-ludhiana-man-held-for-desecrating-gutka-sahib-101632427560081.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Decision of Cong’s Delhi darbar being imposed on Punjab: Dhindsa||Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) MLA and former finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa on Thursday said the recent developments in the Congress, including appointment of new chief minister and his deputies, had made it clear that decisions of the Delhi darbar were being imposed on Punjab without any ground reality. In a statement, Dhindsa said that Punjab was in dire need of a strong regional party as a third alternative. “The people of Punjab should now realize that the Congress government could not take any decision for the welfare of the people on its own as now it has to depend on the decisions of Delhi darbar (high command),” he added. He said that it was not only the Congress but also the previous SAD-BJP government which had to act on the cues of BJP. “For a long time now, the ministers of the Punjab government are leaving the people of the state homeless and fighting among themselves for their vested political interests and the people of Punjab are paying the price for the ongoing political tussle,” he said. The former finance minister said that looking at the activities of the newly appointed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi so far, it seemed like he was incapable of taking his own decisions and following the high command and Navjot Singh Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/decision-of-cong-s-delhi-darbar-being-imposed-on-punjab-dhindsa-101632427141289.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Naraingarh sugar mill: Despite rollback of diversion order, farmers to protest in Panchkula||Even after the Haryana government cancelled its controversial notice of possibly diverting the cane area allotted to the private sugar mill in Naraingarh, if it fails to start operating for the next crushing season, farmers’ unions are still adamant about protesting against the cane commissioner outside his office in Panchkula on September 28, over non-payment of pending dues and salaries.The government had on September 13 written to three mills in Yamunanagar, Indri (Karnal) and Shahbad (Kurukshetra) to prepare for possible diversion of sugarcane crops of at least 7,000 farmers associated to the mill. However, soon after they opposed the decision, the notice was rolled back on September 17.A meeting was held under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in Tandwal village on Thursday, to get a consensus among the farmers of Ambala and Panchkula for the agitation.Rajeev Sharma, district media coordinator of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni), said that local farmers will gather with their belongings at the mill in the morning and proceed for Panchkula in the presence of senior leaders.Major issuesFarmers’ unions, including those from Charuni and Tikait groups along with Ganna Sangharsh Samiti, have protested atleast four to five times in the last six months demanding that their dues be paid. Narinder Malik, the then managing director of the sugar mill, had assured senior farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni that their payments will be released, but the government failed to do so. At least 300 employees of the mill are also staging a sit-in at the premises for the last 11 days, demanding their pending salaries and increment.Farmer leader Malkit Singh said that as decided in an earlier meeting at Saha, the protest will take place despite the rollback of the decision.“Farmers have not been taken into confidence yet. There is insecurity among them over their produce and if the mill won’t operate, how will they get their pending dues of last season worth ₹66 crore. Moreover, the mill has taken crop loans worth ₹33 crore in the name of farmers in 2013-14 ,that stands as it is,” he said.Sandeep Kamdar, a union chief representing the employees, said, “Other than the pending salary of two months, we have also demanded that seasonal/casual workers and those working for the last five years be made permanent.”Niraj, sub-divisional magistrate of Naraingarh, said that the decision has been scrapped and the mill will function properly for the crushing season. On the issue of payment of dues, he said, “We are expecting that the arrears will be paid-off once the mill starts functioning. The loan was taken by the farmers from the bank(s), even though the guarantee was given by the mill. The loan still stands in the name of farmers and there are no documents to prove what farmers are claiming.” He added that the employees’ demands have been forwarded to the government, but due to the poor financial situation of the mill, they couldn’t be met.Meanwhile, local Congress MLA Shally Chaudhary demanded that owing to the current situation, the government should take over the mill at the earliest. Her husband and former chief parliamentary secretary in the Congress government, Ramkishan Gujjar, also hit-out at the government for intentional negligence, thus leading to the harassment of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/naraingarh-sugar-mill-despite-rollback-of-diversion-order-farmers-to-protest-in-panchkula-101632426901525.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: HC to take up pleas by Punjab ex-DGP Saini, Umranangal on October 4||The Punjab and Haryana high court will take up pleas seeking quashing of chargesheet in the 2015 Behbal Kalan firing reported after incidents of sacrilege in 2015 on October 4. Acting on the applications moved by former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal, the high court bench of justice BS Sandhawalia posted the matter for October 4. The matter was listed for hearing in December, but the duo moved applications seeking advancing the hearing. Justice Sandhawalia has sought response from the government on their applications.The original pleas seek quashing of challan filed in the Behbal Kalan firing case (FIR Number 130). Initially, the FIR was registered against Charanjit Singh Sharma, former Moga SSP, and subsequently Saini and Umranangal too were nominated as accused. They were charge-sheeted by the special investigation team (SIT) on January 15. The case was registered on October 21, 2015, a week after two protesters were killed allegedly in the police firing at Behbal Kalan in the aftermath of incidents of sacrilege reported at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala. In another FIR of 2015 (FIR 129), the chargesheet submitted has been quashed by the high court and the SIT has been told to file it afresh. The pleas mainly demand transfer of cases to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and quashing of chargesheet of January 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-firing-hc-to-take-up-pleas-by-punjab-ex-dgp-saini-umranangal-on-october-4-101632426900207.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cheema demands 15-day monsoon session||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema on Thursday said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi should immediately convene the monsoon session of the Punjab assembly. In a statement, Cheema said a 15-day session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha should be called for decisive discussions on all pending and public interest issues of the state. “There was a special session of the Vidhan Sabha dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur which cannot be technically or constitutionally linked to the monsoon session,” he said. The LOP said that speaker Rana KP Singh had, at a meeting of the business advisory committee held before the commencement of the special session, assured that the session would be reconvened in 15-20 days. “In the monsoon session, two days should be dedicated to discussion on black farm laws and agricultural crisis. Issues related to the farmers, labourers, traders, employees and the unemployed need to be discussed in detail,” he added. Cheema said when Channi was the LOP, he used to demand a longer session from the then Badal government, and now should also convene a 15-day assembly session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cheema-demands-15-day-monsoon-session-101632426719963.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Teen found pregnant; rape case registered||Police registered a rape case on Thursday after a 14-year-old girl was found to be four months pregnant. As per police, the victim, a resident of Hallomajra, has not named the accused yet but it’s likely to be someone she knows. A case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station under Sections of the Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSSnatcher arrested in Sector 26
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Channi meets central leadership in Delhi to discuss cabinet expansion||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi met the Congress central leadership in Delhi on Thursday for a discussion on expansion of his cabinet. Channi was called by the Congress high command to the national capital after former Congress president and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi reached Delhi on Wednesday night. The central leaders, including Rahul, All India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat among others, held deliberations during the day. The chief minister was on official tour to Kapurthala and reached Delhi late in the afternoon. His meetings with Rahul, Rawat and Venugopal continued until late in the night. Channi is expected to be back in Chandigarh by Friday afternoon after getting the high command’s nod. Former finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, state unit working president Sangat Singh Gilzian and several MLAs were also present in Delhi. Besides discussing the cabinet expansion, the high command is also learnt to be taking stock of the fallout of the rebellion by former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. “The central leadership has adopted a wait-and-watch approach and closely following the former chief minister’s every step,” a person familiar with the developments said. Channi, his two deputies OP Soni and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu had travelled to Delhi on Tuesday and met Venugopal, Rawat and two central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary with the names of probables for induction into the ministry. Rahul was, however, holidaying in Shimla at that time. Channi and his two deputies had taken oath on Monday. Meanwhile, Dr Pyare Lal Garg reportedly quit as adviser to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu. The social and health activist was among the four advisers appointed by Sidhu on August 11 and had faced flak from within the Congress for taking on then chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for his frequent criticism of Pakistan. Garg did not respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-meets-central-leadership-in-delhi-to-discuss-cabinet-expansion-101632426419813.html
24-09-2021||Pune||85% attendance for state CET||PUNE The Maharashtra State Common Entrance Test (CET) examinations have begun for various professional courses, and from Wednesday the examination schedule for engineering, pharmacy and agricultural courses has also begun and will go on till October 1. Attendance for this examination is at 85 per cent. As per the information from the state CET cell, for the first phase of PCM (physics, chemistry and mathematics) exam on average 85 per cent students appeared. For this group 200,088 lakh students had registered. This will go on till September 24. The second group of PCB (physics, chemistry and biology) will go on till October 1. Results of the examinations are going to be declared on October 15.“The state CET examination for all the professional courses is going on well across the state following all the Covid protocols. There is a good response from the students and we hope to have good results,” said Chintamani Joshi, state CET cell head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/85-attendance-for-state-cet-101632426299884.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Anirudh Tewari replaces Vini Mahajan as Punjab chief secy||IAS officer Anirudh Tewari took over as the new chief secretary of Punjab on Thursday. The 1990-batch IAS officer has replaced Vini Mahajan after the change of political guard in the state. His appointment as head of the state bureaucracy came three days after Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi took oath as the new chief minister and started a rejig to give a new look to the administrative and police setups. More changes are expected in the days to come. Tewari is an articulate and efficient officer with domain knowledge in finance, power and agriculture gained during a host of key positions held in central and state governments over the past 31 years. He has also been given the charge of principal secretary, personnel and vigilance, in addition to his present duties that include financial commissioner, development, principal secretary, food processing, governance reforms and public grievances, reads the order. In replacing Mahajan, Tewari has superseded six IAS officers, including Arun Goel, Ravneet Kaur, Sanjay Kumar, Anjali Bhawra, Vijay Kumar Janjua and Kripa Shankar Saroj. Goel and Bhawra are on central deputation. Following the orders, Mahajan, Ravneet, Kumar, Janjua and Saroj have been designated as special chief secretaries with immediate effect. Ravneet Kaur, a 1988-batch officer, was also a frontrunner for the top position. The posting orders of Mahajan will be issued later. She was the first woman chief secretary of Punjab and had superseded several officers senior to her at the time of her appointment in June 2020. Tewari has held key positions in successive governments. Before being posted as principal secretary, development, he was principal secretary, finance, in the Capt Amarinder Singh government. Prior to that, he headed the industries and commerce, power and new and renewable energy departments as principal secretary, besides being the chief executive officer, Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion (Invest Punjab). He was the country coordinator of IFAD India from October 2006 to April 2009 and was director, fund bank and foreign trade, in the department of economic affairs, Union ministry of finance, for three years. He had a three-year stint as deputy commissioner, Sangrur, earlier. Tewari, who belongs to Patiala, did his schooling from Yadavindra Public School, BE (Electronics & Electrical Communications) from Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, in 1987 and MA (Economics) from Panjab University, Chandigarh, in 2002. He also has a post-graduate degree in international development policy with specialization in development management and governance. Tewari will have more than five-and-a-half years as the chief secretary if he continues in the office till his superannuation in April 2027. Meanwhile, Varun Roojam has been appointed special principal secretary to deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. He is a 2004 batch IAS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anirudh-tewari-replaces-vini-mahajan-as-punjab-chief-secy-101632426179846.html
24-09-2021||Pune||PCB drive against outlets with no licence stalls; one sealed restaurant reopens||PUNE At least one of the three restaurants in Camp shut down by the Pune Cantonment Board for not having a valid licence has reopened.The three establishments sealed a week ago were Hotel Grand Delhi Darbar, Shegaon Kachori and Sujata Mastani. Feroz Baig, owner, Hotel Grand Delhi Darbar said, “We have complied with the board administration’s rules and regulations. The necessary fine has been paid and also all the documents have been submitted. We are thankful to the board authorities for quickly allowing the hotel to reopen.” Despite repeated attempts, PCB CEO Amit Kumar was not available for comment. The action against these three establishments is part of the PCB’s drive to seal 700 such business which did do not have a trade licence. No other outlet has seen any action as of September 23.The board has maintained that it has been receiving applications seeking permits.The PCB had also issued notices to some violators. The PCB charges between ₹800 and ₹3,000 per licence. Applicants have to apply through the board website and submit necessary documents online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcb-drive-against-outlets-with-no-licence-stalls-one-sealed-restaurant-reopens-101632426001128.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Set deadline for delivery of justice in sacrilege cases: AAP||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday said people of Punjab expected newly-appointed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to set a deadline for delivery of justice in the sacrilege and police firing cases. “The CM should not just make announcements but set timelines for all matters,” AAP MLAs Aman Arora and Baljinder Kaur said in a statement, pointing out that Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu were continuously making announcements. The AAP leaders said the Congress leadership had made such announcements even before the 2017 elections and did nothing in the last four-and-a-half years. “That’s why people want work, not announcements,” they added. Arora said the government had only 60 days left to work and the CM should clarify whether he would be able to punish the culprits of sacrilege incident and those who opened fire on unarmed persons in the next 30 days or not. “Apart from announcements, no effective action has been taken by the new government so far,” Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/set-deadline-for-delivery-of-justice-in-sacrilege-cases-aap-101632425999853.html
24-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Licensed weapons stolen from house of head of traffic marshals||The Haibowal police booked unidentified persons for targeting the house of the head of traffic marshals (traffic police volunteers) in Bachan Singh Nagar of Haibowal and decamping with her .12 bore rifle and a .32 bore revolver.Complainant Pushpa Sahni, 57, stated that she had gone to see her relatives on September 12. On Wednesday, when she returned, she was shocked to see her house ransacked.The woman stated that after finding out that the accused had decamped with her .12 bore rifle and .32 bore revolver, she immediately sounded the police.ASI Sanjiv Bhagtana, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380(Theft in dwelling house, etc.) of the Indian Penal Code was lodged against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianalicensed-weapons-stolen-from-house-of-head-of-traffic-marshals-101632425761073.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Patwalia tipped to be new advocate general of Punjab||Senior advocate Deepinder Singh Patwalia is tipped to be the new advocate general (AG) of Punjab in place of Atul Nanda, who resigned after Captain Amarinder Singh quit as chief minister last week. A formal notification is awaited. However, multiple sources confirmed the development. Patwalia is the son of former Supreme Court judge Kuldeep Singh, also known as “green judge” after he decided a number of PILs on environmental issues; and a retired educationist Gurminder K Singh. He is the younger brother of Supreme Court advocate PS Patwalia, who resigned as a Punjab and Haryana high court judge in 2006 to practise in the apex court. Patwalia is considered close to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and had appeared for former Indian Police Service officer Mohammad Mustafa when he challenged the appointment of Dinkar Gupta as the state police chief after superseding him. A known service matters lawyer, DS Patwalia has handled cases for various departments and independent bodies in Punjab and the Centre and some major private players. An alumnus of St John’s High School, Chandigarh, Patwalia completed his LLB from the Department of Laws at Panjab University in 1998. He was designated as a senior advocate by the Punjab and Haryana high court in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patwalia-tipped-to-be-new-advocate-general-of-punjab-101632425759857.html
24-09-2021||Pune||Bavdhan cyclists ready to pedal no-vehicle Sunday to area residents||PUNE Residents of Bavdhan will be back on the streets with their bicycles on first Sunday of every month. The initiative by residents first started in November 2020 and as many as 350 people would only use bicycles for all local commuting on that particular Sunday.“Before the second wave of Covid in March, we had 350 people on the road in February. We started again on September 5 and 50 people showed up on bicycles. The number will increase in the coming months as many people are keen on riding bicycles,” said Dushyant Bhatia, director of the Bavdhan Citizens’ Forum.Bavdhan, which is situated near a hilly area, has a favourable location for cycling, however, no dedicated cycle lanes yet.“We are in talks with the civic body and we hope the situation on the roads will improve soon,” said Bhatia.On Sunday, October 3, the Bavdhan Citizens’ Forum has decided to cycle till Shaniwarwada – to raise awareness about cycling.“So far, Bavdhan citizens are actively participating in cycling rides. One needs to understand that to control the pollution there is a big need to switch to cycles. Many people in Kothrud and Karve nagar also prefer cycling to work,” said Sarang Ketkar, who runs a cycle servicing centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bavdhan-cyclists-ready-to-pedal-no-vehicle-sunday-to-area-residents-101632425699713.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Class 11 admissions in Chandigarh: Cut-offs shoot up after second counselling in government schools||As per the admission list released by the UT education department of various government schools after the second counselling for Class 11, the cut-offs have shot higher after many students opted for migration.However, as per officials of the education department, the cut-offs are likely to go down after the third counselling is conducted.As per the list uploaded on the website of the UT education department, the cut-off for humanities at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 16, went up to 97.6%. Most students had applied for humanities and during the first counselling session, the cut-off was 90.6% here.In commerce, the cut-off went up to 97% at GMSSS, Sector 35, where it was at 87.4%, behind the MHC and Sector 16 schools, in the first counselling session. The cut-offs have crossed 90% for most schools even though they were lower before.Due to non-availability of seats and too many applications, the cut-off for information technology, web application and vocational courses in GMSSS, Sector 22, went up to 100%.For sciences, the cut-off went down and GMSSS, Modern Housing Complex, Manimajra, remained the most sought after school where cut-off fell from 96% to 95.2%.Speaking about this, the principal of one of these major schools said, “An increase in cut-off for the second counselling happens routinely which is why a third counselling is also held. Many students who already have seats opt to shift their schools or streams. Some of them prefer to go to one of the established schools while some might want to shift to a school closer to their home. Their vacated seats are adjusted in the third counselling for which cut-offs drop down steeply.”There were 2,409 vacant seats for second counselling for which 4,081 students had applied for migration and 1,112 new students had registered. There were a total 15,355 seats available when the admissions were opened. Students will now have to deposit the fees and get their documents verified by September 26 upto 11:45 pm.Summative assessment for Classes 3 to 8 between October 4-20The UT district education officer has written to all government schools to conduct the summative assessment exams for Classes 3 to 8 between October 4 to 20. For Classes 5 to 8, the exam will be conducted in offline mode with exceptions made for those with genuine problems. It will be conducted online for Classes 3 and 4. The exam will be conducted at school level and can be conducted in two shifts if the strength of students becomes hard to accommodate as per the Covid protocols and guidelines in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/class-11-admissions-in-chandigarh-cut-offs-shoot-up-after-second-counselling-in-government-schools-101632425579787.html
24-09-2021||Pune||Congress MLC Ranpise dies in Pune||PUNE Congress’ member of the legislative council (MLC) in Maharashtra Sharad Ranpise (72), passed away on Thursday in a private hospital in Pune.Final rites would be performed on Friday morning at the Koregaon Park crematorium.Ranpise started his political carrier from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Later, he got elected as a MLA. For the last three terms he has represented the Congress party as an MLA.All Congress party leaders and leaders from other parties expressed their condolences. Ranspise was a key figure in the city unit of the Congress party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/congress-mlc-ranpise-dies-in-pune-101632425460347.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Probables named for U-14, U-16 cricket camp||The Chandigarh Cricket Association affiliated with the Haryana Cricket Association (CCA-Haryana) has announced boys’ Under-14 and Under-16 probables for an upcoming camp. After the camp, the Chandigarh U-14 and U-16 teams will be announced, that will compete in the Haryana inter-academy cricket tournament. The date for the camp will be announced later. For more information, CCA-Haryana secretary Surinder Singh Baijee can be contacted on 9814035355 and joint secretary Jaswant Negi on 9216553222.U-14 probables: Arpit Somal, Digvijay, Kabir Johar, Harjagteshwar, Ashmit, Kartik Rana, Arjun Veer Singh, Shashank Dumka, Apoorve Bansal, Manan Arora, Mahir Singla, Sachit, Samardeep Singh, Atul Sharma, Abhisar, Ranvir Arora, Vansh, Harshit Kumar, Hardikpreet, Arnav Sharma, Rohan Jindal, Tanishq Singh, Aarav Sahu, Manraj and Saksham.U-16 probables: Ehit Singh Salaria, Piyush, Chirag Makkar, Krishan Rajpal, Himalaya Patel, Lakshay Sood, Jivesh, Chaityanya Sharma, Kartik Sharma, Mahir Singla, Tanmay, Pawan, Harnoor Singh Nanda, Cheta, Gursharan Singh, Sohil Jeet Singh, Aryan Kumar, Ritik Rai, Manish Kumar, Tejas Singh, Depanshu, Gautam Ranga, Chiranjiv, Samarth, Anand and Suraj Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-probables-named-for-u-14-u-16-cricket-camp-101632425399439.html
24-09-2021||Other||Gang of thieves busted, 48 cases registered against accused in Pune||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police has busted a gang of thieves who ran an illegal hooch operation and stole ornaments and other valuables from houses and shops under lock and key to indulge their expensive tastes. The arrest has brought to light 48 cases registered against these men in the Pune district alone, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Of the accused, Sahil Ramesh Nanavat alias Allu Arjun, 25; and Devdas alias Das Ramesh Nanavat, 23 were arrested while in hiding at a relative’s place in Daund on September 13. Upon interrogation, the duo revealed the identities of the other accused namely, Surdev Nanavat, Ajay Sarja Nanavat, Dhyan Kesariya Rajput and Ram Biravat. Asked to whom they were selling the stolen gold ornaments, the men identified a jeweller named Yogesh Noor Singh, 34, from the Paud area, who was then made an accused in the case. A team of unit 4 of the crime branch with senior police inspector Prasad Gokule and assistant police inspector Ambrish Deshmukh made the arrest. Two-hundred-and-twenty gram of gold ornaments, two motorcycles, a gas cylinder, a home theatre system, a cooler, batteries, mobile phones and other valuables collectively worth over Rs1,830,000 were recovered. The men used to steal cash and valuables from homes and grocery shops, sell the valuables and use the money to buy expensive clothes and sports bikes. They also had an illegal hooch-making operation in Paud and Mawal, according to the police.Among the accused, Surdev Nanavat has one case of murder and 53 cases of housebreaking and theft registered against him, while Ajay Sarja Nanavat and Ram Biravat have seven cases each of housebreaking and theft registered against them. Dhyan Kesariya Rajput and Sahil Ramesh Nanavat have four cases each of housebreaking and theft registered against them, while Devdas Nanavat has three cases of housebreaking and theft registered against him.Of the total 48 cases registered against the men, 13 are registered in Hinjewadi; 12 in Talegaon Dabhade; seven in Paud; six in Vadgaon Maval; three each in Sangvi, Kamshet and Ghodegaon; and one at Wakad police station. The men would first recce the area they planned to hit for locked homes and shops and return in the night with metal cutters. The police found CCTV footage of the men in an area of Pimpri-Chinchwad where three of them first scouted the area and then made way for the others to enter a society to commit the housebreaking and theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-of-thieves-busted-48-cases-registered-against-accused-in-pune-101632425338995.html
24-09-2021||Pune||Gang goes on rampage in Yerawada: vehicles vandalised, 1 hurt||PUNE A group of unidentified people were booked for vandalising 14 vehicles in Pune on Wednesday, and for assaulting a man who tried to stop them. The injured man was identified as Abdul Sayyed (51), a resident of Yerawada, who owns and runs a grocery store in Pratiknagar.The men arrived in the area around 9pm and started vandalising vehicles parked on the road connecting two localities of Pratiknagar and Husain Shah nagar. The men were carrying weapons like swords, metal rods, sickles, and other long blades, according to the complainant.The men tried to attack the complainant with a sword and forced him and other shopkeepers in the lane to shut shop, in order to establish their dominance in the area. The police have identified four of the attackers.A case under Sections 307, 427, and rioting of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 3 and 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act and Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1)(3) of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gang-goes-on-rampage-in-yerawada-vehicles-vandalised-1-hurt-101632425279695.html
24-09-2021||Other||Ashu conducts surprise inspection at Ludhiana MC office to check punctuality||Three days after the newly appointed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi directed the government employees to reach their respective offices by 9 am, former cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu conducted a surprise inspection at the municipal corporation’s Zone D office at around 9:30 am on Thursday.The former minister also checked the location of a few officials who claimed to be in a meeting at the Mini Secretariat during the time of inspection. Most of the staffers were found on duty, while a few were in the field resolving a waterlogging issue.Ashu directed the officials and employees to reach the office timely daily. He told them that if they fail to do so, strict action will be recommended against them. He also directed the officials to remain present at their respective seats till lunchtime and schedule meetings after that to ensure proper public dealing.He added that such surprise inspections will be conducted in the future as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ashu-conducts-surprise-inspection-at-ludhiana-mc-office-to-check-punctuality-101632425219639.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Experts from AFD, EU review 24X7 water supply project||Experts from French development agency Agence Française de Dèveloppement (AFD) and European Union visited Chandigarh on Thursday to review the 24x7 pan-city water supply project. The team will study the technical aspects of the project and visit the project sites till September 25. The team met municipal commissioner Anindita Mitra and officials of the Chandigarh Smart City Limited and municipal coordination committee to review the project details. The commissioner welcomed the team including Pierre and Ankit from AFD and Delphine and Jatin from EU and conveyed her gratitude to the EU for grant-in-aid and AFD for the loan approved. Mitra said that various technical aspects of the project were discussed including the detailed plan and financial, environmental and social impacts. She said that the mode of procurement, its adaptability among the masses, capacity building, functioning of the project and public impact were also discussed. She said that the project costing Rs. 591.57 crores stands approved by the AFD and EU and a loan of €48 million and grant in aid of €11.38 million stands approved. The credit liability agreement between DEA and AFD will be signed shortly. The commissioner said that the French experts’ team will also visit the sector 39 main water works, resettlement colonies, slum colonies and MCC office to assess its supply system and talk to the officials, technical experts, engineers and local residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-experts-from-afd-eu-review-24x7-water-supply-project-101632425167198.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn to high court: No floor-wise NOC issued for multi-storey apartments||The Chandigarh administration on Thursday told the high court that it hasn’t issued no-objection certificate (NOC) mentioning floor for any residential property where transfer deed was registered, except in one case in Sector 27. UT’s assistant estate officer Harjeet Singh Sandhu told high court bench of Justice TS Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri that floor was mentioned only in one case pertaining to Sector 27, which was on the request of the Punjab and Sind Bank after creation of charge on the property. The charge/ lien (form of security in a property to secure payment) was noted and taken on record for necessary action on the property records. The estate office does not issue NOCs mentioning particular floor. No such NOC mentioning floor on the basis of share of owner/co-owner was issued by the present head or any of his predecessors, as per records, except the ones which may have been issued on the basis of registered sale deeds executed as per Chandigarh Apartment Rules 2001. The response came as high court sought clarification on an office order issued on August 20 by UT estate office, which gave the impression that while issuing the NOC to banks to facilitate certain loan transactions, the share percentage as well as the floor may have been mentioned. The high court was hearing a clutch of petitions against conversion of residential plots into apartments. A survey conducted on an HC order has revealed that between 2016 and 2019, as many as 891 sale deeds were registered, where part of a property was sold outside the family. The plea argues residential plots in Chandigarh are meant to be single-dwelling units. However, in the recent years, these are being sold floor-wise to multiple owners, which will put additional burden on infrastructure. UT has maintained that it does not allow floor wise sale. The matter will be taken up on Friday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-to-high-court-no-floor-wise-noc-issued-for-multi-storey-apartments-101632425163425.html
24-09-2021||Pune||Pune RTO issues special quota to clear pending licences and certificates||PUNE The state transport commissioner, on Thursday, ordered an extension till September 30 for all pending driving licences and certificates to be issued by the Regional Transport Office (RTO). Many applicants have been unable to get their learning licences and vehicle fitness certificates. Now the Pune RTO has come forward to help these applicants. If applicants are unable to get their work done under the special quota allotted, then the RTO will ensure the work is completed from the main office. “For the benefit of the public it was decided to give an extension till September 30 for applicants whose learning licences and fitness certificates are pending. This was majorly to avoid crowding at the RTO offices and for that, a special quota has been allotted on a daily basis. Applicants can apply under this special quota till September 30 and if they do not get a chance in this quota then they can directly contact the main RTO office,” said Rajendra Patil, assistant regional transport officer, Pune. For vehicle fitness certificates a daily quota of 600 vehicles is allotted and currently there is a month’s waiting period for this. Under the special quota 25 permits will be issued daily. For learning licences pending September 30 is now the date that it can get it done under the special quota. “This decision will give relief to thousands of applicants who were waiting this month. Giving an additional quota to clear the pending certificates and licences is good,” said Manohar Kamble, an applicant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rto-issues-special-quota-to-clear-pending-licences-and-certificates-101632425100065.html
24-09-2021||Other||Ex-HSGMC president faces farmers’ protest, not allowed to enter Karnal gurdwara||Former president of the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (ad hoc) Jagdish Jhinda had to face farmers’ protest during his visit to a gurdwara in Karnal.Jhinda, who had played a key role in the formation of a separate Sikh body for control of gurdwaras in Haryana during the outgoing Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government, was not even allowed to enter the gurdwara ‘kar sewa’, where he was scheduled to address a press conference.The protesters were agitated as Jhinda had recently slammed farm leader Gurman Singh Charuni for farmers’ protest in Karnal and said he had played a key role in resolving the issue between farmers and the government.The protesters locked the main entrance of the gurdwara and did not allow Jhinda to address the media inside the premises of the gurdwara.“We will not allow him to spit venom against farm leaders to weaken the agitation against the anti-farmer laws. We will not allow anybody to speak against farmers from gurdwara premises,” said the protesters, accusing Jhinda of playing into the hands of BJP leaders.On the other hand, Jhinda slammed the gurdwara management, Charuni and the protesters, saying, “The gurdwara belongs to all and it is not the property of anybody. But now, my fight is against Charuni. I will not allow him to enter my area.”A visibly angry Jhinda also warned the head priest of the gurdwara ‘kar sewa’ not to enter the area.Ahead of 2014 assembly polls, the Congress government had constituted a 41-member ad hoc HSGMC team to manage, supervise and take over assets of cash-rich gurdwaras in Haryana, giving a boost to the demand of a separate Sikh body in state.The committee, constituted under the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Act, 2014 was passed by the state assembly.While Jhinda was appointed president of the Haryana Sikh body, Didar Singh Nalvi was given the senior vice-president’s post.But later, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) approached the Supreme Court and challenged the formation of a separate Sikh body in Haryana.But later, a rift between Jhinda and Nalvi came to the fore for the post of president. Jhinda had also announced to form a political party. Due to poor health, Jhinda was not active for the past couple of years and in August last year, sidelining him, the then parallel jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib Baljit Singh Daduwal was elected president of the HSGMC with the support of Nalvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exhsgmc-president-faces-farmers-protest-not-allowed-to-enter-karnal-gurdwara-101632424859481.html
24-09-2021||Other||TN pollution control board chairman booked for graft||Chennai: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) has filed a case against Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board’s present chairman and retired Indian Forest Service officer AV Venkatachalam on charges of criminal misconduct and criminal misappropriation, officials said. During the course of investigation on Thursday, searches were conducted in five places, including the office of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. Officials seized cash of ₹13.5 lakhs and gold jewellery weighing around 6.5 kg approximately valued at ₹2.5 crore. They also identified documents relevant to the case. Around 10 kg of sandalwood articles and pieces were also identified at Venkatachalam’s residence. “We have requested the Tamil Nadu forest officials to take necessary action,” said a senior DVAC official not wishing to be named. The DVAC has booked Venkatachalam under charges of corruption while he was holding the post of member secretary of the Board from 2013 to 2014, as member secretary of State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) from 2017 to 2018 and as chairman of the pollution board from 2019 to till date. The FIR against him has been filed under several sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 as amended in 2018.“The gold found may cross 8 kg. We are not yet finished and the searches will continue,” said the DVAC official quoted above.Since the DMK government took over in May, this is the first search being conducted against an official in office. So far the DVAC has registered corruption cases against three former AIADMK ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-pollution-control-board-chairman-booked-for-graft-101632424618835.html
24-09-2021||Other||25 students injured after roof collapsed in Sonepat school||Around 25 students of Classes 3 and 4 were injured after the roof of a private school collapsed at Sonepat’s Bai village in Ganaur block on Thursday.A teacher and three labourers also sustained injuries. Ganaur SDM Surender Dhoon said five students received serious injuries.They were rushed to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College in Khanpur Kalan, where they are undergoing treatment.The Haryana government had declared holiday on Thursday on the martyrdom of Rao Tula Ram but the school was open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25-students-injured-after-roof-collapsed-in-sonepat-school-101632424499927.html
24-09-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu chief minister Stalin gives 100k power connection certificates to farmers||Chennai Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin launched a scheme on Thursday to provide 100,000 power connections to farmers, hitting out at the previous AIADMK regime for “ruining” the state-run electricity corporation.Rolling out the ₹3,025-crore scheme, Stalin distributed orders for providing electricity connections for pumpsets to 10 farmers at a function held at the Anna Centenary Library Auditorium here.The ‘one lakh connection scheme’ would be useful for generations after generations, he said. “Since farmers will be benefited, they will be producing food not only for them but for the people of the whole state.”The scheme was recently announced in the state assembly during the demand for grants (2021-22) for the energy department.Citing statistics, Stalin said that during the AIADMK rule in the past 10 years, approximately 200,000 power connections were provided. “Whereas, in about four months after assuming office in May, my government is now providing 100,000 connections. This is the difference between the governments led by the AIADMK and DMK,” he said. “There is no such government elsewhere in India that is so quick.”The governments led by his party, the DMK, had always been a regime of farmers, he said and cited a resolution recently adopted in the Tamil Nadu assembly against the three farm laws of the Centre. “Farmers will for sure not forget this.”Listing initiatives taken up during the tenure of former chief minister M Karunanidhi like those related to the Cauvery issue, waiver of ₹7,000 crore farm loans (cooperative banks), providing land to landless farm labourers and free electricity to farmers, Stalin said the launch of the ‘one lakh electricity connections scheme’ for farmers is the new addition.No one need to think that the government-run electricity entity is flourishing as 100,000 connections were being provided and a majority of them at free of cost, he said, alleging that the electricity corporation was ruined during the previous AIADMK regime.The state-owned Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) is the holding company and it has two subsidiaries, the TN Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO) and Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation. “This is the achievement of the AIADMK government (2011-21). The electricity board has ₹1.59 lakh crore debt and it has to pay ₹16,000 crore a year as interest.”The AIADMK government purchased power at a very high cost and discrepancies in actual, on hand coal stock and the quantity recorded in registers in thermal power stations reflected irregularities, the chief minister alleged.A mere “53 Megawatt was the installed capacity” during the previous AIADMK regime as its schemes for 1,481 MW installed capacity during its period comprised projects for 1,428 MW planned during the DMK regime (2006-11), he said.Stalin said his government has taken all steps to turn around the state-run electricity entities and listed initiatives like new power generation projects and expeditious maintenance work. Project work has commenced to generate 17,980 MW during the next 10 years and projects -- already in planning stage -- were being expedited.For the first time in the state, a Solar Power Park would be set up in Tiruvarur, and recently, TANGEDCO has inked a pact with Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency for developing renewable energy projects and for raising the requisite funding of ₹132,500 crore, he said.The one-lakh power connection scheme for farmers, that has been launched now, has sole aim of increasing farm production, he said, adding, “let this be the foundation for Tamil Nadu’s agriculture revolution and let this (scheme) help increase area of cultivation.” He urged the beneficiaries to use power only for necessity as electricity generation is highly expensive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-chief-minister-stalin-gives-100k-power-connection-certificates-to-farmers-101632424439305.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leaders will stay put with masses during contact programme: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said the upcoming public contact programme of the Congress, Vipaksh Apke Samaksh, will not just entail addressing the public by way of speech.“Rather, the state Congress leaders will directly communicate with people by staying put in a district or an assembly constituency for an entire day,” Hooda said.Addressing a press conference, the leader of Opposition will start the contact programme from Karnal on October 10.Hooda said people in state are suffering due to the wrong policies of the BJP-JJP government and Haryana is lagging behind in every aspect of development.“The ruling coalition did not fulfil any promises made in their election manifesto. Farmers are not given rates of crops as per recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission, bonus of ₹100 per quintal was not given on crops, and free tubewell connections were also not given,” he alleged.Hooda said the promise of doubling the income of farmers has proved to be a ‘jumla’. The latest NSSO report has revealed that during the tenure of the BJP government, the income of farmers from agriculture has decreased instead of increasing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-leaders-will-stay-put-with-masses-during-contact-programme-hooda-101632424321711.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh solid waste processing plant in Chandigarh: IIT Ropar’s report on technology pushed to October||The beginning of the work on upgrading of the beleaguered solid waste processing plant is set to get delayed further.The officials of the municipal corporation (MC) had earlier maintained, and in the General House meeting as well, that the Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar, would submit a detailed project report (DPR) and the request for proposal (RFP) on the project by September. But now the officials concede that the report is expected to be submitted at the earliest in mid-October or by October-end.The DPR and RFP are to be tabled before the MC General House, which, as per MC’s earlier plan, was to be done in the September meeting. Now, this is likely to be moved to the October-end House meet. The process of floating the tender and inviting firms for the project is likely to take another month after October, that is if the House approves the DPR and the RFP.The MC General House had on July 29 decided to allot the contract for preparation of the twin documents to IIT Ropar. The institute had sought three months for the preparation of DPR and RFP.Code of conduct for MC polls to push process further“After MC approves the DPR and RFP, one month will go into floating the tender and the work allotment will take another three months at least. So, the entire process will take four months. But with the code of conduct for the MC elections scheduled to come into force in November, the entire tendering process will be pushed well into the next year,” said a senior MC official.In June last year, the civic body had taken over the solid waste processing plant from Jaypee Group due to its inability to process waste in entirety. But since then, the MC has neither improved the plant’s working nor upgraded the technology, and most of the daily waste is still being dumped at the Dadumajra landfill.The Bharatiya Janata Party is still hoping that the revamp project of the plant could be cited as one of its major achievements in the last five years for the MC elections due in December.President of the Dumping Ground Joint Action Committee, Dyal Krishan, said, “It is now one year and three months since the MC took over the plant. But the civic body is yet to start the much-hyped upgrade process. In the meantime, the unprocessed garbage continues to be dumped here and the waste mountain is getting higher. Even if we assume that in another five-six months the MC allots the work, it will take another year for the plant to work at its full capacity. Till then residents of Dadumajra will continue to suffer.”Still hopeful of getting an early preparation of DPR and RFP, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “I have asked the officials to speed up the process so that we can table the documents before the MC General House.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-solid-waste-processing-plant-in-chandigarh-iit-ropar-s-report-on-technology-pushed-to-october-101632424199571.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar assures Centre of effective steps against stubble burning||The Haryana government has set up 64MW capacity biomass power projects having capacity to consume 2.37 lakh MT paddy straw, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar told the Centre on Thursday.Under installation are another six 60.35MW production capacity biomass power projects with a capacity to utilise 6.4 lakh MT paddy straw and one compressed biogas plant of 12.5 tonnes per day capacity which can use 40,000 MT paddy straw.Khattar was speaking in a meeting chaired by Union minister of environment Bhupender Yadav to discuss an action plan for improvement of air quality in the NCR ahead of the approaching winter season when air pollution increases due to stubble burning.The chief minister said a project on ethanol production is also under installation in which two lakh MT paddy straw will be utilised.Listing out a number of steps the state government plans to take to curb stubble burning, Khatttar said: “With all these efforts, we are hopeful that we will be able to prevent crop residue burning this season. Besides the stubble burning issue, the state is also preparing itself to handle air pollution issues arising every winter.”He assured the Centre that Haryana is fully geared up to handle the issue of agricultural crop residue burning and air pollution issues ahead of winter in state.Monitoring of active fire locations (AFLs) has already been started from September 15 by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board through HARSAC, following the standard protocol approved by the CAQM.Till date, not even a single incident of farm fire has been identified in Haryana, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-assures-centre-of-effective-steps-against-stubble-burning-101632424140452.html
24-09-2021||Other||Centre will call meeting of Christian leaders over ‘narcotic jihad’ row: BJP MP Suresh Gopi||Thiruvananthapuram: A day after chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected the opposition demand for an all-party meeting to discuss the situation arising out of the controversial ‘narcotic jihad’ statement of the Pala bishop, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Suresh Gopi on Thursday said the union government will call a meeting of Christian leaders soon to discuss their concerns. “The union government will hear Christian leaders patiently. It is not fair that the bishop is singled out and attacked by all. Whatever he has raised the state government will have to look into it,” the Rajya Sabha MP, who had called on Pala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt a couple of days back, told reporters in the state capital. He denied speculations that he was shortlisted for the state party’s president’s post. The BJP was first to support the bishop when he said on September 9 that Catholic girls and youth were targeted by elements behind ‘narcotic jihad’. Later many party leaders called on him. His statement triggered a war of words between different communities and opposition parties urged the government to call an all-party meeting. But the CM said there was no need to call a meeting to discuss what he said a “non-existent issue.” He said attributing crimes related to narcotics to a particular religion is wrong.Meanwhile, Syro-Malabar church, strongest among church denominations, rallied behind the bishop and said his statement was a warning against certain evil tendencies, such as growing narcotics use, and that it was not meant against any community. The church said the ‘narcotic jihad’ was a term coined by the European Foundation for South Eastern Studies in 2017 relating to the growing narcotic trade in Afghanistan. The bishop’s statement triggered a raging debate in the state. “Wherever arms are not used, narcotic drugs are being used and Catholic girls turn victims. Some groups are functioning in the state to support them. To understand this, one needs to analyse how women from other religions landed in the Islamic State camps,” he had said. The bishop was referring to 21 people from north Kerala who reportedly joined the Islamic State in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/narcotic-jihad-row-centre-will-call-meeting-of-christian-leaders-bjp-mp-101632424139283.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Tube well installation in Chandigarh: NOC to be made mandatory for groundwater extraction||From installing smart meters to paying on consumption basis, people opting for groundwater extraction will have to comply with the new provisions to obtain a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the municipal corporation (MC) for installing tube wells.The MC will table the agenda before the MC General House meeting, scheduled on September 25, for amending the Chandigarh water supply by-laws to incorporate the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti on regulation and control of groundwater extraction. Guidelines lay down detailed procedures for issuing of NOC for a tube well and charges to be imposed.For getting the NOC, the proposed amendment states that users will have to install digital water flow meters, install roof top rainwater harvesting and recharge systems in the project area. Also, users will have to pay for groundwater abstraction and restoration charges based on the quantum of groundwater use.Construction of observation wells for groundwater level monitoring will be mandatory. If the existing wells become defunct due to mechanical failure the user can construct a replacement well after intimating the MC. The water requirement for green belt shall be met from recycled wastewater.Rates based on consumptionThe MC, as per the guidelines, will also impose consumption based charges rather than only fixed charges as is currently the practice. For drinking and domestic use, for groundwater abstraction ranging from 0 to 25 cubic metre per month, there will be no charges. Between 26 to 50 cubic metre per month, charges will be ₹1 per cubic metre; above 50, ₹2 will be charged.For bulk or tanker water supplies, the charges for groundwater abstraction will range from ₹10 to ₹25 per cubic metre of consumption. For groundwater restoration, the charges will be ₹35 per cubic metre.In case the fixed rates are higher, the MC will charge on that basis rather than on the basis of consumption. The fixed charges are based on the type of bore, ranging from ₹15,000 per month for a 55mm bore to ₹60,000 per month for bore above 150mm.31 NOCs issued so farThe MC has so far issued no-objection certificates to 31 entities for setting up tube wells on their properties. “The law allows for tube wells in residential properties but MC generally doesn’t give NOCs to such requests. In the 31 NOCs given so far, none of them are residential properties. Most of these are institutional properties,” said an MC official.In the sectorial grid where the water supply system is well established, the MC generally doesn’t give permission to install tube wells. ₹87 lakh to be spend on next Rose FestivalFor celebrating the Rose Festival in February 2022, the MC plans to spend ₹87 lakh. The MC General House will decide whether to celebrate the festival or not, and also the financial estimates for holding it. Last year, the celebrations were symbolic due to the Covid-19 pandemic. ₹2.66 crore for C&D plant upgradeFor upgrading the C&D plant, the MC is planning to spend ₹2.66 crore. The upgrade will include establishment of a fully automatic block making machine among other technology additions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tube-well-installation-in-chandigarh-noc-required-from-mc-for-groundwater-extraction-101632424021196.html
24-09-2021||Other||Not retiring from active politics, daughter will contest polls in 2024: Rao Inderjit||Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh on Thursday organised Shaheedi Diwas Samaroh outside Ahirwal region in Jhajjar’s Patauda village on the martyrdom day of Rao Tularam.After paying tributes to Rao Tularam and the soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the nation, Union minister Rao Inderjit addressed the crowd. He made veiled attacks on the BJP for not giving party ticket to his daughter Arti Singh Rao in the 2019 assembly polls and making attempts to weaken him in southern Haryana.Rao’s loyalist Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Sonepat MP Ramesh Kaushik, Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma, Rajya Sabha MP DP Vats, Haryana ministers Banwari Lal and OP Yadav, and two MLAs loyal to Rao attended the rally in the presence of BJP state chief OP Dhankar.During the rally, the Rao supporters chanted slogans terming him ‘the next chief minister of Haryana’. Not a single slogan was raised in favour of BJP and on many instances Dhankar was seen in trouble after Rao Inderjit and Arti Singh attacked the BJP.In an indirect attack on newly-appointed Union cabinet minister Bhupender Yadav, Rao Inderjit said there are two ways to become a leader - to land a pursuit candidate with the blessings of high command or to become leader with people’s support by winning elections - and he has always opted the second method.“Few months ago, I was thinking of getting retired from active politics but now I have decided to remain more active in politics. People of my area and Opposition leaders are asking me to pitch my daughter in the election fray but the BJP did not give her ticket. I urge you to get ready for a big battle like the Battle of Panipat,” he said.“You must introspect whether the BJP had paid you enough for your support or not. The BJP had given a slogan of crossing 75 seats in the 2019 assembly polls, what happened to that slogan? Due to this slogan, I could not go out to the southern Haryana region and the party had been reduced to 40. I want to assure you that we will make a better decision at the right time,” he added.The Union minister said he has not sought anything from the BJP except respect for him, his people and the Ahirwal region.“I have not invited any senior BJP leader because two years ago, the then Union minister Manohar Parikar had skipped Shaheedi Diwas Samaroh in Rewari and only cabinet minister Rajnath Singh had attended it. If anyone skips our event, it is disrespectful to my people and our area. Some people are trying to weaken us but the people of my area are standing by me for the last 50 years. With their blessings, I reached Lok Sabha five times and the Haryana assembly four times,” he added.He also demanded to constitute Ahirwal regiment and urged four BJP MPs sitting on the dais to meet the high command and resolve protesting farmers’ issues against Centre’s three farm laws.Rao Inderjit’s daughter Arti Rao said some people have been creating hurdles in her political life.“I will contest the next election. At the right time, we will decide from where I will contest the polls. Many people are trying to backstab my father. But this rally will give a befitting reply to such opponents,” she added.Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar appreciated Rao Inderjit for his clean and transparent image for the last five decades.“We will celebrate this year to identify those soldiers whose names were missed in history,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/not-retiring-from-active-politics-daughter-will-contest-polls-in-2024-rao-inderjit-101632423906195.html
24-09-2021||Other||Kisan Panchayat in UP’s Ghoorpur: Farmers flay Centre for ignoring demands||In a show of strength in the trans-Yamuna area of Prayagraj, hundreds of farmers and workers held a Kisan Panchayat in the Ghoorpur area on Thursday and demanded repeal of the three contentious farm laws, legal MSP for all crops, and repeal of the new electricity act.The Kisan Panchayat was held to make the proposed Bharat Bandh on September 27 – according to the call given by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on these issues – a success.Red flags and banners decorated the meeting and slogans of unity, ‘End to Corporate rule’, ‘NO to foreign loot’ reverberated through the air.Addressing the gathering, vice-president of Kirti Kisan Union, Punjab, Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, also a member of the 40-member negotiating team of SKM, called upon the peasants to spread out to all villages, organise and raise protests. East UP, he said, now holds one of the keys to success, as the “Modi government is banking on caste mobilisations to defeat this movement, which has become a national symbol of fight for people’s democratic and economic rights.”He said Punjab has led by challenging the restrictions on protest by moving together in large numbers to reach the outskirts of Delhi. “We broke Corona lockdowns, we braved water cannons and lathis and we overcame roadblocks and trenches. That unity, courage and determination have pushed the central government on the back foot,” he claimed. He said the central government is not accepting the farmers’ demands because it does not lead the interests of the Indian people, but of big corporate houses and foreign exploiters.Senior vice-president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Rajesh Chauhan, criticised the central government for fooling farmers that they were now free to sell their crop anywhere, while actually it is closing down government mandis, government procurement centres and MSP. AIKMS general secretary Ashish Mital lambasted the government for using public funds to give relief to big corporate houses while it is increasing taxes on fuel and fertilisers and selling roads, natural gas resources, airways, ports, land, mines, rivers and forests to make up its losses.Others who addressed the gathering included Ram Kailash, Prayagraj AIKMS president, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) leader Avinash Misra, All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) leader Kamal Usri, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) leaders Bhupendra Pande and Gyan Singh Patel, BKU leaders Surendra Singh and Noorul Islam among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kisan-panchayat-in-up-s-ghoorpur-farmers-flay-centre-for-ignoring-demands-101632423850178.html
24-09-2021||Other||Ahead of harvesting, unseasonal rains worry paddy growers||Paddy growers are facing a tough time as heavy rain lashed in most parts of Haryana causing damage to the matured crop which is ready for harvest.As per reports from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the state has received 20.5mm rainfall on Thursday and heavy rainfall was witnessed in several districts including Jind, Sonepat, Panipat, Kaithal, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Rewari Karnal, Kurukshetra and Ambala.The untimely rains have worried farmers as agriculture experts say around 60% paddy is in the maturing stage and too much rain at this juncture is harmful for the crop.With the government not starting procurement yet, the growers of early varieties of paddy are also facing a tough time and are eagerly waiting for the government to start procurement.“I have already harvested four acre PR-126 and paddy laying in open in mandi for the past four days and other 10 acre are also ready for harvest but we don’t know why the government has not started procurement,” said farmer Munish Kumar from Gurhi village of Kurukshetra.On the other hand, mandi officials said the government had announced to start procurement from September 25, but rains have increased the moisture content and the procurement may delay further as the produce laying in mandis will take three to four days to meet the procurement norms.The commission agents have also demanded the government to advance paddy procurement. They said this year, over 43% of the total 13.64 lakh hectare paddy are under the Parmal varieties and 20% of it is early maturing.“Since the private traders are procuring early maturing Pusa 1509 for the past one month without any complaint about the moisture and this year, prices have also increased to around 50% than last year. But on the other hand, government is reluctant to start procurement before October 1 and the delay will cause huge losses to farmers,” said farm leader Ratan Mann.Aditya Dabas, deputy director of Haryana agriculture department, Karnal, said, “Rain at this stage is harmful for paddy as it may lead the attack of white-backed plant hopper insect in the standing crop. And this insect spreads in the entire field within a few days if its population was not controlled at the early stage.”Officials of agriculture department said rains have also flattened matured crops and this will not only cause loss of luster and yield, but will also increase the harvesting cost. They have advised farmers to make arrangements to pump out excess water from their fields to avoid losses.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has ordered a special girdawari to assess the damage caused to crops because of rain and waterlogging. “The Haryana government has given instructions to conduct special girdawari to assess damage to crop due to the ongoing rains so that compensation can be given to farmers,” tweeted the CM.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal on Thursday said the exercise of girdawari will be completed at the earliest so that farmers get compensation in time.Dalal said Mukhyamantri Bagwani Bima Yojana, which the state cabinet approved on Wednesday, is the first scheme across country under which insurance cover will be provided for horticulture crops.According to the IMD reports, Haryana received 159.9mm rain from September 1 to 23 – 124% more than 71.4mm considered normal in the month.The state has received 20.5mm rain in the past 24 hours and light to heavy rain has also been forecast till September 27 in most parts of Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-harvesting-unseasonal-rains-worry-paddy-growers-101632423726215.html
24-09-2021||Noida||Man, son robbed of ₹1.70 lakh while hitchhiking in Noida||A man and his son were allegedly held hostage in a moving car and robbed of ₹1.70 lakh by four persons while they were hitchhiking on Mahamaya Flyway, Noida, a week ago. The suspects also withdrew cash from the victims’ debit cards and then dumped the duo near Jewar toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway.Iqrar Ali, 40, the son, a resident of Madanpur Khadar in New Delhi, said that he and his father Sohrab Ali, 80, were waiting for a bus near Mahamaya Flyway on the morning of September 16. “A few buses stopped there but they were not going to Mainpuri, our destination. At 7.40am, a car stopped there in which four persons, including the driver, were sitting. They asked us where we wanted to go. They offered to drop us, saying they were going on the same route,” he said.Iqrar Ali said two suspects were on the front seat while two others were on the rear seat. “The suspects locked the doors and held us hostage. They hit us with an iron rod when we tried to resist. They also played loud music when we tried to raise an alarm,” Iqrar Ali said.The suspects snatched ₹1.20 lakh from the two. “They also snatched my debit card and asked for its password. They stopped the car near Pari Chowk and one of them visited a nearby ATM kiosk and withdrew ₹50,000 in two transactions and returned. They took away our money, mobile phone and debit card. Then they drove on the Yamuna Expressway and dumped us near Jewar toll plaza at 8.30am,” Iqrar Ali said.The two managed to board a bus to Agra and inform their relatives. Later, the same day Iqrar Ali returned to Noida and filed a complaint at Sector 39 police station.Rajeev Kumar, SHO, Sector 39 police station, said based on the complaint, the police registered a case against unknown suspects under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code on Wednesday. “The complainant was not able to narrate the incident properly on day one. We investigated the matter and then registered an FIR. We are scanning the CCTV camera footage to identify the car and arrest the suspects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-son-robbed-of-1-70-lakh-while-hitchhiking-in-noida-101632423719656.html
24-09-2021||Noida||UP makes it mandatory to obtain licence for home bar||The state excise department has announced new rules for obtaining a personal home bar licence. The rules came into effect from Thursday evening. According to the new rules, residents can keep a maximum of four bottles of liquor (750 ml) --two each of a foreign brand and of Indian origin-- at home without a licence. A licence is mandatory for those who wish to set up a bar at home. According to officials, the licence also caps the upper limit of liquor at 72 bottles (varying among the 15 categories of liquor) to be kept at home. Officials from the state excise department said the purpose of the rule is “not to harass anyone but provide a legal recognition to those who like to maintain a personal bar at home”.Officials also said that under the new rules, customers who are buying liquor in bulk from shops could also be asked to present a home bar licence to do so. “Licence for a home bar can be applied for at the district excise department’s office, which will be approved by the district magistrate. The annual licence fee is ₹12,000 while the security deposit is ₹51,000,” said R B Singh, district excise officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.On being asked if the rules will apply to ex-servicemen who get a quota of 10 bottles per month, Singh said, “Though there is not much clarity on the same, the rules do not apply to the ex-servicemen as they are already covered under the rules of the armed forces.”“The aim of this new policy is to provide legal recognition to those who like to maintain a bar at home. The rules are not for harassing any individual. So, if anyone is holding a party at home, there is scope for leniency,” Singh added.According to the new rules shared by the district administration, only those who have filed income tax returns for past five years, of which at least three years of ITR is under the 20% slab, may apply for a licence.Officials said that only those people, who have a permanent residence in the district, will be eligible to apply for a home bar. According to the rules, one person can obtain only one licence, with which (s)he can have a bar at her residence or farmhouse/guest house but not at both places. According to the rules, only liquor authorised to be sold in Uttar Pradesh, shall be allowed to be kept at a personalised home bar. The home licence holder may keep a maximum of six bottles of imported whiskey and four bottles of Indian whiskey (each 750 ml), two bottles of imported and one bottle of Indian manufactured rum, two bottles of imported and one bottle of Indian manufactured vodka, one bottle of each Indian and imported wine, 12 cans (500/650 ml) of imported and six cans of Indian-made beer, among others.The rules added the licence holder has to ensure that a minor or anyone below 21 years doesn’t have access to the bar. Family members, relatives and guests or friends can consume liquor at any personal home bar without “paying” the licence holder. “The licence holder has to ensure than any minor or anyone aged 21 years or younger doesn’t get access to the premises/bar area… Family members, friends, relatives and family guests can have alcohol without paying in cash or kind to the licensee,” said the rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-makes-it-mandatory-to-obtain-licence-for-home-bar-101632423659280.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||32 booked for rape of 15-year-old girl over nine months in Dombivli||At least 32 people have been booked on charges of gang-raping a 15-year-old girl several times over a period of nine months in Maharashtra’s Thane district, police said on Thursday. Of the total, 24 have been arrested while two minors have been detained, and a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to probe the case, they added. In her complaint on Wednesday, Manpada police said, the survivor alleged that it all started in January when a man she was in a relationship with, threatened to leak their private videos and forced her to have physical relations with some of his friends and acquaintances. All the accused raped the girl, a resident of Dombivli (East), at various locations such as Dombivli, Murbad and Badlapur in Thane district and Rabale in Navi Mumbai on multiple occasions, officials familiar with the matter said. The case, however, came to light earlier this month when the survivor approached a relative over the prolonged sexual abuse. “The girl’s aunt approached a local social worker and decided to nab the accused. On Wednesday, six of the accused called the victim to a lodge in Murbad. She shared her live location and her aunt informed us,” an officer, who is part of the probe, said on condition of anonymity.A police team rushed to the lodge and managed to arrest two persons. Based on their and the girl’s statement, police gradually began apprehending the remaining accused from Wednesday night onwards, the official said. “A FIR was registered and the accused booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,” Sachin Gunjal, deputy commissioner, zone III, Thane police, said. Additional commissioner of police (East region) Datta Karale added that a SIT has been formed to investigate the matter. The girl, meanwhile, was sent to a government hospital in Kalwa for medical examination. In a statement, Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde said: “I have spoken to the Thane Police commissioner and issued instructions to arrest whoever is involved in the offence.” Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis said: “An atmosphere of fear is prevailing in the state. The increase in the number of such incidents is worrisome.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/32-booked-for-rape-of-15-year-old-girl-over-nine-months-in-dombivli-101632423539343.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two die after being hit by trains in Mohali||Two persons were killed after they were run over by trains in two separate accidents in Mohali district on Thursday.A migrant labourer died on the railway track between Swada-Landra village after coming under a train that was coming from Hazoor Sahib and was on its way to Una.Railway chowki in-charge, Kharar, said that the identity of the migrant labour was not known, but he seemed to be in his mid-30s. He further said that the body of the deceased had been kept for identification for 72 hours at the mortuary in the civil hospital. In the second accident that took place near Peer Sohana area of Gharuan, a 40-year-old man committed suicide by jumping in front of a goods train. The driver of the train informed the railway police who registered a case under Section 174 of the Indian Penal Code. The body was handed over to the family after the postmortem. During investigation it was revealed that the deceased was suffering from depression and was under treatment from PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-deaths-due-to-train-accidents-reported-in-mohali-101632423480151.html
24-09-2021||Pune||Colleges, students want campuses reopened in Pune||PUNE: With the new academic year about to begin and admissions to various undergraduate and postgraduate courses already underway, the principals and administration of colleges has started demanding that college campuses be opened up. With Covid-19 cases in the state plummeting, there is demand for the blended learning or hybrid method.Dr Sachin Vernekar, dean faculty of management studies and director IMED Bharati Vidyapeeth Pune, said, “We Indians have always had a good immunity system. The vaccination drive at all levels and standard operating procedures (SOPs) followed by the majority with a positive response to all government measures has really helped us reduce the number of cases in the last few months. I don’t think there will be a third wave if we all continue following these measures during the upcoming festivals and elections too. As regards the reopening of schools and colleges, we should start reopening the same in stages. It has been proved that children get mild infections and recover fast. However, we should use the blended learning method which includes both online and offline to start the academic year.”“Students in the 18+ age group who have taken both the doses should be allowed to attend offline classes in two shifts with 40minute lectures. Schools too can be opened in stages with 50% students attending offline classes and the remaining 50% attending online classes (rotational basis). However, the SOPs must be strictly followed by all. At every class level, there must be a team to ensure compliances. It is time we take the right decision in the interest of the student community,” he said.Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal - Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce (Shivajinagar), said, “For the past one-and-a-half year, the entire system of learning from children to the postgraduate level and beyond, has moved online. I think it is overburdening students and their capacity as well as that of the faculty to sit in front of the screen is at its end. It is high time that offline lectures be started with all necessary precautions against Covid-19. There should be both offline and online classes, as we have done earlier when college campuses were opened in a phased manner.”Students, too, are willing to return to campuses. Pushkar Ganeshan, a science student, said, “I am tired of online lectures and there is no seriousness at all in that kind of teaching. We want to go back to college to study, meet our friends and enjoy the campus atmosphere.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/colleges-students-want-campuses-reopened-in-pune-101632423419181.html
24-09-2021||Lucknow||Modi exhibitions, mass-connect drives: BJP gears up for 2022 UP polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will soon organise a meeting of panna pramukhs (head of a page on the voters’ list) in Lucknow, party leaders said at a meeting on Thursday. Members of the party’s newly set up election panel for Uttar Pradesh were also present, among other leaders, at Thursday’s meeting. After the “prabuddha varg sammelans” (intellectual cell meetings), the BJP has now decided to hold separate mass connect campaigns aimed at reaching out to different professionals, lawyers, chartered accountants, teachers and doctors, BJP leaders announced after the meeting. It was also decided that from September 26 to October 2, the party cadres would launch a massive outreach campaign aimed at marketing the initiatives of the Modi government at the Centre as well as the Yogi Adityanath government in the state. “On October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the party would carry out cleanliness campaigns across the state,” said party leaders. Those present included Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who is the party’s election in-charge for UP, and co-incharges — Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur, minister of state for parliamentary affairs Arjun Meghwal; minister of state for agriculture and farmers welfare Shobha Karandlaje; minister of state for education Annpurna Devi; former national general secretary Saroj Pandey; MP Vivek Thakur and former Haryana minister Captain Abhimanyu.Six regional in-charges to shore up organisational strength and help with the party’s 2022 UP campaign were also present.They included Lok Sabha MP Sanjay Bhatia (west UP), Bihar MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia (Braj), BJP national secretary Y Satya Kumar (Awadh), national co-treasurer (Kanpur-Bundelkhand), national secretary Arvind Menon (Gorakhpur) and Sunil Ojha (Kashi).“Deputy in-charges of BJP’s election panel would hold meeting with regional co-in-charges and would jointly collect people’s feedback,” party leaders said. “Modiji has completed 20 years as the people’s representative, the first as a long serving chief minister of Gujarat, and now as the Prime Minister. That’s why the party has launched a 20-day outreach initiative timed on his birthday (September 17) as part of which exhibitions on his life and times have been organised across the state,” Pradhan said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, Dharmendra Pradhan and Anurag Thakur viewed the exhibition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/modi-exhibitions-mass-connect-drives-bjp-gears-up-for-2022-up-polls-101632423305189.html
24-09-2021||Noida||Mihir Bhoj statue in UP’s Dadri college: Gurjars, Rajputs blame BJP for row||The dispute between the members of the Rajput and Gurjar communities over a statue of the ninth-century king, Samrat Mihir Bhoj, at a college in Greater Noida’s Dadri continued even after it was unveiled on Wednesday, officials said on Thursday.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath unveiled the statue at Mihir Bhoj degree college in Dadri -- an event organised by Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar.In Gautam Budh Nagar, both the communities are protesting the move by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), claiming that the party has presented the facts incorrectly.“The event was an insult to our community as the word ‘Gurjar’ was deliberately removed from the plaque of the King Mihir Bhoj statue, after being pressurised by the Uttar Pradesh government... We will decide the future course of action soon,” Navin Bhati, president of Akhil Bhartiya Gurjar Front, said on Thursday.Various organisations from the Gurjar community will also organise a mahapanchayat at PG College in Dadri on Sunday to “brainstorm over the insulting event”. We will intensify the agitation if the state government does not take appropriate action in the matter, they said, adding that Gurjars from other states are also likely to join the mahapanchayat.On Wednesday, after CM Adityanath unveiled the statue, people from the Gurjar community protested against the MLA Tejpal, and gheraoed his house in Dadri.“We will stop the agitation if the Uttar Pradesh government officially issues a notification and adds the word ‘Gurjar’ on the statue plaque. We will hold a series of protests if this is not done. There is no doubt that Samrat Mihir Bhoj was a Gurjar king...,” Bhati added.Members of the Rajput community also said that they want to “teach a lesson” to BJP leaders who ”did not take care of this matter responsibly”.“We have decided to protest against the BJP during the upcoming 2022 assembly polls because it was irresponsible of the party leaders to unveil the statue in Dadri. Besides, the BJP has also been encouraging such activities in other cities too, and it is an insult to the Rajput community. We will hold several protests if the word ‘Gurjar’ is not added on the statue,” said Prithivi Singh, national secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Kshatriya Mahasabha.The BJP, meanwhile, said that the dispute is uncalled for, and that the people need to rise above caste, creed, language and regional issues, and stay united.Uttar Pradesh BJP spokesperson Chander Mohan said, “It is a local issue, and the president of Gautam Budh Nagar BJP, Vijay Bhati, will take care of this issue.”On this, Bhati said, “First, let me talk to the stakeholders, then we can talk on this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mihir-bhoj-statue-in-up-s-dadri-college-gurjars-rajputs-blame-bjp-for-row-101632423242135.html
24-09-2021||Noida||Noida man falls prey to overseas job fraud, loses ₹6.28 lakh||Police on Wednesday booked an unidentified person for allegedly duping a 58-year-old man of ₹6.28 lakh in an overseas job fraud, said officials. The victim, a resident of a high-rise housing complex in Noida Sector 100, retired from a government-owned oil company as the deputy general manager in 2020.The victim, who wished not to be named, said that he received an email from an alleged human resource department of a private company in Poland on July 19, 2021. “The email said the company shortlisted my resume from a job portal in India. As it was an excellent opportunity, I responded to the email seeking clarification on a few points,” he said in his complaint.The suspect continued to contact the man through emails, and shared an interview questionnaire with him on August 6. “I submitted the filled questionnaire with attached photocopies of my academic certificates and passport on August 13. On August 16, the suspect sent me an email informing about my selection as the head (sales and marketing) of the company,“ said the victim.They also shared the job offer and agreement with the victim.On August 26, the victim, however, received an email from the suspect, who demanded a payment of ₹3.46 lakh for visa and other paperwork. The victim made the payment. “I again paid them ₹87,440 on August 30 for a work permit, and made payments on the pretext of travel insurance, opening bank account, etc. In total, I paid them ₹6.28 lakh,” he added.However, when the suspect continued to demand more money, the suspect contacted the Poland embassy in New Delhi and found out that “such formalities were not required for a job in that country”. “I realised I was cheated on the pretext of a job in Poland,” the victim said, adding that he stopped all sorts of communications on the job and approached the cyber cell last week, which directed the Sector 39 police to register a case in the matter. A case has been registered against an unidentified person under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 420 (cheating), and Section 66D of IT Act. “An investigation is underway,” said Rajeev Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 39 police station, on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-falls-prey-to-overseas-job-fraud-loses-6-28-lakh-101632423179205.html
24-09-2021||Other||Local Congress, NCP leaders opposed to MVA’s 3-member ward decision||PUNE The Congress party is opposed to the three-member ward structure announced for the Pune Municipal Corporation ahead of the elections next year. Local members of the NCP are also unhappy with the state cabinet decision announced on Wednesday.The Congress and NCP prefer single -member wards, like Mumbai, or two-member wards. Elected Congress members in the PMC Arvind Shinde, Lata Rajguru, Ajit Darekar, Vaishali Marate and Rafiq Shaikh have written a letter to the state unit president Nana Patole asking that the Maha Vikas Agadhi (MVA) decision on three-member wards be revised. Congress leader Abhay Chajjed said, “We as a party are not happy with three-member wards. It would not be helpful for either the Congress or the NCP.”Arvind Shinde said, “For local self-government, it is always useful to have single-member wards as it helps citizens to contact the concern elected member directly. Whenever there are single or two-member wards, the Congress always gets more seats.”NCP members, speaking off the record, said that three-member wards help the BJP. A senior NCP leader speaking anonymously said, “As my party welcomed the decision officially, I cannot oppose it openly, but we place our views before Ajit Pawar. The BJP is a master at campaigning. Despite having no development works, they will ask for votes Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s name for the municipal elections.”NCP members said that there are many sitting corporators not happy with three-member ward decision. “Like the Congress party we too appeal to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to revise this decision if the MVA wants to benefit in the municipal corporation elections,” the NCP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/local-congress-ncp-leaders-opposed-to-mva-s-3-member-ward-decision-101632423061137.html
24-09-2021||Pune||All districts in Maha have seen normal, to above normal rainfall: IMD||PUNE The last leg of the Southwest Monsoon has ensured that all districts in Maharashtra have received either normal or excess rainfall this season, as per officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday. Across Maharashtra, rainfall reported between June 1 and September 23 is 13 per cent in excess, which falls in the normal category. K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, IMD Mumbai said, “Usually all districts report good rainfall by the end of the monsoon season. Mostly in August and September, rainfall reported in the state is good, if the monsoon has been good. This time, a few districts like Nandurbar, Gadchiroli and Bhandara were reporting deficient rainfall till August end.” Between June 1 and September 23, Vidarbha has reported one per cent less than the average expected rainfall, though it still falls in the normal category. He added that due to the revival of various weather systems over Maharashtra, these few districts that were in the deficient category, have also reported above normal rainfall now. “This is the first time this rainy season all districts have reported normal or above normal rainfall. What is noteworthy is that drought-prone regions of the state have also reported above normal rainfall. In Marathwada subdivision, rainfall reported between June 1 and September 23 has been 32 per cent in excess,” said Hosalikar. He further noted that the monsoon is likely to remain active in Maharashtra till the end of September. “Another weather system is likely to bring rainfall in the coming few days. This will be a bonus to the seasonal rainfall,” said Hosalikar. Central Maharashtra, which includes Pune district, has reported 12 per cent above normal rainfall since June 1. Konkan and Goa have reported a 23 per cent excess of rainfall since June 1, as per IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/all-districts-in-maha-have-seen-normal-to-above-normal-rainfall-imd-101632423060610.html
24-09-2021||Noida||Residents in UP village install CCTV cameras to keep a check on thefts||After a spate of thefts in Bhojpur village near Modinagar this year, especially of cattle, villagers decided to take matters in their own hands and installed 32 CCTV cameras, which has brought a major portion of the village under surveillance. Plans are now being formulated to put in place 32 more cameras to cover every street in the village. Spread across 2km, the village is located in the rural belt of Ghaziabad district and is about 32km from the district headquarters. The estimated population in the village is about 10,000-12,000. Shahid Chaudhary, the head of the village or gram pradhan, said instances of petty thefts, especially of cattle,had become a cause of concern for poor farmers. “As per our estimates, there have been about a dozen theft cases so far this year. A farmer generally incurs a loss of about ₹40,000-50,000 if he loses a cattle. Further, petty thefts of bicycle or some small household item were rampant.Sometimes, we reported the matter to police while other people let it go. We decided to keep an eye on such activities and installed about 32 CCTV cameras at major streets in our village,” said Chaudhary adding that the panchayat funds were used for the purpose. The CCTV cameras are monitored from a control centre that functions out of the panchayat office in the village. “We have installed a big screen which shows live feeds of all locations. I myself monitor the footage till afternoon. We have deployed another person who takes over later in the day. Reports of thefts have reduced ever since we installed the CCTV cameras about a month ago. In addition to the cameras, we have also installed loudspeakers, which help us convey messages to people like holding vaccination camps, ration distribution and any other public service messages,” added Chaudhary. Prabhat Kumar Dixit, station house officer (SHO) of Bhojpur police station, said police also asked villagers to take some initiative, following which they installed the CCTV cameras. “The installation of CCTV cameras has given us an edge as we can rely on its footage when there is a theft or any other criminal activity. There have been cattle thefts in Bhojpur but they have subsided now. One such CCTV camera is also installed near the police station, from where two roads go towards Hapur city and Pilkhuwa. The CCTV cameras have helped villagers but will be of great help to the police too,” said Dixit. Villagers said the CCTV cameras are also keeping the anti-social elements under check. “The cameras have been installed at all the major crossings of our village. We have a liquor shop nearby and girls pass by it while coming from their schools/colleges or market. The cameras are deterring anti-social elements from indulging in any inappropriate activity. Any incident in the village will be recorded in the CCTV cameras,” said Suraj Verma, a resident, who is pursuing post-graduation from Modinagar. Senior police officers praised the efforts of the villagers and said that their initiative should serve as a model for other gram panchayats. “We have heard of such initiatives in urban localities but are seldom taken up in villages. In Ghaziabad, we have about 150 gram panchayats and we urge each of them to take up such initiatives, which will also help police check crimes and other incidents,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-in-up-village-install-cctv-cameras-to-keep-a-check-on-thefts-101632422999305.html
24-09-2021||Pune||Maha-Metro to meet public reps, political leaders to solve issue of girders on Lakdi pul||PUNE The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) will hold talks with stakeholders, including political leaders and public representatives, regarding the installation of girders across the Sambhaji bridge, popularly known as Lakdi pul. Atul Gadgil, director of Maha-Metro, said, “It is a technical matter. We have found various options. I called mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Tuesday and told them about our study. We will complete the technical report and make a presentation in two-three days to the mayor.”Mohol said, “Maha-Metro Managing Director Brijesh Dixit is coming to Pune in two-three days. He will meet me about Lakdi pul and we will discuss the issue.”The objection to girders on the bridge came from Ganesh mandals in the city who claimed that the height of the girders would not allow for idols to cross the bridge while on the way to immersion.As most political party workers are members of Ganesh mandals in the city, Maha-Metro has decided to meet political representatives and share their views.At least eight prominent Ganesh mandals located in the peth areas raised an objection to the girders on Sambhaji bridge last week after which work was stopped.Maha-Metro , which is executing the Pune metro project, started work on installing 50metre-long steel girders across the bridge, on the metro route between Vanaz and Civil court. Ganesh mandals demanded that the height at which the girders were being placed be increased from 20 feet to 28 feet to allow access to the Mutha river during the Ganesh immersion procession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahametro-to-meet-public-reps-political-leaders-to-solve-issue-of-girders-on-lakdi-pul-101632422640323.html
24-09-2021||Noida||First anti-smog tower in Film City by Nov 15, says Noida authority||The Noida authority on Thursday said that it will install an anti-smog tower along the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) road, near the Film City in Noida, by November 15 this year, to mitigate air pollution in the area.The 20-metre-tall anti-smog tower -- the first one in the city -- over a space of 400 square metres will mitigate air pollution, starting this winter.According to officials, the Noida authority will build this tower under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds, being arranged from the central government’s public sector undertakings (PSUs). A budget of ₹2.5 crore has been set for the project.The work on the ground has started, and the authority will announce the move officially after it is approved in a board meeting scheduled on Friday (September 24), they added.“Air pollution is a big problem during the winters. If implementation of this tower is successful, the authority may also install anti-smog towers at other locations in the city,” said a Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.The tower will clean air with polluting particles around it and release the purified air. Equipped with intake and exhaust fans, the tower will initially run with the help of electricity. The authority, however, plans to run the tower with the help of solar energy later. “We will require ₹3 lakh per month to run this tower properly. As of now, we will use electricity to run it, and will install solar panels later,” said the official.The maintenance cost of the tower, excluding electricity charge, includes changing of filters which will clean pollutants in the air.“We will have to change the filters every 15 days,” the official added.Covering an area of 1,000 metres radius around it, the tower benefiting the residents in sectors 15, 15A, 16, 16A (Film City), 17 and 19 among other areas. At least 1 lakh commuters travel along the DND and the Delhi-Noida Expressway link road, it will be beneficial for them too, said the authority officials.A machine fixed inside the tower will remove nearly 80% of the particulate matter i.e. PM2.5 and PM10 in the air, and help bring down the pollution levels in the area.In November 2019, the Supreme Court had asked the central and Delhi governments to come up with a road map for installing smog towers in the national capital region (NCR) to combat air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/first-anti-smog-tower-in-film-city-by-nov-15-says-noida-authority-101632422639059.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Property tax dues: Panchkula MC seals two shops owned by Ansal group||The municipal corporation of Panchkula has sealed two shop-cum-offices owned by the Ansal group in Sector 5 for failing to clear pending property tax dues.As per the officials, the Ansal Housing and Construction Limited owes the civic body ₹36 lakh in property tax.On September 22, the MC had given the firm a last opportunity to submit the pending property tax dues by pasting a notice on the properties owned by Ansal group—SCO 194-195 in Sector 5.Zonal taxation officer, Panchkula MC, Gulshan Kumar said that all property tax defaulters had been put on notice to recover dues. If they failed to deposit their pending dues, similar action would be taken against them.Kumar added that on failing to comply, the action had been taken. The owner was earlier given time for personal hearing, but he showed no interest, he added.Around ₹17.5 crore is to be recovered from 14 establishments with each having dues over ₹5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-tax-dues-panchkula-mc-seals-two-shops-owned-by-ansal-group-101632422586688.html
24-09-2021||Noida||Comprehensive traffic management plan readied for UP’s Kaushambi||A committee of officials, comprising officers from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, has readied a comprehensive traffic management plan for Kaushambi township and begun its implementation. The Supreme Court had directed authorities to prepare one after Kaushambi Apartment Residents’ Welfare Association(Karwa) moved a petition in the top court highlighting the polluted surroundings.The top court, in March, directed a traffic management plan be prepared and also directed a committee of officers from UP and Delhi be constituted for the purpose. The court also directed that the district magistrate of Ghaziabad be the nodal officer of the committee.“We have finalised the traffic management plan and measures are being taken up in the short term and long term in a phased manner. other issues regarding Kaushambi are also being taken up. Agencies such as the Ghaziabad municipal corporation, traffic police, and others from Delhi will work on implementing the plan,” said RK Singh, district magistrate of Ghaziabad.High-rises in Kaushambi, populated by about 20,000 residents, are located next to a heavy traffic area, adjacent to Delhi’s Anand Vihar border which has an ISBT. There is a landfill site at Ghazipur, the Sahibabad industrial area, and an ISBT at Kaushambi in Ghaziabad in the vicinity.Under the plan, the joint committee proposed new U-turns on Dr Burman Marg; two parking lots for autorickshaws--one near the left turn towards the Delhi border and the other at Saur Urja Marg near gate number 1 of Kaushmabi ISBT. The committee also proposed colour-coding of autos and permits on the basis of routes; entry of UP State Road Transport Corporation buses from Saur Urja Marg and their exit from another gate near Pacific Mall, besides development of a multi-level parking lot at Kaushambi Metro station and another multi-level parking lot for vehicles, which remain parked on the roadside in Kaushambi’s commercial area.“We have given our consent for the plan, and it will pave the way for decongesting Kaushambi and nearby Delhi-Ghaziabad border as well. In our petition, we raised issues about pollution, and the court, while hearing our petition, took up the issue of traffic. So, the plan was chalked out,” said VK Mittal, president of Karwa.The association filed several petitions with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in October 2015, September 2018, and March 2019, and finally moved Supreme Court in October 2020, and appealed against the polluted surroundings.The plan also stated that removal of encroachments and regulation of traffic will also be taken up by respective departments.“The plan has short-term and long-term measures and we have also discussed the plan with the petitioners. It was formulated after a joint inspection by officers of different departments from UP and Delhi. We have already started the work related to the creation of parking, vending zones, and the installation of height barriers,” said MS Tanwar, commissioner, Ghaziabad municipal corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/comprehensive-traffic-management-plan-readied-for-up-s-kaushambi-101632422519346.html
24-09-2021||Pune||Corporators demand 4th metro station on Swargate-Katraj route||PUNE: Maha-Metro said it will examine the possibility of a fourth metro station near Dhankawadi or Bharti Vidyapeeth along the proposed 5.4km underground metro corridor between Swargate and Katraj after elected members of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) unanimously put forth the demand for the same.The PMC gave its nod to the underground metro corridor between Swargate and Katraj, which is an extension of the route between Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Swargate. Maha Metro had proposed three metro stations, namely Market Yard (near City pride), Padmavati and Katraj along the underground metro corridor. However, elected members of the PMC have demanded that a fourth metro station be planned between Padmavati and Katraj either at Balajinagar, Dhankawadi or near Bharti Vidyapeeth.NCP leader Vishal Tambe said, “Balajinagar and Dhankawadi are densely populated. Even today, PMPML buses are getting maximum ridership from this area. Around 50,000 students visit the Bharti Vidyapeeth campus. If the metro station is planned in this area, it will help get maximum ridership for the metro.”“As per the existing formula, there is a metro station after every 1km but after Padmavati, the next station has been planned after 2km. Maha Metro can consider erecting a metro station at Dhankawadi or near Bharti Vidyapeeth,” Tambe said.Former mayor Dattatray Dhankawade also demanded that a fourth metro station be planned near Balajinagar or Dhankawadi considering the sheer number of people in these areas dependent on public transport. “Considering the commuter load, it is a must to have a metro station at Dhankawadi,” he said.Other elected members including Ashwini Kadam, Pravin Chorbole, Rajendra Shilimkar and Varsha Tapkir reiterated that the route between Katraj and Swargate has the highest commuter footfall for PMPML buses. There are also many private vehicles along the route. They said that there had been demand since a long time to have a metro along this stretch and that it was good that all parties had approved the underground metro corridor. They too suggested having a metro station at Dhankawadi.Atul Gadgil, director works, Maha Metro, said, “Elected members of the PMC have requested that we plan one more station. We will definitely examine it and if it is technically feasible and there is no issue with land, we can plan it while starting work on it. The cost of one more station can be adjusted within the project cost.”“The existing metro line runs alongside the Shankar Maharaj flyover. Though it is underground, it does not disturb the foundation of this flyover,” Gadgil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/corporators-demand-4th-metro-station-on-swargate-katraj-route-101632422279525.html
24-09-2021||Other||Yogi exhorts religious bodies to protect cows, promote Sanskrit||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday called upon religious organisations, including maths (monasteries), temples and ashrams, to come forward for cow protection and the promotion of culture and the Sanskrit language. Such an academic venture to promote Sanskrit will get the government’s full support as the Vedic language is the basis of Hindu culture, he said. He was addressing people on the concluding day of a weeklong programme organised at the Gorakhnath temple here to mark the 52nd death anniversary of Mahant Digvijay Nath and the seventh death anniversary of Mahant Avaidyanath, the former head priests of the temple. He said eligible and competent teachers should be selected to run such Sanskrit colleges, and saints and ashrams of the Santan Hindu Dharma should ensure that no ineligible candidate came. He also said, “Cow protection will not be ensured just by giving speeches but by faith, putting in efforts and becoming part of the system. The government is doing its own work (to protect cows) but people will have to come forward as cows can’t be protected with the attitude of taking milk and leaving cows on the roads.” He expressed displeasure while disclosing that not even a single math, temple or religious organisation had come forward to take the benefits of government schemes aimed at protecting and conserving cows even after wide publicity and an appeal by the government. Enlisting the steps taken by the government for cow protection , Yogi said the UP government was currently ensuring the same in three ways. First, over six lakh stray cows were given shelter and being taken care of in government-run shelter since his government came to power in 2017. Second, the government was already offering an honorarium of ₹900 per month to those who took home abandoned cows and looked after them, he said. The milk and other dairy products will be of the man who looks after such cows. The third way is to provide a cow to families with malnourished women and children with a monthly stipend of ₹900, he added. Praising Gorakshpeeth (Gorakhnath temple) for being involved in cow protection since long, Yogi Adityanath spoke about how bio gas was being used to cook prasad at the temple (and give free meals to the poor twice a day). He appealed to others to replicate this model for cow protection and energy conservation. Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his “visionary leadership”, the chief minister said that every individual needed to introspect to find out what he could contribute towards the nation’s development. He said the Hindu religion can only be protected when the nation becomes strong and united. “Anti-Indian elements will become strong if voices are divided. Mahant Digvijay Nath knew this and that’s why he came forward to keep Hindus united by focusing on samajik samrasta (social harmony) and abolishing the practice of untouchability,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-exhorts-religious-bodies-to-protect-cows-promote-sanskrit-101632422159529.html
24-09-2021||Pune||10 million Covid-19 vaccines administered in Pune district||PUNE Pune district, on Thursday, crossed an important milestone, administering 10 million (one crore) Covid-19 vaccines since the vaccination drive began from January 16. State health officials confirmed that Pune is the second district after Mumbai to have crossed this milestone. As per the CoWin dashboard, a total of 1,00,14,854 vaccine doses have been administered in Pune district as of Thursday evening. Of these, 69,34,547 are first doses and 30,80,307 are second doses. According to health officials, Pune district is on its way to achieving its target for the Covid vaccination drive - a first dose for the entire eligible population in the district by the end of October. While Pune district crossed the five-million jab milestone on July 8, the following five million were vaccinated within 76 days. Health officials attributed this to the availability of vaccine doses as producers like the Pune- based Serum Institute of India (SII) delivered more vaccine doses. “Now we have administered more than one crore doses, including first and second ones. The numbers indicate that there are still approximately 10.8 million people in the district who haven’t received the first dose yet. Five million people still need a second dose. Our target is all of the eligible population should at least get the first dose by October end, so every eligible citizen would be partially, or fully vaccinated by then,” said Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director (health), Pune region. According to the officials there are approximately 8.7 million people in Pune district who are eligible for Covid vaccine. “Considering the total population, Pune would require around 17.4 million vaccine doses of which 10 million have been administered. We are halfway to complete vaccination of the eligible population,” Dr Deshmukh added. The highest vaccination count is in the age group of 18-45 years, where 56, 87,698 vaccines were administered; 25,49,708 vaccines have been administered in the age group of 45-60 years, and in the above-60-year age group, 17,77,448 beneficiaries have got the shot. Since the Covid vaccination drive began in January, there have been ups and downs with daily inoculation drives. Vaccine shortages impacted the speed of the drive. In Pune district, a total of 460,000 doses have been administered to frontline workers and 290,000 doses have been administered to the health workers. The district administration had also run a special inoculation drive for teaching and non- teaching staff in the private and government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10-million-covid-19-vaccines-administered-in-pune-district-101632421860920.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Liquor crisis brewing in the city, likely to intensify from with festive season||A liquor shortage is brewing in the city in the midst of a transition in the city’s excise rules as empty shelves at most shops and vends are forcing customers to visit multiple stores or neighbouring cities such as Gurugram and Noida. Retailers say the crisis, though temporary, will only worsen in the coming weeks as demand usually shoots up in October and November, ahead of the festive season, and peaks around Diwali.The shortage is because all private retail vends have stopped restocking supplies since they have to shut shop from October 1 to ensure a smooth transition to the new excise regime, which kicks in from November 17. Diwali falls on November 4 this year.While government vends in Delhi will remain open between October 1 and November 16, a spot-check by HT found that they are ill-equipped to cover even the usual demand and mostly have cheaper brands on offer. This is because even the government stores are not restocking at their usual pace as they will permanently shut from November 17.HT on Thursday visited at least a dozen liquor stores in east, central and south Delhi, and found that customers either had to compromise on their choice of alcohol or return empty handed due to the unavailability of mid-range and premium brands.“I have been to at least three shops and none of them had Glenfiddich. I asked for Black Label or Chivas Regal, but they did not have that either. They only had some imported wines,” said Rakesh Sinha, a buyer who visited three shops in Star City Mall in Mayur Vihar Phase 1.By appointing new retail licensees, the Delhi government is trying to pave the way for a range of sweeping reforms to boost the city’s revenue, crack down on the liquor mafia and improve user experience under the new state excise policy. The city has been divided into 32 zones and allotment of licenses is now being done on a zonal basis through which the government has already earned ₹8,917.59 crore. From November 17, liquor shops in the Capital, in a first, will also be able to offer discounts. Stores will get rid of the iron grilles at the front of most liquor vends in the Capital, and allow buyers to browse and purchase the brands of their choice. For this, the shops will be spacious, well lit and air-conditioned to allow customers a walk-in experience under camera surveillance.Under the new policy, business hours have been fixed from 10am to 10pm, while those at the airport may open round-the-clock.Some consumers suggested that, in the interim, the Delhi government should geotag its stores on their website or an app so people can locate them.“Liquor vends near my home are all private ones. Where do we go hunting for government shops now? Most of these shops are in obscure locations. They are also much smaller and have a jail-like grilles, which makes for a very unpleasant shopping experience. I tried looking for the nearest state-run shops, but the excise department’s website had nothing. They should have prepared better,” said Akash Tyagi, a resident of Ashok Vihar in north Delhi.A senior excise official said the department held a meeting with wholesalers this week and issued specific directions asking them to ensure adequate supply of most liquor brands.“This is a transition phase, so some issues are bound to occur. But the excise department is trying everything possible to make it a smooth shift. We know the closure of private vends falls during the festive season, particularly on Diwali which is on November 4. From activating our enforcement teams to having meetings with retailers, government agencies and wholesalers, we are taking all possible measures and are closely monitoring the situation,” said the official who asked not to be named.Delhi has 849 liquor stores, of which 276 are privately run. The rest are run by the Delhi government.Aseem Diwan, in-charge of Big Way Exports Private Limited, a liquor store inside Star City Mall, said the excise department informed all retailers well in advance about the need to clear stocks by September.“So, we stopped placing fresh orders a month back. Whatever you see on our shelves is all we are left with. In beer, we only have Kingfisher, and in whiskey we have McDowell’s, Antiquity and Black Dog. We ran this shop for over a decade and now our business is down by over 50%. We used this space on rent, and will vacate it next month,” he said.Another liquor shop in the mall that was open for more than six years has already been shut. The third shop also had lower-end brands, which ranged between ₹150 to ₹1,000. The situation was similar at a government store at Malviya Nagar.“Not just retailers, even alcohol brands have put distribution on hold partially, because they are signing fresh agreements with the new retailers who have won the bids for the 32 zones in Delhi. Also, no retailer is placing fresh orders, at least not for premium or mid-range brands,” said the manager of the shop, who is an employee of the government’s Delhi tourism department and did not wish to be named.Rajeev Malhotra, manager of a liquor store in Savitri Cinema complex in Greater Kailash 2, said they were awarded a zone during the bidding process, and the new store will come in the same location.“Work will begin next week. The whole shop will be redone. The entrance will have sensor-based sliding doors and the first section will be earmarked just for beer. We have tied up with leading alcohol brands and interior designers to help us out,” he said.“It will be much better,” he added.But the transition phase is likely to be rough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/liquor-crisis-brewing-in-the-city-likely-to-intensify-from-next-month-with-festive-season-coming-101632421139047.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Ensure children who lost a parent to Covid continu in same school: Delhi govt||The Directorate of Education’s private school branch on Thursday asked all its district officials to ensure that children who lost either one or both parents to Covid-19 continue their elementary education in an uninterrupted manner and preferably in the same school. “Children who have become orphans or lost a parent after March 2020 either due to Covid-19 or otherwise, need due attention to enable them to continue their education in private unaided/aided recognised school,” said Yogesh Pal Singh, deputy director of education, private school branch. The education department directed that such students may be adjusted in the same school that they are studying in, if the school is running on DDA or government allotted land under the freeship scheme. According to the scheme, private schools, allotted plots at concessional rates, are required to set aside 20% seats for children from the underprivileged sections.“Or, such students may be treated as a student studying under economically weaker section/ disadvantaged group category and reimbursement may be claimed from the Directorate of Education, up to elementary level and after class 8, such students may be guided/facilitated for admission in any government school for uninterrupted further education,” Singh said in the circular. According to the Right to Education Act, 25% of seats in entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten and Class 1 — in all private schools are to be reserved for the EWS/DG category which includes 3% reservation for children with special needs. These students are entitled to free textbooks, writing material, and uniforms till class 8, for which the government reimburses a fixed amount to schools. The department had issued a similar in August this year. A senior DOE official said on condition of anonymity, “The circular issued in August was for awareness whereas this one directs schools on how to ensure uninterrupted education of children who have lost parents to Covid. It also clarifies that schools can shift students to EWS/freeship category and then submit a proposal to the directorate instead of doing it in the reverse, which may cause delays and affect the child’s education.” Till June, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) had identified at least 2,029 children who lost either one or both parents to Covid-19. Their names have been shared with the women and child development department to ensure that eligible beneficiaries are able to avail of government schemes and aid. Between March and May, Delhi saw over 13,000 Covid-19 deaths and 786,000 infections during the second wave of the pandemic. On May 18, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a one-time relief of ₹50,000 to families that lost the breadwinner to Covid. He also announced free education and monthly aid of ₹2,500 to those orphaned by Covid, till they attain the age of 25 years. Malini Narayanan, principal of Army Public School in Shankar Vihar and chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, an umbrella body of schools, said private schools have provided relief and made arrangements for supporting such children of their own accord. She said the inclusion of orphaned children in the EWS category would create confusion and put an additional burden on schools. “Inclusion of orphaned children in the EWS category would create confusion and add to the financial burden on schools. Even if the government pays for them, it would still be a huge dent on the school’s finances as it will only get a paltry sum ( from the government). There are still bills pending that have not been cleared by the government,” said Narayanan. She further said private schools have stretched themselves to help orphaned children and their families. “We have done our bit. We don’t want this as a continuum and addition to the EWS category. If such children will be counted in the EWS category, the number of new children we count in EWS will reduce,” said Narayanan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ensure-children-who-lost-a-parent-to-covid-continue-their-studies-in-same-school-delhi-education-dept-tells-officials-101632420958956.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Transport dept told to ensure buses stick to fixed lanes, bays||Ahead of launching an enforcement drive to ensure lane discipline among motorists, the Delhi traffic police has written to the transport department asking it to sensitise drivers of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses about plying buses in the designated lanes and stopping only at designated points, bus bays and bus boxes.In the letter to the principal secretary and commissioner of the transport department, joint commissioner of police (traffic) Meenu Choudhary said the decision to launch the enforcement drive was taken keeping in mind the rising number of road accidents, including fatal ones, this year, and also the complaints regarding lane violations by DTC and cluster bus drivers.  “It has been observed that the drivers of DTC/cluster buses do not ply their vehicles in the bus lanes and do not stop the buses at bus bays/box to pick and drop passengers. The level of the bus queue shelters/bus stands is same as the floor of low-floor buses so that passengers are able to board/de-board the buses safely, particularly senior citizens, physically challenged, children, etc.,” Choudhary said in the letter dated September 22.“Therefore, it is very essential that drivers of DTC/cluster buses stop their buses along the kerb at the designated points to facilitate easy boarding/de-boarding of passengers,” she further wrote, a copy which has been marked to DTC managing director as well.Many have taken to social media to post comments, videos and photographs to raise lane discipline concerns, prompting the traffic police to take action, said special commissioner of police (traffic) Muktesh Chander.Police statistics show that on average, three accidents causing deaths were reported every day in Delhi this year between January 1 and September 15. The total number of fatal accidents on Delhi roads during the period stood at 801, which is 21 more than the corresponding period figure of 780 last year. While 799 people lost lives in the 780 accidents last year, the fatalities for the same period this year stood at 830.The police data shows that till September 15, 33 fatal accidents were caused by cluster and DTC buses and 37 people were killed in those accidents. While cluster buses killed 25 people in 22 accidents, DTC buses claimed 12 lives in 11 accidents till September 15, the data shows.Mentioning that the traffic police will soon be launching an enforcement drives to ensure lane discipline, the joint CP concluded the letter, “…it’s therefore, requested that the drivers of DTC/cluster buses may be suitably briefed and sensitised to ply their buses in the designated lanes and stop only at the designated stops/bus bays/boxes.”When contacted, the transport department nor the DTC offered comment on the issue or letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-police-to-launch-drive-to-enforce-lane-discipline-wants-bus-drivers-sensitised-101632420845335.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: After repeated court raps, Police forms committee to monitor probe||The Delhi Police has formed a committee of four senior officers to monitor the investigation in the Delhi riots cases, and ensure that investigating officers are well prepared with the cases during the ongoing trials in city courts. The order comes in the backdrop of lower courts and the Delhi high court pointing out loopholes in the investigation, and questioning the handling of many cases related to the February 2020 communal riots in northeast Delhi. Named the special investigation cell(SIC), Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana signed the order on September 19 appointing four officers -- special commissioner of the central zone, joint commissioner(eastern range), deputy commissioner of police(east), and additional deputy commissioner of police(northeast) -- as part of the SIC to oversee investigation and progress in each case filed by the northeast district police. The riots cases are being probed by the special cell, crime branch and the local police stations in northeast Delhi. The northeast district is probing 695 cases; the crime branch filed 60 cases, and the special cell is probing one case. In the latest case, on Wednesday, a Delhi court dropped charges of arson against 10 people accused of looting shops during the violence. The court noted that police were “trying to cover up by clubbing different incidents that occurred on different dates.” The court noted that two separate incidents of February 24 and 25 were clubbed together and that the allegations of arson were not mentioned when the complaint was filed at the time of the incident. According to Asthana’s September 19 order, the four-member committee must take stock of all cases pending investigation by the northeast district and expedite the probe. “The officers shall personally liaise with the special public prosecutor to ensure their presence in court in all matters to represent the case of the prosecution on each date effectively....the team shall ensure that all witnesses and investigating officers are appearing in court on time, properly briefed and well prepared. In case the IO (investigating officer) is unable to attend court due to unavoidable circumstances, the SIC shall direct the Station House Officer(SHO) to either attend the matter himself or depute a responsible person...In all cases, where FSL results are pending, personal follow up will be made with Director FSL with a request to expedite the FSL results,” reads some important pointers for the committee.In the order, Asthana also mentioned that 14 police officers, who were posted in the northeast district during the riots, and were transferred in the meanwhile, have been sent back to assist the investigation. A former Delhi police officer, KG Tyagi, who has served in the northeast district has been appointed as a consultant to monitor the riots cases and advise the officers. Overall, Delhi police have registered 755 FIRs in connection with the February 2020 riots that broke out in parts of northeast Delhi, leading to 53 dead and 581 injured. A total of 1,818 persons were arrested and charge sheets have been filed in at least 400 cases. In the last few weeks, the courts have pulled up the Delhi Police for their investigation in some cases. For instance on September 17, chief metropolitan magistrate Arun Kumar Garg called out the city police and the prosecution for their “lackadaisical” approach in handling the Delhi riots cases and said no action has been taken by the commissioner and top officials despite repeated orders. The magistrate noted that the record showed that the special public prosecutor did not appear in the case on several occasions and this had been brought to the notice of all senior police officers. The court’s remarks came as the prosecutor failed to appear before the court despite repeated calls, while the investigating officer (IO) appeared before the court late without preparing and failed to answer the court’s queries.On September 2, another court discharged three people in a vandalism case related to the riots, and noted that it seems the police made no real effort to trace eyewitnesses or the real accused persons and solved it “merely by filing the charge sheet.” Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav, while dropping the charges against three men in an alleged case of loot and vandalism at a shop in Chand Bagh on February 25, said the “lack of supervision by the superior officers clearly depicts that the investigating agency has merely tried to pull the wool over the court’s eyes and nothing else”.On August 23, a city court termed the police investigation as “highly callous”, “inefficient” and “unproductive” in another riots-related case reported from Ganga Vihar area. To be sure, the court. however framed charges against the arrested persons as it noted that it could not ignore the statements of witness while framing charges in the case. Delhi police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal, said, “In the interest of justice for the victims, the cases are being monitored by senior officers. This is a good initiative. Delhi Police will ensure that the cases are brought to its logical conclusion and the victims get justice.”A mid-level officer, who asked not to be named, said, “Some observations in a few cases are making the headlines. The fact is that the court has framed charges in 45 cases so far. It dropped the charges only in one case. Charges are only framed when court finds prima facie evidence. The process of framing charges in other cases is underway.” A clash between supporters and opponents of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, below the Jafrabad Metro station triggered one of the worst bouts of rioting in Delhi in recent years.The clash snowballed into full-fledged Hindu-Muslim rioting between February 23 and 27. Fifty-three people were killed , 581 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-repeated-court-raps-delhi-police-forms-committee-to-monitor-probe-in-delhi-riots-cases-101632420119370.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Liquor smugglers attack four forest officers in Asola Bhatti||Four forest officials, who were patrolling the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary in south Delhi, were grievously injured on Thursday after over two dozen suspected alcohol smugglers attacked them, senior forest department officials said. Deputy conservator forests (south division) Amit Anand said four officials from his team were on night patrolling when men, suspected to be alcohol smugglers who use the sanctuary route to illegally transport large quantities of alcohol from Haryana into Delhi, attacked them. “The injured officials are currently admitted at the Batra Hospital. Over the last one year, we have been taking strict action against alcohol smugglers who use the forest route to transport liquor crates from Haryana into Sangam Vihar and neighbouring areas. And this action was intensified in the last two months. So effectively, we had almost finished their illegal business and we suspect the attack was in retaliation to that,” said Anand. Forest officials said that around 7.30pm, four officials, who were patrolling the area on two separate vehicles, were attacked by around 20-25 men with sticks, iron rods and knives. The officials were surrounded, their vehicles were damaged and they were beaten up, the officials said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said information was received from Batra Hospital that four forest guards were admitted into the hospital after they were allegedly beaten by some unknown persons during patrolling. “The injured have been examined, and the place of incident is being verified. Further action will be taken as per their statement and medical reports,” said Thakur.HT reported in July how smugglers from unauthorised neighbourhoods near the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary were using the forest routes to bring in large quantities of liquor from Haryana to Delhi. These smugglers had carved out dirt paths through the thick forest to connect illegal liquor vends in Haryana to Sangam Vihar, from where it is believed to be further distributed to other localities. Since the rate of liquor in Haryana is lower as compared to Delhi, this is a viable business for many bootleggers in Sangam Vihar area, forest officials said. Over the last one year, the south division of Delhi’s forest division was cracking down on this illegal operation. Their usual paths were dug up and patrolling was increased. Since August, several vehicles with alcohol were also seized and cases were registered against offenders under the Wildlife (Protection) Act (1972). Anand said that till 9.30pm on Thursday, the medico-legal case (MLC) was completed and the police was in the process of registering an FIR against the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/liquor-smugglers-attack-grievously-injure-4-forest-officials-patrolling-asola-bhatti-sanctuary-in-delhi-101632419879025.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Streetlights on the blink in south Delhi, survey identifies 2,557 dark spots||A 25-day long joint survey by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the power department, residents welfare associations and municipal councillors has identified 2,557 dark spots in south Delhi, arising out of non-operational streetlights. Several municipal councillors have also raised the issue of dark spots arising from non-functional streetlights in house meetings and have highlighted the higher dysfunctional rate of LED lamps during the monsoon season. The survey found the maximum number of such spots in the south and Najafgarh zones while the situation was relatively better in the west zone. The report said 786 streetlights were found non-functional in the south zone, 734 in Najafgarh zone, 670 in central zone and 367 in the west zone.Ved Pal, municipal councillor from Aya Nagar ward, who raised the issue in the councillors’ meeting, said the rate of malfunctioning streetlights has increased threefold during the monsoon season. “Around 190-200 streetlights are still currently dysfunctional, which adversely impact public safety in these areas. There are issues related to accumulation of carbon on the filament and chips of the lamp unit,” he said.The issue of dark spots arising from malfunctioning streetlights was raised by the leader of the house Inderjeet Sehrawat in the last standing committee meeting. He said maintenance is very poor and each ward has over 50 dark spots due to non-operational streetlights. Sehrawat said the electronic chips of streetlights were faulty and replacements were not available. “The situation is now gradually improving,” he added. A senior south corporation official, however, insisted that only a very small percentage of streetlights was faulty and regular night patrolling is being carried out to identify such dark spots.Dr Kalpana Vishwanath, founder of Safetipin,an organisation working on issues related to dark spots and women safety, said Delhi has made significant strides in developing infrastructure for ensuring women safety and reduction of dark spots but this needs to be turned into an institutional process. “It cannot be a one-time thing. We should carry out regular audits and develop a system to incorporate regular checks. Besides the reduction of dark spots, we should also focus on improving last mile connectivity and infrastructure. Safety audits should be an ongoing process and community feedback must be taken,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/streetlights-on-the-blink-in-south-delhi-survey-identifies-2-557-dark-spots-101632419638927.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s 7th sero survey to begin Friday, check infection and vaccination status||After a nearly two-month delay, the state government will on Friday begin the seventh serological survey to estimate the population-level prevalence of antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus (which causes Covid-19) in the Capital, said officials familiar with the matter.The sample collectors will also record Covid-19 infection and vaccination history. Those not vaccinated will be asked why they have not got the shot yet, as part of the survey.“We need to understand how many people have been exposed to the virus, how many have received one dose, how many have received both the doses, and the antibody levels in them. We also need to understand why some have not received the shot. A detailed questionnaire on the history will be filled up while samples are collected. We urge those who are randomly selected for the survey to agree to share their blood samples,” the Delhi health department official said, asking not to be named. Sero surveys are blood tests that check for antibodies to the virus. They are a good measure of the exposure of a population to the virus. They are also a proxy for the level of broad immunity that exists in the population, although the best immunity is that achieved through vaccination.The survey, which was initially to take place over the first two weeks of August, was delayed. It was then scheduled for the last week of August, was pushed back yet again. It was not immediately clear why the survey was postponed twice, and state health officials declined to comment on the matter.All data will be captured digitally during the survey, making compilation and data analysis easier, said officials. “Our team of phlebotomists will collect the samples, and an external team accompanying them will collect the digital data,” said a senior district-level official. HT previously reported that the Delhi government had a proposal in the pipeline to hire an agency to conduct the survey. The samples will be processed at laboratories in Delhi government hospitals. HT on Wednesday reported that a proportion of the blood samples will also be analysed for the levels of neutralising antibodies that specifically target the Sars-CoV-2 virus. “This will also help us in co-relating the level of antibodies with the IgG levels found in the semi-quantitative test, thereby giving us an understanding of how much of the population is actually protected,” one of the researchers said previously. The team is expecting that with the severe surge in infections in April-May and the increased pace of vaccination, 80 to 90% of Delhi residents are likely to have antibodies against the virus. The last round of the survey conducted in Delhi in April, the sixth such, had to be stopped midway due to rising cases but 13,000 of the planned 28,000 samples that had already been collected returned a reading of nearly 56%, which means 56 out of every 100 residents of the Union territory were exposed to the virus. The previous five surveys returned readings of 56.13%, 25.5%, 25.1%, 29.1%, and 22.6% respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-seventh-sero-survey-to-begin-friday-check-infection-and-covid-vaccination-status-101632418319121.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt urges neighbours to switch to CNG for public vehicles, ban crackers||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday suggested that the neighbouring states should consider implementing a complete ban on firecrackers, and shift all public vehicles to CNG for a robust anti-pollution plan for the national capital region. Rai also stressed on the need to promote the use of bio-decomposers by farmers to tackle crop stubble, and prevent them from burning it. After participating in a meeting convened by the Union environment ministry on Thursday, Rai told reporters that Delhi’s air pollution crisis cannot be resolved in isolation, and it will need cooperation from all neighbouring states.Environment ministers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan and chief secretary of Punjab attended the meeting, which, the union environment minister Bhupender Yadav said focussed on the ways to prevent farm fires.Delhi has been at the centre of India’s air pollution crisis for years now, which particularly worsens every winter season. The landlocked demography of the national capital also puts it at a disadvantage, as winds carrying pollutants from neighbouring states also impacts its air. Experts have time and again pointed out that sharing a common air shed with the Indo-Gangetic Plains, the issue of Delhi’s pollution cannot be tackled in isolation, and the governments will have to come up with a holistic plan to bring down emissions in the entire region.The stubble fires in the neighbouring agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana are a case in point. Every year, when farmers burn stubble after harvest, the smoke carries dangerous particles measuring less than 2.5 microns (PM2.5) to Delhi. Last year, according to Safar -- an agency under the Union ministry of earth sciences, the contribution of farm fires to concentration of PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) in Delhi’s air reached up to 40% in November. Every winter, Delhi’s air quality nosedives with pollution levels reaching emergency levels on several days. The deterioration starts around mid-October with the fumes of stubble burning in the fields of Haryana and Punjab and gets worse with cracker bursting during Diwali and Delhi’s own local pollution sources. The unfavourable weather conditions including a change in wind direction and slow wind speed also add to the Capital’s problem. Rai on Thursday said that Delhi’s pollution can be attributed more to external factors than its own sources. He said that on September 18, the reading of PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) pollutants was 67ug/m3 and that of PM2.5 was 27ug/m3. On September 19, it was 85ug/m3 and 35ug/m3 respectively, on September 20, it was 78ug/m3 and 31ug/m3 respectively, on September 21, it was 81ug/m3 and 31ug/m3 respectively and on September 22, it was 64ug/m3 and 27ug/m3 respectively. “Last year, I saw from the war room that the PM10 and PM2.5 graph was increasing. We specially monitored how Punjab and Haryana were contributing to the pollution of Delhi through stubble burning. As the quantum of stubble burning increased in these states, the air quality worsened in Delhi. In today’s meeting, we appealed to the central government and the government of the neighbouring states to eradicate the stubble burning practices as soon as possible,” Rai said. He added that no extension should be given to thermal power plants in NCR that are operating without emission control devices.“These plants are to be retrofitted with new technology to control emissions but they operate without it after paying a penalty. The gases they emit are the most harmful,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-urges-neighbours-to-switch-to-cng-for-public-vehicles-ban-crackers-101632418019016.html
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Shooting junior world championship: Chandigarh DAV College student picked for Indian squad||Zeena Khitta, the daughter of an apple farmer, will be part of the Indian contingent that will compete in the upcoming junior world championship (rifle/pistol/shotgun) at Lima, Peru, starting September 27.A third-year student at DAV College, Sector 10, Zeena will be taking part in the 10m air rifle event. Ranked number one in the junior category in India, 20-year-old Zeena trained hard at the Indian shooting camp conducted at Karni Singh Shooting Ranges in New Delhi under coach Suma Sharoor. Around 370 shooters from 32 nations are participating in this championship.Hailing from Rohru in Himachal Pradesh, Zeena was 14 when she decided to pursue air rifle shooting. She first impressed when she clinched a gold in the Khelo India Youth Games in 2018 in the 10m air rifle event. Thereafter, she bagged a gold at the Junior World Cup in Sydney, Australia, in the same event. She stunned some of the top shooters from the country and snatched gold in the 10m air rifle event with an impressive score of 251.3.Aiming to do well at Lima, Peru, Zeena is pumped up and raring for a podium-finish. “I have trained well in the national camp and now want to do well in Lima, Peru. As China is not sending their shooters for the championship, Indian shooters will face good competition from USA and European shooters,” said Zeena, who is also eyeing a spot in the Indian senior shooting team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shooting-junior-world-championship-dav-student-part-of-indian-team-at-peru-event-101632417899016.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay tops QS Graduate Employability Rankings in India, rank improved||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay is the best institution in India for career-focused students, according to 2022 QS Graduate Employability Rankings released on Thursday. The institute moved up to the 101-110 group, from 111-120 group in 2020.“India’s national employability leader — those implementing the nation’s strongest employability processes and achieving the strongest employability outcomes — IIT Bombay,” said QS Quacquarelli Symonds, global higher education analysts, in a statement.According to more than 50,000 employers surveyed by QS, IIT-Bombay produces India’s highest calibre of graduates. It achieves the nation’s leading score for QS’s Employer Reputation indicator (73.9/100, 70th globally).IIT-Bombay is followed by its sister campus in Delhi, which has jumped from the 151-160 band in 2020 to the 131-140 group in 2022. IIT-Madras, too, has risen from the 171-180 band to the 151-160 category. These are the three Indian universities that ranked among the global top 200, with all three having improved their position over the last year. These are also the top three universities in India according to the World University Rankings released by QS in June this year.The QS Graduate Employability Rankings offer a granular comparative examination of the work universities are doing to cultivate propitious pathways into high-quality employment, said QS. Universities are rated on partnerships with employers (including internships), the number of sectoral leaders among their alumni, the frequency with which employers are present on campus, and a location-adjusted graduate employment rate.Meanwhile, the University of Mumbai (MU) maintained its rank in the 250-300 band. University of Delhi and University of Calcutta fell further down in their rankings.Three Indian universities achieved top-100 scores for QS’s Alumni Outcomes metric, which measures the number of highly successful business leaders, philanthropists, creatives, high-wealth individuals, and entrepreneurs produced by each university. University of Delhi ranked 21st globally and first in India for this metric with a score of 96/100.“IIT-Delhi is happy to jump by 20 places in the QS Graduate Employability rankings. We have been consistently improving our rankings in both domestic and international rankings in the past few years. We have taken various measures in the past few years and they are beginning to show their impact,” said V Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT-Delhi.However, Indian universities underperformed in QS’s Partnerships with Employers indicator, which captures the number of research engagements and work-placement partnerships formalised by each institution. Only one Indian university – IIT-Bombay – achieved a top-200 score for this metric.Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of IIT-Bombay, said, “Training at IIT-Bombay emphasises as learning outcomes on developing skills for analytical problem solving, capability to address unseen problems and an appreciation for the constraints that beset a specific problem. These are the terms of endearment for any technology-oriented company. Hence I am not at all surprised at this ranking. As a matter of fact, I expect the rank to be within top-50 if it is truly measured.”IIT-Madras achieved India’s highest location-adjusted Graduate Employment Rate score (100/100, fourth globally). It is the only Indian institution to achieve a top-50 score for this metric.Ben Sowter, Director of Research at QS, said, “With students becoming increasingly conscious of the competitiveness of the global graduate jobs market and of the ever-increasing financial costs of their educational investment, it has become correspondingly crucial that independent data of this sort is available to them, so as to inform evidence-based decisions about their educational futures.”“The data that contributes to this ranking shows that Indian universities are consistently producing high numbers of entrepreneurs, business leaders, and other highly successful individuals. However, with consistently low scores in our Partnerships with Employers indicator, it is also clear that India’s higher education leadership must strive to create stronger links with industry, facilitating more employer-student connection opportunities on campus,” Sowter added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-tops-qs-graduate-employability-rankings-in-india-rank-improved-101632417358678.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||DDA seeks ISRO help to track its vacant land parcels||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has revived work on GIS mapping all its vacant land parcels in a bid to protect the land from encroachment. The survey will be completed by next year, said a DDA official in the know of the matter.The survey is part of the DDA’s project to have an online record of its lands and keep a check on encroachments. For this, the land-owning agency enlisted the help of the Regional Remote Sensing Centre (RRSC), a part of the National Remote Sensing Centre (an arm of Indian Space Research Organisation) in 2018. A senior DDA official said on condition of anonymity, “We are currently mapping the vacant land. Our teams are doing ground surveys to mark latitude and longitude of each land parcel. With the help from ISRO’s RRSC, we will be developing a mobile application through which we can check on any unauthorised construction on our land.” A second DDA official said the ISRO has provided satellite images from 2006-2018. “The images will be useful not only in checking encroachments but also in planning future developments in the city, especially the implementation of schemes such as land pooling and PM-UDAY ( a scheme to confer ownership rights to residents of unauthorised colonies),” said the official, asking not to be named. The official further said, “DDA officials said an agency has been enlisted to carry out the GIS survey. There are over 3,500 vacant land parcels with the DDA. During the survey, we will also get to know about the extent of encroachments on our land.” While work on the project started in 2018, DDA officials said the pace of work was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The land-owning agency is putting in place a computerised system to detect encroachments using the satellite images provided by ISRO.“It is a big project as we plan to take all land data online. Not much work could be done due to the pandemic. We have been able to do GIS mapping of just a few areas so far, but we plan to expedite the process,” said the official.Encroachment on its land has been a major problem for the DDA. A few years ago, the agency started a system to upload pictures of vacant land on a monthly basis to check on encroachments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-seeks-isro-help-to-track-its-vacant-land-parcels-101632417118646.html
24-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man uses mother-in-law’s email ID to send hoax mail||Amboli police are on a lookout for a man who allegedly sent the Mumbai Police an email threatening to plant a bomb, using the email ID of his mother-in-law. The accused allegedly used the woman’s email ID to take revenge on her.According to the police, the accused, Premji Parmare, married one Anuradha two years ago, but as he was unemployed, she left him and went to stay with her mother Lakshmi at Amboli. When Parmare tried to take Anuradha back with him, Lakshmi would allegedly intervene and stop him.To take revenge for this, Parmare used Lakshmi’s email ID and sent an email to the Mumbai Police threatening to plant a bomb. Police officers traced the email address to Lakshmi. When Amboli police detained Lakshmi to question, they found out Parmare was behind the crime and he had tried to frame his mother-in-law so that he could take his wife home without any interference.“By the time we investigated the case, Parmare had fled to Gujarat. We are now tracing him. A case has been registered against Parmare,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-uses-mother-in-law-s-email-id-to-send-hoax-mail-101632416698465.html
24-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to implement deshbhakti curriculum in schools from September 28||The Delhi government will implement the deshbhakti curriculum, which aims to instil patriotism and help students “become active and committed citizens”, from nursery to Class 12 in public schools in the Capital from September 28, when it will be launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at an event in Chhatrasal stadium.In a circular released on Thursday, Directorate of Education (DoE) said, “The aforesaid curriculum shall be launched on the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (September 28) by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal…After the launch, the deshbhakti curriculum shall be implemented in schools by teachers in every class (nursery to Class 12) as and when the schools reopen physically for the concerned classes.”Currently, based on the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) directive last month, only students of classes 9 to 12 are allowed to return to schools for in-person classes.“For now, the curriculum will be taught to students of classes 9 to 12 who are coming to school. The curriculum will be taught to the rest of the students only once schools reopen,” said a senior official from the education department.The circular issued on Thursday said there will be one Deshbhakti period every day for students in nursery to Class 8, and two classes per week -- not on consequent days -- for senior students of classes 9 to 12.“Every deshbhakti period shall start with a five-minute ‘Deshbhakti Dhyaan’, where the teacher and students shall practice mindfulness, reflect on their gratitude for the country, freedom fighters, and any five persons that they consider deshbhakts, and pledge their respect for the country,” said the DoE circular.According to officials, 41 mentor teachers, nine NGO partners and experts played a significant role in developing the curriculum and holding a pilot run between June and July this year.The pilot run was conducted by a core group of Delhi government schoolteachers with over 250 students of different classes in 20 schools over the online platform.In order to ensure smooth implementation, the directorate has asked schools to appoint three deshbhakti nodal teachers in each school for the three-class groups – nursery to class 5, classes 6 to 8, and classes 9 to 12. “The deshbhakti nodal teacher should preferably be a teacher of a class in the same cohort and he/she shall also take deshbhakti class with one section of a class,” the DoE circular said.Officials said an orientation will be conducted for all nodal teachers between September 29 and October 5 by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) Delhi. Principals of Delhi government schools have been asked to forward names for the nodal teachers before September 27 as these teachers also have to conduct an orientation session for all deshbhakti teachers of their respective groups before implementing the curriculum.Mentor teacher Anju Rohilla, who was involved in the pilot run, said that through the curriculum, students were encouraged to ask questions that they wouldn’t usually think about. “We have designed the curriculum in a way that learning has to be conversational and through discussions. Sometimes children may find it difficult to respond because these are questions they have never been asked – like how they can express their love for their country and others. We had given the feedback that teachers should ask more prompting questions and that is likely to be implemented in the final curriculum,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-implement-deshbhakti-curriculum-in-schools-from-september-28-101632416579105.html
