25-09-2021||Pune||Residential secondary school to come up at Mahatma Phule’s native village||Pune: Zilla Parishad (ZP) Pune will be building a residential secondary school at Khanawadi village, the native place of Mahatma Jyotirao Phule in Purandar taluka of Pune district. The school will be based on the ideals of the social reformer and his wife Savitribai Phule, pioneers of women’s education in India, and will focus on empowering girls and boys from the region. Speaking about the school, Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) at Zilla Parishad, said that the secondary and higher secondary school will build the next generation of women leaders of Pune with a holistic education and entrepreneurship experience. “The girls enrolled in this school will be from Khanawadi village and surrounding areas. Along with that, women who are victims of gender violence, homeless girls, school dropouts, bonded labourers will be encouraged to continue and finish their studies here,” said Prasad. He said students in the school will be encouraged to learn new skills. “Students will be taught with a multi-disciplinary approach integrating entrepreneurship, skill building sports and culture. Special focus and aid for avenues of higher education will be ensured to students. Skill development models similar to countries like Germany and South Korea will also be implemented here,” said Prasad. The school will be run on public-private partnership (PPP). Rishikesh Huli, principal architect at Pensive Architect Company, said that the land acquisition by the ZP is almost complete. “The school will be based on the vision of Mahatma Phule. And will stand as a living example of quality education for years to come,” said Huli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residential-secondary-school-to-come-up-at-mahatma-phule-s-native-village-101632594442212.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||In a first, women DCPs to head six out of 15 police districts in Delhi||The Delhi Police has women Deputy Commissioners of Police in six out of 15 districts of the force for the first time.Among them, three are already serving in their respective districts.According to an official order, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Saturday transferred 11 Special Commissioners of Police and 28 Deputy Commissioners of Police and additional DCPs.The development comes a day after the shootout inside a courtroom in Rohini court which left three people dead, including gangster Jitender Gogi.The order, which was issued on Saturday, stated that 2010 batch IPS officer Benita Marry Jaiker, who is currently serving as the DCP of the seventh battalion, has been transferred as DCP south district.Shweta Chauhan (2010), serving as DCP headquarters, has been transferred to DCP central.Similarly, 2010 batch officer Esha Pandey, DCP PCR, has been transferred to DCP southeast, it said.However, three DCPs -- Usha Rangnani, Priyanka Kashyap and Urvija Goel -- have already been posted in the northwest, east and west districts of the Delhi Police, respectively.This is the first time that the Delhi Police has got women DCPs in six of its 15 districts.Earlier in 2018, there were four women DCPs -- Nupur Prasad in the North district, Aslam Khan in the Northwest district, Monika Bhardwaj in the West district and Meghna Yadav in Shahdara district.DCP South Atul Kumar Thakur has been transferred as DCP Headquarter–I, DCP Central Jasmeet Singh has been transferred as DCP Special Cell, DCP Security Gaurav Sharma will be DCP Southwest, DCP outer north Rajeev Rajan has been transferred to Special Cell, the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-a-first-women-dcps-to-head-six-out-of-15-police-districts-in-delhi-101632593761740.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||OBC reservation: Maharashtra government undecided over approaching SC||A day after promulgating an ordinance to provide up to 27% reservation to the Other Backward Classes (OBC), the Maharashtra government is still undecided over approaching the Supreme Court (SC) as the state election commission already clarified that they have declared the bypolls in six zilla parishads (district councils) on the Apex Court directives and any change in it can be made with its directives only.Meanwhile, Chhagan Bhujbal, a senior NCP minister in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, said if the government doesn’t want to do anything then we will approach the court for OBC reservation through their outfit.Bhujbal is a food and civil supplies minister in the MVA government and heads an outfit — Akhil Bhartiya Mahatma Phule Samata Parishad (ABMPSP). It has held agitations for OBC reservation after SC scrapped the reservation.“No one has the right to interfere once the elections are declared. The Supreme Court in one of its verdicts has made this very clear. It won’t make any difference even if the state government decides to approach the Apex court. The ordinance can be implemented for the upcoming election in local bodies,” said a senior minister, wishing not to be named.“The state government is yet to decide the next course of action but if they don’t, then we will approach the Supreme Court,” said Bhujbal, who is also an OBC leader.State rural development minister Hasan Mushrif did not respond to calls and text messages.The state government on Friday issued an ordinance that provides up to 27% reservation to the OBC community in rural local bodies. But the issue could not be resolved as the state election commission has refused to implement the ordinance for the bypolls in six districts to be held on October 5. It has also told the state government that it will not be possible for them to provide reservation to the OBC community in the bypolls as they are holding them on the Apex court directives.The ordinance issued by the rural development department stated that the combined reservation quota comprising Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and OBC will not breach the 50% ceiling as mandated by the Supreme Court. For urban local bodies, it is in the process of promulgating an ordinance for OBC reservation in urban local bodies with approval from Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari.Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said they wrote to the state election commission for implementing the ordinance from the bypolls itself but they replied in negative. “Soon after the cabinet decision, we wrote to the state election commission requesting to consider the fresh reservation quota for holding bypolls in the backdrop of the ordinance. We told them if not considered then it may antagonize the OBC community, which may lead to a law and order situation in the state but they said they are unable to consider it at this stage and are following SC orders,” Kunte told HT.“The commission further assured to consider the amendment for OBC reservation if the Apex court issues fresh directives,” he added.On March 4, the Supreme Court scrapped the 27% OBC reservation in the local bodies elections and directed the state to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which reservation for the community could be fixed. It also allowed the state election commission to hold local bodies polls, which is scheduled to be held on October 5 without OBC reservation.State BJP unit asked the state government to approach the Apex court to postpone the bypolls. “By completing all the legal process, the MVA government should approach the Supreme Court to postpone the bypolls scheduled on October 5,” said Chandrashekhar Bawankule, general secretary, state BJP unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obc-reservation-maharashtra-government-undecided-over-approaching-sc-101632594080831.html
25-09-2021||Noida||Noida’s Sports City scheme: Fate of 32K housing units hangs in balance||As the Noida authority, in its board meeting held on Friday, has not taken any decision on the multiple group housing projects under its ‘Sports City’ scheme, the fate of thousands of flats in various projects hangs in the balance.“The solution to the Sports City projects is yet to be found and no timeframe could be offered at the moment. The authority is communicating with the state government in this regard,” said Sanjiv Mittal, chairman of the Noida authority.The Noida authority had in January this year decided to ban the sale and purchase of plots and flats on group housing land allotted under the scheme in 2011. It also put a ban on issuance of commencement certificate to allow construction on new realty projects in sectors 79, 150 and 151, where land was allotted under the scheme. The authority took the decision after it realised that the most of the developers has hardly developed any sports facilities and flouted rules. According to authority officials, around 32,000 housing units have either been built or are under different stages of construction. “Model code of conduct is expected to be put in place in December this year as assembly polls are scheduled in February next year. After that, no new decision will be taken. It means the Sports City will continue to trouble buyers and realtors,” said a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to media.Developers said that over ₹50,000 crore is at stake in these projects. “The Sports City is a mega project. We request the UP government to not delay it as it will cause a huge loss of business and may spell trouble to investors or homebuyers,” said Subodh Kumar, secretary (for west UP) of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), a developers’ group.Homebuyers are also disappointed with the authority. “The authority has stopped registry in these societies. If there were issues, why did it allow the realtors to build projects at the first place. We are planning to move the high court over the issue,” said Ashok Vardhan, founder general secretary of Sports City foundation, a residents’ group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-sports-city-scheme-fate-of-32k-housing-units-hangs-in-balance-101632593540665.html
25-09-2021||Other||Boat cruise to link Kashi Vishwanath Corridor with Vindhyachal||VARANASI: The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor will be connected with Vindhyachal Corridor through Ro Ro boat (ship) service in the Ganga to promote religious tourism and employment opportunities. The Varanasi tourism department had made a plan to connect the two corridors through the Ro Ro boat service, disclosed regional tourism officer, Keertiman Srivastava, adding that the two Ro-Pax boats, MV Swami Vivekananda and MV Sam Manekshaw, which arrived in the city over 10 months ago, were anchored in the Ganga here. Both the ships have been introduced for Ro Ro boat service which has already been started upto Chunar in Mirzapur. At a time, 200 people may travel by each ship. Mirzapur is around 70 km off Varanasi. After seeing Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi and offering prayers to Baba Kashi Vishwanath, the religious tourists interested in visiting Vindhyachal Corridor will board Ro Ro boat or ship. Devotional numbers will be played on the music system to create a devotional ambience on the ships during the journey. It will also give an opportunity to the religious tourists or pilgrims to enjoy a panoramic view and idyllic surroundings on either side of the Ganga between Varanasi and Vindhyachal. As the MV Vivekananda boat or MV Sam Manekshaw boat reaches Vindhyachal, it will be anchored at the ghat and pilgrims will go to the Vindhyachal Corridor where they will offer prayers to Maa Vindhyavasini and visit Kali Khoh and Maa Asthtbhuja Temple before boarding the boat for the return journey. Srivavastava said, “The journey by ship will be a unique experience for the pilgrims.” He said a tour package was being designed and would be ready soon. There was a plan to offer snacks like fried potatoes, puri-sabji and fruits to the pilgrims during the journey, he said. The RO-PAX (Roll-On-Roll-Off-Passenger-ship) boat is a double-ended ferry that sails at an average speed of 15-17 knots (31.48 kmph). Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is a project worth over 900 crore, likely to be ready by November. Over 75% of the work has already been completed. Vindhyachal Corridor is an ambitious project of the UP government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The project, worth about ₹128 crore, is likely to be completed in 2022 or in early 2023. A 50 feet wide Parikrama path (circumambulation path) will be built around Maa Vindhyavasini Temple as part of the Vindhyachal Corridor. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had laid the foundation of the Vindhyachal Corridor on August 1. Both the projects are aimed at adding facilities for the pilgrims. Just as the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor will ensure the visibility of the spires of the Kashi Vishwanath temple from the Ganga ghats of Varanasi, devotees will be able to see the Vindhyavasini Temple from the banks of the Ganga in Mirzapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boat-cruise-to-link-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-with-vindhyachal-101632593481064.html
25-09-2021||Noida||Centre gives in-principle approval to medical device park in Greater Noida||The Central government has given in-principle approval for a medical device park proposed in Sector 28 near the Noida International airport at Jewar, which is set to bring massive business opportunities and create jobs in the health sector in the region, said officials from the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Saturday. Arvind Kumar, under secretary with the government of India wrote to Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary, infrastructure and industrial development department, Uttar Pradesh government, and asked for a detailed project report for the medical device park to be submitted by December 23 this year. “We convey in-principle approval to the setting up of a medical device park on 350 acres of land on Yamuna Expressway as per the scheme guidelines of ‘Promotion of Medical Device Park’. The steering committee of the government decided that now the DPR is required to be submitted in 90 days time...,” said the letter dated September 24. In-principle approval means that the Yeida is expected to get over ₹1,000 crore in funding and other benefits from the Central government, said officials of Yeida.Yeida is all set to launch a plot and shed scheme under the project, touted to be one of the first medical device parks in the country, for setting up industrial units at the park that will emerge as a hub of manufacturing medical devices, such as ventilators, PPE kits, X-ray machines and other products. Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Yeida, said, “It is a big achievement that we have got the approval from the Central government for setting up the medical device park. It will be the first such park in the country and the work on the DPR is already underway. We will submit it within the stipulated time and plan to launch the plot and shed scheme around Dussehra.” In November 2020, Yeida had earmarked 350 acres of land for the medical device park and also sent a proposal to the state government. The state government had given in-principle approval to the project and decided to start work immediately as it will boost businesses in the region, said officials. The authority is expecting the Central government and private firms to invest ₹5,250 crore for the project once it is executed, said officials.Under the scheme ‘promotion of medical device park’ (launched as a follow up to an order issued by the ministry of chemicals, fertilizers and pharmaceuticals on July 27), the Uttar Pradesh government, on August 4, appointed Yeida as the implementing agency to execute the project. Subsequently, Yeida roped in Kalam Institute of Health Technology (KIHT), Visakhapatnam, to prepare the detailed report of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/centre-gives-in-principle-approval-to-medical-device-park-in-greater-noida-101632593063572.html
25-09-2021||Noida||Mercury rises despite light rain in Noida||Noida and adjoining areas saw a slight rise in mercury even as the city recorded light rain on Saturday.On Saturday, Noida recorded 1mm of rainfall. The entire district of Gautam Budh Nagar is still rainfall-deficient, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The city received 235mm rainfall this monsoon against the expected 534.2mm--a deficiency of 56%--from June 1 till date, said officials at IMD.The city might receive light rain in isolated areas on Sunday.“Sky is likely to be cloudy and the region may receive light rainfall on Sunday,” said an official at IMD.On Saturday, IMD recorded the maximum and minimum temperature of Noida at 33.2 degrees Celsius and 23.9 degrees Celsius, against 32.1 degrees Celsius and 23.1 degrees Celsius a day earlier.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, which records average values for NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 33.2 degrees Celsius — a degree below the season’s average and 24.6 degrees Celsius — a degree above the season’s average. The humidity oscillated between 68% to 96%.According to IMD, the city is likely to receive light rain for the rest of the week as monsoon withdrawal is expected only after the first week of October.“The region will continue receiving isolated showers with slightly high intensity on September 27 and 28. There will be, however, heavy rain. The mercury will also fluctuate by one or two degrees Celsius. Humidity will remain high,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet, a private Indian company that provides weather forecasting services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-rises-despite-light-rain-in-noida-101632592940543.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||NHAI sets June 22 deadline for Sohna Road project||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Saturday set a June 2022 deadline for the two phases of the Sohna Road project, after work was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic last year. PK Kaushik, project director, NHAI, who took over the project last month, said that the previous deadline of July 2021 could not be met due to the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns and ban on construction to control pollution. “An assessment of the work carried out on the project has been done and we have set a new deadline of June 2022 to complete this work. All efforts would be made to ensure the project is completed,” he said. The review and subsequent deadline revision come in the backdrop of Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari directing officials to expedite work on the project during a review of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway. According to NHAI officials, work on Phase 2 of the Sohna Road, beyond Badshahpur and Sohna, is 70% complete while the work on an elevated road between Subash Chowk and Badshahpur is 55% completed. “We will focus on monitoring the work and hold regular meetings to ensure pace of work does not slow down,” Kaushik said. The first part of the project, across 21.66 kilometres, comprises an underpass (Rajiv Chowk to Subhash Chowk) and an elevated road (Subhash Chowk to Badshahpur). The second part involves the expansion of a 12.72-kilometre road from Badshahpur to Sohna, which will involve the construction of flyovers and underpasses at major crossings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nhai-sets-june-22-deadline-for-sohna-road-project-101632591562980.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||Four suffocate to death after inhaling poisonous gases inside borewell in Nuh||Four men are suspected to have suffocated to death upon inhaling poisonous gases after entering a borewell on Saturday morning in Neemka village of Nuh, located around 100 kilometres from Gurugram, the police said. Results of the autopsies are awaited.According to residents, two of the deceased, Jamshed (45) and Shahid (22), had initially entered the borewell to repair it but they could not exit the well. Two others who entered the borewell to rescue them also got stuck and died. The borewell was 12-15 feet deep, they said.Shahid and Jamshed were cleaning the well and digging to push a pipe inside it. At one point, the pipe got stuck and Jamshed, who is a borewell mechanic, entered the narrow well. “A rope, which was used to climb down, was wet and it appears that the first person who went inside the well slipped and became unconscious due to poisonous gas. In order to rescue him, others also went inside but could not come out,” Talim Ahmed, a resident of Neemka and a high court lawyer, said.When the first two persons failed to climb back up, two others, Zakir (25) and Yahya (19), also entered the well. “There was panic among the people after all the four persons failed to come out of the well. We feared the worst and no one else was ready to go inside. So, we used ropes and tools to get them outside the well. We rushed them to Civil Hospital in Punhana,” Arshad Hussain, a resident of Neemka, said.According to the police, a preliminary investigation revealed that the borewell was built on a private farm outside the village and the motor used to pump out the water was not working. The landowner had called the workers to clean the well. Prima facie, it appears the four persons died due to suffocation but exact reasons will be known after postmortem, they said.Narender Bijarniya, the superintendent of police for Nuh, said that the matter is under investigation and the initial probe reveals that the victims died due to suffocation. “We will get the exact reasons of death after post-mortem examination,” he said.The bodies will be handed over after the autopsy, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-suffocate-to-death-after-inhaling-poisonous-gases-inside-borewell-in-nuh-101632591561851.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||Bandhwari landfill: Four acres for WTE plant to be cleared by November||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has set a November target for clearing the remaining four acres needed for operating a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the Bandhwari landfill, officials said on Saturday.According to Sunder Sheoran, the executive engineer of the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) wing of the MCG, around 0.2 million metric tonnes of legacy waste is to be cleared from the four acres. Any waste accumulated at a landfill or vacant plot for longer than a year is generally considered legacy waste.Sheoran said that on Wednesday, the MCG allocated work to a private contractor for clearing the legacy waste.“We are aiming to start the groundwork from next week. Our target is to clear all legacy waste from the four acres needed for the WTE by November. A contractor has been shortlisted for the project, following approval from the Haryana government and a work order has already been issued,” Sheoran said.Sheoran said that as per the agreement, the contractor will need to implement extensive use of “movable” waste segregating machines to clear the legacy waste.“The pattern in which the legacy waste has accumulated over the four acres is such that it cannot be cleared through fixed trommel machines. Movable machines are needed that can reach the summit of the heaps of garbage and start clearing it from there. The contractor has been directed to use only such equipment for the task,” Sheoran said.MCG officials said that the entire project of clearing the waste is expected to cost around ₹15 crore.Around 1,800 tonnes of daily waste is dumped at the Bandhwari landfill from Gurugram and Faridabad. With the plant non-operational since 2013 following a fire, 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste has accumulated at the site in the past eight years.At the start of this year, National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed the MCG to start treating the legacy waste or face sanctions, following which the WTE project gained momentum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bandhwari-landfill-four-acres-for-wte-plant-to-be-cleared-by-november-101632591560493.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||Bandhwari landfill: Six acres cleared for WTE plant, work to start imminently||After clearing legacy waste from six acres at the Bandhwari landfill, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has directed its concessionaire to start the process of setting up a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the site. Officials said that four more acres, required for the WTE plant, will be cleared by November.Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG, said, “Clearing legacy waste at the landfill is being carried out on a large scale. The setting up of the WTE is aimed at expediting this process. We have cleared adequate space to start the construction of the WTE plant and are in the process of clearing more area to facilitate its full construction.” A letter issued by MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja to MCG’s concessionaire, Ecogreen, last week states that six of the 10 acres for setting up the WTE plant have been cleared through treatment of legacy waste.“Out of 10 acres proposed land for WTE, six acres land have been cleared by treatment of legacy waste and by taking other measures. Now, this six acres is being handed over to you (Ecogreen) for construction of WTE and remaining four acres will be reclaimed and handover to you shortly,” a letter sent by Ahuja to Ecogreen, a copy of which is with HT, stated.In the letter, Ahuja directed Ecogreen to take over the six acres immediately to “start the work of construction of WTE plant without any delay.”Officials of Ecogreen said they are waiting for a formal letter from the MCG on the matter.Sanjeev Sharma, spokesperson, Ecogreen, said, “We are yet to receive any formal letter on the matter from the MCG. However, both the MCG and Ecogreen have been working together towards ensuring the WTE project can be started at the earliest possible timeline.”During a meeting with Ecogreen representatives in June, Ahuja had set the company an October deadline for starting work on setting up the Bandhwari WTE project.The memorandum of understanding (MoU) for setting up the WTE plant was signed in August 2017 by Ecogreen, the Haryana government, MCG, Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF), and the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB). Despite getting clearances from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) in December 2019 for setting up a 15 megawatt (MW) capacity WTE, the project has been stuck due to lack of space at the landfill.Although the government had given environmental clearance for the setting up a 15 MW WTE plant at Bandhwari in November 2019, the proposed expansion of the plant to 25 MW had evoked a strong reaction from citizens, including environmentalists, doctors, and residents of villages near the landfill during a public hearing held on August 31 by the HSPCB.A public hearing is a prerequisite for obtaining environmental clearance from the ministry of environment, forests, and climate change (MoEF&CC) for setting up a WTE project. For the 15 MW project, a public hearing was conducted in March 2018.“The MCG needs to show photographic or video evidence about the action they carried out with the legacy waste cleared from the six acre. There needs to be proper accountability on whether the cleared waste was scientifically treated or simply shifted to a location outside the city,” Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bandhwari-landfill-six-acres-cleared-for-wte-plant-work-to-start-imminently-101632591380398.html
25-09-2021||Other||Owaisi flays SP, Cong for silence on Maulana Kaleem’s arrest, other issues||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief, Asaduddin Owaisi, has hit out at the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress for keeping mum on the recent arrest of Muslim cleric Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui in Meerut.Addressing a public meeting at Islamia Intermediate College in Old City area, on Saturday, Owaisi urged Muslims to support former MP Atiq Ahmad and his kin who are expected to contest from different constituencies and AIMIM candidates in the upcoming state elections in Uttar Pradesh.The UP Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) had arrested well-known Islamic scholar Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui from Meerut on September 22 for allegedly running a conversion racket. A local court had then remanded Siddiqui to judicial custody till October 5.“The SP and Congress are silent on the arrest of Maulana Kaleem out of a fear of losing their votes of other communities. The SP and Congress have been using Muslims for their own gains but have done nothing for their equal representation in politics and jobs. They remain silent on various issues of Muslims and have continued to betray them for the last 60 years. The SP and Congress leaders themselves remain silent on injustices to Muslims and claim that my statements on such issues benefits BJP,” Owaisi said.Flaying the BJP for playing communal politics, Owaisi said that while Atiq Ahmad, Mukhtar Ansari, Azam Khan and hundreds of Muslims are languishing in jail, cases against BJP leaders accused of Muzaffarnagar riots have been withdrawn. Even chief minister Yogi Adityanath withdrew criminal cases against himself. The BJP government demolished the house of ex-MP Atiq and many other Muslims as part of a crackdown on the community, he said. Moreover, the recent anti-conversion law introduced by the BJP government is also highly biased, he alleged.The rights of not only Muslims but also of Dalits, OBC, tribal community members are under threat, the AIMIM chief said while urging these communities to support and vote for his party in the upcoming elections. Commenting on Atiq’s letter from the jail read by his wife, Shaista Parveen, Owaisi said that he was against injustice to anyone in the country. “Atiq Ahmad and his family are suffering but the Samajwadi Party who used him for several years did not speak for him. It is time that Muslims vote for AIMIM without fearing that their vote to the party may benefit BJP. Muslims should support AIMIM similar to how the Yadav community supports Samajwadi Party and dalits support the BSP,” he said.Earlier, members of a saffron organisation blocked Shastri Bridge to stop the fleet of AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi from entering the city. Over two dozen activists raised slogans against Owaisi demanding him to go back. Cops at Jhunsi police station soon reached the spot and asked the activists to clear the road. Police resorted to mild force to disperse them when they refused. Owaisi who was coming from Varanasi then proceeded to MIC college for the scheduled public meeting.SP used me for years: Atiq in letterPRAYAGRAJ: Mafiosi-turned-politician and former MP Atiq Ahmad’s wife, Shaista Parveen, read a letter by Atiq addressed to the people of Prayagraj at the rally. In the letter, Atiq alleged that the Samajwadi Party used him for many years for political gain and sent him to jail when elections were nearing. Samajwadi Party wants Muslim leaders who do not raise a voice for the community. “I helped the Samajwadi Party gain ground in the region and helped it by all means possible,” Shaista read. Through the letter, Atiq demanded 22% Muslim representation in police and other jobs. He accused the BJP of not allowing the AIMIM chief to meet him at Ahmedabad Jail.He admitted to mistakes having been committed by him, his relatives and associates. “I agree that some of my relatives harassed people but I was not aware of their acts. They even betrayed me and I apologise for all the wrong doings. I urge people of Prayagraj and other places to support the AIMIM in the upcoming elections and boycott other parties who pretend to be secular,” Atiq wrote in his letter.PHOTO CAPTION: (Pix by:)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/owaisi-flays-sp-cong-for-silence-on-maulana-kaleem-s-arrest-other-issues-101632590420295.html
25-09-2021||Lucknow||Noise pollution by modified bikes: Lucknow bench of HC pulls up authorities||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has expressed displeasure over the lackadaisical attitude of the authorities concerned in taming the noise pollution caused by modified silencers, hooters and pressure horns of two-wheelers. The high court took suo-motu cognizance of the noise pollution caused by modified bikes on July 20 this year and directed state authorities to take stern action, in accordance with the law, to check the menace. A division bench of justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and justice Abdul Moin on September 22 said: “We have gone through the said affidavits. The said affidavits are mere eyewash because the authorities have not indicated the concrete steps taken by them pursuant to the cognizance taken by the court and have not responded to the suggestions given by the Amicus Curiae.” On September 14, the court had directed additional chief secretary (Home) and the DGP to file personal affidavits pointing out steps taken to check noise pollution caused by pressure horns of modified bikes. During the hearing of the case, Gaurav Mehrotra, Amicus Curiae, appointed by the court, apprised that noise pollution was being caused through modified silencers, hooters and pressure horns and nothing concrete had been done by the authorities concerned in this regard to check the menace.“This Court is prima facie of the view that all the officials who have been impleaded in the present PIL for controlling noise pollution and to crack down on such vehicles causing noise pollution through modified silencers, hooters and pressure horns have miserably failed in their duty and no concrete action has been taken in this regard and thus should be summoned in person,” observed the court. However, on the request of additional chief standing counsel, advocate HP Srivastava, who was representing the state government, the court allowed additional chief secretary (Home), additional CS (Transport) and the director general of police to file personal affidavits indicating actions taken to control the menace of pressure horns. “In case no concrete action is taken, the court would be compelled to summon the officer(s) to appear in person before this court for not having complied (with) the specific directions issued by this court. The respondents would also look into the suggestions given by the Amicus Curiae and give their response,” said the court. The court fixed September 29 as the next date for hearing the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/noise-pollution-by-modified-bikes-lucknow-bench-of-hc-pulls-up-authorities-101632589459997.html
25-09-2021||Noida||Six arrested in Greater Noida for smuggling, selling marijuana in NCR||The Special Task Force (STF), Noida and Surajpur Police on Friday seized over 250 kilograms of marijuana and arrested six persons in Greater Noida. They said the suspects would bring narcotic products from Odisha and Andhra Pradesh and sell them in the national Capital region (NCR). Raj Kumar Mishra, additional superintendent of police, Noida STF, said that the police received information that the suspects would be transporting a huge quantity of marijuana from Lucknow to Surajpur on Friday. “The suspects had come in a Mahindra pick-up and a Maruti Swift Dzire in Surajpur. They were transferring the marijuana packets from the pick-up van to the car when the police raided them. The police recovered 250kg marijuana in 48 packets from their possession,” he said. Police identified the suspects as Firoz Khan, 35, from Ghaziabad; Amit Sahni, 30, Sachin Kumar, 28, and Sonu, 25, from Sonipat in Haryana; and Jitendra Kumar, 30, and Mahesh Yadav, 32, from Banda in Uttar Pradesh. During interrogation, Khan revealed that he worked as a vegetable seller in Ghaziabad. “He said his cousin Sadique alias Guddu is involved in smuggling marijuana. The police arrested Guddu a few months ago in Chhattisgarh; he is presently in judicial custody,” Mishra said. Police said that Khan and Guddu visited Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh five years ago and bought marijuana. “They sold marijuana in the NCR. Khan then involved some other people and started smuggling marijuana from Odisha and Andhra Pradesh,” he said. The market price of the seized marijuana is around ₹1.25 crore, the police said. Police have registered a case against them under sections 18 and 20 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. “The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/six-arrested-in-greater-noida-for-smuggling-selling-marijuana-in-ncr-101632589099730.html
25-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Officials take stock of pollution near air quality monitoring station||Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) officials inspected the area near the continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) at Sanjay Nagar on Saturday and said they will resolve issues pertaining to the high pollution levels recorded at the station.UPPCB officials said that the monitoring station at Sanjay Nagar has recorded high readings for the pollutants PM10 and PM2.5 in the past, which affects the ambient air quality of the Ghaziabad district.The district has four monitoring stations at Vasundhara, Indirapuram, Sanjay Nagar, and Loni. Of the four, the last two usually record high pollution levels, which further add to Ghaziabad’s pollution level index.“Initially we tried to relocate the monitoring station at Sanjay Nagar to another location, but the plan could not materialise. A team of officials, therefore, inspected the location and decided to chalk out a blueprint to remove issues that increase pollution levels around the monitoring station,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB.The CAAQMS is located at the building of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital, which is at a distance of a few kilometres from residential, commercial, and industrial areas.Despite this, the station provides high readings in terms of Particulate Matter (PM) 2.5 and PM10.On Saturday, officials said they found that roads near the hospital need repair; a private bus stand nearby is surrounded by loose soil and needs to be fixed; a vacant plot belonging to the fire department needs to be equipped with a boundary wall, among other issues.“We have asked the Ghaziabad development authority to map vacant plots in the area. The corporation has decided to repair the roads and landscape the area wherever required. Other issues which crop up due to construction work of the regional rapid transit system (RRTS) project will remain till the project is completed,” Sharma added.The work for the RRTS project is taking place on the Delhi-Meerut Road, which is an estimated aerial distance of about two kilometres from the site of the CAAQMS.In terms of pollution, Ghaziabad is listed among the 16 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh with high pollution levels.Cities are declared non-attainment if, over a five-year period, they consistently do not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for PM10 or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide).Officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said that different departments will work to clean the area.“We will bring all respective agencies on board and some works will also be taken up by the corporation. We hope that the pending issues near the site will be resolved before the onset of the winter season,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-officials-take-stock-of-pollution-near-air-quality-monitoring-station-101632588739755.html
25-09-2021||Pune||PMC mulling triple-decker flyover at Sinhagad road||PUNE: The design of the proposed flyover between Rajaram bridge and Funtime cinema on Sinhagad road is likely to be altered in favour of a three-deck structure in keeping with Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari’s suggestion.During the foundation stone-laying ceremony on Friday, Gadkari had instructed the PMC to consider changing the flyover’s design to at least a double-deck. “The PMC is investing a lot of funds in this flyover. If the municipal corporation adopts the new technique we have introduced in NHAI, there will be a three-layer flyover in the same cost. The first two layers can be used for private vehicles whereas the third layer will be for the elevated metro. I would construct a multilayer flyover in the same budget,” Gadkari had said.After the Union minister’s announcement, officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) – which is in charge of the flyover - said that they are now contemplating adopting the technique being used by NHAI as suggested by Gadkari. The first two decks will be for private vehicles whereas the third deck will be an additional provision for the elevated metro line in future, they said.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “The PMC has now approved Rs135 crore for this flyover which is between Rajaram bridge and Funtime cinema. If by spending a little more than the current provision, we can get a multilevel flyover, we will definitely check that option. I will call a meeting with the municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and our engineers for the same and we will discuss it.”“Although the work order has been given, the actual construction of the flyover on the ground has not yet started. If before starting the work, we can check the possibility of going for a new design, I don’t think there would be any issue. We can adopt all these changes,” Rasne said.PMC additional engineer and in-charge of the proposed flyover, Srinivas Bonala, said, “We will definitely check regarding the new technique with NHAI. As NHAI has approved a multilayer flyover at Katraj as part of its own project, we will communicate with the same consultant. If the cost is more or less the same and we can get a multilayer flyover in that, we will definitely consider it. We will communicate for the same.”While the PMC’s earlier plan was to build a single-deck flyover within 36 months, the changes, if any, could delay the work on Sinhagad road, which is already grappling with heavy traffic, often resulting in chaos. Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said, “Gadkari called me in the morning on Friday and requested me to come 15 minutes earlier as he had something on his mind. Gadkari suggested that necessary changes be made in both the Sinhagad and Katraj flyovers. Gadkari discussed the idea with me and I think it is good to go for a multilayer flyover in the same cost.”Earlier, Gadkari had instructed the NHAI as well to consider a double-decker flyover at Katraj after which NHAI is now revising its plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-mulling-triple-decker-flyover-at-sinhagad-road-101632588679699.html
25-09-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: DPR for multi-modal transport project gets board’s approval||The Greater Noida authority on Saturday approved the detailed project report (DPR) of a multi-modal transport project and a logistic hub that has been proposed on 478 hectares of land in Bodaki village during its 123rd meeting at its main administrative building in Knowledge Park-IV. The DPR will now be sent to the state government for approval, said officials. “The work on these mega projects will start once the UP government gives the green signal,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO of the Greater Noida authority.The project will provide world-class modes of conveyance for the growing population in the catchment zone and also cater to the upcoming developments in Uttar Pradesh and the sub-region of the NCR and thus, help in decongesting Delhi, said officials. The mulit-modal transport hub will have a railway terminal, international busterminal and Metro connectivity. The railway line is already passing through Bodaki and is connected to the Metro via the Aqua Line of Noida Metro. The Indian Railways has already given its approval for the railway terminal at Bodaki, from where trains to East UP, West Bengal and Bihar will be available. Currently people from Noida and Greater Noida have to go to Delhi to travel by train to these states.“The multi-modal transport hub and logistic hub will be developed in the next five years. A 3km Metro Line will have to be built to connect the Noida Metro’s Aqua Line with Bodaki. Once it is developed, this area will have world-class connectivity and boost growth in the region,” said Bhooshan. The board also approved six new electric sub-stations in Sector Knowledge Park-V, Ecotech 8, 10, 11, Amarpur and Jalpura. These sub-stations will be in the range of 220KV to 400 KV, said officials.The authority will develop eight new industrial sectors as the demand for land for setting up industries is increasing in the city after work began for the Noida international airport at Jewar. The BPO and IT-enabledplot owners can get the registry of their property done by March 2022 as they could not complete the formalities due to Covid-19 this year. It has adopted UP data center guidelines 2021 to boost data centric business in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-dpr-for-multi-modal-transport-project-gets-board-s-approval-101632588319662.html
25-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Dengue cases double in nine days, tally highest since 2017||The number of people infected with dengue fever has crossed 200-mark so far this month in the district, with the last 100 cases reported in the past nine days, according to figures of the district health department. The district took 15 days to reach first 100 cases on September 15, the data showed. On Saturday, Ghaziabad, that saw its first dengue case this year on September 1, reported 17 new cases, taking the tally to 222 in the district. Health department officials said the trend will continue and cases are likely to subside in the last week October. A 45-year-old woman, a resident of Sanjay Nagar, was suspected to have died of dengue but the hospital, where she was admitted, was not able to provide a report confirming the infection. “The woman got admitted to the hospital on September 19 and later put on ventilator support in ICU. She died on September 24 with cause of death as cardiac arrest and sceptic shock. The hospital has been asked to provide a dengue confirmatory report, but it has not been able to provide the report yet. We also asked the state officials, but they said that it will not be treated as death due to dengue without a confirmatory report from the lab,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer.In the past nine days, the district has also reported 10 cases of scrub typhus, taking the tally to 39, while it added two more malaria cases (total 15) during the same period. Scrub typhus is caused by a bacterium called Orientia tsutsugamushi and the disease spreads to people through bites of infected larval mites. “The cases of dengue have increased while the cases of scrub typhus have shown a declining trend. With anti-larvae and fogging activities going on extensively, we have been able to curb malaria cases to a large extent. Since the monsoon season is still on with frequent rains, it is likely that the cases of dengue and malaria will subside by the end of October,” said Gupta. “We may continue with our fogging and anti-larvae drives in the first two-three weeks of October,” Dr Gupta added. Officials said the dengue cases reported so far in Ghaziabad are the highest since 2017 when the district had recorded a total of 232 such cases. According to the data, the rate of hospitalisation of dengue patients is 76.09%, while it is 87.17% in cases of scrub typhus. Experts said that the cases of dengue seem to have reached their peak and likely to subside as the monsoon activity reduces in coming weeks. “We can say that the dengue cases have almost reached their peak. However, this year frequent rains and subsequent waterlogging in several parts of the district have complicated the situation,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). “Besides, cases of viral fever continue to emerge. It has been over one month that such cases have kept on coming,” Dr Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-dengue-cases-double-in-nine-days-tally-highest-since-2017-101632587959584.html
25-09-2021||Other||High Court stays UPHESC order compelling contractual employees to join as outsourced employees||The Allahabad High Court on Friday directed the state government and UP Higher Education Services Commission (UPHESC) to file their replies on a petition alleging that the commission was compelling its contractual employees to join as outsourced employees of a contractor engaged subsequently by the commission. The court while staying the September 2, 2021 order of UPHESC asked the state government and the commission to file their replies in the case within 2 weeks and also listed the case after the expiry of two-week period. Justice Ashwani Kumar Mishra passed the above order on a petition filed by Mahaboob Ali who was engaged as a computer operator/clerk on contractual basis by the commission since 2011. The court also directed that the petitioner be allowed to continue in the employment of the commission in the manner as was being done earlier during the pendency of the petition. Advocate Tanisha J Monir appearing for Ali argued, “Petitioner was working satisfactorily for the last 10 years. However, on September 2, 2021 an order was passed by the commission which compelled the petitioner to join as an outsourced employee of a contractor.” “Having been directly engaged as a contractual employee, the commission cannot compel the petitioner to continue in employment through an outsourced agency. There was no requirement whatsoever, of re-styling the petitioner as an outsourced employee if he was indeed an employee appointed on contractual basis, which clearly goes to show the malafide intention of the commission to deprive the petitioner of his right to seek regularisation and other allied benefits,” argued Monir. The court observed,” Prima facie this court finds no good ground for the commission to compel the petitioner to function as an outsourced employee of a contractor engaged subsequently by the commission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-stays-uphesc-order-compelling-contractual-employees-to-join-as-outsourced-employees-101632587899681.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||ED issues second summons Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) officers have issued a second summon to Maharashtra cabinet minister Anil Parab asking him to remain present before the agency’s officials on September 28 for questioning in connection with former home minister Anil Deshmukh’s bribery-cum-money laundering case. Shiv Sena leader and state transport minister Parab was first summoned by the anti-money laundering agency on August 31. But the minister had then sought some time as he needed to attend some already scheduled public functions. It is pertinent to note that the agency, in its recently filed charge sheet against Deshmukh’s two close (arrested) aides, had stated that the suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze in his statement has claimed that he has overheard someone saying that Parab received crores of rupees through Nagpur’s deputy regional transport officer (RTO) Bajrang Kharmate as a bribe for the transfers of 10 DCPs in Mumbai last year. Sources said that ED is trying to collect strong evidence against Parab and former home minister Anil Deshmukh to prove the allegations of bribery in transfer and postings of government officers. Earlier the ED questioned Bajrang Kharmate, one of the officers, against whom an RTO officer had complained, for seven-and-a-half hours. Kharmate is believed to be a close aide of Parab. His name is said to have cropped up in the statements of some witnesses in the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case against Deshmukh. His phone has also been scanned by the investigators. Earlier in September, ED had raided some places linked to Kharmate in Pune and Nagpur and had also recorded statements of a few witnesses. The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. Deshmukh had in the past said that the allegations against him are false. The Central agency has alleged that while serving as the Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze — who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases — collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”. Later, through hawala channels, the money was sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies, said the agency. It claimed that the two brothers later diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-issues-second-summons-maharashtra-transport-minister-anil-parab-101632587659707.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||WHO model for measuring emissions incorrect; may need to revise guidelines for cookstoves: Study||The World Health Organisation (WHO) may need to revise its cookstove-based guidelines for emissions from biomass fuels as the existing model for measuring emissions can overestimate the same, according to a new study by researchers from Johns Hopkins University (JHU), USA. This means that the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) may also need to revise its methodology to estimate the emission rates necessary for standardising improved cookstoves. In a recent paper, researchers at Bloomberg School of Public Health, department of environmental health and engineering, JHU, estimated the air exchange rates determined from real-time measurements of PM2.5 concentrations in kitchens and living room areas in residences in rural Bangladesh. The findings, which are also relevant to rural India, have been published in the December 2021 volume of the peer-reviewed journal Building and Environment.Household air pollution impacts approximately 41% of the global population, according to multiple researchers. WHO estimates that 4.3 million people die every year from exposure to indoor air pollution, with 1.7 million of these deaths occurring in the South-East Asian region. Emissions from cookstoves are significant contributors to indoor air pollution.Fine particulate matter, known as PM 2.5, is an air pollutant suspended in the air that is released from burning of biomass fuels. When present in high levels in the air, PM2.5 can be very harmful to human health.“The air exchange rate (AER), or the rate at which outdoor air replaces indoor air is a critical parameter for evaluating the quality of ventilation in an environment,” said Darpan Das, a post-doctoral fellow at JHU and the first author of the paper titled ‘Estimating residential air exchange rates in rural Bangladesh using a near field-far field model’.In 2014, WHO issued guidelines had recommended an annual average indoor air quality concentration of below 35 μg/m, based on air exchange rates. For decades, the measurement for estimates of air exchange rates from PM2.5 emissions and concentrations have been done on the assumption of a one-compartment model. Such a model assumes that the indoor environment is a homogenous, instantaneously mixed zone. This model is referred to as the well-mixed room (WMR) model of a room of a certain volume, through which the ventilation airflow rate is constant. The air entering the room has a contaminant concentration. There is also a contaminant source within the room that is generating the particulate contaminant at a constant rate.“The WMR model as the name suggests assumes a uniform concentration throughout the room. It gives a reasonable estimate of exposure intensity for individuals who are not positioned close to the emission source. However, spatial monitoring of kitchen indoor environments air indicates that concentration is higher near the cookstove source than at distant points in the kitchen or other rooms. While it is common to use a WMR model for estimation of ACH in rural households, this assumption is only valid for conditions in rooms that are far away from the cookstove source (e.g., living rooms) and not necessarily for the kitchen, especially very close to the cookstove,” said Das, who has now joined as a scientist at WHO collaborating centre for occupational health located in Edinburgh, Scotland.In this paper, the researcher shows that the situation is better represented by a two-compartment model. This change results in dramatically lower estimates of the air exchange rates through the residence, and these lower values, in turn, result in very different values for the required emission rates of fine particles from biomass-based cookstoves.A one-compartment model or well-mixed room model is where the indoor environment is a homogeneous single mixed zone. As opposed to the single zone model with a WMR assumption, the two-compartment model used by the researchers in the study conceptually divides the indoor space into two zones — kitchen and living room.“The air exchange rate estimated using a one-compartment model is unrealistically high and >20, whereas a two-compartment model yields more realistic values <1. The findings of the present study indicate that the two-compartment model is a better representation of concentrations of pollutants emitted by cookstoves near the source and leads to better estimates of the air exchange rates than the one-compartment model,” Das added. The project was funded by the National Institute for Environmental Health Sciences and Johns Hopkins National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health Education and Research Centre grant.Das said, “This paper will have potentially significant policy implications for indoor air quality in developing nations. While the one-box compartmental model is appropriate for estimating exposures farther away from emission sources, a 2-box model may be more appropriate for distinguishing between exposures of the cook versus other occupants in the house, as well as estimating ventilation rates in the house.” The revised methodology can be used by WHO to devise the emission rate targets for cookstovesAnkit Gupta, senior scientist, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Mumbai, who was not a part of the study, said, “The AER in rural kitchens is one of the most significant parameters which is less researched while we discuss the dose-exposure of individuals. The individuals’ exposure largely depends upon AER, which is being used to arrive at disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and health burdens in developing countries. It is the right time that we generate the right data sets resulting in an appropriate model for effective decision making on rural kitchen interventions.”Srinidhi Balasubramanian, former postdoctoral research associate, University of Minnesota and an incoming assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, who was not a part of the study, said, “Reducing the health burden from household air pollution is one of the biggest environmental challenges today. We need improved methods to quantify the emissions and impacts of pollutants from indoor sources such as cookstoves. This study presents a way forward, through the use of a two-compartment model instead of a one-compartment model to better model air exchange rates in different microenvironments such as the near-to-source kitchen and the far vicinity living spaces. Such results will definitely be valuable in developing guidelines for low emissions cookstoves. I also see value in using the methodology towards studying indoor air quality in spaces such as hostels, schools, and perhaps even to study the airborne transmission of diseases.”How emissions are currently measured:One compartment model or well-mixed room model is where the indoor environment is a homogeneous single mixed zone. Most studies have estimated air exchange rates using this model in rural households.What this study uses:The two-compartment model is also known as the near field far-field model (NF:FF). As opposed to the single zone model with a WMR assumption, the NF-FF conceptually divides the indoor space into two zones — kitchen and living room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/who-model-for-measuring-emissions-incorrect-may-need-to-revise-guidelines-for-cookstoves-study-101632587539542.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||10-hour block on Central Railway main line: 90 suburban train services cancelled||Passengers travelling on the Central Railways (CR) mainline on Sunday will have to face inconvenience as nearly 90 suburban train services will be cancelled.The Central Railway will operate a block for 10 hours between Kalva and Mumbra railway sections between 8am and 6pm on the slow railway lines. During the block, construction work of the fifth and sixth railway lines between Diva and Thane railway stations will be undertaken.The Central Railway will also undertake a block on its harbour railway line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Chunabhatti railway stations. The block will be operated between 11.40am and 4.40pm.To facilitate the movement of passengers, the Central Railway has written to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) asking them to operate 100 additional buses.“We have written to TMC to operate additional trains to facilitate movements of passengers during the block period,” said a senior Central Railway official.The fifth and sixth railway lines project between Thane and Diva is a part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP) 2B that got approval in 2008. Once completed, the new railway lines will enable segregation of outstation and local trains on the Central Railway till Kalyan. Around 100 new local train services will be operated between Central Railway mainline between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan railway stations after the work is completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10hour-block-on-central-railway-main-line-90-suburban-train-services-cancelled-101632587420443.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Politicising rape incidents for mileage is disgusting, Shiv Sena slams BJP||Days after the Dombivli rape incident came to the fore, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana defended the police force saying it took prompt action without worrying about the political connections of the accused in the case. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece also attacked Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for politicising the rape cases to gain political mileage and termed such politics as disgusting. “When the rape cases come to the fore, the political parties make an issue out of it to gain the political mileage. This type of politics is disgusting,” the editorial said. It said that the Opposition must understand the two rape cases, referring to the Saki Naka incident and the Dombivli case where a 15-year-old girl was raped by 32 accused over nine months. “As soon as the case came to light, the police gave assurance to the girl and got her to file a complaint. The police carried out their duty well and the Dombivli incident is serious... Without worrying about the pressure that the accused are from the powerful background and have strong political connections, the police immediately arrested the accused. Why is the Opposition party (BJP) turning a blind eye and engaging in mudslinging on the government and the police?” the editorial asked.The editorial further added that had the girl complained earlier the picture would have been different. “The Dombivli victim was subjected to the perverse exploitation for nearly eight months by 32 people. The sexual exploitation started from her acquaintance and the girl remained quiet. Had the girl knocked the doors for justice earlier, the picture would have been different,” the mouthpiece said.Further slamming the BJP, the editorial questioned the silence of the BJP leaders on the alleged molestation of a woman BJP worker in the BJP corporators office in Borivli and said it shows the double standard of the party. “While the Dombivli case was being investigated, a BJP office-bearer molested a woman party worker in the BJP corporator’s office in Borivli. In this case, all the BJP leaders are keeping quiet and not uttering a word and they, who shed their tears in the cases of Sakinaka and Dombivli, did not shed tears in the case of the Borivli incident. It shows their double standards,” remarked the editorial. As a policy, the Maharashtra unit of the BJP does not comment on Saamana editorials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/politicising-rape-incidents-for-mileage-is-disgusting-shiv-sena-slams-bjp-101632587299380.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Drop in number of commuters using fake identity cards in Mumbai local trains||After local train services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers in August, there is a drop in the number of people using fake identity cards of essential workers to travel by local trains. In June, 1,191 people were detained for travelling using fake essential workers identity cards. Around 533 passengers were detained in August, while 240 passengers were detained in September for travelling using fake essential workers identity cards.According to railway authorities, there is a reduction in the number of people trying to commute with fake identity cards as many citizens have completed their second vaccination dose and 14 days period. “We witnessed the decrease in August as well when train services resumed for the general public, but in September the number has gone down significantly. We appeal to passengers to commute only through valid tickets and have their vaccination certificates with them to produce during inspections,” said a senior Central Railway official. Local train services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers on August 15. Passengers have to register themselves by showing their vaccination certificate through the online or offline system at the suburban railway stations. After verification, the passengers can get their monthly pass from the railways booking office.Nearly 3.5 million passengers are travelling daily by the suburban railway network in September.Around 2.2 million passengers travelled by local trains daily on the Central Railway, while 1.3 million passengers travelled on the Western Railway this month. Nearly 1.5 million passengers travelled on Central Railway and 1.1 million passengers on the Western Railway in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drop-in-number-of-commuters-using-fake-identity-cards-in-mumbai-local-trains-101632587120613.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister orders probe as recruitment exams for 6,200 vacant posts cancelled||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is facing ire after it postponed recruitment exams to fill up over 6,000 vacant posts in the state health department at the eleventh hour. The recruitment exams were scheduled on Saturday and Sunday to fill up vacant positions for nurses, technicians, ward boys among others that fall under Class ‘C’ and ‘D’ categories. However, they were cancelled on late Friday evening, which led to aggrieved reactions.State health minister Rajesh Tope blamed the firm which had been outsourced the work for failing to complete the preparations well in time. He apologised to the students and said that the next schedule for examinations will be declared in the coming days. He also promised action against the firm after conducting a probe.The exercise for filling up the vacant positions was started as part of the state’s preparations for the potential third wave that may hit by December or January.Nearly 800,000 applicants have enrolled for the recruitment examinations for filling up 6,205 vacant posts for Class C and D categories. The vacant posts under Class C category comprise staff nurses, auxiliary nursing midwives, pharmacists, laboratory technicians, X-Ray technicians, laboratory assistants and others while Class D category posts include ward boys, sweepers and other supporting staff, the officials said.The health minister said, “The examinations were postponed owing to the incompetence of the firm — Nyasa Communications Private Limited (NCPL) — which failed to complete the preparations till Friday evening. I also personally visited a school (exam centre) at Selu in Parbhani district to review exam preparations and found that seating arrangements were made for 600 to 700 applicants, where 1,000 applicants were expected to appear from there.”“The firm told us they won’t be able to complete the preparations and applicants will have to face difficulties during examinations. After discussing the issue with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, we decided to postpone exams for a few days as there were many discrepancies in the seating arrangement, training of invigilators among others. I want to apologize to all those who had to face hardship due to the decision,” Tope said.NCPL is part of a list of empanelled firms prepared by the state information technology (IT) department. As per the procedure, the departments will have to select the firms from the empanelled list of firms for holding recruitment examinations.The health minister clarified as the health department their role was limited only to set up question papers, the rest of the preparations that include exam centres, hall tickets, seating arrangement, exam supervisor, their training among others was with the outsources firm.The firm failed to complete the preparations on time. The matter will be investigated and action will be taken accordingly, Tope told reporters on Saturday.Former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded action against the guilty. He said that the students are very upset with the mess created over examinations. “During his social media interaction on Facebook, the health minister clearly said that exams will be conducted on Saturday. Following this, students (staying far off from exam centres) left their homes to appear for examinations that were suddenly cancelled on Friday evening. I am unable to understand the functioning of this government. It also cannot shrug off its responsibility in the name of an outsourced firm,” Fadnavis told reporters.Pravin Darekar, leader of Opposition in the legislative council alleged the state health department changed tender conditions to ensure NCPL is appointed. “It is a major scam, which got exposed. All those responsible for it such as health minister, health secretary, director, IT minister, minister of state and IT secretary should be investigated by either CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation), CID (crime intelligence department) or retired justice,” Darekar demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-orders-probe-as-recruitment-exams-for-6-200-vacant-posts-cancelled-101632587000116.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows reopening of cinema halls, auditoriums from Oct 22; final SOP next week||A day after the Maharashtra government announced reopening schools and places of worship across the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday announced that cinema halls and auditoriums will open their doors to people from October 22. The state government will finalise and issue standard operating procedure (SOP) early next week for the management of the cinema halls and auditoriums to follow, senior officials said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with a delegation of cinema and theatre owners on Saturday, where film director-producer Rohit Shetty was also present, following which, the decision on reopening the cinema halls and auditoriums was taken. As a part of its graded unlocking of restrictions to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the state has been giving relaxations since August.The theatres and auditoriums are expected to be opened with 50% of the seating capacity. Senior officials also said that it may be opened for only fully vaccinated citizens, but a final call is yet to be taken on the same. A senior bureaucrat said that the state will finalise the SOP on Monday in a meeting by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas and other senior officials.“Like last time, the cinema halls and auditoriums will open with 50% seating capacity. The meeting also discussed if only fully vaccinated people should be allowed with a view to lower the risk and also encourage vaccination. However, the final call will be made next week,” the official said requesting anonymity.Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament and senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut led the delegation to meet chief minister Thackeray. Film director-producer Rohit Shetty, actors Kunal Kapoor, Makrand Deshpande, Subodh Bhave and Adesh Bandekar were also present among others. Raut said, “The meeting was between owners of the cinema halls and auditorium as the industry has been struggling for the past two years nearly. In the beginning, it would open up with 50% capacity. What other restrictions will be put will be decided in a meeting on Monday.”Maharashtra, meanwhile, continued to report cases around the 3,500-mark. On Saturday, it logged 3,276 fresh Covid-19 infections. It also added 58 deaths, taking the death toll to 138,834. The state’s active case count reduced to 37,984. Mumbai logged 455 fresh cases on Saturday, taking its tally to 740,760. It reported five fatalities, pushing the death toll to 16,079 Mumbai’s active caseload was 5,276.A health department official said that the state is opening up activities that were restricted as the infectivity rate is low. The department and local administration in the state, however, is monitoring the situation weekly as they expect some spurt in Covid-19 cases in the coming weeks due to crowding during celebrations of religious festivals. “Week on week the positivity is falling, the active cases are dropping now, and the bed occupancy too is low at the moment. However, we expect some increase in cases following the Ganeshotsav celebrations across the state. Increased surveillance and targeted tests will keep the spread low, and district administration have been directed the same,” a senior official said requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, the city reported 455 cases and five deaths, taking the tally to 740,760 and toll to 16,079. On Saturday, 40,911 tests were reported in the city, meaning a daily positivity rate of 1.10%. The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 716,941 recoveries. The mortality rate is 2.17 and there are 5,276 active cases. Dr Shashank Joshi, Member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 TaskForce said, “As the second wave has settled now there is systematic relaxations being given by the state government. We have realised that after Ganesh festival too there has not been a major spike yet. The situation looks good with our vaccination too happening at a good pace and based on these parameters, mindful unlocking is happening.”Dr Joshi added, “We still have to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and have to follow the strictly framed standard operating procedures (SOP)’s for mindful relaxation. For reopening of school also our pediatric taskforce have framed very strict SOP that has to be followed for reopening of schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-reopening-of-cinema-halls-auditoriums-from-oct-22-final-sop-next-week-101632586819562.html
25-09-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand SDRF rescues five men stranded on island in Bhagirathi River||The state disaster response force (SDRF) on Saturday rescued five people who were stranded on an island in the middle of Bhagirathi River in Uttarkashi district, 175 km away from Dehradun. According to SDRF personnel, the five people were stranded on the island after the water level of Bhagirathi River increased following the release of water from a dam on it. SDRF media in-charge Vinit Vaibhav said, “The five people who work as goods transporters using mules were crossing the river on Saturday morning when the water level was low.”“Suddenly, the water level increased after the excess water was released from a dam a few kilometres away from the spot. Caught unawares, they got stranded on an island. The SDRF was then informed about the same by locals who saw them. A team soon reached the spot and rescued them using ropes and life jackets,” said Vaibhav. Meanwhile, the SDRF on Saturday also fished out a body of a man from Bhagirathi River in Uttarkashi after two days. The man identified as one Pradip Singh was crossing the river on a wooden bridge when he slipped and fell into the swollen river on September 22. The SDRF after a search of two days, found his body 10 km away from the accident spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-sdrf-rescues-five-men-stranded-on-island-in-bhagirathi-river-101632586579607.html
25-09-2021||Kolkata||Army asked to remain on standby as West Bengal gears up for another spell of heavy rains||The West Bengal government has asked the army to remain on standby even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of heavy rains in south Bengal triggered by two back-to-back systems – Cyclone Gulab and a cyclonic circulation - mid next week.Officials from the IMD’s regional office in Kolkata said that as Cyclone Gulab is expected to hit somewhere between south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh on Sunday evening it won’t have much impact on south Bengal barring some rain in the coastal districts. “But we are expecting another cyclonic circulation just after the cyclone passes over. It is likely to intensify into a low-pressure system and hit the West Bengal coast on September 29 triggering heavy rain in south Bengal districts,” said an IMD official in Kolkata. While the coastal district of East Midnapore is expected to receive heavy rain in one or two places on Sunday, on Monday West Midnapore and South 24 Parganas may also receive some rain. The cyclonic circulation, once it intensifies into a low pressure and hits the coast, would trigger heavy rain in several districts – Kolkata, East Midnapore, West Midnapore, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Howrah. The IMD has issued an orange warning, which is the second-highest category of warning after a red warning, for September 28 and 29. The government has been asked to remain prepared. Following this, the state’s chief secretary held a meeting with top officials of various departments, such as police, the power supply corporation and the civic body among others at the secretariat. “As of now, we are not evacuating anyone as this is not a cyclone. But if required we would do so. The army and the NDRF have been asked to remain on standby as there could be heavy waterlogging. The districts in south Bengal received heavy rain earlier this week and some areas are still inundated. We are keeping relief materials ready including dry food, water pouches and medicines,” said a senior official of the state’s disaster management department. Over the past one week, some districts received more than three times excess rain over the climatic normal. Kolkata received the heaviest September rain in 14 years. More than a dozen people were killed due to electrocution in water-logged areas in various districts. At least 120,000 people had to be evacuated from two districts. The Kolkata Police have set up a unified command centre at its headquarters. Officials from the fire brigade, public works department, power supply corporation, city’s civic body and police would remain stationed at the centre. At least 22 teams have been formed. Officials said that special care is being taken for Bhabanipur in south Kolkata where bye-elections are scheduled on September 30. “Heavy rains are expected. But even then, I would request you to go to the booth with an umbrella and wearing a mask to cast your vote. Don’t waste a single vote,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The Trinamool Congress supremo is contesting from Bhabanipur to retain her chief ministerial berth. Counting of votes would be held on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/army-asked-to-remain-on-standby-as-west-bengal-gears-up-for-another-spell-of-heavy-rains-101632586282036.html
25-09-2021||Other||RTI activist’s murder: FIR lodged, man detained||The police on Saturday registered an FIR against unidentified persons and detained a man for interrogation in connection with the murder of an RTI activist in East Champaran district on Friday.Pramod Paswan, station house officer (SHO), Harshidih police station, said a man, identified as Uday Singh, was being interrogated in connection with the murder of RTI (Right to Information) activist Vipin Agrawal at Harshidih. “We have yet not reached any conclusion. The interrogation is underway,” the SHO said. In the FIR (first information report), the deceased’s father Vijay Agrawal said his son, who had been working as an RTI activist since 2009, was killed as part of a conspiracy hatched by land mafia.“While constructions at several places were demolished after my son highlighted government land encroachment, cases against some are still pending,” he said.Agrawal said his son received a threat to his life and had approached police for protection last year. “However, no action was taken. Barely after a few days, on February 16, 2020, our house was attacked, following which the security was provided for a couple of hours,” said the father. Deepak Mani Tiwari, an RTI activist at Narkatiaganj in West Champaran district, said, “Like many other RTI activists, I too have been implicated in a false case and an attempt was made on my life was made in 2019. A case (138/19) has already been registered with Sikarpur police station in Narkatiaganj.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rti-activist-s-murder-fir-lodged-man-detained-101632585740878.html
25-09-2021||Other||Body, parts go missing from grave in Supaul, police probe||Tension gripped a village in Bihar’s Supaul district when residents found a body and parts of another body buried recently in the local graveyard missing on Friday. Alarmed residents of Triveniganj village sought help from the police, after which senior officials and police officers visited the spot. “We saw a hole near a grave. When we dug it, we found a body without hands and feet. Another body which was buried a week ago in the graveyard was missing from the grave,” said Mohammed Ismayeel, a village resident. Mohammed Ainul, whose son had died a week ago, said, “We are shocked to see that the body of my son was missing from the grave.” Subdivisional officer (SDO) S Z Hasan, subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Ganpati Thakur and the station house officer (SHO) Sandeep Kumar Singh visited the site on Friday.“It appears some animals have dug bodies out of their graves,” said SDO S Z Hasan. “We are probing the matter.”SDPO Ganbpati Thakur said appealed to people to cooperate with the police in conducting a probe.A few years ago, about 50 bodies were found missing from the graves from Raniganj and Simraha areas of Araria district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/body-parts-go-missing-from-grave-in-supaul-police-probe-101632585739420.html
25-09-2021||Patna||Panchayat polls: Liquor flow a challenge||On September 18, police in Samastipur district arrested a former mukhiya seeking re-election and his associates for throwing a liquor party, the picture of which went viral on social media. Sale and consumption of liquor is banned in Bihar since April 2016. Besides, it is also a breach of model code of conduct during the panchayat elections.Two days later, the police arrested another former mukhiya and his five associates for throwing a liquor party from Fatehpur in Gaya district.On September 23, just a day before Kako block in Jehanabad went to polling in the first phase of panchayat elections, police seized two truckloads of liquor from the district town. Both the trucks had Maharashtra number.In Vaishali district, an illegal liquor manufacturing was found and destroyed at Raghopur.These are just few of the instances that underline the continuing influence of liquor to lure voters in panchayat polls, which was also evident during the Assembly and Lok Sabha elections, as was reflected through huge seizures.As Bihar held the first phase of the panchayat election spread in 12 blocks across 10 districts on Friday, one of the biggest challenges before the administration is once again turning out to check the liquor flow.As per statistics of the police headquarters, so far 1,15,144 litres of liquor has been recovered from the 10 districts, including the 12 blocks going to polls in the first phase, while the total recovery in the state has been 4,43,785 litres during the period between August 24, when the panchayat polls were announced, and September 21, when campaigning for the first phase ended.Bihar had announced total prohibition in April 2016 and the same year, panchayat polls were also held amid tight surveillance. The figures of recovery made during 2016 panchayat polls is not available.During the 2020 Assembly elections, nearly 10 lakh litres of liquor were seized ahead of the first phase of polling. According to Election Commission figures, over one lakh litres of liquor was seized in the state during the Lok Sabha elections, much lower than 5.78 lakh litres seized during 2014 parliamentary polls when prohibition was not imposed and the state had around 5,500 licensed liquor shops.State election commissioner Dipak Kumar said anybody caught with liquor would face actions as per legal provisions.A police officer said locals were also cooperating in checking the menace by giving timely tip-offs. “Big recoveries and arrests are a result of greater vigilance and the drives will continue,” he said.Additional director general (headquarters) JS Gangwar said surveillance had been increased in view of panchayat polls. “Possession or consumption of liquor or any attempt to use it to lure voters comes is a crime,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/panchayat-polls-liquor-flow-a-challenge-101632585679312.html
25-09-2021||Patna||UPSC results: 17 from Bihar in merit list, son of street hawker shines||Three students from Bihar figure among the top 10 successful candidates in the examination for all-India civil services, results of which were released by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Friday. Of 761 successful candidates, at least 17 students are from Bihar. Apart from topper Shubham Kumar from Katihar, Praveen Kumar, who hails from Jamui, has secured rank 7. Son of Sitaram Burnwal and Veena Devi, Praveen is an alumnus of IIT-Kanpur and had moved to Delhi for the preparation of civil service exams.Samastipur’s Satyam Gandhi has secured 10th rank. He was selected for the National Defence Academy in 2017 but he could not clear medical examination. Later, he moved to Delhi for pursuing graduation in political science and prepared for civil service exam. Nitesh Kumar Jain from Madhepura has obtained rank 22. After pursuing BCom from St Xavier’s College, Kolkata, he cracked chartered accountancy exam in the first attempt in 2014. Showing extreme perseverance, Kumar attempted UPSC exam five times to get the desired result. In his first three attempts, he could not clear all levels of UPSC exam while got 96th rank in 2018.Anil Kumar Basak, 25, who secured rank 45 in UPSC exam, is the first graduate in his family. His father Binod Basak, a street hawker, used to sell saris on his cycle to fund the education of his son. Anil received his primary education in a small Kishanganj private school and later cleared his Xth from Araria Public School. He passed his XII from Bal Mandir School, Kishanganj, and later got into at IIT Delhi, where he studied civil engineering.In his first attempt in 2018, he could not clear the UPSC exam. In 2019, he secured 616th rank.“He didn’t give up and this year he secured 45th rank” his father said. Anil had chosen mathematics as optional subject and he didn’t take the help of coaching. “Please never give up till you achieve the goal,”he said. Purnia’s Ashish Kumar Mishra, 25, who secured rank 52, did his class X from local Brigh Career School and XII from Millia Convent, Purnia. Later, he got into IIT at BHU. He cleared UPSC in second attempt. His father Sushil Mishra is an income tax lawyer. Sandeep Kumar from Madhepura secured rank 186, followed by Ashish from Begusarai who has got rank 226, Altamash Ghazi of Samastipur who stood at rank 282 and Sumit Kumar of Gopalganj who stood at rank 337. Om Prakash Gupta, who topped 64th BPSC examination, has secured rank 339 in the UPSC exam followed by Sameer Kishan of Vaishali district who has got rank 350.Jaya Sneh from Banka has got 527th rank followed by Pranjal Prateek (Muzaffarpur) of who stood at rank 529. Hemant Kumar (Saharsha) stood at rank 531, Niranjan Kumar (Nawada) at 535 rank and Manish Kumar (Saharsha) at stood at 581.(With inputs from Aditya Nath Jha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/upsc-results-17-from-bihar-in-merit-list-son-of-street-hawker-shines-101632585619702.html
25-09-2021||Other||National testing agency to conduct railway exams soon||National Testing Agency (NTA) will take responsibility for conducting various railway recruitment exams in the coming months. The 21 Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and their infrastructure will soon integrate with the NTA. This follows recommendations by principal economic advisor Sanjeev Sanyal of the union ministry of finance and its approval by the Union Cabinet.A letter to this effect has been sent to Railway Board by deputy secretary, cabinet secretariat, C Chandrashekhar and which, in turn, has sent the same to all zonal railways of Indian Railways, including Prayagraj-headquartered North Central Railway (NCR), confirm NCR officials.The Railway Board has been asked to keep informed about the progress made in terms of implementing the recommendations on 5th of every month. Following this, all 21 RRBs spread across the country, including the one in Prayagraj, would cease to exist, they say.The missive says: “The recommendations made by the principal economic advisor mentions that Railway Recruitment Control Board (RRCB) was established in 1998 to coordinate and streamline the working of various railway recruitment boards. Given that the government has set up a National Testing Agency which would conduct a common preliminary examination for various recruitments in the central government, there is no need of separate RRBs.”“It is therefore recommended to integrate the 21 RRBs and its existing infrastructure under NTA’s apex authority. The railway may conduct its exam via the NTA. There may be a small digital office in railway to coordinate with NTA,” adds the letter a copy of which is with HT.Chief public relations officer (CPRO), NCR, Shivam Sharma said, “A letter has been sent to all the zones of IR, including NCR, by the Railway Board and we are studying the contents. A reply would be sent to the Railway Board as required.”However, the employees’ unions of NCR have condemned the move. Zonal general secretary of NCR men’s union, RD Yadav, said, “The government is fast moving towards massive privatisation of the Indian Railways. RRBs were made functional to maintain total transparency in the recruitments in IR and now as these entities are being closed down, it will simply open a gate for corruption.” “North Central Railway Men’s Union will oppose this proposal in every possible way,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/national-testing-agency-to-conduct-railway-exams-soon-101632585440463.html
25-09-2021||Other||Bihar judge in news for bail orders taken off judicial work by HC||The Patna High Court has restrained from judicial work a lower court judge in Bihar who has recently been in the headlines because of his peculiar orders.According to HC sources, in an order passed on Friday, the court directed Avinash Kumar, additional district and sessions judge posted in Jhanjharpur subdivision of Madhubani district, not to undertake judicial work until further orders.On September 18, the judge had granted bail to a molestation accused on the condition that he wash and iron clothes of all women in his village by way of repentance.On September 23, the same judge granted bail to two men, accused in an assault case, on the condition that they would give half a litre of milk to five children of Mahadalit families free of cost for the next six months, a lawyer involved in the case said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-judge-in-news-for-bail-orders-taken-off-judicial-work-by-hc-101632585439206.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Pune schools gear up to reopen from October 4||PUNE: With over 80% of teaching and non-teaching staff inoculated against Covid-19 in the Pune district, schools are getting ready to reopen from October 4. Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday announced that Classes 8 to 12 in schools will resume in urban areas. While in rural areas, Classes 5 to 12 will begin again from October 4 with schools following all Covid norms and ensuring the safety of students. However, the official order by the district collector and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not yet been issued.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune District Principals’ Association, welcomed the education minister’s move and said, “More than 80% teaching and non-teaching staff in the district is fully vaccinated. The reopening of schools is an important move to ensure that no student suffers any further learning loss. Reopening of schools for Classes 5 to 7 in urban areas should also be considered by the government as many children are facing a lot of issues.” “However, no official notification from the local bodies has been received yet, he said. “As of now, there is no clarity as to how many hours the school will be functional and how many students will be allowed in each class. All these details are awaited as of now,” Gaikwad said.Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the health department at PMC said that teaching and non-teaching staff have been given preference at government vaccination centres. “During the vaccination drive at government centres, teachers and non-teaching staff were and are being given preference with different queues so that their inoculation is faster. So far, over 46,000 teachers in the city limits have received both doses,” said Dr Bharti.Dnyaneshwar Molak, PMC joint municipal commissioner, said that with directions from the state government, they are considering reopening of schools from October 4. “The detailed order will be issued next week. Over 80% teaching and non-teaching staff in the city limits has been inoculated. Along with this, a detailed order about sanitisation of schools, social distancing and compulsory wearing of masks by students will be issued for schools very soon. The order will also include how the schools will reopen, how many students will be allowed in each classroom etc. All these details will be included,” said Molak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-schools-gear-up-to-reopen-from-october-4-101632584899160.html
25-09-2021||Other||Odisha asks collectors of 7 districts in path of Cyclone Gulab to begin evacuation||Ahead of the landfall of cyclonic storm Gulab on Sunday evening at northern Odisha coast, the Odisha government on Saturday asked collectors of seven districts in the path of the storm to carry out evacuation process in vulnerable areas while initiating deployment of 173 teams of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and fire services.Speaking to the district collectors, managing director of state disaster management authority, Pradeep Jena, said cyclone Gulab may cross south Odisha-North Andhra Pradesh coasts around Kalingapatnam by the evening of September 26 triggering heavy to very heavy rainfall in Ganjam, Gajapati, Rayagada, Kandhamal, Malkangiri, Nabarangpur, and Koraput districts.“We are getting prepared for the possible devastation caused by strong wind, heavy rainfall and flash flood. Timely evacuation will be made from vulnerable areas. There may be landslides in Gajapati and Rayagada districts as faced during Very Severe Cyclonic Storm Titli,” said Jena. He said Gajapati and Koraput district administrations have cancelled public holidays of their officials on September 25 and 26 asking the employees to remain present at their headquarters to meet any emergency.Jena said the collectors of the seven districts have been alerted to be prepared as there are chances of squally winds, waterlogging in low-lying areas, and flash floods in hilly areas. Heavy rainfall may also lead to flooding in Rushikulya, Vamsadhara, and Nagavalli rivers.While the seven districts already have 107 existing Fire Services teams, 42 ODRAF and 24 NDRF teams will also be deployed.Officials said Odisha will receive the first cyclonic rainfall from around 10 pm on Saturday with Puri, Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Berhampur, Chattrapur getting lashed by rainfall in the range of 2-3 mm/hr.From midnight, districts like Koraput, Rayagada and Gajapati will start getting rains. At around 10 pm on September 26, Koraput and Rayagada will record rainfall in the range of 3mm/hr. Heavy rainfall is predicted to continue in the districts till around 9 am on Monday....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-asks-collectors-of-7-districts-in-path-of-cyclone-gulab-to-begin-evacuation-101632584840770.html
25-09-2021||Other||‘Our kids don’t start preparing early’: Assam’s only student who cracked UPSC this year||Assam’s Ahmed Hasanuzzaman Choudhury is one of the 20 students from Jamia Millia Islamia’s Residential Coaching Academy (RCA) to clear the Civil Services Examinations this year. A resident of Silchar town, Hasanuzzaman is the only student from Assam to make it to the recently declared merit list of UPSC 2020 examinations. He has secured 283rd rank in UPSC which is considered to be one of the toughest examinations globally. Ahmed Hasanuzzaman Choudhury is a student of Kendra Vidyalaya, Silchar. He completed his higher secondary education at National Public School in Guwahati in 2012. After completing B-tech from Jamia Milia Islamia University in 2017, he started preparing for UPSC in Delhi. He joined Jamia Millia Islamia’s Residential Coaching Academy(RCA) run by the Centre for Coaching and Career Planning. He appeared for the mains examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission in January 2021, followed by personality tests in August and September 2021. Hasanuzzaman’s father Jakir Ahmed Choudhury has retired as chief general manager of Assam Electronics Development Corporation. His grandfather is a retired judge. Hasanuzzaman is the third and youngest child in the family. His elder sister, Dr Salma Fedous Choudhury is a gynaecologist presently working in Silchar Medical College and Hospital. His eldest sister is working as a software engineer in Hyderabad.Talking to Hindustan Times on Saturday, Ahmed Hasanuzzaman Choudhury said, “Our family always motivated us to get a proper education. I have two elder sisters, one of them is an engineer and the other is a doctor. While studying engineering in Jamia, I started dreaming about UPSC. My father always supported my decisions. When I chose not to join a job in a private company and continued preparing, he stood by my side.”Hasanuzzaman is also the second person ever from Barak Valley part of Assam to succeed in UPSC. Talking about the lack of success stories in Barak Valley he said, “We do not start early, students in our area start thinking about UPSC once they complete the graduation. While in other states, students start preparing since they are in school. This attitude gives them more success while we fall behind.” Hasanuzzaman informed that apart from the methods taught in Jamia’s residential coaching, he preferred self-motivation and self-preparation. “There is a three-layer examination process in UPSC and you can fall short in any of them. It demotivates many students and this was one of the toughest challenges for me also. After two unsuccessful attempts, I was also facing challenging moments. But I was focused to crack the UPSC examination. My family members supported me. I wanted to become an IAS officer but my first goal has been achieved.”He opted for Political Science and International Relations as optional. While he was preparing for UPSC, he enrolled in Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) to study Political Science. “A master degree in Political Science helped me in my optional preparation,” he said. Hasanuzzaman’s father Jakir Ahmed Choudhury said, “I have two daughters and one son. I never discriminated and tried to give them proper education. As a government employee, I always wanted my kids to crack the UPSC examination. When my son expressed his desire to start preparing for that, I was happy. Today I am proud and I want my son to serve society as a better human being.” Deputy commissioner of Majuli district of Assam, Bikram Kairi, who is also a resident of Barak Valley and the first person to crack UPSC examination from this area, said, “After 6 to 7 years we have another student who has successfully passed the UPSC examination. This also shows that we have talented students but we do not have the proper platform to nourish them. I hope, with this success, Hasanuzzaman keeps motivating more students to try.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/our-kids-don-t-start-preparing-early-assam-s-only-student-who-cracked-upsc-this-year-101632584419047.html
25-09-2021||Other||Allahabad University begins process to fill 412 non-teaching posts||The Allahabad University (AU) on Friday started the online application process for filling 412 non-teaching vacant posts at the central university. Candidates can fill in the form by visiting the university website www.allduniv.ac.in, say university officials. The last date for submitting the online application form is October 23. The posts on offer include 15 posts of Group A, 36 of Group B and maximum 361 posts of Group C, they add. As per the advertisement released by the AU administration, maximum 90 posts are of multi-tasking staff for which class 10 pass candidates up to 30 years of age can apply. For the 64 posts of library attendant, class 12 pass candidates, who have completed a diploma or a certificate course in library science, are eligible.There are also 49 posts of junior office attendants, 30 posts of laboratory assistants and 47 posts of laboratory attendants. AU has not recruited employees in Group A category for a long time. Due to this, the work of the university is getting affected. The executive council of AU had decided to undertake recruitment against 632 posts.But in the advertisement released on Friday, the number of posts came down to 412. AU public relations officer Jaya Kapoor said the number of posts had been reduced due to promotion of employees, adjustment of Institute of Correspondence Courses and Continuing Education (ICC&CE) staff and compassionate appointment etc.“There has been a reduction in the advertised posts by 220 as compared to the approved 632 posts. Therefore, recruitment would be done only for 412 posts,” she added.Applications have also been invited for two posts of system analysts/ system programmers in Group A and eight posts of computer operator in Group B category. BCA or equivalent qualification has been sought for recruitment to 23 posts of data entry operator in Group C. Apart from this, those having computer knowledge will get preference in recruitment to 49 posts of junior office attendants, officials said citing the advertisement.AU administration would soon be commencing the process for the recruitment of teaching faculty members too. Presently, 603 teaching positions are lying vacant in various departments of the university. Of these, 357 posts are of assistant professors, 168 of associate professors and 68 posts of professors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-begins-process-to-fill-412-non-teaching-posts-101632584359136.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||MP Jasbir Dimpa, Punjab Congress chief Sidhu meet over lunch||Congress leader Jasbir Singh Dimpa, a Lok Sabha member from Khadoor Sahib, on Saturday hosted a lunch at his residence for the party’s Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. The luncheon meeting is being seen as an attempt towards a realignment within the party, as Dimpa was among a few ministers and MPs from the state who till recently had been backing Captain Amarinder Singh in the former chief minister’s face-off with Sidhu.“We had a fruitful discussion about the upcoming assembly elections and the issues of farmers, who are protesting against the three farm laws,” said Dimpa. The MP’s family members, including his brother SBS Nagar senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh Gill, were also present.Dimpa had also joined Sidhu and new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi during their visit to the Golden Temple on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mp-jasbir-dimpa-punjab-congress-chief-sidhu-meet-over-lunch-101632584241841.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Shahpur police nab man for rape of colleague||The Shahpur police have arrested a 28-year-old man for allegedly raping his 30-year-old colleague by threatening her since January this year. The woman, who is married to another man, filed a case against him at the Shahpur police station.The woman’s husband had odd working hours and after becoming good colleagues, she shared the details with the accused. The accused then started taking advantage and went to her house when she was alone and forcefully raped her.A police officer said, “The woman feared that he’d disclose their intimate pictures in the office as he was threatening her. Hence, she didn’t tell anyone about the same. On Friday, she came and complained about the repeated sexual assault. We arrested the accused immediately under IPC Section 376.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shahpur-police-nab-man-for-rape-of-colleague-101632584240614.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||No decision on reopening of schools, theatres and religious places in Mumbai yet: Mayor||Although the Maharashtra government has announced reopening of schools, places of worship, cinema theatres, auditoriums in October, Mumbai civic authorities are taking a cautious approach. A final decision on reopening of schools, religious places and theatres in Mumbai will be taken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) next week after carefully studying the local situation of Covid-19, said mayor Kishori Pednekar on Saturday. Civic officials are watching the situation in the aftermath of the Ganesh festival and planning to complete vaccination of teachers through a special drive before taking a decision on reopening. Also, the BMC on Saturday sealed Byculla women’s jail premises after 39 inmates were found infected with Covid-19. Civic officials said they initially received complaints that a few inmates were down with fever after which three Covid cases were detected. Post this, a fever camp was set up in which 36 more cases of Covid-19 were detected. The state government on Friday announced reopening of schools for those above Class 8 in the city from October 4, followed by religious places from October 7. On Saturday, the state government also announced reopening of theatres and auditoriums from October 22. Pednekar told HT: “The fear regarding the third wave of Covid has considerably reduced due to vaccination, and we have to lift restrictions so normal life can begin. At the same time, we have to be careful and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. No decision on reopening of schools, religious places and theatres has been taken for Mumbai yet. A final call will be taken next week by the BMC.”Pednekar added, “Several factors will have to be kept in mind when we decide about reopening of schools since it involves safety of children. We know that the state government has taken careful decisions, but we will take a final call about Mumbai next week.”Civic officials said they will have to consider the impact of festival season before taking the decision. Mumbai is in the middle of festival season. The Ganesh festival is just over, while Navratri festival is coming early next month. Lots of people step out for festivals. Mumbai has a significant number of people who went to their native places in Konkan and other parts of the state for Ganpati festival. Some of them could already be infected with Covid when they return to the city. The crowds that were seen at markets and some public places may have triggered spread of the epidemic. As such, the civic officials will be monitoring the situation till the first week of October. For past few days, the daily caseload in Mumbai is between 400 and 500, while the current weekly positivity rate is around 0.06%. Both these factors will be considered, while taking decision on reopening of schools and places of worship, they said. Meetings have already begun to decide on the reopening of schools from classes 8th-10th.Meanwhile, the civic body announced special drive to vaccinate teachers before reopening of schools. Pednekar said about 70% of the teachers have already been vaccinated. For the remaining teachers, the BMC plans special vaccination drives. For this reason, the BMC has also decided to hold a special all women vaccination camp on Monday. Under this plan, all female teachers can also go to any public vaccination centre and get vaccinated for free. This will be followed by vaccination for those 18 years above age students and teachers. On Wednesday, a special drive is being organised for those due for second dose.Meanwhile, the city reported 455 cases and five deaths, taking the tally to 740,760 and toll to 16,079. On Saturday, 40,911 tests were reported in the city, meaning a daily positivity rate of 1.10%. The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 716,941 recoveries. The mortality rate is 2.17 and there are 5,276 active cases. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task-force, said, “As the second wave has settled now there is systematic relaxations being given by the state government. We have realised that after Ganesh festival, too, there has not been a major spike yet. The situation looks good with our vaccination, too, happening at a good pace and based on these parameters, mindful unlocking is happening.”Dr Joshi added, “We still have to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and have to follow the strictly framed standard operating procedures (SOP)’s for mindful relaxation. For reopening of school also, our paediatric taskforce have framed very strict SOP that has to be followed for reopening of schools.”In the Byculla jail case, assistant municipal commissioner E ward (under which Byculla prison falls) Manish Walunju said that on September 17 the local health post was informed about multiple fever cases inside the jail. “It was then decided to hold a fever camp on September 19 for the first time. We did a repeat camp later.”According to BMC officials, over 120 Covid tests were conducted of all the inmates as well the support staff in the premises from which total of 39 inmates tested positive. The inmates have been quarantined at Patanwala municipal school in Mazgaon area which has especially been taken over as a Covid care centre by the authorities.Further, one of the inmates also included a pregnant woman who has been admitted to GT hospital as a precautionary measure. A BMC official said, “We suspect that someone who may have been admitted into the jail recently may have brought in the virus. The premises has been sealed by the authorities, and a definite source cannot be attributed in such scenarios.” Meanwhile, in a similar incident a month ago, 22 children, including staff members, were tested positive at St Joseph’s School at Agripada. This followed by around 18 children from Mankhurd Children’s Home testing positive between August 25 and 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-decision-on-reopening-of-schools-theatres-and-religious-places-in-mumbai-yet-mayor-101632584239441.html
25-09-2021||Other||NCSC issues notice to Punjab over assault on protesting SCs in Batala||Batala The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has issued a notice to the Punjab government to investigate an incident in Batala in Friday in which a mob of 50 men assaulted a group of Scheduled Caste (SC) protesters at Masadiya village, leaving may of them injured. In the notice, NCSC chairman Vijay Sampla has asked for an action-taken report on the matter through post or email, on or before October 2. The notice, asking for officials to intervene and provide justice for the SCs, has also been sent to Punjab chief secretary; the state DGP; divisional commissioner (Gurdaspur division); IGP (border range Gurdaspur); Gurdaspur deputy commissioner and the Gurdaspur superintendent of police. “According to information received by the NCSC from media reports, some SCs, who were representing a labour union, were protesting against the village panchayat over the illegal auction of village land. A group of 50 goons, unprovoked, attacked the SCs, injuring 15 of them severely,” Sampla added in a statement. Sampla has also warned officers that if the action taken report is not received within the stipulated time, the NCSC might exercise the powers of the civil court vested on it under Article 338 of the Constitution of India and issue summons for personal appearance before the commission in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncsc-issues-notice-to-punjab-over-assault-on-protesting-scs-in-batala-101632583100557.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 681 new Covid cases, 8 deaths; 90k vaccinated on Saturday||PUNE Pune district on Saturday reported 681 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths due to the infection, according to the state health department. This took the progressive count to 1.13 million out of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,761 deaths reported and 9,416 are active cases or patients who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.The district also saw 90,390 vaccinations on Saturday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 393 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 356,942 and the death toll stood at 6,768 as four more deaths were reported.Pune city reported 172 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 516,455 and the death toll stood at 9,149 as three more deaths were reported on the day.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 116 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 265,936 and the toll stood at 3,495 as one more death was reported.Pune also saw 90,390 vaccinations on Saturday as per the Co-Win dashboard. Till September 25, at least 1,01,59,874 beneficiaries have been vaccinated out of which 69,81, 289 are first doses and 31,78,585 are second doses.A total of 530 sites saw vaccination out of which 202 were government centres and 328 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-681-new-covid-cases-8-deaths-90k-vaccinated-on-saturday-101632583099418.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farm protests hit political graffiti artists in Punjab||Out of work since the pandemic outbreak, debt-ridden painter Jasvir Singh Kalyan, 48, of Moga had his hopes high with the Punjab assembly elections round the corner, but he was in for a rude shock as protesting farmers allegedly barred him from drawing political graffiti on village walls and along highways. “I have three family members to feed. Out of work since the Covid-19 outbreak, I am under ₹1.5 lakh debt and have no other source of income,” says Kalyan, who finally got election campaign work from the Shiromani Akali Dal and Bahujan Samaj Party alliance.“First, my son Gurpreet and I started making graffiti in villages, but the protesting farmers stopped us. Then, we started work along highways, but the farmers again stopped us,” says the painter, who is among scores of graffiti artists who have written a letter to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, seeking protection of their income source. “During normal days, we hardly earn ₹10,000-12,000 per month. It is only during the elections that we earn up to ₹30,000 per month,” says Daljeet Singh, 53, another graffiti artist from Moga. “Usually, we get work for painting advertisements of coaching and immigration centres, but due to Covid-19, even that did not come our way. Therefore, election campaigns are our only hope,” he says.A Ludhiana-based contractor, who did not wish to be named, says election campaigns through wall paintings and graffiti are like the harvest season for painters. “The poor painters wait for five years for this, but now they are being barred from earning their livelihood,” he says. However, farm leaders deny that there has been any decision on barring painters from making political graffiti. Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU (Ugrahan), says: “If any one of our union members is found stopping the painters, we will take action against him. We request painters to share names and numbers of such union members.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-protests-hit-political-graffiti-artists-in-punjab-101632582919414.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Pune district consumer forum orders DRM to compensate commuter for theft inside coach||PUNE The Pune District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has ordered the divisional railway manager (DRM) Pune to pay Rs9.43 lakh as compensation to a commuter whose gold ornaments were stolen from inside a second air-conditioned (AC) coach. The commission has also directed the DRM to pay an additional Rs35,000 to the commuter as compensation towards mental agony and litigation costs.The complainant, identified as Manoj Hiralal Malu of Mukundnagar on August 25, 2016, had filed a complaint in this regard under section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, alleging deficiency in services on the part of the railways. Malu sought relief in the form of the railways being directed to pay him Rs9.43 lakh as compensation for the gold ornaments that were stolen along with Rs50,000 towards mental agony caused and Rs15,000 towards the cost of lodging the complaint.Malu in his complaint stated that he had to attend a domestic function namely, a wedding ceremony in Hyderabad from May 11 to May 15, 2015 due to which he and his wife Kavita travelled to Hyderabad in the Mumbai-Hyderabad Express with reservation for the said journey. After attending the function in Hyderabad, they began their return journey to Pune on May 15, 2015 by train 17032 in the second AC coach. Malu said that they took three trolley bags, two handbags and some sweet boxes with them in the bogey. Over the course of the journey, they engaged in some general conversation with one co-traveller. The train arrived at Pune station the next morning on May 16, 2015 and they went home with their bags and belongings. Upon opening one of the trolley bags however, the gold ornaments kept inside were found missing. Unable to find the ornaments, Malu on May 19, 2015, lodged a complaint (which was duly acknowledged by the Pune railway police station) detailing the 14 missing pieces of jewellery collectively worth Rs9.43 lakh. Malu later intimated the Pune railway police station that he had forgotten to include some more ornaments that had been stolen which were thereafter incorporated in the FIR. Malu told the police that he suspected that five persons had stolen the pouch of gold ornaments from his trolley bag which had no lock. The Pune railway police station on October 22, 2015, informed Malu that his complaint had been found true upon enquiry but the accused had not been found due to which the complaint was being closed.According to Malu, he also submitted a letter dated June 1, 2015, to the DRM Pune stating that despite travelling in the second AC, his ornaments were stolen. It was the responsibility of the DRM to ensure that no intruders entered the reserved compartment as he had paid a large sum for the tickets just to be able to enjoy a safe and secure journey. In his letter, Malu said that being a consumer of the railways, the DRM should have taken strict measures to ensure his safety, especially since he had purchased second AC tickets. There was a deficiency in services on the part of the railways, he alleged.In a written response, the railways submitted that the consumer commission had no jurisdiction to decide this case. “Nowadays it has become a fashion for the public at large to approach the forum for any act though not cognisable by it. The railway administration is providing transport facilities to the public at large through the largest network extending from Kanyakumari to Kashmir and the railways are a large public utility undertaking in India. The railway administration has provided all amenities and facilities for the benefit of passengers such as the hooks provided below the seat to tie their luggage,” read the railways’ statement and demanded that Malu’s complaint be dismissed and that a fine of Rs1 lakh be slapped on him.However, the consumer commission in its order by president Umesh Jawalikar and members Kshitija Kulkarni and Sangita M Deshmukh, stated, “There is a deficiency on the part of the opposite party (railways) as intruders entered the reserved compartment and made up a false story. Unauthorised persons provoked the complainant to keep the luggage near the door of the compartment due to which the jewellery of the complainant was stolen. Hence, the complainant is entitled to get an amount of ₹943,000 on account of the gold ornaments that were stolen from inside the compartment. The complainant is also entitled to get compensation of Rs20,000 towards mental agony and Rs15,000 towards cost of the complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-consumer-forum-orders-drm-to-compensate-commuter-for-theft-inside-coach-101632582860324.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Bhiwandi man sets wife on fire, arrested||A man set his wife on fire and killed her after she refused to give him money to buy alcohol on Thursday night. Shantinagar police in Bhiwandi arrested the accused on Saturday after the family registered a complaint.Police said the incident occurred when the inebriated husband, identified as Firoj Shaikh, 38, had an altercation with his wife, Ruksana Shaikh, 35. Ruksana had a job while Firoj was jobless for long. He used to physically abuse her often. An officer said, “On Thursday, he was arguing with her to give him money for alcohol. She refused and in rage, he poured kerosene on her and set her afire. She tried to escape. Some of the nearby residents tried to save her but by then she was already 90% burnt and succumbed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-man-sets-wife-on-fire-arrested-101632582558905.html
25-09-2021||Patna||Caste-based census: Tejashwi writes to non-BJP leaders to rally support||Days after the Centre’s affidavit in the Supreme Court virtually ruling out a caste-based census, Bihar’s leader of opposition in the assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, has written to 33 non-BJP leaders of the country in a bid to rally support for a caste-wise enumeration in the Census 2021.The two-page letter that Yadav tweeted on Saturday says, “The ruling party does not have a single rational reason against not conducting the caste census.” The RJD leader said in his tweet that the letter has been sent to top leaders of the country, including Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Akhilesh Yadav, Mayawati, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and even to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar.“It bears repeating for a brazenly callous government that the caste system, which Dr B R Ambedkar referred to as a system of graded inequality, has been a great source of disadvantage for a significantly large section of population. Although caste plays such a discriminatory role in our socio-economic life and confines privileges into only a few hands, no reliable and wide-ranging data is available for more than fifty per cent of our population,” he has written in his letter.The RJD leader urged the non-BJP leaders that as the decadal census has been delayed due to the pandemic, “we must urge the Union government to include within the delayed 2021 census the caste census as well, before the exercise begins”.“The census of India must deliberate upon the flaws and gaps in the way it conducted the first Socio Economic and Caste Census (SECC) in 2011 with help from experts. This will ensure that the error ridden process which rendered the data useless according to the Census of India itself can be corrected. This would also prevent a colossal waste and a fraud on the most disadvantaged people of our country from occurring again,” he said.The letter has also been marked to other CMs like Uddhav Thackeray, MK Stalin, Naveen Patnaik, K Chandrasekhar Rao and Jaganmohan Reddy.On Friday, Yadav had served a three-day ultimatum to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to reveal his plan after which the RJD would decide its future course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/castebased-census-tejashwi-writes-to-non-bjp-leaders-to-rally-support-101632581658817.html
25-09-2021||Other||Former terrorist turned absconder arrested in Kishtwar||Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday arrested a former terrorist-turned-absconder who was evading arrest for the past 19 years, officials said. He was identified as Dulla alias Jameel, son of Ghulam Bakarwal of Arnas in Reasi, who was presently putting up at Kundwar Chatroo in Kishtwar.“On specific information received through reliable sources, special police was constituted. The team led by Chatroo station house officer inspector Sandeep Parihar and his team raided the suspected locations and arrested the absconder,” said a police officer.The arrested absconder was wanted in a case with FIR number 38/2002 under various sections including 7/27 of the Indian Arms Act registered at Chatroo police station. “Subsequently, the absconder was produced before the Court of the Principal District and Session Judge in Bhaderwah and lodged in judicial custody,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-terrorist-turned-absconder-arrested-in-kishtwar-101632581179715.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis calls present MVA a government of scams||The state opposition leader, Devendra Fadnavis, remarked that the present Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is a government of scams and middlemen. He also dismissed editorials in Saamna as inconsequential, saying it no longer is the publication of Balasaheb Thackeray.Fadnavis was in Navi Mumbai on Saturday to attend the 88th Annasaheb Patil Jayanti Mathadi meet organised by the Mathadi leader, Narendra Patil, in which Central Minister Bhupendra Yadav was also present.Commenting on the last-minute cancellation of the health department recruitment exam, Fadnavis said, “The students are very upset at the regular cancellation of exams. As for this exam, the health minister had himself said on Facebook Live that it will not be cancelled, and no one should believe in rumours. The students left their homes, spent money and after coming for the exam, they learned the night before about the cancellation.”He claimed that the admission letters from two different states were also creating confusion. Fadnavis said, “I have also received information and complaints from students that dalals have entered the scene. These middlemen are offering jobs for ₹5 lakh to ₹15 lakh payment. The government needs to inquire and take corrective action, or else we shall agitate for the students. There are scams all over. How many more scams will there be? Shall we call it a scam government?”On the state government’s redevelopment policy for Mumbai, he said, “Ease of doing business means fewer windows and doors, less corruption and faster work. This is the opposite of what should happen.”He claimed that the decision to open schools and temples, though delayed, is welcomed.Dismissing comments in Saamna against him and BJP, he said, “Don’t understand why the media takes up its editorials and makes stories all day? They write anything and have no standard at all. Their views keep changing. They need to introspect. This Saamna is no more Balasaheb Thackeray’s Saamna. Please do not ask me about Saamna editorials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-calls-present-mva-a-government-of-scams-101632579814120.html
25-09-2021||Other||Webinar on tackling climate change held at Punjabi University Patiala||Patiala Punjabi University Environment Society organised a day-long webinar on ‘Accelerating Actions to Combat Climate Change implications in Punjab’ on Saturday. The event was held in association with the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, Chandigarh. Vice-chancellor Arvind announced the setting up of an Environment Cell in the university to combat climate change and emphasised the need to conserve the biodiversity of Punjab, including fish and birds. Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) chairman Adarsh Pal Vig laid stress on the environmentally sound use of agricultural waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/webinar-on-tackling-climate-change-held-at-punjabi-university-patiala-101632578779748.html
25-09-2021||Pune||New Tocilizumab stock to arrive by next week, says Pune FDA||PUNE There has been a shortage of Tocilizumab for the past ten days with the last stock acquired on August 3 by the Pune Food and Drug Administration (FDA) lasting till September 15 after which there has been no pending stock, even as the number of Covid-19 cases in the district continue to dip and the case fatality rate (CFR) remains steady. With officials expecting fresh stock to arrive by next week, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday issued fresh guidelines mandating the prescription of Tocilizumab only after all criteria are met which includes patients showing no signs of improvement even after use of steroids.FDA assistant commissioner S V Pratapwar said, “It is true that we are facing a shortage of Tocilizumab now because the demand has gone up as such. We are feeling the shortage even more since the past 15 days because the last time we got the stock was on August 3. We are expecting the fresh stock to come in by next week. As of now, Tocilizumab is still a drug controlled by the district collector. The demand has gone up as we are yet to fulfill pending demand and the last stock that came in sufficed till September 15.”The ICMR on September 23 issued fresh guidelines stating that all criteria must be met before Tocilizumab is prescribed to any Covid-19 patient. The said criteria include presence of severe disease (preferably within 24 to 48 hours of the onset of severe disease/ICU admission), significantly raised inflammatory markers (CRP and/or IL-6), no improvement despite use of steroids, and no active bacterial/fungal/tubercular infection. The recommended single dose is 4 to 6 mg/kg (400 mg in an adult weighing 60kg) in 100 ml NS over 1 hour.As per ICMR’s latest guidelines issued on September 23, Tocilizumab (off-label) may be considered when all of the below criteria are met:1) Presence of severe disease (preferably within 24 to 48 hours of the onset of severe disease/ICU admission).2) Significantly raised inflammatory markers (CRP and/or IL-6).3) No improvement despite use of steroids.4) No active bacterial/fungal/tubercular infection.5) Recommended single dose: 4 to 6 mg/kg (400 mg in an adult weighing 60kg) in 100 ml NS over 1 hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-tocilizumab-stock-to-arrive-by-next-week-says-pune-fda-101632578478615.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan, Dombivli disabled residents, elders demand home vaccination||With no home vaccination drive happening in Kalyan-Dombivli, representatives of senior citizens association and disabled persons have raised the demand for the same to avoid going to the vaccination centres. They claimed that most of the people were vulnerable and might get infected going to the centres.“A friend who was 78-year-old was infected after the first dose when the cases in Kalyan-Dombivli were at their peak. He was hospitalised and succumbed to the infection. There are several such cases, making it important to start home vaccinations,” said Dattatray Marathe, president, senior citizen association, Lokgram, Kalyan (E).“We are ready to coordinate with the civic body and such beneficiaries who want to get the vaccine at their homes,” added Marathe.Sudhakar Yevatkar, a 45-year-old resident of Pisavli village in Kalyan who is suffering from kidney ailment and is disabled, claimed that he can’t go to the centre to take the dose.“Right now, I am not planning to take the vaccine because of my kidney ailment. However, if I want to go someday, I won’t go to the centre as it is very risky. I cannot walk to the centre and I am scared of getting infected in the crowd. There is no one to look after my family,” said Yevatkar, who runs a vegetable shop and looks after his wife and two children. He claimed that home vaccination would be beneficial to him.Mangesh Pawar, president of Swarajya Apang Sanstha, Kalyan, claimed that there are several disabled persons who are not willing to go out and get their doses.“Some are not able to walk while some others fear going to the centres. If the civic body can help them with home vaccine, it will be very convenient for such citizens,” said Pawar.Sayali Shinde, a 36-year-old disabled citizen from Kalyan who resides in Waldhuni, said, “I cannot walk and I live with my mother and a child. I have not taken my dose yet. I have not thought of going to the centre and taking the dose. I went through an operation on my leg and the treatment is on. Once I recover, I want to take the vaccine but I don’t want to go to the centre. It will be good if the dose is given at home.”The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) presently has vaccination facilities at its civic centres, private hospitals and also mobile facilities in some areas.Out of the 13 lakh eligible beneficiaries, the KDMC has so far vaccinated 7.15 lakh beneficiaries with the first dose and 3.35 lakh with the second. KDMC commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi, claimed that the civic body has plans to start with the home vaccination in the coming days.“We have plans to start with the home vaccination in slum areas in the initial stage and also include such cases of citizens who are not able to go to the centres and get the dose. There will be a proper process to identify such people who cannot go to the centre and get their dose. This will also include the bed-ridden citizens,” said Suryavanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-disabled-residents-elders-demand-home-vaccination-101632578361344.html
25-09-2021||Lucknow||Most of my work actually did happen during pandemic: Himanee Bhatia||After quitting a corporate job, Himanee Bhatia opted for a full-time acting career. She moved to Mumbai in 2019 but within a few months the lockdown was imposed. “I was like…is it a wise decision to leave behind a flourishing career and take a plunge into acting? As Paulo Coelho wrote in one of his books — ‘And, when you want something, all the universe conspires in helping you to achieve it’. This actually happened with me and most of my work has happened during pandemic,” says the young actor. Telling us more about her work she says, “I played a corporate consultant who interviews R Madhavan in the OTT series Decoupled, I did Zoya Akhtar’s series Eternally Confused and Eager for Love where I got to essay a negative role. I also played lead in an episode of the web show Jiggy Who besides, many other sketches. My short film Blink is also due to release soon.” Bhatia adds that after lockdown her hosting career picked up. “I hosted actors like Abhishek Banerjee, Namit Khanna, Akshara Pardasany and many more. In this period, I shot for two OTT series, short films and multiple sketches for leading YouTube channels,” she shares. Earlier, working as a risk and legal consultant with a multinational company Bhatia always wanted to explore more in life, she tells, “The day I got promoted I quit my job and this happened due to my short film Act Normal which deals with mental health. Since I strongly connected with the topic, I wrote the script and acted in it. It did quite well and reached to global audience.” Bhatia is a trained dancer and has been modelling since school days. “I won the college pageant We The Diva and started getting ads soon after. After quitting my job, I joined Akshara Theatre Group and did many plays as a lead. Then I started auditioning and landed into acting and anchoring projects. My first big assignment was season one of series Neighbour’s Kitchen.” Bhatia is currently penning her debut novel that will be a romantic comedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/most-of-my-work-actually-did-happen-during-pandemic-himanee-bhatia-101632578358354.html
25-09-2021||Other||Man arrested for allegedly killing minor brother-in-law in Jammu||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday arrested a man, who, they claimed, killed his minor brother-in-law, in Mendhar sub-division of Poonch district.A police officer said that on June 8 Mohammad Shariq, 14, of Gohlad was found dead in a pond after which inquest proceedings under section 174 Cr PC were initiated.“During the course of investigation victim’s parents also expressed their apprehensions of some foul play and suspected that their son might have been murdered. Some vital clues were also developed by us,” he added.“During the investigations, we found that Mohammad Shariq was murdered by his brother-in-law (sister’s husband) Mohammad Qasim, 30, son of Mohammad Sageer resident of Gohlad,” he said.“The accused Mohammad Qasim was allegedly having an extra-marital affair to which Mohammad Shariq objected. The young boy had asked Qasim to mend his ways, else he would expose him. The accused, instead of mending his ways, hit him with a blunt object on his head and threw him in a pond,” said the officer.The accused has been arrested and a case of murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered in Mendhar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-allegedly-killing-minor-brother-in-law-in-jammu-101632577999030.html
25-09-2021||Kolkata||Cyclone Gulab: West Bengal govt cancels leave of all state staff till October 5||The West Bengal government has cancelled the leaves of all state employees with immediate effect till October 5 owing to heavy rainfall alert in the state due to a deep depression in the Bay of Bengal, news agency ANI reported on Saturday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the deep depression will intensify into Cyclone Gulab, and pass through the coasts of south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh on Sunday evening.According to the latest IMD bulletin, light to moderate rainfall in several regions with heavy downpours in isolated places is very likely over the coastal areas of West Bengal. “Fishermen are advised not to venture into the northwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, and along and off the coast of Odisha, West Bengal and north Andhra Pradesh coasts till September 27,” the IMD bulletin stated.The MeT department has also issued a yellow alert around Kalingapatnam – Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, and Gopalpur in Odisha – from where Cyclone Gulab is expected to pass.Meanwhile, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) director-general Satya Pradhan announced on Twitter that as many as 13 teams – with 24 sub-teams, have been deployed in Andhra Pradesh and five others have been deployed in Odisha due to the cyclone alert.Also Read | Cyclone Gulab: Cabinet secretary holds meeting, 18 NDRF teams being deployedThe National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) headed by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba said that it has reviewed the preparedness of central agencies and state governments of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha to deal with the cyclone situation.Furthermore, besides NDRF teams, rescue teams of the Indian Army and Navy along with aircraft and ships have also been deployed in the aforementioned states in view of the cyclonic storm alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cyclone-gulab-west-bengal-govt-cancels-leave-of-all-state-staff-till-october-5-101632574746395.html
25-09-2021||Pune||3 officials of Warje police station suspended for security lapse as rape accused escapes custody||PUNE Three officials of Warje police station were suspended a week after a child sexual assault accused escaped from the police station in the small hours as one guard was asleep and two were absent on duty.The incident took place on September 20 (Monday).The three officials have been identified as Sambhaji Gaikwad, Mahesh Dhotre, and Vishal Kadam, according to the inquiry conducted by an assistant commissioner of police.“The scale of the guard duty is 3 for 1. So one of them was asleep on duty and two others were not present. So they are now under suspension. They get a fourth of their pay, a preliminary enquiry is initiated, and based on if the accusations are proved, the departmental proceedings will be initiated against them,” said deputy commissioner of police of Zone 3, Pornima Gaikwad.The accused man was arrested for allegedly raping a four-year-old girl and her mother had lodged a complaint against the man. He was arrested in a drunken state on September 19 after a search was launched for him and put in the evidence room at Warje Malwadi police station.He had walked out of the police station in the early hours of the next day, without any resistance, while the police on duty had dozed off.A case was registered against him under Section 224 of the Indian Penal Code.Gaikwad had ordered an inquiry in the incident to find out where the security lapse had been.However, the absence raised serious questions about the ignorance of the security protocol by the officials on duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3-officials-of-warje-police-station-suspended-for-security-lapse-as-rape-accused-escapes-custody-101632577758518.html
25-09-2021||Other||Firm staffer, two accomplices held for ₹35 lakh Ludhiana robbery||Ludhiana Hours after a gun-wielding man robbed two employees of a gold trading firm, Shankar Metals, of ₹35 lakh cash at Kismat Complex near Miller Ganj Chowk on Friday evening, police have arrested one of the staffers, Gagandeep Singh of Halwara, along with his brother-in-law and another accomplice for concocting a fake robbery. The money and a toy pistol have been recovered from the men’s possession. The second employee, Prince Singh, of Shivaji Nagar, has no involvement in the crime, police have said. The other two accused are Satnam Singh alias Sandy, 27, of Tapa of Barnala, and Sandeep Singh alias Seepa, 24, of Raikot. Sandy is brother-in-law (wife’s cousin) of Gagandeep. Ludhiana police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused had been hatching this robbery conspiracy for over 20 days.Gagandeep, a bouncer, had joined the firm in February and was employed to collect cash from business partners of the firm and deposit the money at the 5th floor of the complex.On Friday, according to the plan the three accused had hatched, Seepa followed Gagandeep and the other employee and before they could board the lift, he flashed a gun and Gagandeep, who has a licenced pistol with him, handed over the bag to him, without offering any resistance. They did not raise alarm or give a chase to the robber, who fled with his accomplice Satnam Singh, waiting outside the complex on a motorcycle.“The bouncer offering no resistance was suspicious. We rounded up Gagandeep and questioned him, following which he confessed to the crime. He led us to Sandeep, who was arrested from Raikot with ₹10 lakh and Sandy, of Dhilwan of Tapa of Barnala, was arrested with the rest ₹25 lakh,” the police commissioner added.“During questioning, the accused told police that they had met in a gym where Gagandeep had shared the details of his job, which involved dealing with huge amounts of cash. They hatched a conspiracy and rehearsed the sequence before executing the crime,” he added.A case under Sections 379-B (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms act has been registered against the accused at Division Number 6 police station. POLICE TO PROBE HAWALA ANGLE ALSOPolice commissioner Bhullar added they will also probe the Hawala angle in the transaction of huge amount. “Our first priority was detection of the crime and arrest of all the accused. Now, we will probe other angles,” he said.“We will inform the income tax department to ensure that no black money is involved in any of the transactions of the firm. To date, the firm owner Deepak Arora has not produced any document to authenticate the involvement of so much money,” he added.DESIRE TO GET RICH OVERNIGHT LED TO CRIMEPolice claim the three accused, who had no criminal record till yesterday, were fuelled by a desire to get rich overnight. Gagandeep had spent his childhood in Devigarh of Patiala in the house of his parental grandparents and studied there. He was a sports enthusiast and loved cycling in school. He dropped out after Class-12 and joined a gym, to later work as a bouncer. Satnam, alias Sandy, has a postgraduate degree and owns a gym in Raikot. Sandeep, alias Seepa, a school drop out, was a member at Sandy’s gym and was to pocket ₹10 lakh. Gagan and Sandeep were to pocket the rest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/firm-staffer-two-accomplices-held-for-35-lakh-ludhiana-robbery-101632577158508.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sangrur: Four vehicle thieves held, 17 motorcycles recovered||The Sangrur police on Saturday claimed to have recovered 17 motorcycles with the arrest of four vehicle thieves in two separate cases. Superintendent of police (investigation) Karanveer Singh said a team from the Sangrur City police station arrested Lalit Kumar, alias Lucky, of Malerkotla and recovered a bike, stolen from near BSNL Park, on Friday. Upon his interrogation, three more motorcycles were recovered and two men were nominated in the case registered under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. The duo has been identified as Tahir and Kasim, also of Malerkotla, to whom Lalit had sold stolen bikes. Nine more motorcycles, stolen from Sangrur, Malerkotla and Ludhiana, were recovered from them, said the SP.A team from the Sangrur Sadar police station arrested another vehicle thief on Friday, he said. The accused has been identified as Manpreet Singh of Ealwal village. His interrogation let to the recovery of four stolen motorcycles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangrurfour-vehicles-thieves-held-17-motorcycles-recovered-101632577098198.html
25-09-2021||Dehradun||Opposition expresses ‘serious concerns’ over Uttarakhand govt order on ‘demographic change’||Bharatiya Janata Party-led Uttarakhand government’s order to form district-level committees to check on “demographic changes” in certain areas has resulted in a political storm in the state ahead of the next year’s state assembly elections. Both the Opposition parties, Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), are now accusing the BJP of “communal politics” ahead of next year’s polls.In an official statement issued on Friday, the government “expressing serious concerns” over demographic changes in certain areas of Uttarakhand and “attempts being made to vitiate communal harmony in state”, stated that it had directed the state director general of police, all district magistrates and senior superintendents of police to constitute district-level committees, prepare a list of “outsiders” with criminal background involved in “illegal land deals.”The statement stated that “due to unprecedented rise in population in certain areas of the state, the demography of those areas has been majorly affected. And due to this demographic change, members of certain communities are forced to migrate from those areas. Also, there are possibilities that the communal harmony in those areas may be disturbed.”Congress party has expressed “serious concerns” over the government’s move. Its national general secretary and former chief minister Harish Rawat advocated a study on the “rate of population rise” to bring a solution to issues of illiteracy, malnourishment and others however, cautioned against “targetting a particular community under its garb.”“In the states of southern India, the rate of population growth is lower than the national one. But the rate is high in states where issues like illiteracy and malnourishment are more, especially in the poor class irrespective of the religion.”“If the government takes appropriate steps to control this, then we have no objection to that. But if it is done to target any particular community and area, then it is a matter of serious concern. And, if it is done to take some political benefit using the administration, then the seriousness of the matter increases more. We are against it,” said Rawat who is also the president of the party’s election campaign committee in the state. The AAP, which is the new entrant in the state assembly elections in Uttarakhand, meanwhile, accused the BJP of “working on the lines of Raj Thackeray’s Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS)”Party’s working president and a retired inspector general from Uttarakhand police, Anantram Chauhan, while attacking the government said, “The move is nothing but divisive politics by ruling BJP ahead of the upcoming assembly elections.”“Every citizen has a right to live anywhere in the country... It’s his fundamental right. But if the government is targeting one community with this move by terming them outsiders, it should remember that many people of Uttarakhand live in big cities like Delhi and Mumbai. With such a move, it is following the footsteps of MNS which does the politics of Maharashtrawad targetting people of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh which is not at all appreciable,” said Chauhan.Chauhan also blamed both BJP and Congress for the “misgovernance in the state for the last 21 years.”“If there is a situation where the crime has increased due to settling of criminal elements in the state, then for that only BJP and Congress is responsible which ruled the state by taking turns since its formation. It is all because of their misgovernance. Once, AAP comes to power, the situation will be improved,” said Chauhan adding that, “The move is completely election-centric.”Political experts too termed it a politically motivated step by the government ahead of assembly elections.“The order has been given by the government only months before the state assembly elections. It simply signifies that the BJP wants to take political benefit by playing the communal card on the party’s national agenda. It is being done to demonise one community and polarise the society before the polls,” said political analyst SMA Kazmi.The BJP, meanwhile, refuted the allegations and termed it a step needed for national security.“It is a good decision to identify outsiders and figure out what they are up to. This exercise is meant to ensure such elements are identified and unable to disturb the communal harmony of Dev-Bhoomi,” said party state vice president Devendra Bhasin.He added, “Also, the order is also for the people of other countries living illegally in Uttarakhand after getting forged voter ID cards and other government ID proofs. Being a border state, the step is a much needed one... It is not at all a political move.”............||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/opposition-expresses-serious-concerns-over-uttarakhand-govt-order-on-demographic-change-101632576739899.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers hold rallies ahead of Bharat Bandh||Farmers’ bodies in Sangrur and Barnala districts of Punjab are busy rallying locals in favour of the Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) to protest against the Centre’s three farm laws on September 27.In Sangrur, farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) took out a motorcycle rally from the grain market to Barnala chowk after passing through various markets of the town on Saturday.In Barnala, farmers led by SKM leaders covered 80 villages and met shopkeepers, labourers and commission agents to make the bandh successful.Balwant Singh Uppli, press secretary, BKU (Dakaunda), said the campaign has been running for the past three days and they have motivated people from all walks of life to join the protest on Monday. Farmers will block roads at 10 places in Barnala district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farmers-hold-rallies-ahead-of-bharat-bandh-101632576618671.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||66 new suspected dengue cases in Navi Mumbai; NMMC notifies hospitals to report on cases||In a week, more than 66 new suspected cases of dengue were detected in Navi Mumbai, taking the total suspected cases to 288. Till now, eight cases have tested positive, though none in the last one week.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has also sent a notification to all private hospitals, nursing homes and laboratories to report all epidemic cases to the local supervising authority to keep a tab of all suspected dengue and malaria cases in the city.The civic body has also warned in the notification that if they failed to report, appropriate action would be initiated under the Maharashtra Nursing Home Registration Act.Medical health officer, NMMC, Dr. Pramod Patil, said, “The increase in the number of suspected cases is a sign that we are monitoring every patient closely for the symptoms. Along with preventive measures, we are emphasising on timely reporting of the cases to give the right treatment at the right time.”NMMC has sent a Google sheet to all private hospitals, nursing homes and laboratories in the city to inform all monsoon-related water-borne and vector-borne diseases daily. “The Google sheet includes details of the patient and the diagnosis to help the civic body in knowing the daily trend and timely intervention can be taken,” Patil said.Of the 288 suspected dengue cases, 279 have been found to be negative and eight have been found to be positive, the highest since 2019. In 2019, till September, there were three positive cases out of the 147 suspected ones while in 2020, none were found positive from the 27 suspected cases.“When we get a suspected case, we get the samples and admit the patient first and then we conduct the antigen test. If the antigen test is positive, we send the samples ahead to NIV in Pune for confirmation. Once NIV confirms it, only then it is dengue,” NMMC assistant municipal commissioner, Sanjay Kakade, said.Fogging, introduction of guppy fishes into stagnant water bodies, spreading awareness, checking the breeding spots of mosquitoes and destroying them are all being taken up by the corporation to prevent the vector-borne diseases.“Residents should ensure that there is no stagnant water in their houses and report any kind of illness at the earliest without going for any over-the-counter treatment. If the treatment is delayed, the complications could increase,” Dr Patil said.Meanwhile, 20 have tested positive for malaria from the 62,497 samples checked. In a week, 2,177 people with symptoms of malaria were reported and checked, of which only one was found positive. In 2020, the dengue and malaria reporting was relatively less due to the pandemic and the majority of the staff being deployed for Covid duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/66-new-suspected-dengue-cases-in-navi-mumbai-nmmc-notifies-hospitals-to-report-on-cases-101632576198232.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Resilience building should be done at all levels, say experts||When two people suffer from the same kind of trauma, how does one cope with it faster and in a better way than the other? The reason is resilience. The importance of resilience-building was discussed in an online conference on Saturday where national and international experts dissected the link between trauma, addiction and suicides. “Resilience is the core aspect that helps one recover from trauma of any kind,” said senior psychiatrist Dr Avinash De Sousa who spoke at the event. “Resilience building should be done at all levels — for healthy individuals, for someone who is experiencing trauma and those who are already dabbling with psychiatric problems,” he said, emphasising the ways to build resilience, which include social support, optimism, self-belief, emotional awareness and a sense of humour. According to De Sousa, resilience is a fairly new concept that has been talked about for the past decade. He cited one definition of resilience as the capacity of the system to tolerate disturbance without collapsing, to withstand shock and to rebuild itself when necessary. He also cited the Mumbai train blasts in 2006 as an example of resilience. “The people in the city were back in the local trains the next day. It was a good example of community resilience,” he said. The two-day conference organised by the Indian Association of Private Psychiatry (IAPP) and Safe Space concludes on Sunday. President of IAPP Dr Anukant Mittal highlighted the strong connection between trauma, addiction and suicides. “People are finding newer methods to seek solace and seek escape from this world. This is worrying,” he said expressing concern about suicides among the youth as well as the geriatric population. According to Mittal, the Covid-19 pandemic has also worsened the scenario further, with many papers talking about the increase in suicides or the attempts among healthcare workers and mortuary staff who have been constantly exposed to the trauma of seeing a large number of deaths. “We need more people and personalities to talk about their plight, about how they were close to ending everything and what helped them cope,” he said adding that we should be signalled when anyone shows the signs of hopelessness, helplessness and worthlessness and make an intervention by starting a conversation. Saturday’s conference also saw equal rights activist Sheetal Bhan talking about her personal story and the journey towards healing. She highlighted the importance of therapy and how psychiatrists should be more open about referring to therapy before starting medication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resilience-building-should-be-done-at-all-levels-experts-101632576137483.html
25-09-2021||Pune||60-year-old woman duped of cash, jewellery with promise of gold in exchange in Chinchwad||PUNE: A 60-year-old woman was cheated into handing over cash and jewellery worth ₹49,500 by two women who pretended to sell her gold beads in exchange of cash in Chinchwad. The transaction happened around 12:30pm on Thursday in Chinchwad. The complainant realised that the women had handed her soil in a cloth packet instead of the promised gold. “The complainant is a cleaning worker and lives in Wakad. The women had covered their faces while speaking with her,” said sub-inspector Navnath Kudale of Chinchwad police station. The women approached the senior citizen while she was near the jewellery shop. One of them told her that the other woman had a lot of gold beads but she did not have any cash and needed the money in order to travel to Solapur, according to the complaint. The two then took the woman under a tree and offered her five tola (10 grammes) gold beads and asked her to hand over the gold she was wearing and some cash. The woman went to an ATM in Chinchwad and withdrew ₹19,500 in cash. To compensate for the 50 grammes gold that she was falsely promised by the two women, she gave her mangalsutra (necklace) worth ₹20,000 and gold earrings along with the cash. The women then handed over a bundle of clothes bound together to the complainant and told her that the gold beads were in it. After the women left, the complainant realised that the bundle had soil in it and not gold, according to her complaint. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chinchwad police station against the two unidentified women. In September 2020, two isolated incidents were recorded of similar nature - one with a 70-year-old victim in Sadashiv peth and another with a 65-year-old victim in Pulgate area. In both the cases, the women were approached by women who cited an emergency and offered lucrative deals in exchange for the complainant’s existing jewellery. While the 70-year-old gave away necklace worth ₹9,000, the 65-year-old a chain worth over ₹10,000. In January, a 39-year-old jeweller in Hadapsar lost gold and cash worth close to ₹50 lakh to tricksters who claimed that the sand they had would turn into gold upon heating. After handing over 4kg of such sand, the men took ₹30 lakh cash and close to 500 gramme gold from the jeweller and fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/60yearold-woman-duped-of-cash-jewellery-with-promise-of-gold-in-exchange-in-chinchwad-101632574998008.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Youth dies in accident on Ahmednagar road||PUNE A truck driver was arrested for causing the death of a 20-year-old biker after he took a sudden turn which caused the metal rods in his vehicle to hit the man and threw him off the vehicle and into oncoming traffic.The incident happened around 7am on Friday along the Ahmednagar road on the lane leading towards Pune.The deceased man’s mother had passed away in another road accident in Shirur four days before his death.He has been identified as Sagar Shankar Waghmare (20), a resident of Khulewadi, Chandan nagar.The arrested truck driver has been identified as Ramesh Nandkumar Sathe (24), a resident of the Sutarwadi road, Pashan. He was produced in court and granted bail.“He was a labourer and was going to work. The rods hit him hard and he fell on the road,” said police sub-inspector Shrikant Temgire of Lonikand police station who is investigating the case“His mother passed away in an accident four days before his accident and his father was in the same accident and is in a serious medical condition. His younger sister was also injured in the same accident but has been discharged,” said Temgire.“The truck driver was hauling the metal rods to a shop where they were to be unloaded and tried to mount his vehicle onto a divider on the road to take a right turn,” said Temgire.The truck driver did not use an indicator to make the turn while Waghmare was on a two-wheeler just behind the truck, according to the police.A case under Sections 304(a), 337, 338 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered against Sathe at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/youth-dies-in-accident-on-ahmednagar-road-101632574457856.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||NMMC to take responsibility of maintaining streetlights on Sion-Panvel Highway in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to take over the maintenance of streetlights on the busy highway in their jurisdiction (from Vashi toll naka to CBD Belapur) from the state Public Works Department (PWD).According to the traffic officials, nearly two lakh vehicles ply on the Sion-Panvel Highway every day. However, defunct streetlights have been a major problem on this road. The PWD had long been requesting the NMMC to take care of the streetlights in their jurisdiction.Sanjay Desai, city engineer of NMMC, said, “In a recent meeting with the PWD officials, we confirmed that we will take over the maintenance of streetlights on the highway between Vashi and Belapur. However, several streetlights are not working on that stretch at present. It has not been decided who will take care of that pending work. A decision in that regard will also be taken soon and then we will take full responsibility for the streetlights.”Another senior NMMC officer said that the civic body had asked for the advertisement rights from PWD on that stretch in return for the maintenance of the streetlights. However, PWD refused to give that.A PWD officer from Navi Mumbai said that all formalities of transferring the responsibility of the streetlights to NMMC will be completed by next month.“We have also asked the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to take over the maintenance of the streetlights in their jurisdiction (from Kharghar to Panvel). However, it has not responded yet,” the officer said.GK More, 55, a resident of Sanpada, said, “It is very risky to drive there at night as the streetlights are not working at several places. We hope that the NMMC will change the scenario now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmmc-to-take-responsibility-of-maintaining-streetlights-on-sion-panvel-highway-in-navi-mumbai-101632572777537.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Dilip Chhabria’s son arrested in cheating case lodged by Kapil Sharma||The criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch has arrested car designer Dilip Chhabria’s son Bonito in connection with the cheating case registered by comedian Kapil Sharma in January this year.Sharma claimed that he had paid ₹5.3 crore to Dilip Chhabria Designs Private Limited for designing a vanity van for him. The firm, however, did not deliver the van.A senior crime branch officer said, “Bonito was arrested around 10:45pm on Friday from MIDC area in Andheri (East).”“We have registered a first information report (FIR) against Dilip Chhabria, his son Bonito and others in January after Sharma alleged that Chhabria had allegedly cheated him of V5.3 crore,” said the officer. The CIU will produce Bonito in a metropolitan magistrate court on Saturday.In his statement, recorded by CIU, on January 7 Sharma said that he had approached Chhabria to design a vanity van in 2017 and paid ₹5.30 crore to him between May 2017 and May 2018, but when he found that there was no progress on his order, he approached Chhabria in July 2018 again. Chhabria allegedly demanded ₹40 lakh more towards GST (goods and service tax) and Sharma had paid the said amount in July 2018. However, after a few months, there was still no progress. Sharma then asked refund of his money. Chhabria then promised to deliver the van but asked for an additional sum of ₹60 lakh. Sharma then approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in 2019, following which, NCLT froze Chhabria’s account, said a police officer. Chhabria sent Sharma a bill of around ₹12 lakh for parking the vehicle and keeping spare parts in the factory premises. After receiving the bill, Sharma approached Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) and lodged a complaint.Sharma also approached CIU. His statement was recorded and an FIR was registered under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against Dilip Chhabria, his son Bonito and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dilip-chhabria-s-son-arrested-in-cheating-case-lodged-by-kapil-sharma-101632572657444.html
25-09-2021||Other||Akhada Parishad to hold key meeting next month, discussion on next chief likely||Shodashi rituals of late Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) chief Mahant Narendra Giri will take place at his Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on October 5. The rituals take place on the 16th day after the demise of a saint. A day or two before that a meeting of the Akhada Parishad, the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country, would also be held at the Math where a discussion on choosing the next head of the ABAP is expected to take place, top seers of the Akhada Parishad indicated. The date of this meeting will be finalised soon, they added.The ABAP chief’s post is lying vacant after the death of Mahant Narendra Giri. He was found dead inside a room at Baghambari Gaddi Math on September 20. The CBI is probing his death.“The general consensus among the representatives of the 13 monastic orders is that the meeting of the ABAP be held on October 3 or October 5, just before the 16th-day rituals of the Mahant’s death,” said a senior seer privy to the matter.ABAP’s meetings in Prayagraj usually have been held at Baghambari Math premises for the past many years but the next meeting will not be taking place here as most seers believe that no such event should be conducted in the Math before the Shodashi rituals. The next meeting of ABAP could be held either at Shri Panchayati Akhada’s Manahirwani Ashram at Daraganj or Shri Panchayati Udaseen Akhada premises at Kydganj (both in Prayagraj), the seer said.ABAP general secretary and Juna Akhada patron Swami Hari Giri said, “Plans are afoot to hold a meeting of ABAP before the Shodashi rituals of Mahant Narendra Giri. Many important points are up for discussion,” he said. Mahant Narendra Giri was elected ABAP president in 2014 soon after the Kumbh-2013 on the banks of the Sangam. It was during his tenure as the Akhada Parishad chief that the Kumbh-2019 was held in a grand manner. Narendra Giri was re-elected to the post in October 2019 during a meeting in Haridwar.After the untimely demise of Mahant Narendra Giri, most saints want a new ABAP chief to be elected on priority as preparations for Kumbh-2025 in Prayagraj need to start at least two-three years in advance. The senior saints at the ABAP meeting would need to take a call on whether to appoint a new Akhada Parishad chief from Prayagraj or go for a saint from some other district or state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akhada-parishad-to-hold-key-meeting-next-month-discussion-on-next-chief-likely-101632572599038.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||NMMC to replace 25-year-old old electric poles with new ones across Navi Mumbai||In view of the multiple electric poles falling during the rainy season, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has started replacing them with new poles.The NMMC has decided to replace almost 70% of the electric poles across the city in this drive, spending ₹18Cr for the same.A senior officer from the NMMC electrical department said, “The old electrical poles were made of mild steel (MS) and those were installed by the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) around 25 years ago. We are now replacing those poles with the new ones which are made of galvanized iron (GI). These poles are stronger than the old ones.“Our work is now under way in Vashi, Koparkhairane, Belapur, Airoli and other places. We are replacing more than 5,000 electric poles in this drive and we hope to finish the work within a month. We are not replacing 30% electric poles as those are made of galvanized iron (GI) and we installed them 10 to 15 years ago.”It may be recalled that a 35-year-old biker died after an electric pole fell on him on Palm Beach Road in Sanpada on May 16. “That pole fell due to strong wind causing the death of the biker who was passing by that area,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmmc-to-replace-25-year-old-old-electric-poles-with-new-ones-across-navi-mumbai-101632571042138.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||4 Thane civic engineers suspended for potholed roads||Four civic engineers with the Thane Municipal Corporation have been held responsible for bad roads in the city and suspended by the Thane civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma. Sharma ruled that the four allegedly neglected the work of filling potholes and also ignored the shoddy work by the contractor. The four engineers include Uthalsar ward executive engineer Chetan Patel, junior engineer Prakash Kadtare from Vartak Nagar ward, junior engineer Sandeep Sawant and Sandeep Gaikwad from Lokmanya Sawarkar Nagar ward. The decision was taken following a survey of city roads by guardian minister Eknath Shinde on Friday. Shinde had given directives to the civic chief to take action against the concerned officials. Shinde had claimed that the road work is substandard, despite paying the contractors the condition is pathetic for which the government is blamed. “The officials who have ignored this substandard road repair works should be suspended,” he said. Sharma issued the orders of suspending the four and taking disciplinary action against them on Saturday morning. A civic officer said, “As per the directives of the commissioner, we have suspended the four. We will also soon start issuing notices to the contractors which are responsible for the roads which developed craters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-thane-civic-engineers-suspended-for-potholed-roads-101632570139052.html
25-09-2021||Jaipur||REET 2021: Mobile internet, SMS, social media to be suspended in these districts of Rajasthan; check timings||Mobile internet services, bulk SMS/MMS and other social media platforms will be temporarily suspended in several districts of Rajasthan from 6 am to 6 pm on Sunday, September 26, in view of the Rajasthan Eligibility Exam for Teachers (REET) 2021 to be held on the same day, the state government announced on Saturday. The districts include Ajmer, Alwar, Dausa, Jhunjhunu and Jaipur rural.“Internet services, bulk SMS/MMS/Whatsapp, Facebook, Twitter and other social media by Internet Service Providers (except for voice call of landline, mobile phone, and landline broadband, lease line data) to be suspended in Ajmer district from 6am to 6pm on September 26 in the wake of REET exam,” said Ajmer district magistrate earlier today. Rajasthan | Mobile internet services, bulk SMS/MMS and other social media by Internet Service Providers (except for voice call of landline, mobile phone, & landline broadband) to be suspended in Ajmer district from 6am to 6pm on September 26 in the wake of REET exam pic.twitter.com/uRHLKQqbcqEarlier on Friday, the Rajasthan Police arrested four members of a gang with ₹5.60 lakh in cash for an alleged bid to make dummy candidates appear for REET 2021. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who reviewed the preparations for the aforesaid exam, also issued a warning for state government personnel against helping candidates cheat. He also approved the withdrawal of affiliation and recognition of private institutes if any of their staff is caught facilitating cheating.Notably, the Rajasthan government announced free travel facilities to all candidates appearing for REET 2021. State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said that all roadways buses will be available free-of-cost for travel of the candidates.REET 2021 is being conducted to recruit 31,000 Grade 3 teachers in the state. The REET admit card was released by the Board on September 17, 2021. The exam was earlier scheduled for June 20 but was postponed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/reet-2021-mobile-internet-sms-social-media-to-be-suspended-in-ajmer-on-sunday-check-timings-101632567790063.html
25-09-2021||Other||As Odisha boat capsize toll rises to 2, govt says SOPs to be revised||The body of diver Sitaram Murmu was on Saturday found kilometres away from Friday’s Odisha boat capsize scene, taking the toll from the tragedy to two. Murmu was missing since the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) boat carrying four of his colleagues and two journalists overturned in the Mahanadi river while trying to rescue a stranded elephant from the middle of the riverbank. Arindam Das, one of the journalists covering the rescue, drowned. His colleague, cameraman Prabhat Sinha, who was rescued, is recovering at a local hospital. The state government on Saturday announced ₹4 lakh compensation for Das’s family.After the abortive rescue operation, the Odisha government said the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for such operations by ODRAF will be reviewed.In a tweet, Odisha State Disaster Management Authority managing director Pradeep Jena said he has requested the police chief to review the SOPs. ODRAF members are drawn from the Odisha Police.“No outsider, civilian or media should be part of any rescue mission,” Jena tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-odisha-boat-capsize-toll-rises-to-2-govt-says-sops-to-be-revised-101632569178129.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Dombivli sexual assault case: WhatsApp group under police scanner||A WhatsApp group that the Dombivli gangrape survivor and some of the accused were part of has come under the scanner of the Manpada police after an obscene video of the survivor was allegedly posted on this group earlier this year, officials said. The survivor registered a case on Wednesday night, wherein a total of 33 young men eventually came to be named as accused, alleging intimidation, blackmail and prolonged sexual abuse from January to September this year. The police have so far arrested 27 accused and also sent two more, who are minors, to the juvenile remand home in Bhiwandi.According to people familiar with the matter, the survivor, in her statement, has said that one of the accused posted her obscene video on the group when she refused to meet him in May this year.“Ever since they got access to the video recorded in January, in which the main accused was sexually assaulting the victim, the accused had repeatedly been calling the victim. They would ask her to come to various locations, where several of them would force themselves on her. On May 16, one of them called her up and made a similar demand. When she refused, he posted her video and the main accused on a WhatsApp group named ‘Friends’, of which the victim was also a member,” an officer with the Manpada police said.The survivor has said in her statement that action had the desired effect and she agreed to meet the accused. Subsequently, he picked her up from near her residence on his motorbike and took her to Rabale in Navi Mumbai, where she was allegedly forced to drink alcohol and was sexually assaulted by seven of the accused. The survivor has said that after this instance, she became so unwell that she had to be admitted to the hospital and given a saline drip.The police have obtained details of all the members of the WhatsApp group in question. They will be making inquiries with other members of the group as well as the group administrator to find out if any of them, other than the accused, knew the survivor’s plight, people cited above said.The officer said that the survivor had refused to meet the accused on this particular occasion because earlier in the same month, they had forcibly restrained her for nearly an entire day, leading to her parents filing a Missing Person’s Complaint.“The survivor was finding it increasingly difficult to come up with convincing lies to explain her frequent absences from home, and at the same time was terrified of the videos being made public if she did not bow down to the demands of the accused,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dombivli-sexual-assault-case-whatsapp-group-under-police-scanner-101632568637553.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||TMC chief suspends 4 civic engineers for bad roads, potholes in Thane||Four civic engineers with the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) have been held responsible for bad roads in the city and suspended by the civic commissioner, Dr. Vipin Sharma. A task force of all the planning authorities under Thane District Collector will also be formed to resolve the issue of potholes and traffic. Sharma ruled that the four allegedly neglected the work of filing potholes and also ignored the shoddy work by the contractor. The four engineers include Uthalsar ward executive engineer Chetan Patel, junior engineer Prakash Kadtare from Vartak Nagar ward, junior engineer Sandeep Sawant and Sandeep Gaikwad from Lokmanya Sawarkar Nagar ward. The decision was taken following a survey of city roads by the Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde, on Friday and Saturday. Shinde had given directives to the civic chief to take action against the concerned officials. Shinde had claimed that the road work was substandard and that despite paying the contractors, the condition was pathetic for which the blame went to the government. “The officials who have ignored this substandard road repair works should be suspended,” he said. Sharma issued the orders of suspending the four and taking disciplinary action against them on Saturday morning. A civic officer said, “As per the directives of the commissioner, we have suspended the four. We will also soon start issuing notices to the contractors who are responsible for the roads that developed craters.” Since the start of this week, motorists had to endure a nightmarish commute due to roads across the city riddled with huge craters. On Tuesday evening, a 23-year-old Mumbra resident died after skidding on a bad stretch along Ghodbunder Road. Shinde said, “Parking lots will be made available at the outskirts of the city to park the heavy vehicles that enter the city during the day. Also, a task force of all the planning authorities in MMR region along with the PWD and MMRDA officials will be formed under Thane Collector to work to find solutions for pothole-free roads.”Mahesh Singh, 19, who resides in Kharkar Ali, Thane, said, “Not just the roads in the city but the highways connecting the nearby cities too are riddled with potholes. The flyovers are in pathetic condition. While the Thane civic body was prompt in taking action against the civic officials, the other planning authorities too should fix responsibility to avoid such shoddy work every monsoon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tmc-chief-suspends-4-civic-engineers-for-bad-roads-potholes-in-thane-101632568586009.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||COEP’s Saiprasad Poyarekar wins first prize at AKIIC-2021A “Skin Spray Gun” device, conceived, designed, and developed at College of Engineering, Pune, won the first prize at the APJ Abdul Kalam International Innovation Conclave 2021 (AKIIC-2021).The conclave was hosted by Chandigarh University in association with the Department of Science & Technology, Government of India, on September 3 and 4. It saw participation of 5,000 participants from 30 countries.Saiprasad Poyarekar won first position for his innovative idea of the skin spray gun which helps in rapid healing of wounds using patient’s own skin. Poyarekar is a research associate from the Biomedical Engineering and Technology Incubation Centre (BETiC) of COEP at the Department of Manufacturing Engineering and Industrial Management.His work on the innovation, titled, “An Epidermal Suspension Spray Device - A device to Spray Skin-Pieces (Skin Gun)” was under the guidance of Dr Nikhil Panse, plastic surgeon, BJ Medical College, Pune; Dr Sandip Anasane and Dr B. B. Ahuja. Thereafter the researcher started his startup “Pacify Medical Technology.”The said device was designed and developed at BETiC, COEP. A patent has been filled and published for the said innovation and is under examination. ‘Building Blocks of Bharat’ conference to push defence manufacturingThe Hindu Economic Forum has organised a conference, “Building Blocks of Bharat”. The conference will delve into the Indian Defence Market with special focus on opportunities for medium, small and micro enterprises (MSME) and small businesses. The event has been organised at the Navalmal Firodiya Auditorium, physiotherapy department, Fergusson College, Shivajinagar. The inaugural session is scheduled at 9am on September 26. The Indian government has set the defence production target at US $25 billion by 2025, including US $ 5 billion from exports by 2025. This has opened up a massive opportunity for MSMEs in India. HEF will be hosting a panel of experts. Register on https://utsav.vayam.app/Hindu-Economic-Forum Rajinder Bhatia, president and CEO, Kalyani Group; Kashinath Deodhar, honorary vice-president of Western Maharashtra unit of Vijnana Bharati and Rakesh Mehta, founder director of Bitmapper Integration Technologies will be speakers at the conference. MoEVing and Piaggio collaborate for EV procurement Piaggio Vehicles has partnered with MoEVing company to accelerate EV adoption in India. MoEVing will immediately deploy 130 Ape’ E-Xtra FX Cargo from Piaggio vehicles in their fleet.In addition to this, MoEVing aims to add a total of 500 Piaggio Ape’ E-Xtra FX to the existing fleet by 2022. Through an integrated approach of demand aggregation, supply optimisation, and connected charging infrastructure for various applications including ecommerce, the partnership will accelerate the adoption of electric 3-wheelers in India in the last mile transportation segment.Saju Nair, EVP-CV Business, Piaggio Vehicles said, “With the FX range of electric vehicles, Ape’ is paving the way for the Indian electric revolution. Through the partnership with MoEVing we will further amplify our efforts towards creating affordable and sustainable last-mile connectivity solutions in goods movement space.”Vikash Mishra, founder of MoEVing, said, “Product quality and lower cost of operation on a daily basis is an extremely important component that Piaggio’s Ape’ E-Xtra model brings to the table. We aim to deploy these vehicles across the country with various e-commerce players for last mile order delivery.”BrainGymJr raises funds in angel roundSubscription-based Edtech platform BrainGymJr has launched fully automated portal for children between age 5-11 years. The launch comes soon after the Mumbai-based company raised Rs2.5 crore in its angel round in July 2021.BrainGymJr is backed by 10 prominent founders, angel investors and HNIs in India including Ashok Bhavnani (Sapiens, ex Ibexi), Rajiv Dadlani (Consort capital, Investor in Wellness Forever) and Shankar Nath (Junio, ex-Paytm).Vidur Garg, founder of BrainGymJr, said, “Our motto at BrainGymJr is to teach children how to think. We believe in the power of building a strong foundation of logic, reasoning and critical thinking in early years. Through our exercises on BrainGymJr we want to make learning and application a daily habit for children. We want the entire experience to be fun and engaging. We are thrilled to have like-minded investors supporting us.”Rajiv Dadlani said, “BrainGymJr has a universal offering aimed at making children smarter by actually applying concepts learned in school. The fun formats, daily nudges and rewards keep children engaged while creating discipline. Armed with a great product that comes with a fresh approach to learning, the team is well poised to scale the BrainGymJr platform across geographies.”CSIR-NCL and RIL join hands to make products from PPE wasteCSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), Pune, jointly with Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) and several other companies from Pune have achieved a breakthrough to manufacture useful moulded plastic components from PPE waste.In a proof-of-concept study, CSIR-NCL team successfully demonstrated the lab-scale manufacture of moulded automotive products from the decontaminated PPE plastic waste (at Niky Precision Engineers, Pune) by leveraging the existing recycling infrastructure available in Indian cities.CSIR-NCL and RIL have now signed an MoU to scale the production, laying a path to take the concept to the national level. A pilot scale of 100kg in Pune city area was successfully implemented by collaborating with Pune-based companies, viz. APPL Industries Limited, SKYi Composites, Harsh Deep Agro Products, Urmila Polymers, Jai Hind Autotech, who produced value-added products. The feed material (PPE kits) was collected and decontaminated by Passco Environmental Solutions, a waste management company located in Pune. CSIR-NCL secured all regulatory approvals needed from Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to complete this pilot trial.The technical journey of CSIR-NCL, aided by Reliance and CSIR-Indian Institute of Petroleum (CSIR-IIP) Dehradun, with funding from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, mainly involved converting the decontaminated PPE waste (mainly comprising PPE suits/overalls) into an easily processable and upcycled agglomerated form (pellets or granules). It was ensured that the polymer pellets show the right attributes necessary for successful conversion to produce non-food applications, including high-performance automotive components.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101632568576817.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests brother of Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend in drugs case||The Mumbai unit of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), along with their Goa counterparts, arrested Agisilaos Demetriades, brother of Bollywood actor Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend, in a drugs case.The agency has seized small quantity of charas from him, which was meant for personal consumption. A local court sent him to judicial custody, the agency said on Saturday. The central anti-narcotics agency’s Mumbai and Goa units are jointly carrying out aggressive operations in Goa for last two days. “During the drive, the NCB made three NDPS cases, involving different drugs like charas, LSD, MDMA/ecstasy and arrested four peddlers. Agisilaos’s arrest is in connection with one of the three cases. Small quantity of Hashish (charas) has been found from his house in Pernem, north Goa, on Friday. He was produced in a local court that remanded him to 14-days judicial custody,” said Sameer Wankhede, zonal director, NCB Mumbai.This is the third NDPS case against Agisilaos. Earlier, the South African national was booked in two cases. One case is connected to the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput ,while another is related to Kshitij Prasad, former executive producer of Dharmatic Entertainment, who was arrested last year by NCB in a case involving recovery of cocaine from a Nigerian national in Mumbai, Wankhede added.Rampal was, too, questioned twice in December last year by NCB in a drug-related case that has seen several Bollywood names crop up.“I’m as shocked and taken aback as you are with this latest development today. It’s unfortunate that my name is being unnecessarily dragged in every publication though I have no association whatsoever. As far as my family and I are concerned, my direct family and I are law-abiding citizens. And while the incident involves a person who is a relative of my partner, I have no other connection or relationship other than that with this person. I request the media to not make headlines using my name as we are NOT related and this is causing hurt and confusion for my own family and the people I have a professional relationship with. I have faith in our legal system and whoever is on the wrong side on the law, should be treated as the judiciary deems fit. My trust is in the system in these matters. Let the law take its course and kindly refrain from attaching my partner’s and my name to something we have nothing to do with. I appreciate all your support and humbly request you to be honest and sensitive in this regard,” said Rampal in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-brother-of-arjun-rampal-s-girlfriend-in-drugs-case-101632568336965.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Pune Startup Mantra: 4Fin has raised $1.1 million in pre-seed round||PUNE A startup that has not yet launched has effectively, not started-up. Yes, 4Fin has raised $1.1 million in pre-seed round through Curesense Therapeutics, investors behind biotech company Mylab. Yes, 4Fin founders Ajit Sinha and Amit Tewary, both senior former bankers, are more than aware of what it takes to be “profitable” in the lending space. Yes, 4Fin is based in Pune.But, the CTO of this credit-embedded marketplace cannot be named till October, which is when the 4Fin service goes ‘live’. All we can reveal is this developer,; as per Sinha and Tewary, has created financial tech solutions for banks in 15 countries.The fintech space in India, like 4Fin, is just kicking off, at least in terms of moving the market place online.Traditional bankers still rule the lending space, especially at the lower end of the fiscal food chain.Any one of these phrases by the founders of 4Fin might seem like the hundreds of “spam” messages that flood our inboxes every day: “Accessibility of loans for customers at affordable rates”; “capability of disbursing the loan the same day”; and of course, “very, very high probability of getting a loan”.“We are into bottom-line lending, but volume-wise we want to be top-line,” is the first line of the chorus, followed by, “A credit-embedded marketplace for all your crucial needs in life”.The line that underpins all the above is: “Lending is not about giving money, but is all about collection”.The marketAs per 4Fin data, there are 500 million smart phone users in India and 620 million internet users Household debt to GDP ratio in India is at 37 per cent. The corresponding figure for the US is 80 per cent, Malaysia is 76 per cent and China is 62 per cent.The industry size, banking with a specific intent on lending, is at $612 billion with an 18 per cent growth rate. As much as 73 per cent of small-ticket loans originate outside Tier 1 cities.Given that startups like Capital Float (Bengaluru), MoneyOnClick (Bengaluru) and Rupify (Bengaluru) are already in the space, what would distinguish 4Fin from the rest?The 4Fin pitchFirst and foremost is “omni-channel access for any kind of support,” says co-founder Sinha. “It’s never a fixed model like conventional banking. Since, we have to do the loans fast, we rely lot on data. We will be very agile and robust.”Lending is easy, collection is toughDecades of experience in lending has provided great learning to the duo, who agree that lending is easy, but collection is tough. Says Sinha, “As a lender, I have to assess the market, dealers, manufacturers and risk is involved when you give money as working capital. Lending is not about giving money, but is all about collection. Either you recover the money or the asset. So, the value of the asset should be at least equal to the outstanding amount.”Says Tewary, “Lending keeps changing every decade. A lot of changes have happened after Covid-19. The advantage of using fintech was there pre-Covid, but now its necessity has increased multi-fold. Customer acquisition has become easier due to online transactions. This change is rapid. However, customer care has taken a hit.”4FIN – loan in a few hours4Fin focusses on facilitating small loans to support expenses for health, education, electric two-wheelers among other basic necessities. 4Fin aims to make finance more accessible in Bharat (semi-urban and rural parts of India), offer personalised loan products and support its customers with its model of ‘4Fin Mitras’, designed to act as social-driven customer care.4Fin has developed an in-house loan origination system, loan management system, debt services management, artificial intelligence-based algorithms for credit assessment and e-stacks for end-to-end automated processing. These solutions reduce turnaround time for approval and disbursal of loans, facilitating faster decision making and ensuring accessibility of loans for customers at affordable rates.Says Sinha, “There can be genuine people whose credit history might have been affected due to some delayed monthly instalment payments in the past, and they may be unable to get loans from banks. Through our platform we will do a real matching. So, any customer coming to our platform will have a very, very high probability of getting a loan. We will give the best possible two or three offers, which a customer has the option of selecting. We have developed kind of tech stack that gives us the capability of disbursing the loan the same day.”The Mitra effect4Fin founders believe that customer support will be a big differentiator in the lending space and hence, they have decided to onboard 4Fin ‘Mitras’ (friend). It will be the “Uberisation” of trusted service providers on a freelance model. The Mitras will be connected through an app and upon query or request the nearest Mitra will reach the respective customer.Says Tewary, “A big challenge in any online mode of business is that people feel lost in the customer care segment. Opening branches is a very expensive process for customer service. Hence, we are on-boarding ‘Mitras’ who, along with the technology team, will provide customer support. We will give the requisite training to the Mitras and they will be working with us on a case-to-case basis. They will be paid on a contractual basis and hence, will not be an economic burden. At the same time, it will solve all problems on the customer side. We are giving our customers an omni-channel access for any kind of support.”Credit-embedded marketplaceA 4Fin app and virtual and real credit cards are in the offing, claims the founders. “We are creating a credit-embedded marketplace for some critical products in areas like education, health and electric vehicles. We will not go into the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) space. At present, we are doing lot of tie-ups and hence, possibly, we can offer our customers the best rates (discounts and lower interest rates) for electric two- wheelers from a particular company. Our range of lending will be from Rs50,000 to Rs5 lakh. Most expenses for any individual are covered in this range. We are into bottom-line lending, but volume-wise we want to be top-line,” they stated. Oh, the “heartfulness” factorAjit Sinha and Amit Tewary, both senior former bankers with rich experience in wheels and inventory funding; and retail lending respectively, founded 4Fin in July 2021. Sinha came to Pune in 1998 for his MBA education and met Tewary in 2008 when they were working as colleagues in a bank. Says Tewary, “I was heading the rest of Maharashtra region for retail lending, while Sinha was heading Western India for the wheels division. After a few years Sinha started his own consultancy and mentored many organisations, while I drifted more towards fintech. We both followed a meditation practice called “heartfulness” which kept us connected. We regularly interacted about the potential in the fintech space and decided to start 4Fin.”“Two more co-founders (names withheld) are joining soon,” Tewary added. Says Amit, “We want to reach out to the people. Beyond the top 25 cities of India, almost all regions are unbanked. However, generation of a lead does not necessarily mean we will be giving loan. Defaulting on loans is our problem (not the Mitras problem). 4Fin Mitras will get money on the transaction while the portfolio behaviour is our concern. Initially we are moving with our EV dealer partners and hence, dealers will be our Mitras. Our products will stabilise phase-wise till January or February 2022.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-startup-mantra-4fin-has-raised-1-1-million-in-pre-seed-round-101632568216971.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||24 tigers were killed in Maharashtra in last 3 years||Nagpur takes pride in being called the Tiger Capital of India but the big cats are seemingly not safe in the five tiger projects in Maharashtra’s Vidarbha region. As per state wildlife department, 24 tigers and 57 leopards have been killed since 2018, mostly in acts of poaching. Abhay Kolarkar, the RTI activist, who sought the details from Maharashtra wildlife wing, said 20 out of the 24 tigers and 45 out of the 57 leopards were poached in the state since January 2018. All these tiger deaths, including those poached, have been in the Vidarbha region. Five out of the state’s six tiger projects in Maharashtra are in Vidarbha region. They are Melghat (Amravati), Tadoba (Chandrapur), Pench (Nagpur), Bor (Wardha) and Navegaon-Nagzira (Bhandara). Sahyadri is Maharashtra’s only tiger project outside of Vidarbha and is spread over Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Ratnagiri districts. As per the RTI response, 15 out of 24 tiger deaths were reported between January 2020 and September 8, 2021, indicating that the Covid-19 induced nationwide lockdown, beginning March 2020, and subsequent restrictions might have aided in the poaching activity.Maximum of the poached tigers were from Chandrapur district, home to the famous Tadoba tiger sanctuary. Of these, four each were reported in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) division and Bramhapuri forest division and three in Umred-Karhandla Tiger Reserve.All the 57 leopards were killed between January 2018 and September 3, 2021 in various parts of Maharashtra. Of these, 45 were poached, and there was a seizure of leopard skin in one case. The Maharashtra wildlife warden and principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Sunil Limiye said the department was committed to tiger conservation and these incidents were a setback. “We are strengthening our vigil and additional steps will be taken to make sure that we protect the tigers and leopards in all the tiger reserves of the state,” he said. Maharashtra has the fifth largest tiger population in the country. In the last tiger census conducted in 2018, as many as 312 tigers were spotted in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/24-tigers-were-killed-in-maharashtra-in-last-3-years-101632567916935.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Monsoon diseases: Leptospirosis has killed more people than malaria and dengue in six years in Mumbai||Leptospirosis — a bacterial disease that spreads through the urine of infected animals such as rats and cattle — has emerged as the biggest killer among monsoon diseases. Data gathered from the civic body shows that 70 people have succumbed due to leptospirosis over the past six years. In comparison, dengue, a mosquito-borne disease, has killed 55 people and malaria has killed 38 people during the same period. The leptospirosis infection is caused by bacteria leptospira that can enter the human body through cuts, abrasions or open wounds. The cases of leptospirosis are typically during monsoon and after flooding events, when people are forced to wade through water. However, doctors say that a few sporadic cases are reported throughout the year from areas with overflowing sewers, water accumulation, and a general lack of cleanliness. Since 2015, the city has recorded 1,576 cases of leptospirosis, according to civic data. However, this data captures patients who were admitted only in the civic-run hospitals. A large number of patients could be treated in private hospitals and on an outpatient department basis as well. “Mortality in leptospirosis is generally seen when patients seek medical advice very late,” said Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine at the state-run JJ Hospital. “One of the severe impacts of leptospirosis is swelling in the liver, which may worsen in cases of late diagnosis. Also, patients with existing comorbidities can have a severe impact,” he said adding that since June this year, he has treated around 40 patients with leptospirosis. Once confirmed with the infection, patients are treated with the antibiotic drug doxycycline. The civic body also advises taking the drug as a prophylactic if someone has waded through floodwater. “But there is absolutely no awareness about it among the people,” said Shaikh. “Many patients who come to us have no clue about what leptospirosis is. There is a dire need for awareness in the communities,” he said. Physician Dr Gautam Bhansali said that leptospirosis also becomes fatal in cases where patients have extremely low platelet count, which puts them at the risk of bleeding. “Due to Covid, patients are seeking medical help as soon as they develop symptoms like fever. It has helped in early diagnosis of other diseases like leptospirosis,” he said. Bhansali has seen four cases of leptospirosis this monsoon season. The pediatric department of civic-run LTMG Hospital in Sion which caters to people from Dharavi and nearby areas has seen a spurt in cases this year. In 2020, the department had recorded 43 leptospirosis cases in all. This year, the number has touched 62, three months before the year-end. The department has also recorded six leptospirosis deaths among children this year. “The children that we lost were all brought in extremely late to the hospital,” said Dr Radha Gulati Ghildiyal, head of the paediatrics department at the LTMG hospital. “Majority of them developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and had a history of wading through water,” she said. The civic data, however, has counted only four leptospirosis deaths in Mumbai this year so far. The other deaths are currently under the review of the death committee. Hindustan Times had sought 10-year data on monsoon related diseases however the civic body said that the data between 2011 and 2014 was currently unavailable. Data collated from previous reports show that Mumbai had recorded 135 cases of leptospirosis in 2010, 141 in 2011 and 151 in 2012. The city had recorded 18, six and two deaths due to bacterial infection respectively. Cumulative data for 2013 and 2014 was not available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/monsoon-diseases-leptospirosis-has-killed-more-people-than-malaria-and-dengue-in-six-years-in-mumbai-101632566836894.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to meet ministers, MLAs every Tuesday||In order to ensure better coordination between the government and people’s representatives, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said that he would meet ministers, MLAs and other political functionaries every Tuesday in his office from 11.30am to 2.30pm. Also read: Punjab cabinet expansion on Sunday eveningA spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said on Saturday that the chief minister had ordered that the cabinet meeting will be held at 3pm every Tuesday. Channi asked all administrative secretaries and heads of department to remain present in their offices during this time every Tuesday. Likewise, he asked them not to leave their offices till the Cabinet meeting is over, an official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-to-meet-ministers-mlas-every-tuesday-101632565156580.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Weekly cabinet meet, all dept heads to remain present in office: CM Channi means business||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Saturday cabinet meetings will be held every Tuesday at 3pm and all officers had been directed to remain in office till such talks were underway. In a bid to ensure better coordination between the government and people's representatives He said he would also hold meetings with ministers, legislators and other office-bearers at his office every Tuesday from 11.30am to 2.30pm.“I will meet Ministers, MLAs and other political office bearers at my office every Tuesday from 11:30 am to 2:30 pm and a Cabinet meeting will be held every Tuesday at 3:00 pm. I’ve also directed all the officers not to leave the office till the cabinet is going on,” Channi wrote in a tweet.A spokesperson of the Chief Minister's Office said Channi had asked all the administrative secretaries/heads of department to remain present in their offices during every cabinet meeting.Also read | New Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi breaks into a 'bhangra'The statement from the newly appointed chief minister came amid reports of his scheduled visit to the Raj Bhavan to present Governor Banwarilal Purohit with the list of legislators who have been finalised for the next cabinet. The swearing-in ceremony of the new ministers is likely to take place on Sunday.Over the past one week since he took oath on Monday, Channi has been summoned to Delhi at least thrice to decide on the names to be included in the new cabinet. Also read | 'What is the problem if a poor man takes a jet ride?': Charanjit Channi after backlashChanni’s appointment as the head of the state came after Amarinder Singh resigned as the chief minister citing humiliation over the past few months. The Punjab Congress had been facing inner turmoil and dissent for a long time over power-sharing issues between Singh and state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Complaints of Singh being inaccessible had been raised regularly during his tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekly-cabinet-meet-all-dept-heads-to-remain-present-cm-channi-means-business-101632563791528.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Cinema halls, auditoriums in Maharashtra to reopen from October 22||Cinema theatres and auditoriums in Maharashtra will reopen from October 22, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Saturday amid a slight decline in daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases over the past week. The owners and management have to ensure that proper Covid norms are followed.According to the chief minister’s office, authorities are chalking out a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) regarding the operation of theatres and auditoriums, which will be announced soon.“Chief Minister Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray has announced that cinemas and theatres in the state will be allowed to open after October 22 in compliance with health norms. Work is underway to prepare a detailed SOP in this regard and it will be announced soon,” the Maharashtra CM office said.Also Read | Maha schools to reopen from Oct 4, religious places from Oct 7The decision comes a day after the state government announced the reopening of religious places of all faiths from October 7. All temples in Maharashtra will reopen from the first day of Navratri, a Hindu festival that spans nine nights. The Maharashtra government had imposed several restrictions on the Ganesh Chaturthi festival fearing another Covid wave.On Friday, Thackeray also announced the reopening of schools for classes 5 to 12 in rural areas and 8 to 12 in urban areas starting October 4. Announcing the decision, the chief minister said that the government has prepared itself for another wave of Covid-19 but allowing relaxations in various activities with all precautions.“Although daily Covid-19 cases are showing a declining trend, everybody should take care and follow Covid-19 protocols. While religious places are going to be opened, people still need to wear face masks and use hand sanitisers. The management of religious places will be responsible for the implementation of such measures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cinema-halls-auditoriums-in-maharashtra-to-reopen-from-october-22-101632563670230.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Crime branch officer arrested for accepting ₹6 lakh bribe||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has arrested a Mumbai crime branch officer for allegedly accepting ₹6 lakh bribe from a woman to not take legal action against her husband and his friend in an arms seizure and car theft case. The arrested officer, assistant police inspector Nagesh Puranik, 45, was posted in the property cell of the crime branch.The unit recently seized illegal arms and its investigation led the officers to a car theft incident. Names of two Navi Mumbai residents emerged as suspects in the investigation of car theft matter.Puranik then contacted them and asked the wife of one of the two suspects to arrange ₹12 lakh for not taking any legal action against the two, the ACB said.“Puranik was initially paid ₹4 lakh by the complainant woman. But later the officer started asking her about rest of the bribe money. She did not want to give more money to him and hence approached the anti-corruption bureau’s office in Worli on Thursday. ACB officials verified her allegations and then made her to bargain with the officer. After bargaining with Puranik, the final bribe amount was settled at ₹4 lakh. Puranik asked her to hand over the money on Friday itself. And while accepting ₹2 lakh of the bribe money he was caught red handed by the ACB officials.He has been booked under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and would be produced in the court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-officer-arrested-for-accepting-6-lakh-bribe-101632563296344.html
25-09-2021||Lucknow||2 arrested in UP's Ballia for 'abusive' video against PM Modi, CM Yogi||Two people were arrested on Saturday for allegedly posting a video on social media containing abusive language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, police said.The video was posted on Twitter, Facebook, and WhatsApp and showed two people using abusive words against the BJP leaders, the police said.They said a case in this connection was registered Friday against Prakash Verma and Ramesh Yadav of Sher (Badki Seria) village on the complaint of Mantu Ram, the in-charge of Bansdih Road police station.Verma and Yadav had allegedly posted the video on these sites on September 23, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2-arrested-in-up-s-ballia-for-abusive-video-against-pm-modi-cm-yogi-101632558650079.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota gets additional charge of Punjab DGP||Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, a 1988-batch Indian Police Service officer, was on Saturday given the additional charge of Punjab director general of police. Sahota, who was posted as special DGP Punjab Armed Police in Jalandhar, was given the additional charge of Punjab DGP after incumbent Dinkar Gupta decided to proceed on one-month leave.The state government cannot itself appoint the DGP and has to follow the procedure laid down by the Supreme Court. Sahota will have the additional charge till the procedure of selecting the new DGP is finalised. Also read: Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta applies for leave amid suspense over appointment of top copIt is learnt that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has directed the home department to start the process for the appointment of a regular DGP and send a panel of names of officers to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The UPSC will send back names of three officers, from among whom the Punjab government will pick one for the top job. Known for being cool and composed and keeping a low profile, Sahota, who belongs to Jalandhar, has a wide range of experience in service in Punjab. He served as the ADGP, law and order, prisons, railways, and administration, besides the director, bureau of investigation.Channi prevails over Sidhu on SahotaEven as a section of the Congress, led by Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, was backing 1986-batch IPS officer, S Chattopadhyaya, for the top job, finally Channi prevailed as his first choice for the job was Sahota. Highly placed sources in the government revealed that at one point, Chattopadhyaya was even conveyed the decision for his elevation to the top job. Senior government functionaries said that Chattopadhyaya is likely to be given the charge of chief director, vigilance, whereas, special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu can be the new intelligence chief. Meanwhile, Sahota took over the new charge in the afternoon and immediately held a meeting with the top brass of the force at the headquarters in Chandigarh. Sahota-led SIT alleged foreign hand in sacrilege After the sacrilege and police firing incidents in 2015, Sahota had headed the SIT that alleged foreign hand in sacrilege cases. The SIT was quick to claim a breakthrough at a press conference on October 21, 2015, terming the Bargari sacrilege incident “a handiwork of some foreign handlers”. The SIT also arrested two brothers from Faridkot, alleging that they were in touch with someone in Australia and their funding by foreign-based handlers had been established. It also claimed to have intercepted their calls to handlers in Dubai and Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iqbal-preet-singh-sahota-gets-additional-charge-of-punjab-dgp-101632559095823.html
25-09-2021||Other||3-member inquiry committee to probe murder of Manipur public leader||Manipur government has instituted a three-member committee to inquire into the incident leading to the abduction and subsequent killing of Athuan Abonmai, ex-president of Zeliangrong Baudi, a Zeliangrong community organisation, officials said.Disclosing this during a press conference in Imphal on Friday, chief minister N Biren Singh said, “The Committee will be headed by IGP (Intelligence) K Radhashyam Singh. The committee will submit its report within one week without fail.”On Wednesday, Athuan Abonmai, who came to attend a government programme attended by the chief minister at Tamenglong, 150 kilometres west of Imphal, was found dead near Pallong village after the reports of his abduction by unidentified miscreants in Tamenglong district. Till the filing of this report, no individual or armed group claimed responsibility for the incident.Strongly condemning the incident, Biren Singh said any individual or group involved in the abduction and subsequent killing of Abonmai will not be spared.Informing that combing operations have started to find the culprits, the CM stated that if there is any involvement of group/s that are under a ceasefire agreement with the centre, then the case will be handed over to the National Investigation Agency(NIA).He also informed that 16 personnel of the Manipur Police department, including an inspector, a sub-inspector and an assistant sub-inspector have been suspended for their negligence of duty in connection with the incident.Sharing the pain and sorrow of the bereaved family members and relatives, he said the state cabinet will decide on providing ex-gratia to the next of kin and also extend all possible assistance to the bereaved family.Earlier, the newly formed Joint Action Committee (JAC) against the brutal murder of late Athuan Abonmai had decided to put on hold the funeral service until the culprits involved in the incident were brought to justice. The JAC also demanded a high-level investigation by the NIA, suspension of DC, SP of the Tamenglong district and adequate compensation.Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee, the leadership of Left Parties in Manipur including CPI, CPI (M), RSP and AIFB and many civil society organisations also condemned the incident and demanded justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3member-inquiry-committee-to-probe-murder-of-manipur-public-leader-101632558737042.html
25-09-2021||Other||Two elephant calves die of Herpes in Chhattisgarh||Two elephant calves have died of Herpes virus infection over the last two days at a rescue centre for wild elephants in Chhattisgarh’s Surajpur district, a forest official said on Saturday. “One calf died on Thursday while the other....at Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre of the Tamor Pingla Wildlife Sanctuary on Friday. Their post-mortem reports...(are awaited),” said principal chief conservation of forest (wildlife) P V Narsingh Rao. Officials said the viscera samples of the calves have been sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, in Uttar Pradesh. The mothers of the calves were Kumki and brought to Chhattisgarh from Karnataka to tackle the human-elephant conflict. Kumki is the term used for trained captive elephants used in operations to trap wild elephants, sometimes to rescue or to provide medical treatment to an injured or trapped wild elephant. Officials said that on Wednesday, a male calf first showed symptoms of the infection. Despite best efforts by veterinarians, it could not be saved, and the calf died on Thursday. On Friday, another calf that was kept separately as it also had the same symptoms died. Their primary investigation confirmed they were suffering from herpes virus infection which affects elephants below 10 years of age. After the deaths, other elephants in the rescue centre have been shifted to other places. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-elephant-calves-die-of-herpes-in-chhattisgarh-101632557297103.html
25-09-2021||Other||88 schools in rural areas of Thane district resume offline classes||More than 392 villages are free of Covid-19 in the rural areas of Thane district in Maharashtra, officials said. With the state government deciding to start schools from next month for classes 8 to 12, rural areas within the Thane district have already started around 88 schools. This includes both Zilla Parishad and private schools as well.Rural areas within Thane district have altogether 385 schools. In the first phase in mid-July, around 14 schools reopened. Next was in August, wherein around 22 schools began and in September another 52 schools resumed offline classes. Of these 88 schools, 53 are within Shahapur Taluka.“We are currently ensuring that all teachers across the district in both private as well as government schools are fully vaccinated at the earliest. This will ensure the reopening of all schools as per the government orders. Not all parents are financially stable enough to have smartphones and provide internet services, hence in many villages teachers would make a visit and interact with the children whenever possible. However, reopening of schools has brought joy to many,” said Sheshrav Bade, education officer, Thane Zilla Parishad.Moreover, Zilla Parishad plans to conduct a small survey soon after schools reopen to keep a check on the number of students who are continuing school post-Covid. “There might be many who have migrated to different locations and some who have come to these villages from other places as well. We need to keep a tab and ensure no student is left without basic education,” added Bade.Within the rural areas of the district, there are 11 schools in Murbad, three in Kalyan, 53 in Shahpur, 11 in Bhiwandi and 10 in Ambernath that have reopened for offline classes. With the new order, more schools will follow suit soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/88-schools-in-rural-areas-of-thane-district-resume-offline-classes-101632555857141.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet expansion on Sunday evening||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi met governor Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday afternoon to submit names of ministers likely to be inducted into the new cabinet who will take oath on Sunday evening. According to senior government functionaries, the oath-taking ceremony of the new cabinet will be conducted at 4.30pm on Sunday. Also read: Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta applies for leave amid suspense over appointment of top copChanni landed in Chandigarh on Saturday morning after hectic talks with the party high command over the names of the new cabinet members. Information gathered from the chief minister’s office reveals that fresh faces likely to be inducted in the new cabinet include Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Amarinder Raja Warring, Gurpreet Kotli and Rana Gurjit Singh. Those likely to be dropped from the previous Capt Amarinder Singh cabinet include Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Rana Gurmeet Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Sundar Shyam Arora. Other ministers will be retained, it is learnt. The party has decided to retain old guards such as Brahm Mohindra and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa without changing their portfolios.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-expansion-likely-on-sunday-101632555075133.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||ED again issues summons to Maha minister Anil Parab in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has once again issued summons to Maharashtra transportation minister Anil Parab in connection with a money laundering case, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. Anil Parab, who is considered to be a close aide of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, was asked to appear before the central agency on August 31. However, Parab did not show up and sought a time of two weeks. His close aide and Regional Transport Office (RTO) officer Bajrang Kharmate was also summoned by the ED in the same money laundering case on September 6.The Maharashtra transport minister has also faced allegations from the former assistant inspector of Mumbai Police Sachin Vaze. Vaze, who is accused in cases of Antilia bomb scare and Mansukh Hiran’s murder, alleged that Parab instructed him to collect ₹50 crore from a trust facing an inquiry to close the probe.Senior Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab has also been in a squabble with leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), including Kirit Somaiya and Union minister Narayan Rane. For the past few months, Somaiya has alleged that the minister built illegal resorts in Dapoli at Ratnagiri along with an unauthorised office on the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) land in Bandra (East). Anil Parab, who is also the guardian minister of Ratnagiri, refuted these allegations and filed a defamation suit against Somaiya in the Bombay high court on Tuesday and demanded damages of ₹100 crore.Days before the ED issued summons to Parab on August 29, he was seen in a viral video ordering the Ratnagiri Police to arrest Union minister Rane without waiting for an arrest warrant. Narayan Rane was granted bail on August 24, hours after he was arrested by a team of Nashik Police over remarks that he wanted to slap chief minister Thackeray for forgetting the year of the country’s independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-again-issues-summons-to-maha-minister-anil-parab-in-money-laundering-case-101632553891845.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet finalised, CM Channi to meet governor||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will meet Governor Banwarilal Purohit this afternoon as the list of legislators for the new cabinet has been finalised, sources said.Channi is expected to meet the governor at 12:30 pm and the oath-taking ceremony for the new ministers is likely to take place Sunday, they said.The development comes hours after Channi returned from Delhi having held a final round of discussion with the party high command on the faces to be included in the new cabinet.The sources said seven fresh faces are likely to find place in the Channi-led cabinet and five MLAs who were ministers in the Amarinder Singh government are likely to be dropped.Channi was summoned to Delhi by the Congress high command on Friday to discuss the cabinet expansion. The visit came within hours of him returning from the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-finalised-cm-channi-to-meet-governor-101632553580721.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Refusal to marry no ground for rape: HC||The Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench has quashed a rape case against a 33-year-old man saying he cannot be prosecuted for changing his mind after a long relationship and refusing to marry a woman he was in a relationship with. “From the narration in the FIR (First Information Report) and the material collected during the course of the investigation, it is clear that the applicant had genuine desire to marry the victim,” said a division bench of justices Sunil Deshmukh and Nitin Suryavanshi.“However, later he changed his mind and decided not to marry her. Merely because he resiled from his promise to marry, no offence punishable under Section 376 of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) in the facts of the present case is made out against the applicant.”According to the 30-year-old woman’s complaint in the case, the two had physical relations. She said the man on multiple occasions promised to marry her. She said her relatives approached the man with a marriage proposal but were asked to wait due to the Covid pandemic. They last year registered the rape against the 33-year-old for allegedly exploiting the complainant physically and mentally under the false promise of marriage.The man moved the high court for quashing the case, contending that the physical relationship was consensual. He said his subsequent refusal to marry the woman was no ground for the rape charge.The prosecution maintained the woman’s consent was obtained under the false promise of marriage and since the beginning, the applicant had no intention to marry her.The court accepted the stand of the accused. It said the statements of the woman’s relatives showed the man intended to marry her. “However, later he changed his mind,” said the bench. “Considering these aspects, it cannot be said that the applicant had given a false promise of marriage to the victim and obtained her consent for establishing physical relations... It appears that the consensual physical relations were the outcome of their love affair.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/refusal-to-marry-no-ground-for-rape-hc-101632552615206.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||No decision yet on reopening of schools in Mumbai: Mayor Kishori Pednekar||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Saturday a decision on reopening of schools in the country’s financial capital was yet to be taken as it was a question of the safety of children. She said several factors would have to be considered before coming to a conclusion on the matter.“A final decision will be taken next week by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The state government has allowed reopening of schools, but it has also left it on the local authorities for execution of the decision,” the mayor added.Pednekar’s statement came a day after the Uddhav Thackeray government said schools across the state would reopen from October 4. A lot of experts have warned of a more severe impact on children if an impending third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic were to hit the country.Also read | 89% Covid bed availability in Mumbai, BMC says we are in comfortable positionOn Friday, Mumbai registered 446 new Covid-19 cases and six related deaths. Across the state, the figures were 3,286 new infections and 51 fatalities, taking the overall caseload to 65,37,843 and death toll to 1,38,776, respectively.On Friday, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said physical classes for standards 8th to 12th would resume everywhere in urban areas, while all schools in rural areas would allow students from 5th to 12th to attend offline classes.So far, schools were open for in-person classes only in areas that reported relatively fewer cases of coronavirus.Also read | 40% eligible population in Mumbai fully vaccinated against Covid, 85% get at least first dose: DataGaikwad said no physical sessions would begin yet for children studying classes 1 and 7 in rural areas.Also, there was no compulsion on students to attend the classes physically and consent of parents would be required if they wish to do the same.The Maharashtra government has also announced reopening of all religious places from October 7. The chief minister’s office in a tweet said that all religious places of worship will reopen on the first day of Navratri.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-kishori-pednekar-no-decision-yet-on-reopening-schools-101632551848313.html
25-09-2021||Indore||4 held in Indore for smuggling endangered Sand Boa snakes||Special Task Force (STF) on Friday arrested four people accused of smuggling five endangered Sand Boa snakes in Indore, informed Manish Khatri, Superintendant of Police (SP) STF.Addressing the media, Khatri said, "The four accused were allegedly trying to sell these snakes as they are used in cosmetics and pharmaceutical industries.""Currently, further investigation in the case is underway," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/4-held-in-indore-for-smuggling-endangered-sand-boa-snakes-101632551499305.html
25-09-2021||Patna||Muslim majority opposed Jinnah’s 2 nation theory, most in Bihar: AMU teacher||With the renewal of a public debate over the two-nation theory-- given by Mohammad Ali Jinnah-- an Aligarh Muslim University teacher said that the majority of Muslims in India, especially in Bihar, used to oppose the divisive theory which was a major factor in the united India’s partition.“Things need to be cleared now as many people, even the intellectuals, seem to believe that the two-Nation theory was the aspiration of general Muslim population in our country at that time. On the contrary, the majority of Muslims were not in favour of division of the country,” Dr Mohammed Sajjad from the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) said in Patna on Friday.Speaking at an online session of the Bihar State Archive, Sajjad said demonstrations and protest meetings were held widely in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and West Bengal, however, “the resistance to the theory was strongest in Bihar.”The AMU teacher further said that various Muslim groups played a major role in protests against the divisive policies of Muslim League. “Public meetings were held and strong protests were also expressed in the journals and books published at that time,” he said.He cited a book, Talash-e Manzil, written by prominent Muslim leader from pre-Independence days, Shah Mohammed, which stated that the majority of Muslims were against Jinnah’s two nation theory. “And to condemn this theory before the Lahore conference, many of the nationalist Muslim groups held a conference in Delhi in April 1940. Mohammed also wrote that before the Lahore Conference, Muslim League had made heavy propaganda in support of the two nation theory using religious spots and groups,” Sajjad said.He also said that an Urdu weekly called Naquib, published by Imarat-e- Sharia, was strongly opposed to the theory. “In its edition on April 14, 1940, Maulana Abdul Mohsin Mohammed Sajjad raised a difficult question before Jinnah. Maulana questioned the rationale behind Jinnah’s hue and cry over alleged torture of Muslims in Hindu dominated areas and his desire to create Pakistan, where Hindus could live in Muslim-dominated areas,” the AMU teacher said.He added that the Momin Conference-- which started in Bihar’s Rohtas in 1925-- was also dead against the two nation theory.“It never approved Muslim League’s catch line, ‘Islam Khatarei Mein Hai’. And in April 1940, it held the Bihar State Momin Conference to oppose Jinnah’s two nation theory and declared the slogan, ‘Islam Khatarei Mei Hai’ as Kufra,” he said.Dr Imteyaz Ahmed, former Patna University history teacher, said that the two nation theory should not be considered as the wish of the majority of Muslims in the country. “In Bihar, it was opposed even at the village level. People used to hold meetings to oppose it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/muslim-majority-opposed-jinnah-s-2-nation-theory-most-in-bihar-amu-teacher-101632551414829.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||After Jitender Gogi killing, Delhi jails on high alert over possible gang war||Authorities on Saturday put jails in Delhi on high alert over apprehension of a gang war, a day after gangster Jitender Maan, also known as Gogi, was shot dead in a crowded courtroom by alleged rival gang members. A senior jail official told PTI that officials are keeping a tight vigil on jails where Gogi and Tillu gang members have been lodged. “In view of gangster Jitender Mann Gogi's shootout at Rohini Court yesterday, there is a possibility of a ‘gang war’. Therefore, all Delhi jails, including Tihar Jail, Mandoli Jail and Rohini Jail, have been put on alert,” a prison official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The 30-year-old Jitender Mann 'Gogi’, one of Delhi's most wanted criminals and the head of an "extremely sophisticated" organised crime syndicate, was shot dead in the Rohini court by two shooters dressed as lawyers on Friday. The shooters are alleged to be members of the gang led by his friend-turned-rival Sunil Maan, also known as Tillu Tajpuriya. They have been identified by police as Rahul Tyagi and Jagdeep, also known as Jagga. The attackers were killed in retaliatory police firing.Security outside the district court in Rohini has also been tightened after the shootout.Also read | Rohini shootout: Crime branch to probe ‘sensational’ case, says Rakesh AsthanaSaturday's high alert also come after Chief Justice of India NV Ramana expressed deep concern over the shootout inside the Rohini court. CJI Ramana also spoke to the chief justice of Delhi high court over the shootout and advised him to talk to both police and Bar to ensure the functioning of courts is not affected, people familiar with the matter have said. The issue of safety and security of court complexes and judicial personnel is already under the consideration of the Supreme Court in a batch of petitions. The people cited above also said that the matter may get prioritised next week in the wake of violence on Friday.Also read | Gogi vs Tillu: Delhi gangsters’ bond that ended in bloodshedGogi, a resident of Delhi's Alipur area, was arrested last year along with his associates Kuldeep Mann alias 'Fajja' and Rohit alias 'Moi' from Gurgaon after a four-year-long chase by the Delhi Police. He escaped from custody in 2016. Gogi's gang members face charges of extortion, collecting ransom and protection money, and car-jackings, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-jitender-gogi-killing-delhi-jails-on-high-alert-over-possible-gang-war-101632549346057.html
25-09-2021||Patna||NIFT-Patna students bag 16 gold medals at 11th convocation||The National Institute of Fashion Technology-Patna (NIFT-P) gave away 16 gold medals to its students in three categories at the 11th convocation held at Gyan Bhavan on Friday.A total of 392 students of different undergraduate courses of 2020 and 2021 batch were awarded degrees during the event as no convocation ceremony could be held at the institute last year due to Covid-19 restrictions.Director Sanjay Shrivastava presented the annual academic report, and chief guest Upendra Prasad Singh, secretary of ministry of textiles, gave away medals and degrees to the students.Anamika and Rakshit Jain (fashion management), Rishija Mudgal and Jahanvi Madan (fashion designing), Diksha and Sneha Khanna (textile design), Arya and Muniba (accessory design), Hiba Shamshi and Anshika Seth (fashion communication), Akanksha Singh and Priyanshu Ranjan (fashion technology) won the best academic year performance awards.In the 2021 batch, Arya emerged as the student of the year, and she also bagged the award for academic excellence with community service, while for the 2020 batch, Muniba was declared the student of the year while Anshika Seth was awarded for academic excellence with community service. All of them received ₹11,000 each and citations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/niftpatna-students-bag-16-gold-medals-at-11th-convocation-101632548354510.html
25-09-2021||Patna||Court reminds cops of Krishna ‘bal leela’, frees boy accused of stealing sweets||A juvenile court in Bihar’s Nalanda district on Thursday ordered release of a boy accused of stealing sweets and a mobile phone from his aunt’s house and said that police should not have registered a case in the matter since a child’s indiscretions need be seen in the light of Lord Krishna’s ‘Bal Leela’.“In our mythology, childhood activities of Lord Krishna have been very eloquently demonstrated. He often entered other people’s houses and broke the container [carrying homemade butter]. Had the society then been like today, the ‘bal leela’ would have never happened,” said principal magistrate, juvenile, Manvendra Mishra.The matter related to a village in Harnaut block of Nalanda, where a boy during a visit to his maternal grandmother, entered his aunt’s house in the neighbourhood and ate all the sweets stored in the fridge and also stole a mobile phone from the house and was later found playing with it outside the house. When she found out, the boy’s aunt handed him over to the police.The court said that “one would have to be tolerant and large-minded in matters related to children and understand the reasons behind their deviation for the society to be able to itself take steps to rectify such small offences.”The court said police should have acted sensitively and realised that there was no need to lodge an FIR in this case. “Registering the matter in the daily case diary would have been sufficient,” the court said. It also directed the child protection unit to ensure that the boy in question was not harassed.During counselling, the boy told the magistrate that his father, a bus driver and the sole bread earner for the family, had been bed-ridden due to serious spinal injury after an accident. He said his mother was ill too but unable to afford treatment due to their poverty. The boy promised never to repeat the mistake.Senior advocate cum child activist Krishna Deo Mishra said he welcomed the decision of the board. “All juvenile boards must follow these rules concerning children,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/court-reminds-cops-of-krishna-bal-leela-frees-boy-accused-of-stealing-sweets-101632543313885.html
25-09-2021||Patna||President Ram Nath Kovind to visit Bihar for Assembly centenary function||President Ram Nath Kovind will visit Patna on October 20 to participate in the celebration to mark the centenary year of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building which hosted the inaugural session of the joint Bihar and Orissa Provincial Council on February 7, 1921.Earlier this month, Bihar Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha personally invited President Kovind for the centenary function, which is being held on October 21, following President’s consent. Sinha, on Friday, discussed the preparation for Kovind’s programme with chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar. The President will stay at the Raj Bhawan in Patna and attend the cultural programme and dinner hosted by Sinha.The Speaker also met with deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, to discuss the preparations for the celebration.The Bihar Legislative Assembly building is an iconic structure designed by AN Millwood and was called the Council Chamber in the beginning. The inaugural session of Bihar and Orissa Provincial Council was held in this building on February 7, 1921 under the presidency of Sir Walter Maude and addressed by then governor Lord SP Sinha.The centenary year celebration of Bihar Legislative Assembly building began on February 7 at the Central Hall but was restricted to a single day due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The present-day legislature has its genesis in the December 12, 1911 decision of British emperor George V regarding the creation of a separate province combining Bihar and Orissa, with Patna as its headquarters, and it was notified on March 22, 1912. Later, an independent building and secretariat for the Provincial Legislative Council was built in 1920.In 2013, the Bihar government celebrated the centenary of the first meeting of Bihar and Orissa Provincial Legislative Council, which was held on January 20, 1913 at the seminar hall of the historic Patna College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-to-visit-bihar-for-assembly-centenary-function-101632540733547.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt postpones recruitment exams for 6,200 posts in health dept||The Maharashtra government on Friday postponed the written examination for the recruitments in the Health Department for 6,200 posts of group C and group D after the outsourced company was not able to make the necessary arrangements for the examination.The examination was earlier scheduled on September 25 and September 26 for the Group C post and Group D posts respectively.According to the statement issued by the Maharashtra health department, the next date for the examination will be announced in "gee days after full preparation"."The examinations are being postponed because outsourced company Nyasa Communications Pvt Ltd could not make the necessary arrangements for the exams in due time," the statement said."Maharashtra government had decided to have these recruitments in the health department on priority basis due to prevailing Covid pandemic situations and that is why the examination and preparation for the examinations were outsourced to Nyasa communications PVT LTD. But on September 24 at 7 pm Nyasa informed the government that it could not do all preparations necessary for examinations. Due to the incapability of Nyasa Pvt Ltd written exams are being postponed," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-postpones-recruitment-exams-for-6-200-posts-in-health-dept-101632537068273.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Other states should emulate Maharashtra's cordial political culture: Gadkari||Hailing the "cordial political culture" of Maharashtra, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Friday that it should be emulated by leaders in other states of the country. The BJP leader was speaking here at the launch of a book penned by Marathi film-maker Ramdas Phutane who is also known for his witty verse on politics. "Maharashtra has a tradition of cordial relations between leaders of various parties and it should be emulated by other states too," Gadkari said. "Once (Samajwadi Party leader) Mulayam Singh asked me how was it that I and Sharad Pawar were seen together at Murli Manohar Joshi's felicitation in Parliament though we are from rival parties. I told him that in Maharashtra, politics happens only during elections, afterwards we become friends," he said.Even when the BJP was in opposition in the state, leaders like Sharad Pawar (then in Congress) and Sushil Kumar Shinde treated them with respect, Gadkari said. "I am indebted to (Congress leader) Datta Meghe who was a minister but treated us with great respect at a time when no one gave importance to us," he said. On the other hand, leaders of DMK and AIADMK in Tamil Nadu or those of SP and BSP in Uttar Pradesh are usually not on talking terms with each other, he said.Speaking later at a function at the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute (BORI), Gadkari applauded the contribution of the institute, and said had it not submitted documentation about the ancient Ram temple in Ayodhya to the Supreme Court, it would have been difficult `to build a new temple'. Noted archaeologist Dr G B Deglurkar was given the first Sir R G Bhandarkar Memorial Award during the program. Gadkari also said that our ancestors did not record history and the British wrote history of India as per their convenience. "Unfortunately, we continued to work further with that history as our base," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/other-states-should-emulate-maharashtra-s-cordial-political-culture-gadkari-101632534304113.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram farmers to hold ‘mashal rally’ today ahead of Sept 27 ‘Bharat Bandh’||Farmers, led by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) protesting against the central farm laws, are set to organise a ‘mashal rally’ (lantern rally) in Haryana’s Gurugram on Saturday ahead of the September 27 Bharat Bandh, with an aim to garner support for their cause. According to reports, the ‘mashal rally’ will begin at 6pm from Sadar Bazar area of the city and end at Sohna Road. Farmers participating in the rally will be marching with lanterns and urge citizens to express solidarity with their protests by spreading awareness on how the new agricultural laws “pose a threat” to them.The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) expressed hope that as many as 200 people might be joining the rally. A member was cited as saying that farmers are “anna daatas” (providers of food) and that it is imperative people join them in their cause against the contentious agricultural laws.Also Read | ‘Please focus on our concern’: Rakesh Tikait tweets to US President Biden ahead of meeting with PM ModiFarmers across India have been protesting at different sites since November 26 last year against three farm laws enacted by the central government: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The farmers demand that the three laws are repealed and a legal guarantee provided to them on minimum support price for crops. However, the government has consistently maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer. Although farmer leaders – under the banner of the SKM and the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) – have held several rounds of talks with the central government so far, there have been no real breakthroughs and the impasse still remains.The SKM, an umbrella body of more than 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation, has called for the Bharat Bandh (nationwide strike) on September 27 (Monday) as a widespread push to protest the three agricultural laws. Asking the people of the country as well as political parties to “stand with farmers in their “quest to defend principles of democracy and federalism”, the SKM said that the Bharat Bandh is being observed against the “anti-farmer Modi government” to mark the completion of 10 months of their “historic struggle”.Also Read | Bharat Bandh: Bank union extends support, farmers' stir completes 300 daysThe Bharat Bandh will be held from 6am to 4pm on Monday, during which all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries, and commercial establishments as well as public events and functions will be closed throughout the country.All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief, and rescue work, and people attending to personal emergencies will be exempted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-farmers-to-hold-mashal-rally-today-ahead-of-sept-27-bharat-bandh-101632526776236.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Armed with just batons, forest guards say ill-equipped to take on bootleggers||A day after four forest officials on patrol at the Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary were attacked by over two dozen men, suspected to be liquor smugglers, senior forest officials said this was the second such attack in the past three months and that they were ill-equipped to stop these attacks in the absence of proper protective gear and weapons.On Thursday night, the four foresters were beaten up, threatened, and their vehicles damaged by the gang of suspected bootleggers. On the same day, Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, for the first time, issued a uniform code for the city’s forest department. However, the notification only makes provision for “a cane stick/polycarbonate baton” for forest guards to perform their duties.In June this year, the department’s ecological task force, which is tasked with protecting land reclaimed from encroachers and carrying out plantation, was attacked by around 20 men in Dera Mandi in south Delhi. Foresters say such attacks have become frequent of late.Senior forest officials said the south division recently procured some protective gear, including batons and armour suits, to stave off encroachers, but the department needs more manpower and weapons to take on smugglers and trespassers.“The kind of tasks that our teams undertake often result in them receiving violent threats and coming under attack. Encroachers and smugglers who want to use forest lands for illegal activities do not shy away from violence. What can a lone forester with a baton do if people surround him with knives and guns? In other states, the forest department is as powerful as the state police department -- they have uniforms, weapons and even have the power to arrest culprits. In Delhi, we are toothless,” said a senior forest official, requesting anonymity.Deputy conservator forests (south division) Amit Anand said after Thursday’s attack the department is discussing with Delhi Police the possibility of joint patrolling in the Asola sanctuary. “We have written to the police to see if we can conduct joint patrolling in the sanctuary from now. We have got reports that these smugglers are now moving around with desi kattas (countrymade firearms) and while we are not compromising our patrolling during the day, at night, the risks are far higher,” Anand said.A petition filed before the National Green Tribunal in December 2020 highlighted that in 2019, five incidents of threats and assaults on forest officials were reported. In one such incident, a group of nearly 200 people surrounded a forest office and threatened to kill a ranger.Anand said Thursday’s attack was in “retaliation” to the forest department’s crackdown on liquor smuggling from Haryana to Delhi via the Asola sanctuary. Since the outbreak of Covid, which resulted in Delhi liquor shops remaining shut for a long time owing to lockdowns and curfews, cases of bootlegging increased from across state borders, especially in areas near the Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary.The smugglers started using the forest routes to bring in large quantities of liquor from Haryana, forest officials said.Foresters said smugglers have carved out dirt paths through the forest to connect illegal liquor vends in Haryana to Sangam Vihar in Delhi, from where the contraband is distributed to other localities. Since liquor is cheaper in Haryana as compared to Delhi, this is a viable business for many bootleggers in Sangam Vihar, forest officials said.However, over the last year, the forest department started cracking down on these smugglers by scouting their routes and increasing patrolling. In the past two months, the department seized a large number of alcohol crates and liquor-laden vehicles during patrolling.Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of wildlife protection NGO, Wildlife SOS, said, “...when movement of vehicles and people is allowed in a sanctuary, it not only poses a physical risk to animals, but also disturbs their movement and foraging patterns. Most wild animals are nocturnal and generally use the same route, and are impacted by human activities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/armed-with-just-batons-forest-guards-say-ill-equipped-to-take-on-bootleggers-101632528003829.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 10 fresh cases surface in Chandigarh tricity||After dropping to six on Thursday, tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases again jumped to double digits on Friday.As many as 10 people were found positive, including three each in Chandigarh and Panchkula, and four in Mohali. However, no fresh casualty was reported for the second day in a row.In Chandigarh, those found infected are residents of Sectors 25, 37 and 46. Three of Mohali’s cases were reported from Dera Bassi, and one from Kharar. All three cases in Panchkula were from Sectors 20 and 27.With the increase in daily infection count, the active cases also rose from 95 to 99 in the past 24 hours. Chandigarh has 41 positive patients, Mohali 36 and Panchkula 22.Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,205, including 64,345 recoveries and 819 deaths. As many as 68,712 people have been found infected in Mohali so far. Among them, 67,613 have recovered and 1,063 have died. In Panchkula, of the 30,729 total cases, 30,330 patients have been cured and 377 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-10-fresh-cases-surface-in-chandigarh-tricity-101632522440043.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Doorstep garbage collection: Chandigarh MC told to cover entire city by October end||UT adviser Dharam Pal has directed the municipal corporation to initiate door-to-door garbage collection through its motorised vehicles in the entire city by October 31. The direction came during a review meeting on the targets set by the National Green Tribunal on solid waste management in the city. The adviser also directed MC to speed up bio-mining of 5 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of legacy waste at the Dadumajra dumping site. The work was to be completed by May, but till now only 2 lakh MT waste has been removed. “Since the beginning, my focus has been on sanitation and garbage management in the city. We will be strictly following timelines on different solid waste management issues. I have asked the MC to complete the coverage of door-to-door garbage collection and submit an action taken report,” said Pal. There are 2.5 lakh households and commercial establishments from where MC has to collect garbage. “Our aim is to complete the takeover process in the entire city by October 31. Currently, we have covered over 80% of the city areas. There are pockets in villages, 10 areas in rehabilitation colonies and around 200 markets areas which are still to be covered. 100% door-to-door coverage will also help in improving Swachh Survekshan rankings,” said Anindita Mitra, MC commissioner. Since starting the takeover from cart-based collectors in December last year, MC has already deployed around 400 twin-bin vehicles. While around 400 were recently purchased at a cost of around ₹40 crore, 100 were earlier deployed in MC villages. Within a couple of weeks, MC plans to deploy 100 more such vehicles in areas that were left out earlier, and also allocate more vehicles where there is a shortage. Teething troubles continue eight months onEight months into the takeover, MC’s garbage collection continues to remain mired in problems.Residents complain MC vehicles don’t turn up at regular times, and garbage collectors don’t pick up garbage from doorstep, particularly, from the first and second floors. The garbage collection charges have also led to confusion among the residents. Recently, MC also faced flak for inflated garbage collection charges bills. MC is collecting garbage charges through water bills. Residents, in some cases, received bills more than three times the regular bills. “The working the material recovery facilities also depends on the coverage of the door-to-door garbage collection. Also, the segregation of the garbage, which is currently at 65%, also depends largely on the effectiveness of this system,” said a MC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doorstep-garbage-collection-chandigarh-mc-told-to-cover-entire-city-by-october-end-101632522438833.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman held for stealing aunt’s jewellery||A 26-year-old woman has been arrested for stealing her aunt’s gold jewellery to fuel her drug addiction, police said on Friday.The woman, identified as Nitika, 26, is a BA student.On Thursday, Meena Kaushal, a resident of Shanti Nagar, Manimajra, had informed the police that she and her husband lived in a joint family with his mother, brother and the latter’s daughter, Nitika.After returning from work on Thursday, she found two gold bangles, two chains, two pairs of earrings, two nose pins and a pendant missing from her almirah. On probing the theft, police found that Nitika stole the jewellery after stealing the almirah’s key from her grandmother, who is bedridden due to a fracture.The stolen jewellery was recovered from her possession within the house, and she was booked under Sections 380 (theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code.The accused was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-held-for-stealing-aunt-s-jewellery-101632522437740.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Traffic cop hurt after being hit by bike speeding on cycle track||A constable was injured after a traffic violator hit him with his motorcycle in Sector 46 on Friday evening.According to police, constable Harish, posted with the cycle squad of Chandigarh Police traffic wing, had signalled the motorcyclist to stop as he was riding on a cycle track. But instead the biker sped up and hit Harish, before fleeing on foot with his pillion rider.The injured constable was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he remains under treatment. “The accused left his vehicle behind. He will be arrested soon. A case under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code is being registered,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP, City). In a similar case on Wednesday, constable Deepak Kumar suffered grievous injuries after being hit by a car that also dragged him on the bonnet for 700 metres in Sector 36.The car driver, Vikas, alias Bhanu, 23, of Toga village, Mohali, has been arrested. He is facing a case under Sections 332, 353 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code. His car, a Maruti Suzuki Alto, has been seized.The accused had hit the constable while trying to flee from a naka after he was asked to show his documents.The driver took the vehicle towards the Sector 36-37 light point. On finding the lights red, he took the car to the wrong side, and all this while, Deepak kept shouting to the driver to stop but to no avail, stated sub-inspector Vijay Singh, in his complaint.After around 700 metres, the accused took a sharp turn at the Sector 37 T-Point to turn towards the Sector-37 government school, throwing constable Deepak off the vehicle. Deepak sustained serious injuries and was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, in a private vehicle. As his condition deteriorated, he was referred to PGIMER, where he was operated upon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhtraffic-cop-hurt-after-being-hit-by-bike-speeding-on-cycle-track-101632522436510.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Passengers denied entry to Sharjah flight hold protest at Chandigarh airport||The 30 passengers, who were not allowed to board the Sharjah flight on Thursday, held a protest at the Chandigarh International Airport airport on Friday. The protesters alleged that immigration officials at the airport misbehaved with several passengers and did not let them through, even though they had valid visas and boarding passes. A passenger, Satnam Singh, said the officials should tender an apology for the inconvenience caused to the passengers and fresh tickets should be provided without any surcharge. Even after repeated calls and messages, immigration head Sanjeev Kumar did not respond. Airport CEO Ajay Bhardwaj said the passengers’ request not to impose rescheduling charges was not accepted, but the misbehaviour complaints were being looked into. On Thursday, 30 passengers were not allowed to board the Sharjah flight, which resumed after six months, as they either did not clear the immigration check or did not fulfil the Covid guidelines issued by the UAE, including having a negative RT-PCR report and completing vaccination cycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/passengers-denied-entry-to-sharjah-flight-hold-protest-at-chandigarh-airport-101632522435429.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two GMCH students score big in UPSC exam||Two former students of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, scored well in the Civil Services Exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission, results of which were released on Friday night.Dr Akshita Gupta, 22, who just finished her internship after completing her MBBS, has secured AIR 69, and Dr Rajesh Kumar Mohan, 29, who also pursued MBBS from the hospital, got AIR 102.It was Dr Mohan’s fifth attempt at the exam, while Dr Gupta cleared it in the first go.“Initially, I used to study three to four hours a day, but when the examinations came closer, I increased the hours to eight,” says Dr Gupta, who wants to become an IAS officer.Her father, Pawan Gupta, is the principal of Government Sarthak Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 12-A, Panchkula, and mother Meena Gupta is a mathematics lecturer at Government Senior Secondary School in Ramgarh. Her brother, Shashij Gupta, is an IIT Bombay alumnus and works as a software engineer.The family originally hails from Barara in Haryana, known for Ravana sculptures, and had shifted to Chandigarh for the children’s studies. Hoping to join the Indian Police Services, Dr Mohan had been working as an assistant medical officer in Ordnance Cable Factory in Chandigarh for the past three years. “Applicants must practice writing their answers for the main exam and shoud meet with a lot of people to crack the interviews,” he says.His father, Raj Kanwar Singh, works as an undersecretary with the Haryana government, and mother Kamlesh Devi is a homemaker.His younger brother, Kulbir Singh Mohan, is a Captain with the Indian Army. Hailing from Bharan village in Rohtak, Dr Mohan also has a penchant for Haryanvi folk singing. Apart from them, Mehak Mittal of Dera Bassi in Mohali district bagged AIR 140. Earlier this year, in June, Mittal had stood fourth in the Punjab Civil Services exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-gmch-students-score-big-in-upsc-exam-101632522434008.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Delayed realty projects in Mohali: Fresh FIR lodged against GBP Group||A day after it came to light that global conglomerate SRAM & MRAM Group has pulled out its  ₹700-crore investment committed to the Gupta Builders and Promoters (GBP) Group, a fresh FIR was lodged against the firm’s management following a complaint by several allottees.The complainants alleged that the GBP Group promised them possession of various commercial and residential properties in 2016, but even after five years, there had been no progress.“Allottees have invested nearly ₹1,500 crore, but have not got any property. Also, all their offices are locked in Mohali and the entire management is on the run,” stated the complaint.“A case under Sections 406, 420 and 120-B has been registered against the management and we have initiated proceedings to arrest them,” said Onkar Singh Brar, station house officer, Zirakpur.Meanwhile, an employee of GBP, Raj Sharma, said the group held a virtual meeting of all investors and managing director Satish Gupta on Thursday evening, where Gupta shared that he was in Dubai and will be back after two weeks. “They have not even paid salaries to employees for the past eight months,” he said.The realty firm has several ongoing projects in Mohali. Camelia, offering both residential and commercial units, in Kharar, and GBP Centrum (commercial) in Zirakpur have been under construction since 2016.At two other projects – Athens (residential and commercial) and Aeroze (residential) – both on the Airport road, construction has not progressed for years, and at a residential colony in New Chandigarh, where plots have been sold, construction has not even begun.Over 2,500 people from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and several NRIs, have invested in these projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delayed-realty-projects-in-mohali-fresh-fir-lodged-against-gbp-group-101632522432403.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Four years after convict’s death, Chandigarh police lodge murder FIR||Over four years after the death of a murder convict at Burail Jail, police have registered a murder case after an inquest probe established that he died of strangulation.Mohan Lal was sentenced to life term in an April 1999 murder case and was incarcerated at the Model Jail, Burail, Chandigarh. A heart patient, he was advised bypass surgery, but refused to undergo the operation when he was sent to GMCH, Sector 32, on January 10, 2017.On the night of February 17, 2017, he was again rushed to the hospital with high blood pressure, but he died after 30 minutes. While jail authorities maintained that he died of cardiac failure, the subsequent autopsy report, ordered by court as part of inquest proceedings, reflected that the deceased’s body had several injuries and fractured ribs. Further probe was conducted by Gaurav Dutta, judicial magistrate first class, Chandigarh. A preliminary report had said, “The present situation is very dicy due to variation in ocular as well as medical evidence. Medical evidence suggests that death may have been caused due to multiple contusions on the neck. Fracture of ribs was not medically fatal.” Eventually forensic experts ruled out poisoning and the court held, “Now, it is crystal clear that after the final opinion of the medical evidence regarding cause of death is asphyxia, consequent upon manual strangulation in a pre-existing case of chronic ischemic heart disease.” The judicial magistrate stated in his report that though the court visited the jail and recorded all possible ocular evidence, no clue as to the culprit could be deduced. Therefore, a murder investigation be initiated by police.‘Ribs may have broken during resuscitation measures’Deposing before the judicial magistrate, the jail’s senior medical officer, Dr Neena Chaudhary, had said the injuries on ribs may have been caused during resuscitation measures, and those on the neck may have occurred due to panic removal of a beaded necklace that the deceased was wearing.He was not given proper medicine: Kin Lal’s wife, Chandrawati, and sons Suresh Kumar and Kanhaiya, during the inquiry into his death, had said that he was ill for some time and police were not giving him proper medicine. Co-prisoner Rajbir, hailing from Haryana, said he and Mohan Lal were lodged in Model Jail, Burail, for the past 16 years.He said Lal had also suffered multiple heart attacks. Jail authorities had deposited money for his treatment. But due to fear, he was not undergoing surgery for his heart ailment. Sometimes, he would not even take his medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-years-after-convict-s-death-chandigarh-police-lodge-murder-fir-101632522431427.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGIMER to resume walk-in OPDs from September 27||For the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in March 2020, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has decided to resume the walk-in physical consultation facility at its out-patient departments (OPDs).From September 27, patients can simply walk in to the institute’s New OPD, between 9.15am and 11 am, and can get registered at the respective registration counters. Prior appointments for physical OPDs through tele-consultation and official website will also continue. Earlier, the summer OPD registration timings were 8am to 11am.“In view of declining Covid cases in Chandigarh and its neighbouring states, we have decided to resume walk-in OPDs. Registration will be open for two hours only to avoid overcrowding and spreading of Covid-19 infection,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.Dr Ram said, “Covid test of every patient visiting the OPD is not possible. But we will ensure that people are wearing face masks and sanitising their hands, besides maintaining social distancing.” Number of online appointments increasedSince the suspension of walk-in consultation and online appointments in March last year, the institute had been providing OPD services through tele-consultation. From June 21 this year, physical consultations resumed, but only after prior appointment through tele-consultation.On September 6, the institute also restarted the online appointment facility, but with a cap of 30 patients per department to ensure adherence to Covid protocols.On Friday, PGIMER also decided to allow 50 patients per department and 100 for three major departments —opthalmology (eye), hepatology (liver) and internal medicine. “Since the pandemic began, PGIMER has been providing all emergency services round the clock, along with essential general OPD services for obstetric, cancer patients and other semi-urgent conditions. The institute had earlier started tele-consultation services, and physical OPDs in a phased manner from June, while the only motive was to prevent exposure of patients with comorbidities to coronavirus,” said Dr Ram.Patient care derailed amid pandemicDespite PGIMER’s measures to provide non-Covid care amid the pandemic, patients have been regularly complaining about difficulty in securing appointments for physical consultation and elective surgeries due to the tedious procedures.Before the contagion started, over 10,000 patients visited PGIMER’s OPDs daily. But now, only 2,000 to 2,500 are being called in per day after tele-consultation and online appointments.Also, while over 200 elective surgeries were being conducted every day at various departments before Covid, only around 100 are being performed now, since the process resumed in June this year, despite the huge pendency.Walk-in OPDs also available at GMCH, GMSHWalk-in OPDs are already operational at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. Around 2,000 patients are getting OPD facilities at GMSH-16 daily, while the number is around 1,500 at GMCH-32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pgimer-to-resume-walk-in-opds-from-september-27-101632522132479.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Vikram Dhawan is new vice-president of AAP Chandigarh||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Chandigarh unit, has made three important appointments. According to the list released on Friday, Vikram Dhawan, son of former Union Minister and senior AAP leader Harmohan Dhawan, has been appointed as the vice-president of the party’s Chandigarh unit. Meanwhile, retired DSP of Chandigarh Police, Vijaypal Singh has been appointed as general secretary and former Punjab National Bank manager PP Ghai as treasurer.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFNew police station at Mataur gets new SHO Mohali A month after Mataur police station shifted to a new building in Sector 71, Naveen Pal Singh Lehal has been appointed as the new station house officer there. Prior to this, Lehal was posted as SHO in Jalandhar. The SHO said the people of the city would be benefited by the new building, which had a separate lock-up for women prisoners.Three inspectors of UT police transferredChandigarh Three inspectors of the Chandigarh Police department were transferred on Friday including inspector Satvinder Singh (crime branch), inspector Rajiv Kumar (proclaimed offenders and summon staff) and inspector Harinder Singh Sekhon (security wing).CRRID staff protests over pending salariesChandigarh The employees of Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Sector 19, along with Punjab state cooperatives, boards and corporations employees, held a protest against the management on Friday over their failure to disburse salaries for more than three months.Three men rob auto driver of ₹3,500Chandigarh Three men, posing as passengers, snatched ₹3,500 from an auto-rickshaw driver in Sector 38 on Thursday. Pawan Kumar, 21, a resident of Ssector 45, complained that the men boarded his vehicle from Nayagaon to reach Sector 38, and robbed him as they reached a deserted spot in the area. A case under Sections 379A of the IPC was registered.Kansal residents’ plea: HC seeks response from PunjabCHANDIGARH The high court on Friday sought response from Punjab and others on the plea of Kansal residents that they be allowed to carry out repair of electricity, sewerage, roads and drainage, etc. The plea has been filed in view of the 2009 suo motu proceedings initiated by HC to save Sukhna Lake, whereby it stayed demolition and construction activity in its catchment area. The court has sought response by September 29.Haryana govt clerk held for leaking infoChandigarh Police have arrested a clerk working with the Haryana home department for leaking official information. The accused, Kapil, was arrested from the office of home minister Anil Vij on Friday. He was booked under Section 409 of the IPC. Mega job fair: Mohali bags second rank in PunjabMohali Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi awarded the Mohali administration for attaining the second rank in generating employment through the 7th Mega Job Fair, at a state-level function held in PTU, Kapurthala, on Thursday. Deputy commissioner Isha Kalia said four mega job fairs were organised in the district under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar programme and 22,968 candidates were selected by leading companies. Panjab University MPhil PhD entrances rescheduledChandigarh Panjab University (PU) has decided to re-schedule the PU-MPhil/PhD entrance test to October 31. Earlier it was to be held on October 3. Detailed revised schedule will be uploaded on the PU website later on.Two day research conclave held in SD CollegeChandigarh Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Chandigarh, and Association of Biological Scientists and Entrepreneurs of India jointly organised a two-day research conclave on Friday sponsored by the department of science and technology and renewable energy and DBT Star College Scheme, Government of India. The theme of conclave was “Entrepreneurship and startups: Paradigms of future research”.PU organises webinar on India’s national security futuresChandigarh The department of defence and national security studies, Panjab University, organised a special lecture on the theme “India’s national security futures” by Lieutenant General Raj Shukla YSM,SM, GOC-in-C Army Training Command, Shimla, through online mode. Shukla in his address brought out key postulates that can shape and define the national security futures including information, role of technology and artificial intelligence among others.Keshav, Saanvi take tennis titlesZirakpur Keshav Dangi and Saanvi Garg clinched the U-16 boys’ and girls’ singles finals on the concluding day of the All India tennis Association National Ranking Championship at the Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur on Friday. Top seed Saanvi beat Isheeta Midha 6-0,5-7,(11-9) while Keshav outplayed Shraeyvir who conceded the match due illness when he was 2-4 down in the first set. In the boys’ doubles final, Parmarth Kaushik and Keshav Dangi beat Mehraab Singh and Parth Sharma 4-1, 4-2.Chandigarh men’s and women’s mallakhamb teams announcedChandigarh Chandigarh men’s and women’s mallakhamb teams were announced ahead of the 36th Senior Man and 32nd Senior Women Championship to be held at Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, from September 25 to 30. Namita Yadav will be the coach with the teams. Men’s team: Shashank Singh, Karan Singh Jaira, Adity Mishra, Aman, Sanjeev Kumar Shukla and Krish Gupta. Women’s teams: Kiran Preetkaur, Sakshi Rana, Bharti, Prabhjob Kaur and Sushma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vikram-dhawan-is-new-vice-president-of-aap-chandigarh-101632521291179.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sculptor Jitu Patel gives presentation at Chandigarh government museum||Eminent sculptor Jitu Patel emphasised that simplicity was the ultimate form of beauty in an interesting audio-visual presentation of his sculptures at the Government Museum in Sector 10 on Friday.Patel was invited by the Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi. Trained in applied arts from MS University, Baroda, Patel has exhibited across the country and abroad, and has participated in a number of workshops.“I took great interest in the clay creations by potters in his village as well as the rhythms of nature which later inspired me to create abstract forms,” said Patel.Welcoming the sculptor, chairman of the Akademi Bheem Malhotra said more interactions with artistes will be organised in the museum in times to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sculptor-jitu-patel-gives-presentation-at-chandigarh-government-museum-101632518770674.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Expedite CCL authorisation for kharif season from RBI: Punjab CM Channi to Centre||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday urged the central government to help the state in getting authorisation of cash credit limit (CCL) for the kharif season from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) expeditiously. Keeping in view the upcoming procurement season, the CM had detailed discussions with the Union food and public distribution secretary Sudhanshu Pandey at the former’s office. The CM was accompanied by his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.Pandey informed Channi that the Centre has already taken a decision to procure paddy in Punjab according to the existing norms. The CM said for future the revised norms should only be finalised by taking all the stakeholders, including the Punjab government, farmer unions, arhtiyas and mills into confidence as imposing these unilaterally would mean a great setback to the state. The CM said the Centre has fixed a procurement target of 170 million tonne paddy even as the state agriculture department estimates 191 MT paddy production this season. Expressing concern over the slow movement of grains in the state’s godowns, the CM asked the Union secretary to tie up with the railways to get the warehouses vacated so that additional space could be created for the storage. Union food secy reviews procurement in HaryanaUnion food and public distribution secretary Sudhanshu Pandey visited Haryana to review procurement, storage operations and various central welfare schemes. Pandey, who also visited a silo at Kaithal, was accompanied by state government officers. He was apprised that the mechanised silo facility is in operation since 2007 and has linked field depots at Navi Mumbai and Bandel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expedite-ccl-authorisation-for-kharif-season-from-rbi-punjab-cm-channi-to-centre-101632516970583.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Roadways employees in Punjab shut bus stands for 2 hours in protest for demands||The contractual and outsourced employees of state transport undertakings, including the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and the Punbus, on Friday staged protests and shut bus stands across the state for 2 hours.The protesting employees are demanding implementation of the decisions taken in a meeting held on September 14. The protesters had earlier ended their indefinite strike and resumed bus services after nine days on September 15 after the government promised to increase their salaries.Resham Singh Gill, state president of the Punjab Roadways, Punbus and PRTC Contract Workers’ Union, said the government had decided 30% immediate hike the salaries of contractual and outsourced employees besides 5% annual increase. “We were promised that the notification will be issued by September 15 but nothing has happened till date. Now, the state authorities are making lame excuses that new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will take the final call on this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roadways-employees-in-punjab-shut-bus-stands-for-2-hours-in-protest-for-demands-101632516790516.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Burglars strike at government primary school in Ludhiana||A government primary school was burglarised at Rangian village on Thursday. The headmaster, Dev Raj, said when he came to school on Friday, he was shocked to find that the locks had been broken open and that the school had been ransacked. “An LED, sound system, tablets, headphones, chargers, two ceiling fans, toys and other electronic gadgets had been stolen,” Raj said. Head constable Sabar Khan, who is investigating the case, said the unidentified accused had been booked under Sections 457 (house trespass) and 380 (theft in a dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code. Police are scanning CCTVs to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burglars-strike-at-government-primary-school-in-ludhiana-101632516730298.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||One-third of cotton area in Punjab under pink bollworm pest attack||Nearly one-third (33%) of a total of 3.25 lakh hectares of area under cotton cultivation in Punjab is presently under attack of the pink bollworm pest, officials of the state agriculture department said. Adding to the worries of cotton growers and the agriculture department, the pest is spreading its tentacles rapidly as it is above economic threshold level in many districts, especially Mansa and Bathinda. It means there are more than six adult pink bollworm insect present in a leaf. Economic threshold is a level at which monetary returns remain higher than the cost of controlling the pest. The state government has ordered special girdwari (assessment) to ascertain the damage to the cotton crop after the pest attack. Agriculture experts fear that the pest attack has entered a phase wherein it would not only reduce the crop yield but will also result in huge financial losses to farmers. Several farmers in Bathinda and Mansa have ploughed their standing crop as it got completely damaged due to the pest attack. State agriculture commissioner BS Sidhu said the department will provide all logistical and technical support to the farmers to control further infestation of pink bollworm. “We are monitoring the situation closely,” he said. Agriculture director Sukhdev Singh Sidhu said the exact damage could be ascertained only after special girdwari ordered by the state government. “The pest attack is scattered. For instance, it has largely affected health of the crop in a village, but there is minimal impact in adjacent areas,” Sidhu said. Officials are carrying out field surveys on a regular basis to gather first-hand information on the pest attack impact so that corrective measures could be taken, he added. Sangrur chief agriculture officer Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal said 2,600 hectare area in Sunam and Lehragaga sub-divisions is under cotton cultivation. “The pest has not crossed economic threshold here as yet. But it is spreading from one field to other at a rapid speed which is a cause of worry,” he said.First major attack since 2015An official said it is the first major pest attack on cotton crop in the state since 2015 when a severe whitefly attack was reported. The crop had witnessed extensive damage as nearly 75% of total area faced pest attack. The cotton yield had reduced to 197kg per hectare than 544kg per hectare in 2014. The cotton production witnessed a steep fall from 13.47 lakh bales to 3.86 lakh bales.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/onethird-of-cotton-area-in-punjab-under-pink-bollworm-pest-attack-101632516610447.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue outbreak poses new challenge for Punjab health department, experts blame wet weather||At a time when cases of Covid-19 infections have come down significantly in Punjab, an outbreak of dengue has become a new challenge for the health authorities in the state. According to official figures, about 2,000 confirmed cases of dengue were detected in all districts of the state till Friday. Hoshiarpur has reported the highest number of cases at 403, followed by Amritsar (384), Muktsar (328) and Bathinda (250) districts.Most of the cases were reported in the last three weeks, say health officials. However, no mortality due to dengue has been reported.Officials said mosquito-infested spots were found in several posh localities, including accommodations of senior government officials. Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, state programme officer for vector-borne diseases, attributed the spurt in dengue cases to unexpected rainfall in the last one month. Field surveillance has revealed that in most cases, dengue mosquito larvae were found in the households, Grover said.“The community has a crucial role to play in controlling the outbreak of the disease. Since weather was exceptionally wet for the last month or so, stagnant water at various places turned breeding spots for mosquitoes,” he added.He said the death of a Patiala resident is being analysed if it was due to dengue.Last year, a total of 8,435 confirmed cases of dengue were reported in Punjab whereas the number was 11,000 in 2019.“In view of the expected higher rate of dengue infection this year, we have increased the number of laboratories to 39 from last year’s 30,” said Grover. Muktsar civil surgeon Dr Ranju Singla said the dengue infestation was maximum in small towns of Malout (170) and Giderbaha (124) while district headquarters has only 9 cases. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said, “Climatic conditions till mid-November are conducive for dengue larvae. It can be controlled by keeping the surroundings dry besides covering one’s body to protect from mosquito bite,” said Dhillon.In Bathinda, the health department has decided to convert Covid ward to admit dengue patients. “As we are getting 1-2 Covid patients in a day, Covid ward will be shifted to another place. We have ample facilities, including testing and blood units, to treat dengue patients,” said Dhillon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-outbreak-poses-new-challenge-for-punjab-health-department-experts-blame-wet-weather-101632516490384.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta applies for leave amid suspense over appointment of top cop||Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta has decided to proceed on leave amid the ongoing stalemate-like situation over the appointment of the new head of the police force. A senior home department official said Gupta, a 1987-batch IPS officer, has applied for one-month leave which is yet to be sanctioned by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who also holds the home portfolio. If the state government sanctions Gupta’s leave, the charge of the DGP office will be given to some other senior IPS officer for the time being. Gupta applied for leave on Thursday, it is learnt. For the new DGP’s appointment, the government has to follow the procedure laid down by the Supreme Court. The state will have to send a panel of senior officials to Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) which will shortlist three names for the job. Sources in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the state government wants to give charge to the officer seen as the strongest probable for the list to be shortlisted by the UPSC which adopts points-based system after analysing service record and experience. Since Channi took charge as chief minister, the issue of appointment of the new DGP has come for discussion but those involved in the decision-making process failed to reach consensus on one name. A senior official said the new dispensation was about to issue orders to give charge of the DGP to 1986-batch IPS officer S Chattopadhyaya on Thursday evening. But the process was immediately stalled when a camp took up the matter with the All India Congress Committee (AICC). On Friday also, hectic lobbying was on between various groups for the appointment of the new DGP. S Chattopadhyaya, 1987-batch officer VK Bhawra and IPS Sahota of 1988 batch are said to be frontrunners for the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-dgp-dinkar-gupta-applies-for-leave-amid-suspense-over-appointment-of-top-cop-101632516252461.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||25 days after being robbed, ₹10 lakh extortion bid on Ludhiana trader||Twenty-five days after a trader was assaulted and robbed of ₹80,000, yet another extortion bid for ₹10 lakh was made on him.Threatening to murder him and his family, unless he complied, the accused asked, the complainant, Rakesh Kumar, to come to the Giaspura cremation ground with ₹10 lakh cash. Swinging into action, the police arrested Amandeep Verma and Pankaj Yadav of Giaspura, and Vijay Pratap of Guru Ramdas Colony. A .32 bore pistol, two bullets, two sharp-edged weapons and a scooter were recovered from their possession.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, rural) Sachin Gupta said the accused were arrested from Giaspura, and a case had been registered against them under 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act against the accused.The accused admitted that they had robbed the trader of ₹80,000 near Sherpur on August 28 as they knew that the accused always carried a lot of cash with him. The extortion call had been made using a snatched mobile phone.They also confessed to robbing a Nepalese man of ₹5,000, and a mobile phone, and to three other snatchings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25-days-after-being-robbed-10-lakh-extortion-bid-on-ludhiana-trader-101632516250854.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||BKU thanks Punjab CM Channi for support, but says won’t share stage with political parties||The Bharatiya Kisan Union has welcomed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s support to the farmers’ stir but maintained that their stage will not be shared with any political party. The BKU also refuted allegations that their protest against the Centre’s farm laws is being funded by opposition parties. “First and foremost, this is not a protest run by any political party or the opposition. It is a farmers’ movement against the three new anti-farmer laws brought by the BJP-led government,” Saurabh Upadhyay, a BKU spokesperson told PTI. “There is no doubt that the current opposition is weak. We thank the new Punjab chief minister for supporting the protest. However, we are not going to share our stage with any political party,” Upadhyay said. Soon after his swearing-in as the Punjab CM, Channi, who replaced Capt Amarinder Singh after a power tussle within the Congress, had on Monday extended support to the stir. The BKU, whose members and supporters led by national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait are encamped at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border since late November also refuted allegations of its agitation being funded by opposition parties. “If the Congress had funded the protest, then why had former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh asked farmers to go to Delhi instead of pitching tents in his state. He had said that the protests were hurting Punjab,” Upadhyay argued. “Our protest is being organised in every state irrespective of political party affiliations. We have staged demonstrations in UP, Delhi and even in Congress-ruled Rajasthan,” he said. The farmers’ stir on the three Delhi border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur will be completing 10 months on Sunday. On the future course of action, Upadhyay said the movement is being led by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the BKU has been an integral part of it. “A Bharat Bandh has been called on September 27. The top priority is to ensure the success of this bandh. After this, the SKM will take a call on the future course of action for the protest. The BKU will continue its fight for the farmers,” he added. Hundreds of farmers encamped at the three border sites of Delhi are demanding that the three contentious farm laws be repealed and a legal guarantee provided to them on minimum support price for crops. Tikait has been leading the protest at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. The Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the farmers, has maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bku-thanks-punjab-cm-channi-for-support-but-says-won-t-share-stage-with-political-parties-101632515950325.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||80% people have received 1st Covid jab in Ludhiana||Almost 80% of those eligible to be vaccinated have received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said on Friday. Sharma, who was attending a meeting at the Bachat Bhawan, said around 28 lakh people have so far been covered under the inoculation drive, of which 20 lakh beneficiaries had received a single dose, while 7 lakh people are fully vaccinated. A total of 26,06,484 people are eligible to take the coronavirus vaccine. The DC appreciated doctors, nurses, paramedics and officials who had been instrumental in carrying out the vaccination drive and said that Ludhiana was leading the inoculation drive in Punjab and was inching closer to the 3-million jab mark everyday. He reiterated the importance of following all Covid norms, not becoming complacent and taking the Covid jab. Among those present were additional deputy commissioner Amit Kumar Panchal and civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill. The administration also received a fresh stock of 75,000 Covishield vaccines and 12,000 Covaxin doses. 250 get jabbed at vax camp in Phase VIII Mangli As many as 250 people, of which most were labourers employed at factories were vaccinated at a special camp at Focal Point, Phase VIII, Mangli. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president, Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organization (FICO) along with Ashpreet Singh Sahni, chairman, CII Ludhiana, inaugurated the vaccination camp. No fresh case for 2nd consecutive day (BOX) Not a single case of the coronavirus was reported in the district for the second consecutive day on Friday. So far, the district has recorded 87,533 cases, of which 2,101 people have succumbed. There are 23 active cases in the district. This is the third time this month that the daily case count has remained zero. Meanwhile, an 82-year-old woman admitted at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) had succumbed to the coronavirus on Thursday. Nine more infected with dengue Ludhiana: Nine more cases of dengue confirmed in the district, taking the patient count to 125. Around 106 cases were reported from city areas, while others were reported from Payal Khanna, Sudhar, and Sahnewal among other areas. The district has 1,158 suspected dengue cases, while 104 patients from other districts with a confirmed diagnosis are also admitted in city hospitals. A dengue death was reported on August 25, when a 65-year-old resident of Balloke village died after testing positive for dengue at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/80-people-have-received-1st-covid-jab-in-ludhiana-101632515590167.html
25-09-2021||Other||HT Readers’ take: End the wait for non Covid patients||Private hospitals minting moneyAmid the suspension of OPD services by PGIMER, private hospitals are minting money by charging exorbitantly for tests and consultation. Some of the hospitals charge almost 10-fold the amount charged by PGI. It is surprising that even after a year-and-a-half of the pandemic outbreak, PGIMER’s OPDs remain closed. DS Banati,MohaliDon’t neglect non-Covid patientsPersons suffering from chronic diseases are suffering due to the closure of OPDs by government hospitals as private consultations cost a fortune. It is prudent to make arrangements for the impending third wave of the pandemic, but at the same time, authorities must not neglect other patients. Hospital administrations must work out modalities to resume OPD services in a safe manner. Kidar Nath Sharma, via emailTele-consultation lacks reach Medical and paramedical staff have done a commendable job during the first and second waves of the pandemic. It is now time to focus on other patients, particularly those from poor and rural backgrounds, who may not have been able to access teleconsultation services or private healthcare facilities. Subhash Chugh, via emailAffordable healthcare must be accessible Suspension of OPD services and elective surgeries during the peak of the pandemic left many high and dry. Government-run hospitals, such as PGIMER, are crucial in providing affordable healthcare to those who can’t shell out heavy consultation charges of private doctors. It is thus imperative that non-Covid services must be resumed at the earliest. Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhTelemedicine no match for in-person diagnosisIt is high time that Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) resumes OPD services and elective surgeries as it caters to patients from at least six states. Telemedicine services cannot match in-person diagnosis. Doctors should rise to the occasion and get the authorities to resume the services at full scale before another wave strikes. Pardeep Sapra, via emailNormalcy in all walks, why not in hospitals?When normalcy has returned to all other walks of life, why can’t hospitals resume healthcare services in a phased manner. Though private hospitals gave resumed most services, with SOPs in place, the government ones have been lagging behind. It is understandable to be cautious amid the looming threat of a third wave, but non-Covid patients must not be neglected. PGIMER and other hospitals must resume their services, beginning with critical patients. Prior registrations can be made mandatory to avoid unnecessary crowding.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliImperative for timely diagnosis, treatment It is imperative to open walk-in OPDs for patients, who have not been able to receive timely treatment after pandemic outbreak, to avoid further deterioration of their health. The poor have suffered the most as going to expensive private hospitals is not an option for them. The walk-in patients should be asked to provide their vaccination certificates or get themselves tested on site. Such measures would reduce the risk of Covid infection and spread.Gurnoor Grewal, ChandigarhMore delays will increase patient loadPGIMER must live up to its reputation and lead the way in resuming OPD services for patients. The over-cautious approach in anticipation of a third wave will harm non-Covid patients whose health condition may worsen in the absence of affordable healthcare that only government-run institutions can provide. Currently, Covid cases are low so doctors can shift their attention to other patients in need of care. More delays in reopening OPDs will only increase the patient load.SC Luthra, ChandigarhRethink healthcare delivery systemsThe Covid-19 crisis seemingly provides a sudden glimpse into a future world, one in which digital has become central to every interaction. Now is the time to rethink healthcare delivery and adopt operations management strategies with demonstrated success that are most promising. This will allow us to be better prepared for future waves of the Covid-19 pandemic.Khushboo Singla, MohaliStreamline patient inflow for safetyPost Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research must resume OPD services but certain steps must be taken to avoid the risk of infection spread. Online tokens must be issued to streamline patient visits. Only one attendant must be allowed to accompany a patient so as to avoid unnecessary crowding. All Covid protocols, such as wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and regular hand sanitising, must be strictly followed to avoid infection spread once the services are restored. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliChronic patients need regular careWith a gradual decline in Covid cases over the past few days, it would be advisable to resume OPDs and elective surgeries in government hospitals and PGIMER. Senior citizens are more likely to have chronic health problems. Due to the closure of OPDs, the condition of many patients has worsened. Patients with serious ailments such as cancer, diabetes, heart disease, need regular medical care. Resuming the services in government hospitals will provide relief to the common man as private hospitals are looting the public. To cut short the patients’ waiting time, the OPD timings must be increased. Vijay Malia, ChandigarhNon-Covid patients took a backseat for longFor the last several months, the world, especially our medical professionals, have been focused on fighting the pandemic. While Covid patients were treated on priority, the others had to take a backseat. However, now as the Covid cases are going down, it is time to shift focus on other ailments. At such a crucial juncture, when we are looking at a possible third wave in the coming months, we should not let our guard down. Hence, hospitals must impose all Covid protocols, such as maintaining social distancing, following mask norms, and proper hygiene while opening up OPD services. If we take adequate measures to check infection spread, we can treat all patients while keeping patients and doctors safe from the virus.Usha Verma, ChandigarhCrucial time for hospitals to prepare for third waveWhen the pandemic started last year, hospitals worldwide diverted their resources to battling Covid. This resulted in resource constraints. Further, clinicians and non-Covid patients deferred “non-urgent” visits, evaluations, diagnostics, surgeries and therapeutics due to fear of infection. With another wave still on the cards, hospitals must be on the stand by to deal with it. So, this would not be the right time to scale up non-Covid services. Ishita Nara, via emailNo more delays for non-Covid patientsIt is reassuring to know that Covid cases have started declining in the city. In view of this, all government-run hospitals, including the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, must be reopened at the earliest. Any further delay in treatment for non-Covid patients may push us into a health crisis. While it was important to suspend these services in the initial months of the pandemic when the world was facing and unknown, invisible enemy, it is time that all institutions work out modalities to restore normalcy, be it schools, hospitals or workplaces. Kundan Lal, MohaliClear non-Covid backlog, prepare for third waveAs the pandemic is relatively under control, it is the right time for open hospitals to restart routine OPD check-ups and elective surgeries. People have postponed their routine visits for chronic ailments since long and they need to be addressed now. There is a backlog of elective surgeries that need attention. At the same time, in view of the threat of a third wave, a parallel system should be put in place to cater to Covid patients so that in case there is sudden surge in cases, the system should not collapse. We should make use of the time to put our healthcare system back in place.Mukesh Wadhwa, via emailPhased reopening must to avoid healthcare crisisThough the threat of the third wave still looms large, we must not forget the economically weaker sections who cannot afford treatment at private hospitals or avail of services such as online consultation, online appointment booking etc. For their ease, it is critical that government-run hospitals resume their services in a phased manner to avoid a health crisis. OPDs at GMSH-16 and GMCH-32 are already functional, so there is no reason for PGIMER to not do the same. Subhash Nagpal, ZirakpurNot all are tech savvy for tele-consultationWith a visible drop in Covid-19 cases, it is the right time for Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and other institutions to gradually open and then scale up outpatient department treatments and elective surgeries. While it may not be possible to go back to the pre-pandemic ways, the hospital can still take some measures to alleviate the patients’ suffering while also keeping infection at bay. Though PGI has decided to resume OPD services on appointment basis, all patients are not able to avail it as they are unable to get prior appointment online. If the hospital resumes the services to a certain extent, patients of chronic diseases such as liver-related issues, diabetes, hypertension, heart-related disorders can avail of treatment before their condition deteriorates. To prevent the overcrowding in outpatient departments, inflow must be streamlined at the entry point and distancing measures must be taken.Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurCovid situation seems under controlIn the initial months of the pandemic, shutting down walk-in OPDs was inevitable. Teleconsultations came to the rescue then. But now that the Covid situation is under control, walk-in OPDs must be made operational as non-Covid patients have been suffering in silence for months on. To avoid risk of infection, strict SOPs must be put in place. But we certainly cannot turn a blind eye to the pain of non-Covid patients. SS Arora, MohaliCan’t put off non-Covid treatment foreverLots of surgeries and treatments have been put off during the first and second waves. Many patients themselves avoided visiting hospitals for fear of contracting the virus. They have suffered silently and are perhaps the invisible casualties of the pandemic. While we have the count of Covid infections and deaths, we have no idea about how many died and endured pain due to diseases other than the Covid, in the last over 18 months. With a large part of the population already vaccinated, and Covid cases also remaining low, it is now a good time to shift focus on non-Covid patients before the third wave hits. We don’t know how long the pandemic will continue, so we can’t put off non-Covid treatments forever.Karan Gaba, via emailResume services but avoid overcrowdingWith Covid-19 infection count falling to single digit in the tricity, it is certainly the time for hospitals to concentrate on OPD and elective surgeries. But at the same time, care should be taken to avoid overcrowding at OPDs as we are still facing a threat of the third wave. A multi-pronged approach is required for this. While the entry may be controlled by taking temperature by infrared scanners etc. rather than elaborate testing procedures, the basic approach should be to strengthen the primary and secondary healthcare system in the tricity so that people don’t reach Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research as their first port of call for medical attention. Telemedicine facilities need to be strengthened. Universal affordable healthcare shouldn’t simply remain a mission statement, it needs to be achieved in concrete terms.Lt Col GS Bedi, MohaliAll lives precious, deny treatment to noneAfter the pandemic outbreak, the administration had to take urgent steps to prevent the spread of the virus. At the time, it was important to suspend other operations to focus on the pandemic. All three government hospitals in the city stopped admitting non-Covid patients. But it has been over a year-and-a-half, and the world has learnt to live with the pandemic. Now, the pre-pandemic show must go on. For this, it is important to restore all medical health services, including walk-in OPDs. Each human life is precious. So treatment must be made available with any discrimination- Covid or non-Covid. Telemedicine consultancy must continue to reduce footfall in hospitals but all facilities must be restored with proper standard operating procedures. Col SK Aggarwal (retd), PanchkulaNo patient should suffer due to lack of medical facilitiesAs Covid cases have decreased, government must make arrangements to treat non-Covid patients. They should resume the OPD services and elective surgeries and gradually scale it up in a phased manner. Patient inflow must be controlled. Besides, government hospitals can use any vacant building in the city for these services. For surgeries, patients must be given priority after giving due consideration to their health condition. No patient should die or suffer due to non-availability of medical facilities.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhLet no one sufferIt is high time that hospitals are opened for the general public. The situation is currently under control as far as tricity’s Covid status is concerned. There are people who are suffering due to problems other than Covid and were not given full attention in terms of medical help. Out patient departments at government-run hospitals should be opened with strict protocols, such as masking, distancing and hand hygiene. Let no one suffer.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaPoor have suffered due to suspension of servicesThe poor have suffered the most, mentally as well physically, due to non-availability of medical, oupatient department services and surgeries at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and other government hospitals. With the pandemic situation showing a slight improvement in the tricity, it is a good time to resume these services for the benefit of the poor, who can’t afford the exorbitant costs of private hospitals. However, Covid norms such as wearing masks, hand sanitising and social distancing must be strictly followed at the hospitals to avoid risk of infection.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliTime to focus on non-Covid patientsWith Covid cases on the decline, non-Covid services must now be opened up since these patients are also suffering. While resuming the services, strict precautions should be observed. There should be clear demarking of the Covid and non-Covid wards and doctors to avoid spread of infection. Prior online appointments and teleconsultation services can help reduce footfall in hospitals. We must not forget that all patients are equally important. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhReader of weekResume OPD services with SOPs in placeFor the past several months, many patients with serious ailments had to suffer as government hospitals discontinued their OPD services amid the escalating Covid situation. All major hospitals, including the PGIMER, must resume walk-in OPD urgently for the benefit of such patients. They should also take care to ensure that Covid protocols are not violated at any cost, to pre-empt chances of the looming third wave. Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhExperts’ takeAlleviate patients’ painNon-Covid patients have already suffered a lot. Since infections are now declining, it is high- time to resume walk-in OPDs and elective surgeries.Dr VK Nagpal, medical superintendent, GMSH, Sector-16.Risk of infectionCovid cases are fluctuating daily. As per experts, complacency in following protocol can invite the third wave in October. If we start walk-in OPDs now, infection can spread easily. Dr AK Gupta, dean (research)-cum-medical superintendent, PGIMER.Safety measuresFor crowd management, steps, such as increasing OPD hours or mandating prior registrations, can prove useful. Count of elective surgeries’ must be increased as it is done in an OT where crowd management is not a problem.Dr KK Talwar, former PGIMER directorScreening & vaxPreference may be given to vaccinated persons at OPDs. Also, proper screening and Covid-safety protocols may reduce the risk of infection and help hospitals scale up non-Covid health services. Dr Rajesh Gulia, acting CEO, Mayo Hospital, Mohali Partial restoration This is the right time for PGI to start walk-in facilities but with a cap on crowding. Full-fledged resumption can increase risk of infection but partial resuming of services will give some relief to the poor patients.Dr Sudhir Garg, medical superintendent, GMCH-32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ht-readers-take-end-the-wait-for-non-covid-patients-101632515470602.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||New Ludhiana police chief to personally meet all cops to drive home message of empathetic public dealings||Empathetic public dealings, round the clock police presence and open communication within the force is likely to be the cornerstone of newly appointed commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar’s tenure. The new city police chief has been meeting cops from all rungs of the hierarchy, ranging from senior officers to constables personally to drive home the importance of improving their soft skills so as to deal with the public empathetically. “All complaints should be redressed at the earliest. As it is the complainants are under a great deal of stress. Therefore, it is our professional as well as moral duty to resolve the matter as soon as possible,” he said. So far, Bhullar has stopped at checkpoints in Sarabha Nagar Market, Ferozepur Road, Sidhawn Canal and Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar to meet with the police force. In order to deter crime, the commissioner of police has directed cops to man checkposts at all hours and ensure constant presence at all major public places so that the residents feel safe. Police vehicles are being upgraded for the same. “I have already met all senior police officials and SHOs and ordered them to ensure there is no pendency. I have also directed the officers to deter drug peddling. I will also be conducting surprise checks at police stations,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-ludhiana-police-chief-to-personally-meet-all-cops-to-drive-home-message-of-empathetic-public-dealings-101632515110424.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Old storm sewer lines causing road cave-ins in Ludhiana||Heavy rainfall, and dated storm sewer lines have caused major road cave-ins in Dugri Phase 2 over the last three years. Heavy rainfall on Thursday caused the brick storm sewer lines, which were installed four decades ago, to rupture at four points and cause two-major road cave-ins in close proximity to houses, including one belonging to former Mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria. Similar incidents were also reported in 2019 and 2020. Fortunately, the foundation of the houses was not damaged or the cave-ins took place in a green belt. The antiquated sewer line starts from 200-feet Road in Dugri and continues till the CRPF colony near the Canal Bridge.A resident, Gagan Singla, said the old storm line was made of bricks and gets damaged during the rainy season. “This time, the line got damaged at a distance of a few meters from my house, and in the last two years, a portion just adjoining our house had caved in. We had to place sandbags to stop soil erosion from the foundation of our house,” he said.Former mayor Gohalwaria has demanded that the lines be replaced at the earliest as the foundation of the nearby houses may be damaged, if frequent incidents are reported. “A demand for the same had been raised by residents earlier too, but nothing was done,” said Gohalwaria.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the sewer lines are old and are not able to cope with rising pressure. Old incidents Decades old storm sewers are also present on the Kaka Marriage Palace Road, Saggu Chowk, Model Town Extension and major cave-ins have also been reported in these areas in the past. The line on the Kaka Marriage Palace has caved-in three times in the last three years. The same line had also got damaged in 2011, claiming a truck driver’s life. In 2013, a 80-ft crater had been formed near the Dhami Eye Hospital after the sewerline collapsed. A major portion of Ishmeet Singh Road near the Model Town Extension cremation ground had also caved in after the old storm sewer line was damaged.  ₹80 crore project hanging fireAuthorities had claimed that a ₹80 crore project will be launched to repair the lines under the Smart City Project. However, it has been two years and the project is yet to see the light of the day.MC superintending engineer Ravinder Garg said the project was in the pipeline and they were awaiting higher authorities’ approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/old-storm-sewer-lines-causing-road-cave-ins-in-ludhiana-101632514633020.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University: V-C releases book on intellectual property||A book titled “Intellectual property: A primer for academia” authored by Rupinder Tewari, IPR-chair professor, Panjab University (PU), and Mamta Bhardwaj, scientist at DST-Centre for Policy Research, PU, was released by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Friday.Kumar said that this book had come at the right time as intellectual property was gaining a strong foothold in higher education in a technology-led era. “IP, especially patents, is a crucial vertical of technology driven innovations,” he said.The authors stated that the book offered a clear and focused view on all categories of IP such as patents, copyrights, trademarks, geographical indications and plant varieties. “The book is unique as it provides additional information on national/international agencies dealing with IP, IP and technology portals, institutions offering IP courses and patent status of higher education institutes in India,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-v-c-releases-book-on-intellectual-property-101632514630222.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana woman stabbed by husband, in-laws after visa application rejection||A newlywed woman was allegedly stabbed by her husband and in-laws at Burj Kulara village after her visa application was rejected. The complainant, Jaspreet Kaur, 22, of Lakha village, said her husband of six months, Sukhdeep Singh, in-laws, Inderjit Kaur, and Charanjit Singh, and another relative, Gorkha, had started harassing her soon after her visa was rejected. Jaspreet had cleared her IELTS test and had married Sukhdeep on March 20. She wanted to go abroad and her in-laws had promised that they would bear the expenses for sending her abroad, provided she arranged a spouse visa for her husband. “My Visa application was rejected by the Australian Embassy. Later, I applied to Canada, but to no avail. However, after my visa was rejected, my in-laws started harassing me for dowry and my husband started demanding a divorce,” she said. On Thursday, the accused assaulted her and also stabbed her with a sharp edged weapon. Hearing her cries, their neighbours intervened and rushed her to hospital. Assistant sub-inspector Kuldeep Kumar, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered under Sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at the Hathur police station. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-stabbed-by-husband-in-laws-after-visa-application-rejection-101632514210123.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Channi again in Delhi to discuss ministries, Jakhar meets Rahul||Amid talk of induction of half-a-dozen fresh faces, the Congress high command on Friday held another round of deliberations with chef minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Delhi to give a final shape to his ministry even as it is considering former state president Sunil Jakhar for an “important role” ahead of the state polls. Channi was again summoned by the central leadership for discussions barely hours after he arrived in Chandigarh from the national capital following a series of meetings with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and All India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal, among others, that carried on till 2am. The newly appointed chief minister, who reached here in the morning, left for the national capital at 4.30 pm – his third flying visit to Delhi in four days – and had another late-night meeting with them to decide the names of cabinet ministers and their portfolios, said sources. The appointment of new director general of police and advocate general was also on their agenda. A number of party leaders, including former ministers, MLAs, MPs and heads of frontal organisations, also reached Kapurthala House where Channi is staying this time. Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat was also in touch with him. Jakhar’s one-on-one meeting with Rahul Earlier, Jakhar had a one-hour meeting with Rahul who is learnt to be considering him for an “important role” with less than five months to go for the assembly elections. The two leaders first had a one-on-one meeting in which they discussed preparations for the upcoming state polls, cabinet expansion and the former state chief’s role in the government and the setup for the elections, sources said, adding that Venugopal also joined them later and Jakhar looked happy after the meeting. While efforts were still on to convince him to join the cabinet with an important portfolio, there is talk in the party circles that he may be asked to head the campaign committee. Jakhar, a Hindu face, was a front-runner for the chief minister’s post with Rahul’s backing after Capt Amarinder Singh resigned following months of internal strife. His name was more or less final at one stage, but a section of party leaders, including Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Ambika Soni and some MLAs, pressed for a Sikh chief minister. Later, the party offered him the deputy CM’s post and two central leaders spoke to him, but he declined. Channi and his two deputy chief ministers — Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni — had taken oath on Monday and they then, along with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, went to Delhi to discuss the expansion the next day. “The high command is being extra cautious and taking feedback from senior leaders to give due representation to all regions and balance the caste and religious equations to avoid any complications later. Also, turf wars and personal grudges of leaders are delaying things,” said a senior party legislator who is camping in Delhi for the past two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-again-in-delhi-to-discuss-ministries-jakhar-meets-rahul-101632512950417.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pollution of seasonal rivulet: Chandigarh adviser gives MC, UT depts 15 days to prepare plan||A comprehensive action plan will be prepared to stop the inflow of untreated sewage into seasonal rivulets (choe).UT adviser Dharam Pal, in a meeting with senior officials from the MC, and UT engineering and environment departments, directed them to prepare a plan within 15 days and stop pollution of rivulets passing through the city.“MC and UT officials will now prepare both short-term and long-term plans which can help stop the ingress of contaminated water into the rivulets,” said a UT official, who attended the meeting.Though UT has successfully stopped contamination of rivulets in most areas, there are at least two locations near Faidan and Raipur Kalan villages where water pollution is taking place. “Illegal colonies have cropped up in these areas from where sewage is getting mixed with the choe,” said the official.In Faidan village, the demarcation of the border between Mohali and Chandigarh has not been done clearly. “The adviser directed the deputy commissioner to get the boundary clearly demarcated so that administration gets to know where the contaminated water is being dumped into rivulets. The inflow from both cities will have to be stopped to prevent pollution of the rivulet,” said the official.7 ponds to be rejuvenatedSeven water bodies in the city’s villages will be rejuvenated. Three of the ponds are under the MC jurisdiction and four are under the administration, which will be revived.The environment department will prepare a plan as to how to proceed in the matter and share it with the MC and other departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pollution-of-seasonal-rivulet-chandigarh-adviser-gives-mc-ut-depts-15-days-to-prepare-plan-101632512830353.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for weapon possession escapes from police custody in Ludhiana||A man who had been arrested for illegal possession of weapons dodged a police team and escaped near Mullanpur on Thursday. The accused, Ravi Singh alias Ravi Gill of Lambwali village of Faridkot, slipped out of his handcuffs and disappeared into the vegetation. The police have also booked assistant sub-inspector Dharm Singh for negligence. An FIR was lodged on the statement of sub-inspector Surinder Singh, in-charge CIA staff, Faridkot. In his complaint, the SI had arrested the accused on September 21 and recovered an illegal weapon from his possession. A case under the Arms Act was lodged against the accused in Faridkot. Assistant sub-inspector Dharm Singh had brought him to Mullanpur Dakha for investigation. After reaching near a marriage palace, the accused requested the police team to stop so that he could relieve himself. However, the accused gave the cops a slip and fled. An FIR has been registered under Section 223 (Escape from confinement ) and 224 ( resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-held-for-weapon-possession-escapes-from-police-custody-in-ludhiana-101632512709841.html
25-09-2021||Kolkata||BJP hits at Kolkata cop who stopped its protest, says he molested Tibrewal||Kolkata: Hours after the Kolkata Police booked Bengal’s top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and Priyanka Tibrewal, the party candidate against Mamata Banerjee in the Bhawanipore assembly bypoll, for Thursday’s agitation near the chief minister’s home, the opposition party on Friday complained to the Election Commission allegedly that Tibrewal was molested and beaten up along with other leaders by Akash Magharia, deputy commissioner of police (south).Magharia led the police team on Thursday evening when chaos prevailed near Banerjee’s south Kolkata residence at Kalighat as the BJP staged an agitation with the body of Manas Saha, a district leader, alleging that he died of injuries inflicted by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers in May.BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar, Lok Sabha members Arjun Singh and Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, and Tibrewal were booked by the Kalighat police station for unlawful assembly, rioting and use of criminal force to stop public servants from discharging duty.In a letter to EC, the BJP accused Magharia of dragging and pushing Majumdar and said “the same officer molested and inappropriately manhandled Priyanka Tibrewal and some women.”The BJP demanded that Magharia should be removed from election duty immediately and face departmental proceedings.Magharia said the allegation was baseless. “It is in the public domain...You can see the video footage. I have not even touched her. I was standing quite at a distance,” the police officer told news agency PTI.Later, the chief minister also reacted to the agitation at a campaign meeting that she addressed for 40 minutes on Friday.“Some incident took place after the election. But this (the death) is not related to it. I heard there was a surgery later on. The man died of surgery. Any such incident is sad, whether it is in my party or in some other party. When I was in Nabanna (the state secretariat) yesterday, they tried to take the body to my home. Just look at the audacity. These people will otherwise run if someone box their ears,” Banerjee said and moved on to other issues.Around 15 minutes later, she again referred to Thursday’s incident. “You are taking a dead body to my home. What will happen if I send a dead dog and leave it outside your house? Will that be good for you? Do you think I don’t have the machinery? It will take me a second to drop a dog’s rotting carcass outside your home. The stinking smell will not let you eat anything for ten days,” said Banerjee without naming any BJP leader.Her reaction triggered a strong reaction with Union minister Smriti Irani, who was in Kolkata to campaign for the BJP, alleging that Banerjee called Manas Saha a dog “How can Bengal elect a woman who does not even show respect to the dead and call him a dog?” Irani said at a meeting.Priti Saha, the wife of the deceased, reacted too. “What kind of a chief minister do we have? How can she call my husband a dog?” she told the media.Saha, who unsuccessfully contested the Magrahat West assembly seat in the March-April elections, was allegedly assaulted by TMC workers after the results were declared on May 2, the BJP said. Saha died in hospital on Wednesday after months of treatment. BJP leaders blocked the road near Gopal Nagar when the police stopped them from moving towards the chief minister’s home with the hearse. The police stopped the BJP from staging an agitation and removed Majumdar and the others who sat on the road, blocking traffic. In its complaint to the EC, the BJP said, “The procession, maintaining Covid guidelines and restrictions, was peacefully proceeding when a large number of police personnel resorted to unprovoked aggression and started charging towards the funeral procession.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-hits-at-kolkata-cop-who-stopped-its-protest-says-he-molested-tibrewal-101632512410019.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: An alley in Old Delhi||The wall’s blue colour has faded unevenly. In some places, the patches look like a clear blue sky. In other places, they look as if the sky were shrouded over with smog. The blue though doesn’t cover the entire wall, and soon gives way to large expanses of bare ochre-coloured bricks. While cobwebbed windows and twice-locked doors stand as the wall’s gloomier centrepieces.This wall runs along a side-alley in Old Delhi’s Jatwada that passes under an arched gateway and disappears into a private residence.This afternoon, absolute silence is reigning here. Even the pigeons are quiet. One of the large windows framed into the wall has its panes made of wood instead of the customary glass, as if it were purposely forbidden for the inhabitants to look at the world outside. The other much smaller window is even more tragic: it is blocked with concrete.The structure isn’t of an old vintage—these bare bricks on the wall are seen across the city and its suburbs—but the arches, the doors and the windows illustrate graceful sensibilities of a bygone architecture. On lingering long, you notice in a part of the still-painted wall that some of its surviving blue has peeled away, exposing the bricks underneath. And now a startling discovery—the naked section is composed of the slimmer lakhori bricks, the building material of the Walled City’s older mansions. This suggests that the wall, mostly consisting of modern-day bricks, was originally very old and was renovated/rebuilt at a later date, and not with the same material. The little portion of lakhori remnants is clearly an overlooked leftover, which shows that while much of the tangible past has been uprooted with time, some traces of it are accidentally conserved within the present.The lane faces Masjid Anarwali—a mosque named after a pomegranate tree. Turns out the tree no longer survives. And yet, that pomegranate’s recollection continues to live in an existing landmark. Paired with the neighbouring wall, both these edifices aptly contain the essence of the contemporary Walled City—old memories embedded in new concrete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-an-alley-in-old-delhi-101632511966396.html
25-09-2021||Other||BJP MP, MLA face protests from farmers, windshields of two vehicles damaged||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Kurukshetra MP Nayad Saini and Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha faced protests from farmers as the protesters surrounded their vehicles and allegedly damaged the windshields of two SUVs.Amid heavy police deployment, hundreds of farmers on Friday gathered to protest a meeting of BJP’s OBC Morcha at Saini Dharamshala in Kurukshetra.Before the meeting, police had allegedly detained some protesters. This agitated the farmers and the number of protesters had increased within a few minutes.The protesters surrounded vehicles of the BJP leaders outside the venue and the windshields of two SUVs were allegedly damaged. However, there were no reports of injury to anybody.In an interaction with the media, Kurukshetra superintendent of police (SP) Himanshu Garg said paramilitary forces were also called in and the situation was under control.Later, MP Nayab Saini accused the Congress party of instigating the protesters. He said such “hooliganism” in the name of protest cannot be accepted and there were Congress supporters among the protesters.BJP’s OBC Morcha leader Karan Dev alleged that the protesters attacked the car in which he was travelling with the MP and the MLA.He said stones were pelted on their vehicles. “The protesters were Congress workers and will be identified so that strict action can be taken against them,” he said.On the other hand, the protesters accused Nayab Saini of trying to create division among people by holding such meetings.Soon after getting reports of the meeting of BJP’s OBC Morcha at Saini Dharamshala, the farmers reached the venue and chanted slogans against the BJP leaders.Amid heavy police deployment, the farmers continued their protest and police struggled to control the farmers when the BJP workers reached to attend the meeting.Some protesters slammed the BJP leaders for conducting the meeting in the dharmshala of a particular community.“We are also from the Saini community and this dharamshala belongs to all. But the politicians are trying to create a rift between farmers on the basis of caste and religion by conducting their meeting at the dharmshala of one community,” alleged a protester.The Kurukshetra SP said the situation is being evaluated and an FIR will be registered accordingly. On damage to the vehicles, he said some damage to vehicles was reported but it will become clear once a formal complaint is received.This is for the second time that the Kurukshetra MP’s vehicle was attacked. On April 6, the windshield of Nayab Saini’s car was damaged during a protest by the farmers in Shahbad and later, four people were arrested on various charges, including attempt to murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-mp-mla-face-protests-from-farmers-windshields-of-two-vehicles-damaged-101632512231353.html
25-09-2021||Other||Punjab Vidhan Sabha forms panel to implement SC promotion roster||Chandigarh With the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission writing to the state legislative assembly to give due rights to the Scheduled Castes, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha has constituted a committee to implement the roster register. Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur said employees belonging to Scheduled Castes of Punjab Vidhan Sabha had complained that they were not being given the due benefit of reservation policy during promotion. She added that the commission investigated the matter and found the allegations to be true, after which it wrote to the vidhan sabha. “Now, we have it in writing that the Punjab Vidhan Sabha has formed a committee to implement the roster register,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-vidhan-sabha-forms-panel-to-implement-sc-promotion-roster-101632512229932.html
25-09-2021||Dehradun||Army personnel find body of missing mountaineer from 2005 expedition in Uttarakhand||Indian Army personnel who had set out to scale the Satopanth peak in the Gangotri National Park, found the body of a mountaineer on Thursday who is suspected to be part of an expedition of the army sent to scale the same peak in 2005 in which a few mountaineers had gone missing. The expedition comprising of personnel from the Indian Army’s base in the border district of Uttarkashi in Uttarakhand had left to scale the peak to commemorate the Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations during which they came across the body of the mountaineer. Satopanth Peak which is 7075 metres high is the second highest peak in Gangotri National Park situated in the Garhwal Himalayas in the state. A senior army officer who didn’t wish to be named citing the protocol and is privy to the development said, “The expedition comprised 25 personnel who had gone to scale the peak on September 12.” “While they were en-route braving rugged terrain and inclement weather, they came across the remains of the body. We believe that it is the mortal remains of one of our mountaineers who was part of another expedition of the Indian Army which had gone to scale the same peak in 2005. During that expedition, some of the mountaineers went missing. We suspect he is one of them,” he said. The officer said that the expedition members collected the mortal remains and brought it down to Gangotri base on Thursday. “However, we couldn’t ascertain his identity and handed the body to the local police for the same. Once, it is done, we will hand it over to his family members with all the military honours which he deserves,” said the officer. Superintendent of Police, Uttarkashi, Manikant Mishra while confirming the development said, “After receiving the body from the army, we had sent it to hospital for post-mortem examination.” Mishra added, “The police will also conduct a DNA test to ascertain its identity and inform the army authorities accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/army-personnel-find-body-of-missing-mountaineer-from-2005-expedition-in-uttarakhand-101632512109872.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC disposes of plea seeking judicial probe into Karnal violence||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday disposed of a plea seeking judicial probe into the August 28 incident of violence reported in Karnal during a farmers’ protest against Centre’s three farm laws.The plea was disposed in view of government constituting a one-man panel, presided over by justice (retd) of the Punjab and Haryana high court, SN Aggarwal, to enquire into the sequence of events leading to violence including police lathi-charge on the protesting farmers at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on August 28.The plea was filed seeking judicial enquiry into the episode. In response to the plea, the Haryana Police had blamed farmers for the incident. Police said the video, wherein the then Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha is heard instructing the cops to “break the heads” of any protester who crosses the barricades, was filmed 13km away from the place of lathi-charge (Bastara toll plaza) and no policeman from there had joined the force at the toll plaza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-disposes-of-plea-seeking-judicial-probe-into-karnal-violence-101632511991299.html
25-09-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya, religious tourism were not on priority list before 2017, says UP minister||LUCKNOW Prior to 2017, Ayodhya was deprived of development and no one talked about religious tourism destinations of Uttar Pradesh before the BJP came to power in the state, said state tourism minister Neelkanth Tewari on Friday. “Every district across UP has a tourist destination. The state government plans to develop all of them,” Tewari told media persons while listing out achievements of his ministry in the last four-and-a-half years. As many as 106 tourist destinations had been developed in the Braj region of the state and around 150 proposals worth ₹6,087.90 crore were approved under the new tourism policy, he added“Before 2017, Ayodhya was deprived of development work and no one talked about religious tourism destinations of UP,” said the tourism minister listing out development projects being executed in Ayodhya, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Chitrakoot, Mirzapur, Naimisharanya in Sitapur district, Basti and other parts of the state. Deepotsav in Ayodhya, Dev Deepawali in Varanasi, Rangotsav in Mathura, Krishnotsav in Mathura, Kumbh Purva Vaishnav Baithak in Haridwar and Mahashivratri Mahotsav in Varanasi were among the prominent events organized by the tourism department. There were 12 tourism circuits in UP including Ramayan circuit, Krishna-Braj circuit, Buddhist circuit, Wildlife and Eco tourism circuit, Bundelkhand circuit, Mahabharat circuit, Shaktipeeth circuit, Adhyatmik circuit, Sufi-Kabir circuit, Jain circuit, Craft circuit and Swatantrata Sangram circuit. The state government had also proposed the Ganga circuit, which would be the 13th circuit, said the minister. AYODHYA VISION DOCUMENT Ayodhya’s vision document for the overall development of the temple town includes projects like beautification of 42 crossings in the city, development of tourist facilities at 14 Kosi Parikrama, renovation of Hanuman Kund, new ghats on the banks of river Saryu, renovation of the existing ghats, conservation of 37 heritage sites in Ayodhya and renovation of Bharat Kund. LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited, an international consultant hired by the state government, prepared the vision document with the help of the Ayodhya Development Authority. In June this year, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had presented this document before Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a virtual meeting. PROJECTS IN VARANASI Projects in the PM’s constituency include Buddha Theme Park in Sarnath, Ram Janki temple, development of Seergovardhan – birthplace of Sant Ravidas, Narsingh Math at Manikarnika Ghat, renovation of Satwa Baba ashram at Manikarnika ghat and Patalpuri Math. PROJECTS IN GORAKHPUR Water sports facility at Ramgarh Tal, development of Chauri Chaura as tourist destination among other projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-religious-tourism-were-not-on-priority-list-before-2017-says-up-minister-101632511810926.html
25-09-2021||Other||Mahendergarh girl bags AIR-11 in UPSC exam||Devayani, a resident of Mahendergarh and the daughter of Haryana IAS officer Vinay Singh, has bagged AIR-11 in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination 2020, while 23-year-old girl from Bhiwani’s Bamla, Nisha Grewal, cracked the exam by securing 51st rank.Devayani is undergoing training at Shimla after she had bagged AIR-222 in the UPSC civil services exam in 2019. A year before, she was selected in the Rajasthan civil services. She had graduated from BITS Pilani’s Goa campus in 2014.Nisha, on the other hand, has completed her bachelor’s degree in political science and history from Delhi University’s Miranda House in 2019.‘Online education helped’Talking over phone, Devayani said her father inspired her to become an IAS officer and that she wants to work for the welfare of the society.“This was my fifth attempt and I had never even dreamt of securing 11th rank. As I had cracked the UPSC exam last year, there was no pressure on me and I was busy in my training in Shimla,” she said.“Online education helped me a lot. I improved my rank by doing self study. Self-motivation and my parents’ support helped me achieve the goal,” she added.‘Dedicate this feat to my grandfather’Bhiwani’s Nisha said her grandfather Ramphal, who is a retired mathematics teacher, is her role model.“My grandfather taught me mathematics and I had been preparing for the exam at my home for the last two years. After completing graduation, I took coaching in Delhi for 10 months. After the pandemic started, I have stepped out of my house on very few occasions. I solved many mock tests and focused on my goal,” she said.“My success mantra was constant effort with zeal. My grandfather inspired me at every step and I want to dedicate my success to him,” she added.Her father Surender Grewal, who is an assistant sub-station attendant, said his daughter has made the state and residents of Bamla proud.“My father has been continuously working on her and guiding her to achieve her fate. This success goes to Nisha and her grandfather,” he added. Haryana deputy chief minister congratulated Nisha over the phone.Also, Anmol Mittal, son of Haryana IPS officer Alok Mittal, ranked AIR-91 and Rohan Jha, son of Haryana IAS officer, Amit Jha, got the 164th rank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mahendergarh-girl-bags-air-11-in-upsc-exam-101632511809764.html
25-09-2021||Other||Union food secy reviews Punjab’s preparedness for paddy procurement||Chandigarh Union food and public distribution secretary Sudhanshu Pandey visited Punjab on Friday to review the state’s preparedness for paddy procurement. After his review, Pandey appreciated the state government’s initiatives to check the recycling of rice meant for the Public Distribution System (PDS) and bogus billing of paddy. He also asked the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to replicates the measures it has introduced for paddy procurement in Punjab in other states as well, and expressed satisfaction on other arrangements.Punjab is expecting bumper paddy crop during the current season due to favourable weather conditions at the time of maturity of the crop. According to the paddy production estimates of the department of agriculture and farmers welfare, Punjab, 191 lakh tonne of paddy will be produced during the Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2021-22. As the Centre has fixed a tentative target of procurement of 170 lakh tonne paddy, it was requested to revise the target of paddy procurement. The union food secretary also reviewed the distribution of subsidised foodgrain to identified beneficiaries in the State under Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), Atam Nirbhar Scheme and National Food Security Act (NFSA), and expressed his satisfaction. “There is an urgent need to bring in improved technological interventions to automate all distribution operations in order to ensure transparency and avoid any leakages/diversion in the PDS,” he said, adding that he had asked Punjab government to review the present policy of distribution of six-monthly quota in one go and consider switching to quarterly or monthly distribution of subsidised wheat under the NFSA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-food-secy-reviews-punjab-s-preparedness-for-paddy-procurement-101632511691120.html
25-09-2021||Other||Birth anniversary of Devi Lal: Stage set for INLD’s Jind rally today||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) party is all geared up for the ‘Samman Diwas Samaroh’ to be organised in Jind on Saturday to mark the 108th birth anniversary of late Devi Lal.Ahead of the event, INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala visited the venue to take stock of the arrangements.The rally is said to be a special one as INLD supremo and former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala will address party workers in the state-wide rally for the first time after completing his jail term in the junior basic teachers’ (JBT) recruitment scam.INLD is organising a rally on Devi Lal anniversary after two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Abhay Chautala said, “Former prime minister HD Devegowda, former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, ex-Uttar Pradesh CM Mulayam Singh Yadav, former Jammu and Kashmir CM Farooq Abdullah and many other leaders will attend the rally and form a third front to fight the BJP and Congress.”“In the Jind rally, we will felicitate Olympics and Paralympics medallists. We have also invited families of farmers who have sacrificed their lives during the ongoing farm agitation against Centre’s three farm laws. We will provide jobs to one member of each deceased farmer’s family under Choudhary Devi Trust,” he added.The 87-year-old INLD supremo, his daughter-in-law Sunaina Chautala, and grandsons Arjun and Karan Chautala have leave no stone unturned to make the Jind rally a success in the absence of Abhay, who was on bed rest due to back ache.OP Chautala had interacted with party workers at district-level meetings, while his grandsons and the party’s woman face Sunaina had visited villages across state to urge people to attend the rally so that they can show their political strength after the senior Chautala’s release.INLD insiders said Abhay had telephonically made conversations with booth-level workers and assigned them duties for the rally.Party’s women wing general secretary Sunaina said women will turn up in large numbers to pay tributes to Devi Lal and farmers who sacrificed their lives during the year-long farm stir.Meanwhile, INLD’s splinter group Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) will install a 48-feet high statue of Devi Lal on his birth anniversary on the Delhi-Mumbai highway in Nuh.The fissures in Haryana’s oldest and the then principal Opposition party INLD had come out during a ‘Samman Divas’ rally at Sonepat’s Gohana on October 7, 2018, when supporters of the then Hisar MP Dushyant Chautala had hooted his uncle Abhay and had not allowed him to complete his speech in the presence of party president OP Chautala.INLD has decided to hold the rally in its old bastion Jind, which is also the epicentre of the farmers’ agitation. The local farming community has a lot of anger towards deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/birth-anniversary-of-devi-lal-stage-set-for-inld-s-jind-rally-today-101632511511966.html
25-09-2021||Other||Elephant kills woman in Idukki||A 36-year-old woman was trampled to death by a wild elephant on a road near Munnar in Kerala’s Idukki district early on Friday, police said. The woman, P Viji, and her husband going on a motorbike encountered the elephant at a hairpin bend at Sankarpandiamettu, at least 22 kms away from hill destination Munnar. Her husband said both panicked after seeing the elephant on the road and he tried to take a U-turn but the bike skidded and both fell on the road. The elephant charged at them and stomped Viji fatally. But the husband escaped with minor injuries. Police said both are tea plantation workers in Munnar and they were returning to their work after meeting their relatives in Theni district of Tamil Nadu. According to statistics of the Kerala forest department from 2010 to 2020, 173 people die in man-animal conflicts. The highest number of deaths were reported in 2016 – 33 – and the lowest in 2015, of six. Among 173, 120 died in elephant attack. In the same period, 64 elephants also died after being hunted, electrocuted, hit by speeding vehicles and from explosives. The state’s most conflict-prone areas are Wayanad, Palakkad and Idukki districts, said the report. Wildlife experts say jumbo straying can be contained by managing elephant corridors intact. They say one of the main reasons for elephant attack in Idukki district is encroaches along Anamalai-Periyar tiger reserve elephant corridor. They say shrinking of their habitat and corridors force many elephants to foray into human settlements. “We need a healthy co-existence of both. If we respect the need of both we can lower tension between two,” said Dr P S Esa, a leading wildlife expert. Kerala has a robust forest cover, 29% of the total area and it has a healthy wildlife population, 190 tigers and 5706 elephants. But at the same time forest encroachment is also rampant in many parts of the state. Wildlife experts say jumbo straying can be contained effectively by leaving elephant corridors intact. They say one of the main reasons for elephant attack in Idukki district is encroaches along Anamalai-Periyar tiger reserve elephant corridor. They say shrinking of their habitat and corridors force many elephants to foray into human settlements. “We need a healthy co-existence between humans and animals. If we respect the need of both we can lower conflict between two,” said Dr P S Esa, a leading wildlife expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elephant-kills-woman-in-idukki-101632511451842.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Proposal to alter tuition fee structure to be tabled at SPPU senate meet||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) senate meeting is scheduled on September 25 and several proposals related to issues like change in the examination method and tuition fees are on the table for discussion. One of the major proposals made by Prof Shamakant Deshmukh is to reduce tuition fees for this academic year. “Against the background of the Covid pandemic, students as well as their parents are going through a financial crisis. SPPU has decided to cut the fees for this academic year. At the same time the tuition fee structure by the university is high. So our demand is to reduce tuition fees,” said Prof Deshmukh.Another proposal made by Nandu Pawar, a senate member, is to change the methods of examination. “Currently the university is conducting its online examination through multiple-choice questions (MCQ). This needs to change and exams should be in the long answers type method. And new technology needs to be used to curb cheating and malpractices during the examinations,” said Pawar. The senate meeting will be held physically at the university main building. During the pandemic, the senate meetings were held online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/proposal-to-alter-tuition-fee-structure-to-be-tabled-at-sppu-senate-meet-101632511450814.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Stop illegal construction outside lal dora in Chandigarh villages: Administrator||Giving directions that no illegal construction must take place outside the lal dora, Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit on Friday directed UT officials to strictly implement the ban.In a meeting with senior UT officials at the Secretariat in Sector 9 on Friday, the administrator said if needed police assistance should be taken to stop illegal constructions in Chandigarh villages. He also directed the director general of police (DGP) to provide necessary help to the local administration.Despite the ban, such constructions have continued to crop up in villages as reported by the Hindustan Times on September 22.The Punjab New Capital Periphery Control Act restricts constructions in the periphery of around 16km (controlled area) of the city, which covers the areas outside the lal dora. The Punjab and Haryana high court has also imposed restrictions on construction for protection of the Sukhna Catchment Area. UT adviser Dharam Pal said, “We will enforce the ban more comprehensively and strict action will be taken against violators. I have reiterated to the district officials to take necessary steps to put a stop to such constructions outside the lal dora.” Constructions outside the lal dora had again started to mushroom after the UT administration earlier this year had indicated regularisation of illegal constructions outside the lal dora.In January this year, former UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had directed UT officials to bring a comprehensive policy on the issue.The administration has roped in the Indian Institute of Human Settlement (IISH), Bengaluru, to formulate a land pooling and aggregation policy.A comprehensive land pooling policy is in the works, which will allow land development rights to the villagers. All illegal constructions will have to be demolished to bring the land in sync with the new policy. The draft land pooling policy is expected to be finalised within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stop-illegal-construction-outside-lal-dora-in-chandigarh-villages-administrator-101632511449762.html
25-09-2021||Other||Kerala logs 17,983 new cases, 127 deaths as Covid surge continues||Kerala on Friday logged 17,983 new Covid-19 cases and 127 deaths, taking the infection count to 4,597,293 and the death toll to 24,318.State health minister Veena George said 110,523 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.According to her, there are 841 wards across 422 local self-government bodies with the weekly population infection ratio (WIPR) above 10%.“There are 162,846 active Covid-19 cases of which only 12.6 per cent are admitted to hospitals,” the minister said.Meanwhile, 15,054 persons recuperated from the disease on Friday, taking the total cured to 4,409,530.“Of those infected today, 72 reached the state from outside while 16,918 contracted the disease through their contact. The source of infection of 877 are yet to be traced and 116 health workers are also among the infected,” the minister said in a release.Among the districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of fresh infections -- 2,784, followed by Ernakulam with 2397 and Thiruvananthapuram 1,802.There are 469,954 people under observation in the state of which 22,512 are in isolation wards of various hospitals.The minister also said that 91.3% of the targeted population, which is above 18 years, have taken the first dose of the Covid vaccine and 39% of the same age group received both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-logs-17-983-new-cases-127-deaths-as-covid-surge-continues-101632511389934.html
25-09-2021||Other||Kerala high court rejects PIL against strike call by LDF on September 27||The Kerala high court on Friday dismissed a PIL seeking to declare as illegal the state-wide hartal on September 27 called by the ruling LDF to express solidarity with the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws.A bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly dismissed the plea filed by a man from Sasthamkotta after the state government said it will ensure that no untoward incidents will occur due to the strike.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, spearheading the anti-farm agitation, has announced ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27 aiming at further strengthening and expanding the farmers’ agitation which began in November last year and the LDF in Kerala will observe a state-wide hartal on the same day in solidarity with it.This was announced by LDF convener and CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan after a meeting of the leaders of the ruling party alliance on Thursday.The state government on Friday also informed that the high court that it will ensure necessary arrangements for those who would like to work on September 27.The state government also said that it will ensure protection to those who are not participating in the strike. Talking to reporters, Vijayaraghavan had said that 500,000 people will participate in the protest in the state against the Centre’s “anti-farmer policy”.Over 100 organisations including motor transport workers, bank employees and farmers organisations have extended their support to the LDF agitation.The protesting farmers have been demanding the repeal of the laws, which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-high-court-rejects-pil-against-strike-call-by-ldf-on-september-27-101632511330849.html
25-09-2021||Other||18 years after hate crime, 1 gets death; 12 sentenced for life in Tamil Nadu||Eighteen years after the brutal torture and immolation of an inter-caste couple in Tamil Nadu, a Cuddalore court on Friday sentenced to death the main accused and awarded life imprisonment to 12 others. The hate crime triggered widespread outrage in the country, and for long, became an example of the stringent caste barriers in India and police inaction in dealing with such crimes. Out of the total 15 accused named in the case, justice S Uthamaraja of the Cuddalore district special court found 13 guilty – 11 family members and 2 local policemen -- under the SC/ST Act, and acquitted two others. The court in its order said that there is nothing honourable in ‘honour killings’. “In our opinion honor killings, for whatever reasons come within the category of rarest of rare cases deserving punishment. It is time to stamp out these barbaric, feudal practices, which are a slur on our nation. This is necessary as a deterrant for such outrageous, uncivilised behaviour. All person who are planning to perpetrate ‘honour’ killing should know that the gallows await them.”The case dates back to May of 2003, when a 25-year-old Dalit man, S Murugesan, and D Kannagi (22) – of the locally powerful Vanniyar community – eloped and secretly got married in a sub-registrar’s office in Vriddhachalam, Cuddalore. Fearing for their safety, the couple did not stay together but found refuge separately in their relatives’ houses in the district. According to the charge sheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 2009, their families tracked them down in July. Murugesan was first found by Kannagi’s family members, hung upside down and tortured to reveal the whereabouts of Kannagi. The convicts then took the couple to a cremation ground in the village, forcibly fed them poison – including pouring it into their ears and nose – and set them ablaze in the presence of villagers. “The judge said that this was a caste-based and barbaric killing,” said G Sugumaran, secretary of the Federation for People’s Rights – an NGO which helped Murugesan’s family with the case proceedings such as to file a case in court seeking a CBI probe, seeking CBI’s chargesheet, which was in English to be translated to Tamil and challenging the arrest of Ayyasamy and Gunaseakaran who Murugesan’s family members-- the court acquitted on Friday.Amidst anger over the case, there were also allegations that Vriddhachalam police failed to take action despite being approached by Murugesan’s father Samikannu and younger brother Velmurugan after the killings.Activists rallied for justice and filed a public interest litigation (PIL) with the Madras high court that the local police were trying to protect the upper caste accused. In 2004, the high court ordered the CBI to take over the case and the agency filed a 665-page charge sheet five years later, naming 15 accused on the basis of an investigation involving 81 witnesses. Trial for the case began in the special SC/ST court in Cuddalore in 2017, and proceedings were completed this April. On Friday, Kannagi’s brother D Maruthupandian (49) was sentenced to death by the court, which also asked him to pay a penalty of ₹4.56 lakh. He was charged for his role as the main conspirator of the crime. Those given life sentences are Kannagi’s father C Duraisamy (68), a second brother D Rangasamy (45) and other relatives of Kannagi -- K Kandavelu (54), K Jothi (53), R Mani (66), R Dhanavel (49), V Anjapuli (47), K Ramdoss (52), N Chinnadurai (50). All of them were also asked to pay a penalty of ₹4.15 lakh each. Former deputy superintendent of police Chellamuthu and inspector Tamilmaran of the local police station were also awarded life sentences, along with a penalty of ₹1.15 lakh each for foisting false cases 3 (2) (1) under SC/ST Act against Samikannu and other relatives.Ayyasamy and Gunaseakaran, Murugesasn’s relatives, were acquitted.Murugesan’s father Samikannu broke down after the verdict was announced on Friday. “They (police) hit me...” he told reporters in Cuddalore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/18-years-after-hate-crime-1-gets-death-12-sentenced-for-life-in-tamil-nadu-101632511329621.html
25-09-2021||Other||Respond to AIADMK on 2-phase local body elections, HC tells SEC||The Madras high court on Friday directed the state election commission (SEC) to respond to the suggestions made by the AIADMK for holding the two-phase local body elections in the nine districts of Tamil Nadu.The bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu gave the direction, while admitting a PIL from I S Inbadurai, the deputy secretary of the election wing of the AIADMK.Rural local body elections are scheduled on October 6 and 9 in nine districts of the state including Kancheepuram, Vellore and Tenkasi.Among other things, the petition prayed for a direction to the SEC to hold the election in a single phase, employ central government officials drawn from other states as observers, install closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras and to deploy CRPF or CISF personnel during the polling, storing and counting of votes.“The petition is by a leading political party in the state that held power till recently. The immediate grievance is in the State Election Commission failing to respond to several suggestions put forth by the petitioning party to such commission in respect of the forthcoming elections to local bodies. To the extent that the suggestions require some measures to be taken by the SEC, as were taken in course of the immediate previous local bodies’ elections, the SEC should ensure that such measures are put in place. In any event, the SEC should respond to the petitioner’s representation by September 29,” the bench said and posted the matter for further hearing on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/respond-to-aiadmk-on-2-phase-local-body-elections-hc-tells-sec-101632511270885.html
25-09-2021||Other||Five held for attack on police party in Karnal village||Police have arrested five persons for their involvement in an alleged attack on a police party in Sadarpur village of Karnal district.However, no police personnel sustained injuries in the attack.As per police, Sulekh Chand, a resident of Sadarpur, had been booked for allegedly stealing trees from a government school on complaint of the headmaster of the school.On Thursday evening, the police party had reached the village to ask Sulekh to join the investigation but he, along with the other accused, attacked the police party and overturned their vehicle.Police alleged that the accused also opened fire but nobody sustained bullet injuries.Police have booked six accused under Sections 307, 332, 353, 148, 149 and 379B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police said five people have been arrested but the main accused Sulekh is still at large.Gharaunda police station in-charge Deepak Kumar said police had booked Sulekh under Sections 380, 186, 332, 353 and 342 of the IPC on complaint of school headmaster Surender Kumar.Police had served him notice but he did not join the investigation and the police team had visited his village.He said Sulekh, along with others, had attacked the police, damaged a personal vehicle of a cop and even fired at them.School headmaster Surender said Sulekh had visited the school two days ago with a dog and locked the main entrance of the school, creating fear among students and teachers following which the complaint was filed.Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said there is no tension in the village as a police team led by Gharaunda deputy superintendent of police (DSP) visited the village after the incident and assured the school staff of their safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-held-for-attack-on-police-party-in-karnal-village-101632511269706.html
25-09-2021||Other||DMK taking schemes to doorsteps: Tamil Nadu CM Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Friday said his DMK has transformed the way the government should function by taking welfare schemes to the people’s doorsteps and that the Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam healthcare scheme has won the administration a good reputation in a short time.This scheme, which he launched on August 5 in Krishnagiri, has so far benefitted over one million people and has become popular by the day with people even in remote villages availing of the benefits. “This scheme has become a panacea for the people, particularly the poor, sick who can’t visit hospitals and the chronically ill, by providing medical facilities at their doorstep,” the chief minister said while inaugurating the programme at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here.“There was a time when people came (in search of aid) to the state government. Now, the government is going in search of people. This is the transformation the DMK has brought about now,” Stalin said. He lauded health minister Ma Subramanian for his tireless efforts in taking this scheme to the people. “Ma Su had even won the praise from the opposition members including the BJP, in the assembly,” he added. The chief minister also congratulated the health secretary, officials and medical professionals and staff who made the scheme a success.The Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam healthcare scheme provides treatment for non-communicable diseases and those with infirmities. Women public health workers, women health volunteers, physiotherapists and nurses provide healthcare to those aged 45 and above.Stalin who launched the International Week of Deaf People, on the occasion, became nostalgic saying former chief minister M Karunanidhi laid the basis for celebrating his birthday to benefit the people. “Kalaignar (as Karunanidhi was called) wanted to celebrate his birthday in a manner that could benefit the people, especially the poor. He launched numerous welfare initiatives including the beggars’ rehabilitation programme, Kannoli scheme (to provide free spectacles), abolished hand-pulled rickshaw replacing them with cyclerickshaw,” the chief minister said. Kalaignar (who is Stalin’s father) had launched the CM’s Comprehensive Health Insurance scheme and brought the cochlear implant under this scheme. “Like him, I too celebrate my birthday by spending time and sharing cake with the children of the Little Flower School for the Deaf. My family members accompany me during such occasions,” he said.He said his government’s aim is to create jobs, feed the hungry masses and also alleviate the conditions of the physically challenged and the shelter-less.About 135,572 people have been provided with cochlear implant at a cost of ₹108 crore under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. About ₹10 crore has been earmarked this year for the purchase of modern equipment for all government hospitals to continue the scheme, he said.Also, the chief minister unveiled a plaque to create awareness on the presence of a 150-year-old surviving baobab tree brought from Madagascar by the British. This 65-foot-tall giant tree is close to the anatomy block of the Madras Medical College here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmk-taking-schemes-to-doorsteps-tamil-naducmstalin-101632511209737.html
25-09-2021||Pune||UPSC exams: Parth Kashyap from Pune finishes 174th in country||PUNE The results of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) civil services examination 2020 were declared on Friday and 761 candidates passed. Shubham Kumar ranked first in the country, while several aspirants from Pune scored well. Parth Kashyap from Pune finished 174th in the country. “I am happy to clear the main final exams of UPSC and have really worked hard to achieve this important goal in my life,” said Kashyap.Another topper from the city is Nitisha Jagtap who ranked 199th in the country at her first attempt. The 21-year-old Jagtap wants to do social work and has completed her Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Psychology. “We are originally from Latur and my grandmother is a retired professor and she wanted me to do my studies in Pune. My favourite subject is social science and from my second year of college I started preparing for the UPSC exams,” said Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/upsc-exams-parth-kashyap-from-pune-finishes-174th-in-country-101632511149791.html
25-09-2021||Lucknow||Civil services exam results out, three cheers for Lucknow||LUCKNOW An engineer, a commerce graduate and a law graduate from Lucknow, among others, cleared the all-India civil services exam, results of which were declared on Friday. Vidhu Shekhar, 28, was among the top scorers in the UPSC examination. With an all-India rank (AIR) 54, this alumni from La Martiniere College, Lucknow, proved there’s no short cut to success. In 2018, Vidhu cracked the UPSC exam with a rank of 173 and got into the Indian Revenue Services (IRS). The next year, he scored an AIR of 191 but attempted the exam again, hoping for a better rank.“Short-term goals, consistency, and strong will power are key ingredients for scoring well in the UPSC examination. I studied for 6-8 hours daily,” he said. Vidhu did B Tech in information technology from IIIT Allahabad in 2016 and joined a tech firm as software engineer and started preparing for civil services. Currently, he was undergoing training at NADT (National Academy of Direct Taxes), Nagpur. “Family played the most important role in my life,” shared Vidhu. His father, Dr Nishith Rai was earlier the vice-chancellor of DSMRU while his mother is a home-maker. He also added that technology played a major role in his success and he relied on it to a great extent. During the pandemic, he prepared from his home in Lucknow. “The pandemic didn’t affect my studies much as I preferred online classes and test series, but a lot of mental stress was caused due to the fear of getting infected by the virus,” revealed Vidhu.Shivakshi Dixit, 25, of Lucknow was first introduced to the world of civil services by her mother, who is a teacher. She told Shivakshi that it needs sheer dedication and hard work to qualify the civil services exam. Shivakshi qualified the state PCS exam earlier this year and secured AIR 64 in the civil services exam.“The key is having faith in hard work. This was my second attempt at the civil services exam. In the first attempt, I couldn’t even qualify the prelims exam but decided to give it another shot,” said Shivakshi. An alumna of La Martiniere Girls’ College, she completed her graduation in commerce from a Delhi University college before starting preparations for the civil services exam.Isha Singh, 26, another Lucknowite and alumna of La Martiniere Girls’ College cleared the civil services exam and was selected for Indian Police Services by scoring an AIR 191. Singh, who graduated from the National Law School Bangalore in 2018, said: “My motivation to enter the services was to serve the people. I love to work on issues regarding human rights and justice.” She is a third-generation police officer in her family. Her mother, Abha Singh (lawyer, activist, bureaucrat) was also in the services. Her father, YP Singh, was an IPS of the Maharashtra cadre. “Your basic goal should be to serve the country and to take the country to the next level,” Isha advised current IPS aspirants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/civil-services-exam-results-out-three-cheers-for-lucknow-101632510971302.html
25-09-2021||Other||Rural police book doctor, nurse for dumping amputated leg in public garbage bin||PUNE A doctor and a nurse in Junnar have been booked for dumping an amputated leg in a public garbage bin. According to the police, the accused, identified as Dr Ajay Mate, had conducted a leg surgery wherein the rotten portion of the leg from knee down was amputated. He asked nurse Sunita Jadhav to dispose of the same. Following the doctors request, the nurse dumped the leg at the public garbage bin which was later found by some alert citizens who informed the police. Police inspector Vikas Jadhav, the investigating officer, said that it was a case of negligence and unscientific disposal of a human leg which should have been done as per the medical protocol. “Since there was a violation, we have lodged a case and investigation is on in the case. The incident took place on September 22 ,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rural-police-book-doctor-nurse-for-dumping-amputated-leg-in-public-garbage-bin-101632510969654.html
25-09-2021||Other||Godown manager arrested for molesting woman staffer||PUNE The Loni Kalbhor Police have arrested the manager of a godown for molesting a women employee for the past seven months. The accused has been identified as Mangesh Badole (32), a resident of Mantarwadi. According to the complaint lodged by the 32-year old victim, Badole is the manager at the godown where she is employed. On a number of occasions during the past several months, he touched her inappropriately. However, on September 11, he tried to molest again after which she approached the police. Badole is currently in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/godown-manager-arrested-for-molesting-woman-staffer-101632510969019.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Proposed Sufi FM channel yet to become reality in J&K||More than a year has passed since a letter was issued by home secretary Ajay Bhalla to launch an FM channel to check radicalisation of Kashmiri youths and counter Pakistan’s propaganda following abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A, but no exercise has been initiated by the Prasar Bharati to set up the radio channel in Jammu and Kashmir. The proposal also aimed to promote Sufism in the UT. On June 10 last year, home secretary in his letter to the then secretary of the information and broadcasting ministry, Amit Khare, had mooted a proposal to start a new Sufi FM radio channel ‘at the earliest’. Bhalla had requested Khare to examine the matter at topmost priority and issue necessary instructions at the earliest under intimation to the home ministry. On June 25 last year, the then I&B secretary Khare in turn had sent a written communiqué to the Prasar Bharati CEO, Shashi Shekhar Vempati, enclosing the letter of the home secretary. “Please accord topmost priority to the matter and take steps to start the radio channel at the earliest under intimation to the ministry,” reads Khare’s letter to Vempati. HT has access to both the letters. An official of the I&B ministry, who insisted to remain anonymous, said, “At a time when Pakistani media is running smear campaigns against India and Pakistani PM Imran Khan is calling Kashmir its jugular vein, abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A besides Taliban capturing power in Afghanistan, the Prasar Bharati has chosen to maintain a stoic silence to counter enemy propaganda to such an extent that it did not follow the orders and inputs of even home secretary to check the growing radicalisation in the border region.” “The separate and exclusive Sufi FM radio channel in J&K was mooted to counter growing radicalisation and promote Indian ethos,” he added. Prasar Bharati CEO Vempati said, “Prasar Bharati produces a diversity of programming in national interest through Doordarshan channels and All India Radio stations across India, including J&K. Efforts are also being made to include Sufi-based programming in services of strategic or national interest and programmes will go on air shortly on the same.” He, however, didn’t specifically respond to Sufi FM radio channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/proposed-sufi-fm-channel-yet-to-become-reality-in-jk-101632510909880.html
25-09-2021||Other||Day after seizure of weapons, drone seen along Indo-Pak border in Tarn Taran;||Tarn Taran A day after the Punjab Police busted a Pakistan-backed Khalistan Tiger Force (KLF) terror module with the arrest of three persons and the recovery of arms and ammunition at a checkpoint near Bhagwanpura village, a drone was spotted along the Indo-Pak border in the wee hours of Friday. The drone was spotted at 3.35am by troops of the 103 Battalion of Border out Post (BoP), Dharma, near Khalra. As soon as it was detected, Border Security Force (BSF) personnel fired 12 rounds towards it, but its handlers, somehow, got the machine to return. “No recovery has been made in the area yet,” BSF officials added.Notably, the KLF operatives arrested on Thursday were also coming from the India-Pakistan border near Khalra in a car. A search of the car had led to the seizure of two Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), apparently to be used as Tiffin Bombs, two hand grenades and three .9mm pistols. Police said they suspect that a drone from Pakistan had dropped the seized arms and explosives for the use of the three arrested men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-seizure-of-weapons-drone-seen-along-indo-pak-border-in-tarn-taran-101632510729898.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: MC finance panel approves development works worth ₹15 crore||The members of the finance and contract committee of the municipal corporation on Friday approved estimates of new development works and work orders worth 15 crore at a meeting held here on Friday.At the meeting chaired by city mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, the finance committee approved new estimates of ₹7 crore, work orders of ₹8 crore, which include installation of open-air gym, installation of premix on roads, installation of paving blocks, and installation of number plates in different wards of Mohali.Of the ₹7 crore approved, the market parking of Phase 5 will be rebuilt with ₹63 lakh. Apart from this, a separate sewer pipe will be installed in the quarters in Phase 10 at a cost of ₹63 lakh. The water supply and sewerage pipe were mixed in this area and keeping in view the health of the people, the sewerage pipe is being brought out.In another resolution, the recruitment of sanitation employees in Mohali will now be handled by PunCom: Mohali MC has to recruit 1,000 workers for manual cleaning in the city.Speaking after the meeting, mayor Sidhu said that development works in Mohali were being carried out on a war footing and he and his team personally reviewed every project so that no compromise was made with quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-finance-panel-approves-development-works-worth-15-crore-101632510669711.html
25-09-2021||Pune||IAF gives in-principle approval to hand over 13 acres for Lohegaon airport||PUNE: Nitin Gadkari, the Union minister for road transport and highways and the chairman of infrastructure committee of government of India, on Friday said that the Indian Air Force (IAF) has agreed in-principle to handover 13 acres of Lohegaon airport. Gadkari was in a city to do groundbreaking of flyovers at Sinhgad road and Katraj chowk. Gadkari said, “It was a long pending issue related to the extension of Lohegaon airport. In the first phase of development, various works were completed but the Air Force was not ready to hand over 13 acres of land for it. Recently, the Air Force submitted a demand to hand over land for them at Chandigarh. In that meeting, I asked the Air Force that we would give you land at Chandigarh and in compensation the Air Force should hand over land at Pune.” Gadkari said, “As I am the chairman of infrastructure projects in the country, the proposal would be placed before me. The Air Force has given in-principle approval to take land at Chandigarh and hand over 13 acres land in Pune. Now the process for it would start and I would give official approval very soon.” Gadkari said, “After getting 13 acres of land, Pune airport’s capacity would almost double.” “Establish ‘New Pune’ around Pune-Bengaluru expressway” Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari has appealed to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to help set up a “New Pune” on the proposed Pune-Bengaluru expressway. Gadkari said, “Pune has become very crowded. Now we must think about “New Pune”. The Maharashtra government and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) can do this project jointly. We would purchase land along this expressway and establish the new city. We can give connectivity of Metro and other transport modes to “New Pune” with existing Pune. To do sustainable development, we must think on such projects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/iafgives-in-principle-approval-to-hand-over-13-acres-for-lohegaon-airport-101632510129850.html
25-09-2021||Lucknow||14-year-old rape survivor’s pregnancy terminated on court orders||: The process to terminate the pregnancy of a 14-year-old Dalit rape survivor from Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh was eventually completed at Queen Mary’s Hospital (QMH), an affiliate of King George’s Medical University (KGMU), in Lucknow on Friday. The doctors, who initiated the process on the order of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, said the entire process was successful and the girl was safe.“It took more than 24 hours for the abortion process to complete. It was a risky affair since the abortion was carried out in the second trimester, but it went off successfully,” Dr SP Jaiswar, medical superintendent of QMH. The girl was scheduled to be discharged by the late evening hours of Friday.“The entire process went off successfully,” said Mohammed Haider, a corporate lawyer and social activist who helped the girl in lodging an FIR and for obtaining pregnancy termination permission from the court. He said he had also approached the District Legal Service Authority (DLSA), demanding compensation for the rape survivor.“We have moved an application under the victim compensation scheme before the DLSA, Lakhimpur Kheri that has a provision of compensation amount up to ₹3 lakh. This will certainly help the minor in leading a normal life and to meet day-to-day expenses,” added Haider. He said that they have also arranged for the month-long supply of nutrition supplements and food in order to give stability to the minor who is still in a state of trauma. The girl, who hails from a village in Lakhimpur Kheri, was allegedly raped by her relative. The pregnancy was discovered on August 9, 2021 after she suffered severe stomach ache. It was found that she was 16 weeks and three days’ pregnant. The FIR was lodged in the matter and the perpetrator was arrested and sent to jail on August 12.On September 2, a social activist from the state capital, who was contacted by the victim’s mother, filed a writ petition before the Allahabad high court demanding termination of the pregnancy. On September 6, 2021, the court ordered the Lakhimpur Kheri chief medical officer to carry out a physical examination of the victim and submit his report in a sealed envelope before the court. On September 14, 2021, the court ordered pregnancy termination, presuming that the continuance of the unwanted pregnancy shall “constitute a grave injury to the mental health of the victim”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/14yearold-rape-survivor-s-pregnancy-terminated-on-court-orders-101632510069600.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||High court notice to HP chief secy over demolition of Mandi school building||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Friday issued notices to chief secretary, principal secretary (education), Mandi DC and deputy director (higher education) in a petition alleging destruction of the building and playground of Vijay Senior Secondary School in Mandi by the state government. A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition taken up suo motu as a public interest litigation on a letter addressed to the chief justice by one student of the Vijay Senior Secondary School. The petitioner has alleged that during the lockdown, the state government demolished the school building, playground and stage besides covering the vacant space, which “gave the school a congested feeling”. He has alleged that big shopping malls are proposed to be constructed there, which would benefit “few rich persons and political leaders”. He has claimed that the existence of a playground is projected as one of the prerequisites for opening a private school, but here the government itself has destroyed the playground. Local residents, media and social organisations are not coming forward due to fear of the government, he added. A primary school was being run in the building, which was also closed a few years ago and now the government is illegally plotting to shut the senior secondary school, he alleged. The petitioner has said that poor, orphaned and migrant children are studying in the school and the students are being “mentally pressured” by officials with threats of spoiling their results and are also being given various allurements. He has alleged that if immediate respite is not provided by taking action in the matter, there is the possibility that some students may commit self-immolation in order to save the school. He has also mentioned that former chief justice Swantanter Kumar has also studied in the said school. The court directed the respondents to submit their replies before next date and posted the matter after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-notice-to-hp-chief-secy-over-demolition-of-mandi-school-building-101632510009566.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Prosecution failed to make out a case against Chhagan Bhujbal, kin: Court||A special anti-corruption bureau (ACB) court, which discharged Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Chhagan Bhujbal along with seven others on September 9, in its detailed order observed that after taking into account the material available on record and hearing both the sides, it required to hold that the prosecution had not made out a prima facie a case against the accused Chhagan Bhujbal, his son Pankaj, nephew Sameer, the then public work department (PWD) secretary Deodatta Marathe, Mumbai Educational Trust (MET) employees Tanveer Shaikh, Iram Shaikh, Sanjay Joshi and Geeta Joshi.The case dates back to 2005 when Bhujbal was the Public Works Department (PWD) Minister who allegedly gave a contract without inviting tenders to KS Chamankar Enterprises. The ACB had registered a case in the matter in 2015 after the Bombay High Court had observed there was prima facie evidence and ACB can register FIR if a case of corruption is made out. The ACB had registered a case against eleven people alleging that a developer was favoured for a project under which an RTO land in Andheri was to be handed over for a project in lieu of construction to the tune of ₹100 crores at Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi and RTO building in Tardeo.Earlier the court had discharged five accused in the case — Arun Deodhar, Krishna Chamankar, Pravina Chamankar, Pranita Chamankar and Prasanna Chamankar.Additional sessions judge, HS Satbhai who discharged the eight accused in a detailed 106 pages order observed from the material available on record, though a suspicion against the accused has been shown by the prosecution, the same has been satisfactorily explained by the accused through their counsels Prasad Dhakepalkar and Sajal Yadav.None of the ingredients constituting the alleged offences punishable under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and under sections of the Indian Penal Code are found, so that a trial can be held against the accused.The judge further observed the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, speaks about obtaining a pecuniary advantage for himself or others by corrupt or illegal means. As discussed there is nothing on record that suggests that the accused did certain things by corruption or illegal manner to cause the benefit to the developer or any other person or that they have acquired any benefits for themselves. The prosecution has failed to establish that the accused obtained for themselves any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage by abusing their position as public servants.The court further wrote that the whole episode was a contract between the developer and the State Government. Since it was a contract between two parties the developer constructing some buildings for the state government, against the consideration in terms of FSI, it was but natural that while entering into the contract, both the parties were keenly interested in protecting their own interest, while negotiating the terms and conditions of the contract.At this stage of framing of charge, it is necessary to find out that are their sufficient grounds for prosecuting the accused. While making that exercise, it is from the court to sift the material, which is produced and relied upon by the prosecution. The sifting is not to be meticulous. What is required is that the court must be satisfied that with the materials available, a case is made out for the accused to stand trial? A strong suspicion suffices. But the strong suspicion must be premised on some material that will help the court to formulate an opinion that the accused have committed an offence. The judge should not act as a trial judge but should weigh the evidence and form an opinion on whether prima facie a case has been made out. Excerpting the case of grave suspicion which the accused is unable to explain, the judge empowered to discharge the accused.The allegations against one of the accused Devdatta Marathe then PWD, secretary, Mantralaya, Mumbai that he should have checked the preliminary report of estimate/assessment of the construction to find out the profits and loss of either party to the contract. Being a public servant, he must be working under certain rules to that effect. But prima facie no such rules are made available to establish that the preparation of estimate was against the provisions of those rules.The feasibility report was presented before the committee twice from May 2006 to August 2006, the committee even had chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh who was then the chief minister as a member.The estimates and reports were shared with every department over 100 communications were made on it. For re-developing the areas Anna Nagar Housing Society and Kasam Nagar Housing Society, KS Chamankar was appointed in 1998, by the SRA, there was no role of Chhagan Bhujbal in appointing KS Chamankar Developers.The court has also stated that though Bhujbal carried out a meeting on 13th July 2001, asking others to decide about giving building the RTO building on a non-slum plot he did not give any specific directions to favour any developer. However, the NOC given by RTO took 22 months and was finally given 26th May 2003, this show there was no personal interest of the accused in the matter he had called the meeting as several others had written to him.The court further observed that it is alleged that Bhujbal on 29th of March 2006, called a meeting of PWD, Home and SRA officials and overlooked the objections raised by Finance and PWD department to the said proposal but after going through the minutes of the meeting it is clear that not only favourable but unfavourable things also were discussed in the meeting. It is not the prosecution story that Bhujbal asked anybody to hide anything unfavourable about the proposal, but he indeed kept everything before the Cabinet Ministers to decide on it.The court also observed that the first meeting was taken by Bhujbal on 29th July 2001, and the second directly on 29th March 2006, there is no material to show that the accused took a direct part in awarding the contract to the developer K S Chamankar. It cannot be said that the accused conspired developer in the year 2001, when he was not the PWD minister but called a meeting, and further the conspiracy was accomplished in the year 2006 when he was the PWD minister. It was not anticipated by the accused in 2001 that he would win elections as Member of Legislative Assembly and will be given a portfolio of PWD minister.The Transport department had already taken an opinion of MHADA on the said proposal which had said it was beneficial for Transport Department and the RTO may give a NOC to the developer. The court also observed that no favours or illegality have been granted by the accused to the developer to get the contracts nor he has paid any kickbacks/quid pro for it.It was also observed in the month of August that the ACB had registered the FIR in hurry. Most of the calculations in the matter were made by Narendra Talegaonkar who was the ACP with ACB; he was neither an architect nor an engineer and he was no expert to do calculations related to said matters.The ACB had registered an FIR against all the accused on June 11, 2015, much before the appointment of an architect who is an expert on such matters who was officially appointed on June 30, 2015. The architect had submitted a report on June 9th, 2015, but prior to it on June 4th a sanction was asked to register an FIR in the case where points of the report were mentioned.The court further said that the PWD report came in December 2015, which said that there was no illegality in the contract and the feasibility report was prepared as per prevailing rules and practices followed in PWD however the FIR was already registered by then by the ACB on June 11, 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/prosecution-failed-to-make-out-a-case-against-chhagan-bhujbal-kin-court-101632509950762.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Over 36% fully vaccinated in Pune district, 81% partially inoculated||Pune: With Pune district crossing over 10 million Covid vaccinations on the day, over 36% of eligible beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated as per the district health office reports. Of the 8.53 million eligible beneficiaries, 81.43% have got the first dose. Pune is one of the only two districts in the state that have crossed the 10 million milestone with Mumbai administering 12.12 million Covid vaccines while Pune administering 10.06 million vaccines as of Friday evening. The highest percentage of second dose beneficiaries or those who are fully vaccinated are from PCMC area, followed by PMC and then rural Pune as the high presence of vaccination centres in city areas along with government centres drives the vaccination numbers. Of the total vaccination centres in the district, 1,013 are private and 898 are government. Of these, 795 private centres are from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), 156 PCMC and 65 are from rural. Of the total government centres, 388 are from Pune city, 93 from PCMC and 417 from rural Pune. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, district immunisation officer, said, “If the supply remains consistent, we can introduce more centres and increase our vaccination drive even more. More people are now convinced that vaccination does indeed immunise people against Covid. The supply has been better in the last couple of weeks. If it continues, we would be able to reach halfway with regards to fully vaccinated people within the next few weeks and then in the next 3-4 months or by yearend hopefully all eligible beneficiaries would be fully vaccinated with both the doses in the district. Along with government’s support in providing consistent supply, private players in Pune also contributed and we could catch up the 10 million mark.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/over-36-fully-vaccinated-in-pune-district-81-partially-inoculated-101632509770552.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram RWAs to focus on inter-society sports events during first meet today||Inter-society sports competitions, formation of a committee to liaison with the government, among others will be the main topics to be discussed on during the first meeting of the RWAs United (RU) -- an umbrella body of some of the resident welfare associations (RWAs) in Gurugram -- on Saturday.Members of 63 RWAs, under the RU, will attend the meeting at M3M Urbana commercial complex in Sector 67 on Saturday evening, said officials on Friday.“We want to discuss and explore possibilities for inter-society sports competitions in our first meeting, as it will provide an opportunity to the residents to interact with each other, create a strong bond between the RWAs, with the bigger aim of doing things at a pan-city level,” said Jyoti Ahuja, joint secretary of Vatika City RWA -- one of the RU members.The proposed committee, to be discussed during the meeting, will deal with the government, press demands, and represent issues as a representation of the collective group, Ahuja said.“It is difficult for the government to deal with various members of the RWAs at a time. Instead, a committee representing the common concerns and demands will take up the matter to the government, for bringing about a change. Tomorrow (Saturday), we will take a call on the best possible way to form the committee,” Ahuja added.The RU, comprising a dozen RWAs, was established on Sohna Road in 2019. It emerged as the first pan-city group in Gurugram during the second wave of Covid-19 in April this year. 59 RWAs had joined forces to support one another with essential supplies and medical aid for infected persons in their housing complexes as the healthcare infrastructure was overburdened. Coming under the banner of the RU, the association had set up Covid-19 care centres, arranged vaccination camps in residential areas, arranged for regular oxygen supply, and ensured timely collection of biomedical waste, after receiving the administration’s approval for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-rwas-to-focus-on-inter-society-sports-events-during-first-meet-today-101632509769501.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||DTCP seeks details of Sai Lane flats in Gurugram after residents seek relief||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Friday asked the flat owners and residents of Sai Lane colony in old Gurugram to submit the details of flat ownership, seller details, history of ownership and detail of registry in the next 15 days. The department issued the directions after a delegation of 100 residents called upon the district town planner, enforcement, and sought relief against the decision of the department to restore the site to its original condition, which effectively means the property could be demolished. DTCP officials said that they issued restoration notices to the developers, property dealers and owners of the land who constructed the flats without any permission from the competent authority and in complete violation of law. RS Bhath, district town planner, said that they sought details of ownership and sale of flats to establish the involvement of people who fraudulently constructed flats and duped gullible buyers into buying these illegal properties. “The department will take action against the builders and property developers for illegal construction. As far as buyers are concerned, we will first issue them notices, give them a proper hearing and recommend a series of actions to the headquarter in accordance with the law. We don’t want to harass the homebuyers but violation of rules will not be allowed,” he said. The department also said that homebuyers in the city should conduct due diligence and, in case of confusion, check with DTCP before buying a property. Around 100 Sai Lane residents, who visited the DTCP office, submitted that they bought the property only after developers got the registry done. Regular power connections, water and sewage connections were issued and there was no hint of any fraud, said Rajesh Vij, general secretary, Sai Lane residents welfare association. “Most of the people are middle class and they took loans to buy these flats when they went on sale in 2018. Proper registries were carried out and we paid the stamp duty and other taxes as per law. The people are worried about the future but today [Friday], we were assured that justice would be done and no unilateral action would be taken,” said Vij, adding that the colony has 135 flats and all are occupied. He also said that they will co-operate fully with the authorities and share all the details required to conduct the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-seeks-details-of-sai-lane-flats-in-gurugram-after-residents-seek-relief-101632509649530.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Dip in active cases: Maharashtra sees 3,286 fresh Covid cases||Maharashtra recorded 3,286 fresh Covid-19 cases pushing the count to 6,537,843 on Friday. The tally of active cases was further reduced to 38,491 as 3,933 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. It is the lowest since February when the active cases dipped to 37,516 on February 3.State also recorded 51 casualties. The death toll now stands at 138,776. Satara reported the highest toll with seven deaths.As the active cases went lowest in the last seven months, the state government has decided to reopen all the religious places from October 7 after a gap of five months, except for those that fall under containment zones. The decision was declared by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday.The religious places were shut down in April after the second wave of Covid-19 started in the state in mid-February. After the first wave, they were started in November last year.This is in addition to the state government’s decision to restart physical classes in schools in the state from October 4. It has been decided that the offline classes will be allowed for Class 8 to 12 in the urban areas and Class 5 to 7 in rural areas of the state. It has also issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the same on Friday.Amid the threat of a potential third wave, Maharashtra is yet to show any sign of a rise in Covid-19 cases. In the past 24 days, it has recorded 88,033 cases. The daily average cases of this month have come down to 3,668. It is much less than the previous months 5,043 and 8,092 cases recorded in August and July respectively, in the corresponding period.According to health experts, the impact of the festivals will be seen only after a period of two weeks and a third wave may hit the state by December or January. To be prepared for the situation, the state government on Friday directed all the liquid medical oxygen manufacturers and refillers to ensure their storage is maintained at 95% of full capacity from September 30 until further orders.“All liquid medical oxygen (LMO) manufacturers and refillers in the state shall ensure their storages are maintained at 95% of full capacity by September 30 and will continue maintaining storage at this level till further order. To achieve this, LMO manufacturers shall ensure that their plants run at full LMO production capacity,” stated an order issued by the chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Friday.“District collectors shall ensure that all LMO storages in the district (both public and private hospitals) shall be maintained at the maximum possible technical feasible level. This activity may be taken up immediately… The authorities concerned shall be competent to take appropriate actions for any violations of the directions… Public health department in consultation with the medical oxygen and drugs department should adjust non-medical oxygen used as medical oxygen needs start rising,” it added further.The state was caught unaware during the second wave of Covid-19, leading to shortage of oxygen and beds.With 446 cases on Friday, Mumbai reported a total 740,305 cases to date. It also recorded six fatalities taking the toll to 16,074.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 172,870 samples and had a positivity rate of 1.90%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 11.31%, according to the data issued by the state health department.The state also vaccinated 522,923 doses on Friday and has administered a total 77,461,343 doses to date, according to the data available on Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dip-in-active-cases-maharashtra-sees-3-286-fresh-covid-cases-101632509589454.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC completes 3D mapping of Worli in first of its kind project in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has prepared a three-dimensional (3D) development plan and the master plan of the Worli area called a 3D geospatial city model. This is a detailed digital 3D map that covers every parameter of the area, with a 360-degree digital panoramic view. The area covered under the project is 10 square kilometres, encompassing Worli’s entire G/South ward.This will help the civic body in multiple development ventures and policy interventions in the area, infrastructure planning, natural disaster management, citizens’ safety, environment analysis, and assessment of public amenities.The initiative was inaugurated by Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray, who also represents the Worli Assembly constituency, on Friday. It was undertaken by BMC in partnership with Genesys. Announcing the completion of the project, BMC tweeted on Friday, “Mapping The Future! Using state-of-the-art tech supported by @Genesys_Int, BMC has completed an intricate digital 3D mapping of Worli in @mybmcWardGS. This initiative, inaugurated by Cabinet Minister @AUThackeray, will help in progressive planning & coordinating action on the ground.”In a statement from the G/South ward, BMC said, “We live in a 3D world, planning and development activities encompassing urban governance, city infrastructure upgrades, etc, are still being carried out on 2D maps. To meet the demands of cities in the 21st century, it is imperative that urban governments are able to visualise their cities in 3D for getting comprehensive 360 [degree] views, undertake simulations and conduct detailed analysis on the data, etc. all of which is inefficient and close to impossible on archaic 2D maps.”The 3D geospatial city model will help with change detection analysis, insights on unauthorised and illegal settlements, classification on building types, detailed infrastructure planning of roads, bridges, flyovers, in comparison to alternate infrastructure designs. BMC will also be able to find project-affected persons accurately, by overlaying the 3D model of the proposed project on the existing 3D model of the city. The imaging will help the civic body in urban flooding monitoring and mapping as well.The 3D geospatial model was created using high-resolution aerial drone imagery and mobile street imagery vehicles mounted with light detection and ranging (LiDAR) sensors.“This aerial data coupled with 3,600 high-definition street view imagery was then fused to create a true-to-life Geospatial Map resulting in a comprehensive 3D Digital Twin,” BMC said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-completes-3d-mapping-of-worli-in-first-of-its-kind-project-in-mumbai-101632509530751.html
25-09-2021||Mumbai||89% Covid bed availability in Mumbai, BMC says we are in comfortable position||Amid a spike in daily Covid-19 cases reported in the city over the past two weeks, the bed availability in the city remains at 89%, indicating that the situation is under control. Out of around 16,000 beds in dedicated Covid centres and hospitals, over 14,000 beds are vacant.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials maintained that the city is in a comfortable position compared to what was feared due to possible third wave, however, it will not be correct to call that city is in a safe zone.According to BMC, there are 16,207 beds in dedicated Covid-19 health facilities and hospitals in the city, of which 14,468 are available. In the case of oxygen (O2) beds, 779 of the 8,287 beds are available, followed by 1,680 ICU beds being vacant out of a total 2,204 intensive care unit (ICU) beds. Further, 916 ventilators were vacant out of a total 1,285.The data of BMC reveals that 15 Covid care centre (CCC)-1 quarantine facilities are available in which 5,929 beds are available, followed by 3,119 beds available for quarantine purposes in 15 CCC-2 facilities of the BMC.According to BMC officials, the city is in a much better position than what was anticipated owing to the fear of Covid-19.Suresh Kakani had told HT earlier this week, “I would say we are in a better position where I would add a comfortable position but not in the safe zone. The period till October 5 is crucial by which we will understand what the spread pattern of Covid-19 will be post Ganesh festival.”Meanwhile, on Friday, the city reported 446 cases and six deaths, taking the tally to 740,305 and toll to 16,074. On Monday, 36,536 tests were conducted in the city, meaning a daily positivity rate of 1.22%.The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 716,491 recoveries. The mortality rate is 2.17% and there are 5,278 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/89-covid-bed-availability-in-mumbai-bmc-says-we-are-in-comfortable-position-101632509469619.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram authority identifies 98 points to install recharge wells to catch rainwater||The Gurugram metropolitan development authority (GMDA) has identified 98 points across the city to install recharge wells to catch rainwater and decrease runoff, officials said during a residents’ advisory council meeting at the GMDA office in Sector 44 on Friday.The move came after the residents raised the issue of severe waterlogging in different parts of the city during the monsoon. “During the meeting, many residents raised the issue of waterlogging in the city, to which solutions are being worked out regularly. Earlier, we had decided that the green belts in the city would be lowered so that the rainwater percolates down to the ground. Now, we have identified 98 points across the city where recharge wells -- which are reverse-borewells -- will be installed so that the rainwater that accumulates on the surface can go down and recharge the groundwater level,” said a senior GMDA official during the meeting.The recharge wells, which pump water back into the ground, will be installed in low-lying areas so that water accumulated around it and from nearby localities can be pumped in through pipes attached to recharge the groundwater level. Some of the areas identified by the authority include parks in sectors 9, 4, 10, and 23 among other locations. These are also among areas which report maximum waterlogging, said the officials.Meanwhile, the chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA, Sudhir Rajpal, also held a review meeting with Jal Mitras working as representatives of various sectors and RWAs in Gurugram to streamline and improve water supply in the city. Pipelines laid for water supply in the city have been connected to different underground water tanks, which can be monitored online through the Jal Mitra application, using supervisory control and data acquisition.During the meeting, residents also said that water supply has improved in areas like Essel Tower, Sector 16 Canal Colony, Mehrauli Road, Maruti, and Malibu Town. “The water supply must improve further, making it convenient for the consumers. In case of blockage of water supply, people should be informed through the application in advance. It needs to be made consumer-friendly. New water supply pipelines will also be laid in sectors 112, 113 and 114,” said Rajpal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-authority-identifies-98-points-to-install-recharge-wells-to-catch-rainwater-101632509411152.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Pune may see fewer Covid curbs next week||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has hinted more Covid lockdown relaxations in the coming week. After the weekly Covid review meeting on Friday in Pune, Pawar said the decisions related to more relaxations would be taken in the next week’s meeting in consultation with people’s representatives and officials. Though most of the Covid curbs have been eased, theatres and multiplexes remain closed and restaurants and bars are allowed to operate till 10 pm. “Covid situation is under control now. We were cautious this time as a spike in Covid cases was reported after the Ganesh Visarjan,” said Pawar. Pawar suggested that colleges could be reopened with fully vaccinated staff and students. “College students are above 18 years. If they are fully vaccinated and the Covid situation is under control by the first week of October then colleges could be restarted in phases,” said Pawar. He said that swimming pools would now be reopened for fully vaccinated people. The minister emphasised the use of masks and instructed authorities to strictly implement the Covid preventive norms. ‘Will request Centre to reduce 84-day gap between two vaccine doses’ Ajit Pawar said that after consultation with the state cabinet, a request would be made to the Centre to reduce the gap of 84 days between the two doses of Covishield. He said that with increase in vaccine availability the dose gap could be reduced. “Many are facing problems logging into the portal before completion of 84 days. Healthcare and frontline workers took the second dose after 28 days of the first vaccine. In some districts vaccine doses are available but beneficiaries’ turnout is less. Earlier, when the vaccine supply was less, the gap between two doses was increased,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-may-see-fewer-covid-curbs-next-week-101632509409478.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||87% Himachal population has Covid antibodies: Sero survey||Even as Himachal continue to witness high number of Covid infections, a sero survey conducted by the state’s health department has revealed that 87% of the state’s population has antibodies against the virus.However, it is lower in the children as compared to the adults.The survey was conducted on 4,822 individuals aged six years and above across the 12 districts of the state. A minimum of 400 individuals participated in the survey from each district.Director, National Health Mission, Himachal Pradesh, Hemraj Bairwa said that out of the total number of participants, 437 were between 6-9 years, 939 between 10-17 years, 2,005 between 18-44 years, 962 between 45-60 years and 479 above 60 years.There were a total of 2,218 males and 2,594 females and 10 others. He added that out of the 4,822 tested, 4,079 individuals had antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, with a weighted and test adjusted seroprevalence of 87.5% (95% CI: 85.4 - 89.4).Shimla recorded highest seroprevalence of 95.6%, while it was 92.5% in Sirmaur. At 76.1%, Una recorded the lowest seroprevalence.The children had a lower seroprevalence (53.6% aged 6-9 years and 61.5% aged 10-17 years) than adults (around 98%). However, seroprevalence was higher among the vaccinated people (one dose: 95.4%, two doses: 97.6%) than the unvaccinated ones (71.5%).Bairwa said that a total of 56.2% of people in the sample were vaccinated with the first dose and 43.4% were vaccinated with the second dose as well. The seroprevalence depends on factors such as age, gender, vaccination status, and previous history of Covid infection. A detailed analysis of seroprevalence was done based on these parameters, said the officer. 224 new Covid cases reported in stateTwenty-two trainees and staffers of Norbulingka Institute at Sidhpur near Dharamashala town were among the 224 people who tested positive for Covid on Friday as the state’s total case tally rose to 2,18,000. No fatality was reported due to the contagion and death toll remains at 3,646.Among the fresh cases, highest 68 were reported in Kangra, 54 in Hamirpur, 38 in Mandi, 21 in Bilaspur, 20 in Shimla, 15 in Kinnaur, three in Kullu, two each in Chamba and Una and one in Lahaul-Spiti. The active cases have come down to 1,766 while recoveries reached 2,12,572 after 236 people recuperated.Meanwhile, authorities have imposed a corona curfew in at least 10 areas of Srinagar.District magistrate, Srinagar, Ajaz Asad announced the imposition of corona curfew for 10 days in different parts of city through an order issued on Friday. J&K recorded 148 infections and one death on Friday. The recoveries reached 3,22,713 while total caseload since the beginning of pandemic stood at 3, 28,728 and the death toll at 4,420.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/87-himachal-population-has-covid-antibodies-sero-survey-101632509353759.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Three inspectors of Chandigarh Police get transfers||Three inspectors of the Chandigarh Police department were transferred on Friday.Inspector Satvinder Singh, who was recently posted as the in-charge of proclaimed offenders (PO) and summon staff, has been transferred to the crime branch.Inspector Rajiv Kumar, presently posted in police lines, has now been made the incharge of proclaimed offenders (PO) and summon staff. He was recently shifted to police lines from Sector 34 where he was the station house officer, after a female sub-inspector posted there was caught in a graft case.Finally, inspector Harinder Singh Sekhon has been transferred from the crime branch to the security wing. SSP (traffic) Manisha Choudhary had recently “recommended departmental action by the concerned disciplinary authority” against Sekhon after SP (city) Ketan Bansal, during checking, had found Sekhon missing from duty during the swearing-in of Punjab chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-inspectors-of-chandigarh-police-get-transfers-101632509350793.html
25-09-2021||Other||Punjab state inter-district senior one-day tournament: Ludhiana beat Moga by 84 runs||Ludhiana senior cricket team registered an 84-run victory against Moga in the ongoing Punjab state inter-district senior one-day tournament at GRD Academy on Friday.The match started late due to overnight rain. The Ropar team won the toss and chose to ball first. Batting first, the Ludhiana team put together a total of 234 runs in 50 overs, losing a total of nine wickets. After losing three early wickets, including the wicket of Ludhiana captain Gitansh Khera who scored mere 15 runs, Nehal Wadhera along with Kabir Grewal steadied the sinking ship with their fourth-wicket partnership of 88 crucial runs.Showing a temperament, Nehal scored 120 runs in 129 balls, hitting three fours and six sixes in his innings. Kabir scored 33 runs in 54 balls, hitting a ball over the boundary for a six before getting clean bowled.Meanwhile, Gurmehar Singh pitched in by taking a fiver and giving away a total of 45 runs in his ten overs spell. Siddhant Tiwari took three important wickets restricting Moga to 150 for ten in just 37.1 overs.Chasing an easy target, Moga lost both the openers at the score of eight runs. Gurjot Singh and Sohrab Kamal scored 36 runs and 38 runs, respectively, enabling their team to make 150 runs. Gobind Jot Singh of Moga took five wickets in his eight-over spell, giving away 31 runs.Nehal Wadhera was declared the man of the match.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-state-inter-district-senior-one-day-tournament-ludhiana-beat-moga-by-84-runs-101632509349535.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Health department to give polio doses to Afghan refugee children till 15 years||The Haryana health department will include children of refugees from Afghanistan -- in the age group of 0-15 years -- in a three-day pulse polio campaign in Gurugram scheduled to start from Sunday, said officials on Friday.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said that all the refugee children -- a priority in the drive -- will get the polio doses at 1,579 pulse polio vaccination centers set up for the purpose in the district.“A large number of people from Afghanistan, along with their children, come to Gurugram for treatment, and many also live in the district. It is the district health department’s priority to include these migrant kids in the drive... The World Health Organization (WHO) has also expressed apprehensions about the impact of the polio in Afghanistan, after the change of power in the country. So, the health department will give polio doses to these children,” Yadav said.Yadav on Friday conducted a meeting in this regard, and also issued guidelines to all the private hospitals in Gurugram for the same. “India has been a polio-free country since 2014, but the roots of this disease are still frozen in Afghanistan. So, we have also changed the current age group for administering polio doses to the Afghan children in India... Polio doses will be given to all Indian children between zero and five years, and to Afghan children between zero and 15 years,” he added.In August 2021, the WHO said that Afghanistan and Pakistan continue to “remain endemic for polio, with high transmission of wild polio virus (WPV) and circulating vaccine derived polio viruses-2 (cVDPVs-2)”. According to the WHO, Afghanistan reported 11 wild polio cases and 261 circulating VDPV-2 cases in the past one year. “The migration of Afghan nationals, and the evacuation of Indian citizens from Afghanistan have enhanced the risk for the importation of wild poliovirus or vaccine-derived polioviruses into India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugramhealth-department-to-give-polio-doses-to-afghan-refugee-children-till-15-years-101632509170921.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s south civic body flags off 1st dialysis centre in Kalkaji hospital||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has operationalised its first dialysis centre in the Poornima Sethi Colony hospital in Kalkaji on Friday. The Kalkaji centre, a 10-bed facility which has been developed on a public-private partnership (PPP) with assistance of Nipro medical corporation, will charge patients ₹1400 for each dialysis session.SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said that the facility will deploy single-use dialyzers and kits which are usually available at much higher rates in the private hospitals. He added that similar centres will come up in other municipal colony hospitals. “The unit will use single-use dialyzer and consumables for better results and to prevent infection to the patient undergoing dialysis,” he said.Suryan pointed out that kidney patients may require two-three dialysis sessions in a month which normally costs ₹6,000- ₹7,000 per session in private hospitals. He claimed that the new dialysis centre at Kalkaji will greatly benefit many, especially those from economically weaker sections. “We will set up more such centres with the help private operator in municipal health care facilities,” he said.Ramesh Bidhuri, the BJP MP from South Delhi who inaugurated the facility, said that the number of diabetic patients is on the rise. “Nearly 2.2 lakh new diabetes patients with end-stage renal disease are now surfacing every year in India which translates to [a need for] an additional 3.4 crore dialysis [sessions] every year. Since the facilities of dialysis are becoming overcrowded, such new dialysis centres will help in facilitating patients seeking treatment,” he added.SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharati said that the civic body is improving health care services for all residents. “The unit houses ultra-modern dialysis machines with Japanese technology and German double pass RO to give ultra-pure dialysis water, ensuring high quality dialysis. The process will help in minimising chances of infection in the patients undergoing dialysis,” he said.A senior municipal official overseeing the hospital administration department said that the colony hospitals in Tilak Nagar and Kalkaji are being prepared in anticipation of the third wave. “We have both the plans ready. In case the third wave of novel coronavirus surfaces, we will use these facilities to run Covid centres. Otherwise, we have plans to run an ICU in the ground floor of the Tilak Nagar hospital with a maternity and paediatric centre on the first floor. Kalkaji hospital can be used as a 40-bed Covid hospital. Oxygen plants have been installed in both these locations,” official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-civic-body-flags-off-1st-dialysis-centre-in-kalkaji-hospital-101632509110713.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Only 0.22% get infected after both Covid vaccine doses in Pune||Pune: The decreasing trend of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the district continues as the positivity rate and fatality rate see a steady drop. Post Ganpat celebrations a surge was anticipated, however, with massive vaccination drives being conducted and administration testing more people, the spurt in Covid cases seems to be less than estimated. As per the latest state health department data on breakthrough cases and Covid positives, only 0.22% people have been infected after both doses and 0.18% after first dose of the vaccine. The vaccination numbers as opposed to the mortality figures shows that as the number of vaccinated people is increasing the number of absolute deaths has fallen while the fatality rate has remained a constant 1.7% as per the state records. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor for Covid-19 said, “World over, there is evidence that vaccination has brought down the number of symptomatic cases which is why the number of reported Covid cases after vaccination is below 1% because only those who have symptoms get themselves tested. As the severity of the symptoms is coming down so is the death rate falling. It has been over five days since we saw the crowd erupting on the streets for Ganesh Visarjan, but the numbers of new cases and deaths have been less than anticipated. However, there is still more than 50% of the population that is not yet fully vaccinated and more than 20% of the entire population that is yet to be vaccinated, which are the kids and so we need to bring down the chain of infection as much as possible.” As per the latest data on post vaccination infection, after first dose of Covid vaccination, 4,593 people in PMC, 4,073 people in PCMC and 4,155 from rural Pune got infected with Covid which is about 0.18% of the total number of people who have got their first dose. In addition, 3,893 people in PMC, 2,043 people in PCMC and 1,070 in rural Pune got infected after the second dose which accounts for only 0.22% of the total number of beneficiaries who have been fully vaccinated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/only-0-22-get-infected-after-both-covid-vaccine-doses-in-pune-101632509109426.html
25-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Zonal commissioner conducts surprise inspection||To ensure punctuality among the municipal corporation (MC) staff, zonal commissioner Jasdev Sekhon conducted a surprise inspection at MC’s Zone A office on Friday morning.Sekhon initiated the surprise checking at around 9:10 am. He stated that show-cause notices will be issued to the few employees who were absent from their seats.He stated that inspections will be conducted frequently, and strict action will be taken against those who fail to reach the office at 9 am. Further, he also directed the staff to schedule official meetings after noon to ensure proper public dealing.Sekhon said a decision has also been taken to shift the pension branch from the third floor to the ground floor as pensioners face trouble climbing the stairs.On Thursday, former cabinet minister MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu had also conducted a surprise inspection at the MC Zone D office. Earlier, newly appointed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had directed the government staff to reach their respective offices on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-zonal-commissioner-conducts-surprise-inspection-101632508990672.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||At Delhi govt school principals’ meet, focus on ways to improve blended learning||Preparing digital educational content in local languages, recording audio lessons for those with limited internet data, introducing rotation and flipped learning, upgrading internet facilities in schools, and the need for more IT assistants in schools -- these were some of the matters related to blended learning that were discussed by government school principals during an ongoing leadership programme.The discussions have been organised as a part of the monthly cluster leadership development programme for government school principals by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). The September session focuses on “building an understanding of possibilities in blended learning and roles”, understanding the new initiatives by Directorate of Education, and building a ”space of listening with teachers”. Both principals and mentor teachers took part in the discussions.Reflecting on the lessons from the Covid-19 crisis, principals said since the pandemic has given the push towards online learning, schools are likely to continue with the practice in the post-pandemic era as well. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, head of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Sector 8, Rohini, said, “Covid allowed us to adopt online learning practices and going forward, we plan to continue these because they provide students a means to learn at their own pace. They can refer to the content at their own pace. These practices have also improved self-learning among students who are much more comfortable with finding learning content online and using them for coursework.”Jha, however, pointed out a concern as well– lack of access to data and internet among government school students who mostly come from economically weaker sections of society. “Our students have either feature phones or low-end smartphones which don’t have enough memory space. Storing the content becomes a problem. Our teachers often switch to audio notes while explaining worksheets as they occupy lesser space,” he said.Going forward, he plans to introduce more learning content in “local languages” so that students find the content easier to grasp. “We have been putting out videos and plan to do so more frequently in local languages so that students can connect with teachers at a greater level,” he said.Several principals from areas such as Mayur Vihar, Dwarka, Sangam Vihar, Jafrabad, Najafgarh, Ramesh Nagar also said while it was challenging to adopt online learning given their meagre resources, it will benefit students who are going to graduate into an increasingly digital world.Leena Asthana, principal of Government Girls’ Senior Secondary School no.4 in Molarband, said she has been encouraging her teachers to have their own YouTube channels where they can post learning content.“Many of my teachers already have YouTube channels. They take offline classes for students at school and record or livestream those classes using their phones and tripods. Students who cannot attend school for various reasons can refer to these lessons. We also use the flipped classroom and rotation learning for our smart classes. In order to continue with blended learning, we need to upgrade internet facilities in school to offer high-speed internet to teachers and students. Our current broadband connection does not cover all classes and teachers face network issues. Schools will also need to provide more IT assistants as well for troubleshooting,” she said.Government school principal Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of Vice and Principals’ Association of Delhi and one of the CLDP facilitators, said a lot of teaching days are lost in Delhi to pollution and extreme temperatures during summers and winters. Online learning will be useful on such days, he said.“Online classes cannot be an alternative for in-person teaching. We realised this when students returned to classrooms recently. However, a few technological tools such as smart boards and multimedia computers with projectors can supplement classroom learning. Often, teaching days are lost to extreme temperatures in summer and winter, or to pollution. Now, we can take up online learning during those days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-delhi-govt-school-principals-meet-focus-on-ways-to-improve-blended-learning-101632508989493.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||Third rapid fever survey in Gurugram amid dengue, malaria scare||The Haryana health department covered nearly 40,200 houses in the third rapid fever survey -- which started on Tuesday -- in Gurugram, with 2,338 fever cases being screened so far, officials said on Friday. This came amidst a rise in the flu and fever cases in Gurugram, following a prolonged monsoon and frequent waterlogging in the city, they added.For this survey -- which will run till September 30, 2021 -- health workers go door-to-door to check whether any resident is down with fever or viral infection, or has dengue or malaria symptoms.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “In such a survey, medical staff visit door-to-door under every primary health centre, and check whether any person has symptoms of dengue, malaria, or viral fever, with samples taken for confirmatory tests on the spot itself. It is also checked if patients have already taken a test for platelets, and if they need to be referred to a medical centre.”Similar surveys were conducted in the district in July and August this year. Earlier, the department had screened around 7,000 people with fever.The health department has increased surveillance for dengue and malaria in the district in the past few weeks, said the officials, adding that the district has reported 18 dengue cases and two malaria cases this year, compared to 51 cases reported in 2020.On September 15, 2021, the state health department asked all the districts to step up the surveillance by increasing sample collection for dengue and malaria at out-patient departments (OPDs) and flu corners at primary health centres and community health centres, and conduct testing on the people daily to avert an outbreak. All multi-purpose health workers have also been instructed to carry out source reduction and anti-larval measures in both urban and peri-urban areas, especially in districts adjoining the national capital region (NCR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/third-rapid-fever-survey-in-gurugram-amid-dengue-malaria-scare-101632508869414.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court grants bail to organiser in Jantar Mantar hate slogan case||The Delhi high court on Friday granted bail to Preet Singh, one of the organisers of the event at Jantar Mantar where communal slogans were allegedly raised last month, saying his custodial interrogation in the hate speech case is not required any longer.“The petitioner has been in custody since August 9, 2021. The petitioner is no more required for custodial interrogation. It is, therefore, directed that the petitioner be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond in the sum of ₹50,000 with two surety bonds of the like amount subject to the satisfaction of the learned trial court/duty magistrate,” said justice Mukta Gupta.The judge has asked the accused not to leave the country without the court’s permission.The court said that as per the record, during the Jantar Mantar event on August 8, the accused had left the venue at around 2pm, noting that “the main provocative words/slogans were shouted by the co-accused at around 4pm”.It said that at this stage, it is not appropriate to express any opinion on whether the “words spoken by the petitioner make out an offence under IPC section 153A (hate speech)”, adding that it will be examined at the stage of charge or during trial.“The interview by the petitioner was not an isolated interview and was part of simultaneous conversation with a number of speakers. Further large numbers of people gathered at the spot due to the petitioner co-organising the protest, and therefore the petitioner would be liable for any offence committed in furtherance of the common object of the assembly,” the order said.Singh, who was remanded in judicial custody on August 10 after his arrest, is accused of creating enmity between different groups and inciting the youth to propagate against a particular religion at a rally at Jantar Mantar here on August 8.Singh, seeking bail through his lawyer Vishnu Shankar Jain, had argued that a demand of a “Hindu Rashtra” did not amount to promoting enmity between religious groups.On August 27, the trial court had refused bail to Singh, saying that prima facie, there had been active participation by the accused in his individual capacity and also as the main organiser of the event itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-grants-bail-to-organiser-in-jantar-mantar-hate-slogan-case-101632508815090.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||New Mohali DC Isha Kalia conducts checks at public offices||The newly appointed deputy commissioner of Mohali, Isha Kalia, on Friday conducted checks at various offices situated at the District Administration Complex in Sector 76.Kalia visited various service delivery counters of fard kendra, suvidha kendra, RTI office, tehsil and other offices and interacted with the people there while taking their feedback. She also reviewed various phases of citizen-centric services from issuing of a token number to delivery of the service. The new DC asked the management of the sewa and suvidha kendra to ensure that every operator on the counter briefed the people about the requirement of the documents for the services in detail so that people did not have to run pillar to post for availing the service.Kalia also said that services must be provided within stipulated time frame after getting the token, adding that this norm must be implemented in earnest. She also directed them to ensure that more chairs were made available for the people to sit in all public offices.The DC said that any sort of laxity on the part of management would not be tolerated at any cost and that such surprise inspections would be carried out regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-mohali-dc-isha-kalia-conducts-checks-at-public-offices-101632508810561.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt will cooperate with railway station revamp project: CM Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said that the Delhi government will cooperate and coordinate with other agencies, primarily the Union ministry of Railways, in a project aimed at the redevelopment of the New Delhi Railway Station.Kejriwal’s statement came hours after Delhi’s lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal chaired a project review meeting with the chief minister and senior officials in Central government agencies, public works department and Delhi Development Authority (DDA), among others.“This is a very important project, especially considering the fact that Delhi is the national capital, and New Delhi railway station is the most crucial railway station in the country. I assure complete cooperation on behalf of the Delhi government to the Railways and all concerned agencies. I hope this project gets completed quickly so we all can see New Delhi railway station become one of the most beautifully developed railway stations soon,” said a statement issued by the CM’s office.New Delhi railway station is the largest and second busiest railway station in the country and handles approximately 4.5 lakh passengers daily and approximately 160-170 million passengers annually, noted the statement.It further said that the redevelopment project will cover 200,000 square metres and will, among others, involve setting up new pick up and drop zones in view of traffic situation and convenience of passengers; building 40-storey twin towers to house a hotel, offices, retail shops, restaurants and other facilities; a multi-level car parking; and new roads based on fresh designs.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reinforced his support for the redevelopment of the New Delhi railway station and said that the Delhi government is committed towards the steadfast redevelopment of the country’s most important railway station. The New Delhi railway station will be redeveloped and upgraded into a world class facility, after which it will boast of splendid beauty. Keeping in mind the convenience of the passengers, various facilities will be developed at the railway station,” said a statement issued by the CM’s office.It further said, “The redevelopment of New Delhi railway station and its surrounding areas shall create state-of-the-art amenities and facilities for passengers, new community space for public, smooth and congestion free connectivity to the station, and most modern commercial areas. The architectural expression of the proposed station is envisaged to carry a signature style, which is relatable to both historic and modern Indian culture to give it a unique identity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-will-cooperate-with-railway-station-revamp-project-cm-kejriwal-101632508809433.html
25-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body to reconstruct old office in Civil Lines from October||Work on reconstructing the old municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) office in Civil Lines will commence from the next month, said officials on Friday. This came as the condition of the MCG office, opposite Civil Hospital, has been deteriorating, especially over the last six years, they added.The roof of the MCG office has collapsed at least thrice this year, following heavy rainfall and thunderstorms. Also, rainwater enters offices of the second-floor departments through cracks/gaps in the building, and the walls are either cracked or paints are peeling off. Virtually, the office does not even have a parking space.To resolve these issues, the MCG in June 2021 prepared a ₹30.10 crore proposal for reconstructing the building, administrative approval of which was granted by the Haryana government on Tuesday.The project work order has been issued, and a two-year deadline has been set for the contractor to complete the project, said MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja. “Administrative approval from the Haryana government has been procured, and the project work order has also been issued. We are planning to start the reconstruction work from October,” he said.According to MCG officials, privy to the matter, the two-storey MCG office will be revamped with a commercial space at the ground floor, along with a citizen facilitation centre (CFC) where the people can make payments for licence, property tax, and water bill among others. Besides the ground floor, two other floors will also be reserved for commercial spaces, and five floors for offices.The main direct public dealing at the old MCG office is for the issuance of birth and death certificates, similar to other offices of the civic body. In addition, internal proceedings for zone 1 and 2 are planned, approved, and sanctioned from this office.“Once reconstructed, the old MCG office will become a zonal office, similar to its office in Gurugram Sector 42 where the MCG’s zone 3 departments are based, also making space for both zone 2 and zone 1 offices temporarily. The zone 4 office will be based in Sector 34,” said a senior MCG official, requesting anonymity.The zone 1 departments will operate from Sector 14, near Vyapar Kendra on MG Road, once the MCG’s main office is set up there, and the MCG office in Civil Lines will solely cater to zone 2 related work. The MCG is also planning to build a 10-storey office -- its headquarters -- in Sector 14, the MCG official added.Since its establishment in 2008, the Civil Lines office was the MCG headquarters till 2015. However, the Sector 34 office became its headquarters in 2015 when the civic body shifted most of its departments there. “After most of the offices were shifted to the Sector 34 office, the Civil Lines office became an afterthought. Symbolically, it is an office, but largely, it is just a glorified CFC with view departments and a joint commissioner’s office. The entire building is crumbling. The ceiling has partially collapsed thrice this year. Rainwater enters offices during monsoon, and even the office staff does not get any space for parking their vehicles,” said an official from the Civil Lines MCG office.According to the official Gurgaon district gazetteer, a class II municipal committee was formed in the city in 1950 and it was upgraded to a class I municipal committee in 1969. Though the gazetteer mentioned the presence of a municipal office park in the city around that time, it did not specify the location of the municipal office.The Civil Lines office was built a few years after the formation of the municipal committee, around the time the Civil hospital -- on the opposite side -- was constructed in 1977. However, this could not be verified, said MCG officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-civic-body-to-reconstruct-old-office-in-civil-lines-from-october-101632508751297.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC stays arrest of Supertech MD till October 4||The Delhi high court on Friday stayed till October 4, the arrest of Supertech’s managing director Mohit Arora on the condition that the real estate developer pays ₹50 lakh to an aggrieved home buyer within a week.On September 20, the national consumer commission sentenced Arora to three years in jail for not refunding a homebuyer after the firm’s failure to hand over possession of his house in Uttar Pradesh’s Yamuma Expressway Industrial Development Area (Yeida) for several years.The commission on Monday issued an arrest warrant against Arora, while directing that its order shall come into effect after seven days if the builder fails to deposit around ₹1.79 crore by then.Challenging this order, Supertech went to the high court, arguing that the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) acted out of its jurisdiction and did not give the company a chance to present its case.Justice Amit Bansal of the Delhi high court, however, asked Supertech and Arora to prove their bonafides before their petition could be entertained further.“Accordingly in order to show bonafide, the petitioner is directed to pay ₹50 lakh within a week. Statement of accounts to be laid before the court… The sentence will be stayed till the next date of hearing,” the judge said in an oral order.The court stayed the arrest till October 4, but did not stay other parts of the NCDRC’s order.Arora said the company was exploring all options, including making a refund as per the NCDRC order as well as seeking stay from the high court.“Since the stay order has been issued by the high court, we will proceed with the case before the high court,” Arora said.The money ( ₹1.75 crore) is to be paid to Brigadier Kanwal Batra (retired) and his daughter Aakriti Batra, who together bought a villa in Supertech’s Upcountry project, offered by the builder in December 2013 at a cost of approximately ₹1.03 crore, which the builder promised to deliver in August 2014.Supertech could not give possession of the villa for want of clearances, nor did it comply with the commission’s 2019 judgment to refund the money with interest despite undertakings.The development comes days after the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of two 40-storey residential towers of Supertech’s Emerald Court project in Noida over grave violation of building norms, which, the court said, was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida authority and the builder.During the hearing, senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, representing Supertech, argued that the NCDRC order was beyond the provisions of section 27 of the Consumer Protection Act and there was no provision it which casts vicarious liability on the MD to make him liable in criminal or civil matter in case of default by the company.“He isn’t personally responsible but has been attributed vicarious liability whereas there is no provision of vicarious liability for offences of other parties.“When a company is in default, there is no provision to say any MD or some other director will be vicariously liable. Stature must confer that jurisdiction. None of this has been examined but merely on grounds of non-compliance he has been sentenced. The exercise of jurisdiction by the Commission is purportedly wrong and gives the maximum without a trial,” he argued.Appearing for the complainant, advocate Shailesh Madiyal, counsel for the home buyer Kanwal Batra’s argued that the company was in repeated default of the NCDRC order and has gone back on its undertaking to the forum.The counsel said every time the company gives an undertaking to NCDRC and then fails to turn up the next time and warrants have to be issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-stays-arrest-of-supertech-md-till-october-4-asks-him-to-pay-aggrieved-homebuyer-50-lakh-101632508630597.html
25-09-2021||Pune||Residents turn Wanowrie’s dumping spot near Bhairoba nullah into garden in Pune||Pune: An open space near Bhairoba nullah and Ganga Satellite Township that was a dump site for trash and eyesore has been converted into a garden by residents, an NGO and CSR funds. The untidy spot is located near the nullah that witnessed strong currents during the flash floods and IT engineer Salim Shaikh (45) and CA student Victor Sangle (26) were washed away at the Bhairoba nullah bridge in September 25, 2019. The area is frequented by people to answer to nature’s call. According to Ganga Satellite Society chairman Rajesh Mishra, despite repeated complaints to the civic authorities, when things on ground did not change, residents Anu Bir, Colonel Amit Rai (retired) and Mishra decided to take up the task of cleaning the area. “We approached Colonel Suresh Patil (retired) of Green Thumb Environment Protection Group and began the beautification work. The challenges were manifold but the picture started changing when cleanliness drive began on September 11. First, the ground-levelling work was done followed by plantation of bamboo trees at the sides giving the area a new look. Once regarded as a filthy area, the spot now looks clean and beautiful,” he said. Mishra is also the managing director of Vulkan Technologies Private Limited, which has funded the the green project through CSR initiative. The work was carried under the supervision of Green Thumb founder-president Lt Col Suresh Patil (retired), Col Laxman Sathe (retired) and Col Rai. The debris removal and ground-levelling were carried out with the help of bulldozer; installation of six floodlights and deployment of round-the-clock guards to check dumping of waste and using the area for nature’s call. Lt Col Patil said, “Through citizens’ support an unclean area has been transformed into a green hub and steps have been taken to ensure it remains so in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-turn-wanowrie-s-dumping-spot-near-bhairoba-nullah-into-garden-in-pune-101632508629524.html
25-09-2021||Pune||No Aadhar card needed to ride PMPML’s ‘Punyadasham’ buses soon: mayor||PUNE Passengers travelling on the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited’s (PMPML) ‘Punyadasham’ buses in the city are being asked to show their Aadhar cards to gain entry into the buses. Passengers have demanded this decision be revoked, a sentiment echoed by Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol. “This is a good service started by PMPML within the peth areas to travel to a short distance for just ₹10. But when I got into the bus, the conductor asked for my Aadhar card, which I was not carrying. He told me to get down from bus. It is unfair. PMPML is getting their ticket money, so they should not stop passengers from travelling on this bus,” said Madhusudhan Paranjpe, a commuter and senior citizen. In July this new bus service was launched by the public transport body under which 50 midi-sized buses with a seating capacity of 24 people started to ply the old parts of the city. For any given distance the ticket fare is ₹10. “I have spoken with the PMPML officials to cancel this decision of asking for the Aadhar card while boarding the bus. Passengers can then freely travel around the city without their Aadhar cards in these buses,” said mayor Murlidhar Mohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-aadhar-card-needed-to-ride-pmpml-s-punyadasham-buses-soon-mayor-101632508572240.html
25-09-2021||Noida||Noida: Five arrested for snatching car using a toy gun||Four days after a 50-year-old Indirapuram resident was robbed of his Hyundai i-20 car in Noida’s Sector 62, police on Friday arrested five persons, including a BTech student, from Sector 57 in the case. Apart from the stolen car, police have recovered two stolen motorcycles, a knife, five mobile phones and a toy gun that was used in the crime.Police said all the suspects are residents of Delhi. The suspects were identified as Kartik Wani, 22, a resident of Mayur Vihar Phase 3; Vikas, 20, a resident of Pandav Nagar; Shivam Valmiki, 30, from Kalyanpuri; Yuvraj Khatri, 24, from Shakarpur; and Abhishek Sharma, 22, from Geeta Colony.According to police, Wani, a B-Tech second-year student, is the mastermind. He had invested ₹8 lakh in a private firm and lost the money. He then ganged up with four accomplices and decided to rob commuters, said police. The incident took place on the night of September 20 when victim Vilas Nirmal, a resident of Shakti Khand in Indirapuram, was returning home from his office in Noida’s Sector 62. “When I reached near D-Park in Sector 62, five persons on two motorcycles signalled me and said that the car’s bumper had fallen. As soon as I stopped the car to check it, they held me at gunpoint and snatched the vehicle,” he said. The suspects also took away ₹11,000 in cash and Nirmal’s mobile phone. Nirmal, a driver with a private firm, said he had bought the car last year. A case was registered against unknown persons under Section 392 (robbery) of IPC at Sector 58 police station on September 20.“We scanned footage from over 250 CCTV cameras and identified the suspects. Today we got information that the suspects were moving in the stolen car near Sector 57 in Noida. A police team reached the spot and arrested them,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida. Police said that the suspects were planning to escape to Rajasthan to sell the car.Police recovered a toy gun that was actually a pistol-shaped cigarette lighter and an air gun from their possession. The DCP said that the suspects had used these two guns to threaten the victim. Based on their interrogation details, police conducted a search at their hideout and recovered two stolen motorcycles used in the crime.“Wani contacted Khatri, who ran a mobile repairing shop, and they first started snatching mobile phones. Wani is also an expert in unlocking a smart phone. On September 20, they came to Sector 62, and tried to first stop a Hyundai i-10 car saying that the car’s bumper had fallen. But that car sped away. The suspects played the same trick and Nirmal was trapped. They snatched the car and fled to Delhi,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional DCP, Noida.The suspects were produced in a local court that sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-five-arrested-for-snatching-car-using-a-toy-gun-101632508569402.html
25-09-2021||Other||UP Madrasa Education Board Exam results declared||State minority welfare minister and MLA from Prayagraj South Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’ declared the result of Uttar Pradesh Madrasa Education Council Board Examination, 2021, in Prayagraj, on Friday.Declaring the result, the minister said that like other Boards, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has cancelled the examination of Secondary (Munshi/Maulvi), Senior Secondary (Alim) of UP Madrasa Education Council for the year 2021. The students have been promoted as per the norms followed by UP Board.Minister Nandi said that in the board examination 2021, the results of 1,22,132 students are being declared of which 96, 213 are of secondary class and 25,919 are from senior secondary class.He added that against 96,213 candidates in the secondary class in the entire state, 95,624 students have passed/been promoted, which is 99.38 %, in which 54,630 are boys and 40,994 are girls.In the Senior Secondary class, 25,659 students have been promoted against 25,919 candidates, which is 98.99%, in which 13,734 are boys and 11,925 are girls.Nandi congratulated all the students who passed the Board examination and wished them a bright future. He said that while continuing further studies, students should bring laurels to their family, parents, state and country by achieving better results.He also said that the basic policy of the BJP government is ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas with Sabka Prayas’. With the intention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister of the state Yogi Adityanath, ‘Quran in one hand and computer in the other hand’, a new morale, consciousness and faith have been infused among the minorities.Nandi said that the BJP government is continuously doing the work of empowering the minority community students. He said that it is also the goal of the central and state governments that along with traditional education in madrasas, modern education also be imparted in a scientific manner and students of madrasas be included in the mainstream. Keeping this in mind, the government is making constant efforts to link the education of madrasas with new technologies and courses. NCERT books are being made available by implementing NCERT syllabus in madrasas. Teaching of modern subjects is being promoted. By creating a madrasa portal, transparency has been brought in the functioning of madrasas and all proceedings of the examination are being conducted online, added Nandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-madrasa-education-board-exam-results-declared-101632508449514.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Seventh round of sero survey starts in Delhi||Delhi on Friday began collecting samples for its seventh round of serological survey to ascertain the proportion of population that might have immunity against the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. The 28,000 samples will be collected by district teams in 10 to 15 days, administration officials said. “The collection of blood samples for the sero survey started on Friday. We have already prepared a schedule for the collection and should finish it within 10 to 15 days,” said a senior official from New Delhi district, asking not to be named. The data for the current survey is being collected digitally. Another official from the east district said on condition of anonymity, “We faced no problems in using the app; everything went smoothly.” The survey, which was initially scheduled to take place over the first two weeks of August, was later postponed to the last week of August, and then again to September last week. It is not immediately clear why the survey was postponed twice, with state health officials declining comment on the matter. Hindustan Times reported on Wednesday that a portion of the samples will be, for the first time, also tested to calculate the levels of neutralising antibodies that directly target the virus.The last round of the sero survey was conducted in April, just as the second wave of the pandemic swept through the national capital, and had to be stopped midway due to rising cases of Covid-19. But of the 13,000 samples that were already collected before the survey was suspended, nearly 56% returned positive for antibodies. The results were similar to those obtained in the sero survey in January that estimated the exposure after the November surge in cases. Serological surveys are used by epidemiologists to determine the prevalence of a disease in a population. The testing kits currently in use reveal whether a sample has IgG antibodies against one of the proteins of the virus. They indicate whether the antibody level is high or low, and are called semi-quantitative. The seventh survey will conduct a more expensive test to determine the exact levels of the antibodies in a subset of the samples.The seventh survey is being conducted at a time nearly three out of four of Delhi’s adult population have received at least one dose of a vaccine against Covid-19, and one in three have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-begins-collecting-samples-for-7th-sero-survey-to-detect-presence-of-covid-antibodies-101632508330613.html
25-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana administration ensures jobs to 200 drug dependents||As many as 200 drug dependents have been ensured employment by the district administration under Mission Red Sky in Ludhiana, said deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday while reviewing the progress made under the programme.Accompanied by additional deputy commissioner (D) Amit Kumar Panchal, Sharma said the district administration has deployed 50 officials of various departments to identify 500 drug dependents.He said that under this mission, each official identified 10 drug dependents who would be provided with various job opportunities. Besides, their capabilities will be enhanced through skill development or training programs so that they can earn a livelihood like others.He said that the target of providing employment opportunities to 500 drug dependents will be achieved by November 30. He also asked officers of the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) to provide self-employment opportunities to them.Sharma also told them to arrange for their skill development training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-administration-ensures-jobs-to-200-drug-dependents-101632508329371.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||AAP claims Delhi’s north MCD stopped online classes in primary schools||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday alleged that around 70,000 children dropped out of primary schools in the city as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led north Delhi Municipal Corporation failed to provide online classes to primary school students and fired teachers during the Covid-19 pandemic.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD). Delhi goes to the municipal polls next year. “The BJP-ruled north MCD stopped giving education to primary students in the pandemic. They fired 687 teachers. Around 70,000 students have dropped out of school due to the BJP-ruled MCD not providing education to children of classes 1 to 5. The north MCD says teaching children during the pandemic will harm them,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj in a press conference.He further said, “For the last one and a half years, the north MCD has not been providing primary education. Imagine what would have happened to those children? All the private schools in Delhi are providing education to young children, but the north MCD has stopped it.”The BJP dismissed the allegations and blamed the AAP government for not clearing dues with the civic bodies which, they said, forced them to sack contractual teachers.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Mr Saurabh Bhardwaj should know that north MCD primary schools, like all primary schools, have not been opened for physical attendance, as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has not yet allowed physical attendance for primary school students. In almost all north MCD schools, online classes are being regularly conducted. As far as the matter of 667 teachers is concerned, these were contractual employees whose salary is ₹35,420 per month covered under the Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan. The annual salary bill of these 667 contractual teachers is ₹23.62 crores out of which 25% is paid by Central government while 75% is to be paid by the Delhi government. The Kejriwal government stopped paying the salary of these contractual teachers in May 2020 after which north MCD had no option but to suspend their contracts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-claims-delhi-s-north-mcd-stopped-online-classes-in-primary-schools-101632508269523.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP will achieve 100% vaccination mark by November: Jai Ram||Union minister for consumer affairs, food and public distribution, commerce and industries Piyush Goyal has appreciated the efforts put in by the Himachal government to make it the first state in the country to vaccinate 100% of its eligible population with the first dose of Covid vaccine besides ensuring food safety to the targeted groups. While addressing ‘Sewa Aur Samarpan Abhiyan’ at Totu-Jutogh in Shimla on Friday, he said the HP government has made tremendous progress in all spheres of development in the last 50 years. Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the ‘Sewa Aur Samarpan Abhiyan’ was launched throughout the country to celebrate two decades of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in public service. Thakur said that the Union government has provided wholehearted support and cooperation to the state government to effectively tackle the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. He said Himachal, after achieving the 100% target of administering the first dose of vaccines to the eligible population, was now striving hard to become the first state in the country to attain the cent-percent vaccination of the people (both doses) by November this year. He said that the state to date has vaccinated about 46% of its eligible population with the second dose. The CM also planted a sapling of jacaranda, an ornamental plant, while Piyush Goyal planted a sapling of silver oak on the occasion. Earlier, CM Thakur had welcomed Union minister Goyal at Hotel Peterhoff by presenting him bouquets, shawl and a Himachali cap. The Union and chief ministers also visited the vaccination centre at Totu and interacted with the doctors, paramedical staff and the people who had come for vaccination. MP and state BJP president Suresh Kashyap also spoke on the occasion and detailed various welfare schemes launched by the central and state governments. Health minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, HIMFED chairperson Ganesh Dutt, political adviser to chief minister Trilok Jamwal, Shimla BJP district president Ravi Mehta and BJP leader Pramod Sharma were among those present during the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-will-achieve-100-vaccination-mark-by-november-jai-ram-101632508213375.html
25-09-2021||Noida||Man admits to killing 5 of his family over 20 yrs to secure property for son||A 45-year-old man, arrested on Thursday for the abduction and murder of his nephew has allegedly admitted to the police that he also killed four other members of his immediate family over the past 20 years in a bid to secure the ancestral property for his 19-year-old son.Police identified that man as Leelu Tyagi, a resident of Basantpur Saithli village in Muradnagar.According to the police, Tyagi and his accomplices allegedly abducted his nephew Reshu Tyagi, 24, on August 8, strangled him to death in the car and dumped his body in a canal in Pahasu area of Bulandshahr the same day.Reshu’s family filed a missing person complaint on August 15. Later, convinced that he had been abducted and killed, they registered an FIR for abduction and murder on September 22.“Tyagi kept telling the family that Reshu was upset and may have gone somewhere on his own. He tried to dissuade the family from filing a police complaint. During the investigation, villagers told us that other members of the Tyagi family had died mysteriously,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Police said they arrested Tyagi and two others on Thursday in connection with Reshu’s murder, and during questioning, Tyagi admitted that he also got his older brother Sudhir Tyagi killed in 2001 using contract killers. He then told the rest of the family that Sudhir had abandoned them.“Tyagi said after he got Sudhit killed, he married his sister-in-law (Sudhir’s wife) the same year. He told us that he then murdered both of Sudhir’s daughters. He said he poisoned and killed the youngest daughter, aged 8 years, in 2006, while the oldest one, aged 16 years, was poisoned to death in 2009, and her body dumped in a river,” the SP said . “Tyagi said he also killed the eight-year-old son of his other brother Brijesh in 2013 by strangling him and dumping his body in a river. In August, he committed the fifth murder, that of Brijesh’s 24-year-old son Reshu,” Raja said.The police said Tyagi allegedly told the family that the girls had died of insect bites, and also convinced them that the boy had run away from home.“In all previous cases, he exerted his influence over the family and did not allow FIRs to be lodged. He told us he wanted to control of the ancestral property (estimated to be worth about ₹15-20 crore), and so he killed all heirs. He said he wanted his only son to inherit the property after him,” Raja said.Speaking to media persons at the Muradnagar police station, Tyagi said, “We have about 16 bighas of land and other property in the name of my wife, who was earlier married to my older brother Sudhir. I killed his daughters to avoid the expense of their weddings. I wanted my only son to inherit all the property.” Brijesh said the entire family is yet to come to terms with the shocking revelations.“I never expected that my brother would murder our family. He was taking care of the entire family and we never suspected anything... My wife is in a state of shock; we now know both our sons were murdered. I believe he may have wanted to kill me as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-admits-to-killing-5-of-his-family-over-20-yrs-to-secure-property-for-son-101632508211240.html
25-09-2021||Other||Sahakar nagar residents unite under Taljai Bachao Abhiyan to save Pune city’s hills||PUNE Environmentally conscious residents of Sahakar nagar held a meeting under the banner of the “Taljai Bachao Abhiyan”, at the Dashbhuja temple in the area on Friday, with 60 people present. The topic of discussion was the eco-conservation of the Taljai hill, a proposal for which has been prepared by the Pune municipal corporation (PMC).Also present at the meeting were environmentalist Ketki Sathe Kulkarni, architect Sarang Yadwadkar, Ravindra Sinha, from Mission Groundwater and corporator Subhash Jagtap. The PMC proposal is based on a sanction of ₹13 crore for the development of forest and greenery on the hill.“We want to preserve the hills which are the lungs of Pune. This is not only for Taljai, it is for all the hills in Pune,” said Sahakar nagar resident Amit Shahane.The Sahakar nagar residents listed out various problems, including the loss of the existing natural bio- diversity, the threat to wildlife, water percolation and ground-level water levels. An increase in traffic was also a major concern.Indranil Sadalge, another resident, said, “We will take a consensus from experts and then will send our ideas to the respective authorities, including the state government. Our main concerns are the environment, and traffic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sahakar-nagar-residents-unite-under-taljai-bachao-abhiyan-to-save-pune-city-s-hills-101632508209463.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal exhorts Punjab, Haryana to provide bio-decomposers to farmers||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday that like Delhi, all agrarian states should provide bio-decomposers free of cost to farmers in their states to control the problem of stubble burning.On Friday, Kejriwal initiated the process of making bio-decomposer solution in collaboration with Pusa Institute at Kharkhari Nahar, ahead of the harvest season when farmers start setting fire to their fields to get rid of the residual stubble.“Now, there is a solution for stubble management; from making the bio-decomposer solution to spraying, it costs less than ₹1,000 per acre. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) has also ordered all the states to use bio-decomposer so that the problem of stubble burning can be eradicated,” said Kejriwal while addressing the media.Every year, Delhi’s air quality nosedives during winter due to large-scale stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. The change in wind direction carries the fumes from the stubble fire from the agrarian states to Delhi, deteriorating it’s air quality.Data provided by the Delhi government shows that last year, around 300 farmers in the Capital sprayed bio-decomposer on 1,950 acres of farmland. “This year, 844 farmers in Delhi are going to spray the solution on about 4,200 acres of land,” said Kejriwal.Senior Delhi government officials said the bio-decomposer solution is being prepared in collaboration with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research-Pusa in the horticulture department’s nursery at Kharkhari Nahar, from where it will be supplied to farmers across the city free of cost.“Last year, the Delhi government, in collaboration with the Pusa Institute, developed a unique solution for stubble management. We have prepared a bio-decomposer spray which is very efficient. Earlier, farmers would burn the stubble left in their fields after harvesting. Now, the stubble decomposes within 15-20 days of spraying the solution and turns into a fertiliser. Earlier, stubble was a liability for us when it was burnt, but now, once it decomposes, it turns into an asset,” Kejriwal added.Environment minister Gopal Rai also stressed the need for state governments to work together to find a solution for stubble decomposition in order to fight pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-exhorts-punjab-haryana-to-provide-bio-decomposers-free-of-cost-to-farmers-101632508089251.html
25-09-2021||Pune||1 million Punekars served notices for not paying traffic fines||PUNE The Pune district legal services authority has served 1 million people with notices for not paying e-challan fines issued for flouting traffic rules in the city.The cases are pending from 2020. Violations consist of not wearing a helmet, breaking signals, and not keeping to one-ways.“On the notice served, one can click the link and pay the amount, or they will have to come to the court,” said Pratap Sawant, secretary, Pune District Legal Services Authority.On Saturday, a Lok Adalat has been called to settle any disputes.The Pune District Legal Services Authority has also allowed fines to be paid at the motor vehicle court.“In coordination with the Pune traffic police we have managed to serve notices to people,” added Sawant.“Few people were prompt to pay the fines, while many take it easy and keep flouting the rules. Many argue with the police after flouting the traffic norms,” said constable Amol Dhote, who was on duty near Kumthekar road on Friday.Pune resident Amol Kamble said, “Many don’t get an instant notification. My father directly received a court notice. He had no idea when he broke a traffic rule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1-million-punekars-served-notices-for-not-paying-traffic-fines-101632507969648.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Gogi vs Tillu: Delhi gangsters’ bond that ended in bloodshed||The life of gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi,30, shot dead by his rivals inside the Rohini court on a rainy Friday afternoon, is one of dreams, friendship, student politics, money, guns, and gore.Gogi was once a teenager who excelled in sport (volleyball and athletics), represented his schools at several competitions, and got admitted to Delhi University (DU) on the sports quota. There, he and his closest childhood friend, Sunil Maan, got sucked into student politics. Maan is now better known as gangster Tillu Tajpuria in police records.The two went on to become deadly rivals, and for more than a decade, their names can be found together in police files and case papers that detail how they have fought a bloody turf war that spilled blood on the streets of Haryana and the national Capital.Had the two not stepped into he world of student politics, their paths would not have crossed, and their names may not have been in Delhi Police’s most wanted list. Perhaps Gogi would not have been inside court number 207 at Rohini on Friday, where two gunmen, dressed as lawyers, waited for him and then shot him dead.
25-09-2021||Delhi||From police vans to courts, no place off-limit for gangs in Delhi||New Delhi From courtrooms to prison cells, police vans to hospitals, no setting is off-limits for gangsters as they go about settling scores in the national capital. According to Delhi Police records, there are at least 8-10 prominent gangs -- involved in extortions, land grabbing, murder, among others -- across the city that are at war with each other to establish supremacy in their respective areas. Records show that before Jitender Maan alias Gogi, and Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuria, started gang wars on the city’s streets, two other gangs – one led by Neeraj Bawana and Nitu Dabodia – were engaged in similar fights. Among the several murders as a result of this gang rivalry was the killing of two gang leaders of the Dabodia gang – Paras Vikram and Pradeep Bhola -- by Bawana while they were heading to Tihar prison in a jail van after attending a court hearing in August 2015.Just months later, in December 2015, two other gangs in northeast Delhi -- one led by gangster Krishen Pehalwan, alias Cheenu Pehalwan, and another by Abdul Nasser – had a similar shootout inside the Karkardooma court complex. Pehalwan survived the attack but a police constable, who was escorting him in court, had died.Police records show that one of Delhi’s first and better-known gangsters, Pehalwan was from Dichaon, a village in Najafgarh. Pehalwan, who later turned a small-time politician and is currently in jail, has accused police of framing him in false cases in the past. During the 1990s, Pehalwan’s gang was engaged in a turf war with another gang led by his friend-turned-foe Anoop Balraj, from the neighbouring village of Mitraon, in which about a dozen lives were lost.Later, Pehalwan’s gang had also had a bitter rivalry with another gang, led by Udaiveer Kala, over a property dispute. Police have in the past said that Kala’s father was allegedly murdered by Pehalwan’s gang in 2007. Police officials said the rivalry ended eight years later with the murder of Pehalwan’s brother, Bharat Singh, who was an MLA at the time, at a farmhouse in Najafgarh. Officers in the crime branch said that some of the gangs that are at still at war across the city include those led by Manjeet Mahal (currently in jail) and Kapil Sangwan; Cheenu Pehalwan (currently in jail) and Abdul Naseer; Hashim Baba (currently in jail) and Ravi Gangwal (currently in jail). Former Delhi police officer, LN Rao, who was the DCP of the special cell until his retirement in 2015, said police must crack down on the city’s gangsters.”Police must gather evidence and use laws like MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act) against all gangsters who are running organised crime syndicates. Using these laws will make it difficult for them to come out on bail easily. Police have to act sternly against such men,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gogi-killed-in-shootout-from-police-vans-to-courts-no-place-off-limit-for-gangs-in-delhi-101632507789466.html
25-09-2021||Other||Fatal accidents on the rise in Pune; traffic police say lifting of Covid curbs a factor||PUNE Data released by the Pune traffic police shows an increase in the number of road accidents in 2021 as compared to 2020. The number of deaths due to fatal road mishaps has also risen.As many as 150 deaths due to accidents have been reported this year, between January and September 23, while last year, a total of 143 deaths were recorded. “This year the number of road accidents and deaths has increased in the city and there are several reasons. First of all, the relaxations on curbs, and then speeding. Newly added roads as in villages merged in the PMC jurisdiction have also seen many mishaps. While most accidents were on the Pune-Solapur and Pune- Ahmednagar highways, the Katraj- Dehu road bypass say several mishaps,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic). “Most deaths this year were two-wheeler riders, as many as 90 bikers died. There are multiple deaths recorded in some of the accidents. No major accidents in the old part of the city like the peth areas were reported this year,” added Shrirame. As per the Pune traffic police, 30 people died on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, 13 deaths were reported on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway, 15 deaths were recorded on the Pune-Solapur highway under the Hadapsar division. Atul Namekar, secretary of Sinhagad Road - Warje residents association said, “There are often accidents seen on this Katraj-Dehu road bypass which connects several residential areas. Along with strict monitoring of traffic rules, it is also necessary to make safer infrastructure. In many cases people have lost their lives due to the lack of infrastructure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fatal-accidents-on-the-rise-in-pune-traffic-police-say-lifting-of-covid-curbs-a-factor-101632507609324.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||‘Hope police’s visits reduce’: Some relief, little surprise in Gogi’s village||When the family of alleged gangster Jitender Maan, alias Gogi, heard the news of him being gunned down in the Rohini court on Friday noon, it was the culmination of their fears over several months when they believed that rival gangs were “conspiring” with the police and jail authorities to eliminate him.On Friday evening, as around 15 of Gogi’s relatives and friends sat on charpoys and plastic chairs in a dark courtyard at Gogi’s home in outer Delhi’s Alipur village, they refused to believe that Friday’s attack was purely the handiwork of a gang, allegations that officials called baseless. “No one will believe that such a big gangster could be killed inside a courtroom under such high security without any cooperation from authorities,” said Gogi’s cousin, Ravinder Maan. Maan and others in that courtyard said that Gogi “surrendered” last year with the sole aim to escape being killed in a police encounter. “He thought the jail was safest for a person like him,” said Maan.The family said that he was moved from Tihar Jail number eight to jail two around five months ago to “snap his ties” with his associates lodged in the same jail. “We even stopped finding out when he would be produced in court,” said another relative who asked not to be identified.His family said they were also disappointed he was produced for court hearings in person, instead of over video-conferencing.Sandeep Goel, director general of Delhi prisons, called the allegations baseless. “He was kept in a high-security ward. We keep changing inmates’ jails, especially high-risk prisoners. Court productions, whether physical or by video-conferencing are according to production orders,” said Goel.Gogi’s family said the last relative to meet him was his mother, who visited him in Tihar on September 2. “He did not express any concerns about his safety to his mother. She gave him R7,000 to manage his expenses in jail,” said a third relative.Gogi’s family alleged that the police had a reason to get him killed. “They worried that he would seek revenge for Fajja’s encounter,” said Maan about Gogi’s associate Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja who escaped from police custody in March before he was killed in an encounter days later.A senior police officer, who asked not to be named, outrightly denied that the Delhi Police had any role in Gogi’s killing. “Such allegations are usual after criminals are killed, but there is no truth to it,” said the officer.In Alipur village, locals avoided venturing around Gogi’s home. But for the small gathering in the courtyard, the lanes around were largely deserted and there was little to suggest it was Gogi’s home. “There are just a dozen people at a gangster’s home on the day he died. No one wants to be associated with us or be seen around us,” said the third relative.The word about his killing, however, spread across the village. “Hopefully the police’s visits to this village will reduce now,” said a village resident who asked not to be named.His family said that they always believed that luck was on Gogi’s side and that he would beat death.“Gogi’s gang is over. His death shows no one can take on the authorities,” said Maan even as neither he, nor others in the little gathering, made any attempts to portray him as innocent of the charges against him.Gogi’s family said they were vulnerable to attacks from rival gangs now, but insisted that no retaliation should be expected from his gang.“No one is left to take revenge,” Maan said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gogi-killed-in-shootout-hope-police-s-visits-reduce-some-relief-little-surprise-in-gangster-s-village-at-his-killing-101632507552598.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Gogi killed in shootout: A yr ago, HC flagged need to raise police deployment||The high court registry in September last year informed a division bench that there was a need to augment the police deployment at the Rohini Court complex due to the increasing security requirement.The submission was made in an affidavit in connection with a plea seeking enhancement of security at the seven district courts of the city. The registry also noted that the court complex lacked adequate numbers of security cameras.“The matter was taken up in the Building Maintenance Committee, Rohini Courts and the Committee gave approval for installation of CCTV cameras. The matter was sent to government of NCT, Delhi, for administrative approval and financial sanction. The same is still pending with GNCTD since 25.07.2017, and repeated follow up/reminders have been sent in this regard,” the document read.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for commentThe affidavit was filed on September 4, 2020, in response to a PIL seeking adequate security measures for the courts citing several past incidents.The security measures at the city’s court complex has now come into stark focus, after the courtroom murder of notorious gangster Jitender Maan, also known as Gogi.The plea, filed by Kunwar Gangesh Singh had sought directions to enhance security of various district courts across Delhi to mitigate the sort of incidents witnessed and reported in the last few years.The petition filed through advocate Richa Singh had also sought stricter rules and regulation along with implementation, saying it was essential for safety of all people present in court premises that safety mechanisms be brought at par with the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court.In response to the petition, the Delhi high court filed an affidavit stating that out of the seven district courts, only Dwarka had a pass system like the high court. At the rest of the courts, the matter was still under consideration.The matter is currently pending adjudication in the high court as only urgent matters are being heard in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Soon after Friday’s incident, lawyers said they were scared for their safety asked Justice Subramonium Prasad at the Delhi high court to issue notice to the city police commissioner.Justice Prasad, while expressing concern, said, “We as the High Court have to first ensure things are right. Let me see. Let me ascertain, let’s see what’s happening”.High court sources said that enquiry reports have been received from all the district judges of the trial courts and the matter is under active consideration.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa also said that the incident of daylight murders in the courtroom in Rohini is extremely shocking especially when the courts are presumed to be high security zones.Advocate L K Verma, a practicing lawyer, said all lawyers should be given an identification card which they should hang around their neck when they enter into the court premises. He also said that lawyers need to co-operate with the security agencies and allow them to frisk them for safety purposes.As a mark of protest, the Co-ordination Committee of All Delhi Bar Association has called for abstinence from work to condemn the incident and revise security norms inside all the seven district courts premises in the national capital.The Rohini court Bar association also held several meetings to review the security system.The New Delhi Bar Association said the entire legal fraternity was “shocked” due to a “serious security lapse” causing an incident of firing and killing inside Rohini Court Complex.“The incident has raised a serious security concern for lawyers, judiciary, staff, litigants and public in general. The issue of security inside the court complex must not be compromised and hence, be taken up at highest possible priority,” said Nagendra Kumar, secretary of NDBA in a circular.Chairman of Bar Council of Delhi, Rakesh Sehrawat sought action against those responsible for security at the Rohini district courts premises and said nothing can be more shameful than what happened today.In a statement, the Rohini Bar Association said that it held a meeting where it was decided that the security checks should be strictly enforced on the entry and exit gates throughout the day. The communication said that it was further decided that members/advocates/court staff and litigants shall co-operate with the security checks on the gates by showing their ID cards and also allow their vehicles to be checked thoroughly as and when demanded by the security personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gogi-killed-in-shootout-a-year-ago-hc-flagged-need-to-raise-police-deployment-at-rohini-court-101632507318599.html
25-09-2021||Lucknow||Triloki Nath Pandey, “next friend” of Ram Lalla in Ayodhya title suit, dies||Lucknow: Triloki Nath Pandey, 77, who was the next best friend of Ram Lalla in the Ram Janmabhoomi- Babri Masjid title dispute case, died at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Lucknow on Friday evening due to prolonged illness. Pandey played a prominent role in the title suit right from Faizabad district court up to the Supreme Court.The top court on November 9, 2019, decided the case in favour of Ram temple.Pandey, who originally belonged to Ballia district, joined the RSS in 1964. He was appointed the district pracharak of Ballia in 1975 and came to Ayodhya in 1983. Since then, he lived in Ayodhya. Devki Nandan Agarwal, late judge of the Allahabad high court, filed a petition in the Faizabad district court on July 1, 1989, in connection with the Ayodhya dispute, on behalf of Ram Lalla Virajman (the deity). After his death, TP Varma took over the case. In February 2008, after Varma’s death, Pandey took over.Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust and vice president of VHP, condoled the death.“Triloki Nath Pandey died at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Lucknow today in the evening due to nerve-related problem. He played a prominent role in the Ram Mandir movement and the prolonged legal battle associated with the case,” Rai said on Friday. Saints of Ayodhya have also expressed grief over Pandey’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/triloki-nath-pandey-next-friend-of-ram-lalla-in-ayodhya-title-suit-dies-101632506409220.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||UPSC: At least 5 among top 20 are DU graduates, credit varsity for their success||At least five of the top 20 candidates to clear the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) civil services examination (CSE), 2020, graduated from Delhi University and credited the varsity for their success in clearing the competitive exam. Four of them cleared the exam in their first attempt and the fifth candidate cleared the exam in her second attempt.The toppers are from among 4.82 lakh aspirants who took the prelims this year and are among the 761 candidates who have been recommended by the commission for appointment to various administrative services.Satyam Gandhi, 22, who secured rank 10, graduated from Dyal Singh College last year. Hailing from Dighra village in Bihar’s Samastipur district, the political science student said his experience in DU enabled him to achieve this success.“After spending 18 years of my life in Bihar, I came to Delhi and DU helped shape my personality. The university teaches you things beyond scholarly activities and I learned from my teachers and peers. Though it was my grandfather’s dream to have a collector (district magistrate) in the family, I was motivated to get into civil services after an internship with the Ranchi administration. I realised that I wanted to contribute towards the development of rural areas,” Gandhi said. His father works as a clerk in Bihar and his mother is a home maker.Another DU graduate Ria Dabi, whose sister Tina Dabi topped the UPSC exams in 2015, secured the 15th rank this year and said her experiences at Lady Shri Ram College for Women as an undergraduate student of political science helped her gain a wider perspective.“This is a prestigious job where one gets to work for the welfare of the country and everyday problem of the masses. Ever since my sister got selected, I had a stronger motivation to crack the examination. Tina constantly guided me on how to prepare and which books to read, and also gave me moral support when I got too stressed. DU proved a good experience as we met a lot of students from different colleges during inter-college activities. It provided a wide perspective on how people think and how administration works,” said Dabi, who graduated in 2019, and wants to work on field of education.Like Gandhi and Dabi, another DU graduate Sarthak Agrawal, 25, also cleared the exam with rank 17 in his first attempt. Agrawal, who graduated from Shri Ram College of Commerce in 2017, went on to do his MPhil in Economics from Oxford University, England. He worked in London for a few months before returning to India when the pandemic struck. An alumnus of DPS Vasant Kunj, the 25-year-old was also the all-India CBSE topper in 2014.“Even though my training was in economics and it was quite academic, I realised that one can do much more as an IAS officer to improve development outcomes. I have worked in the education sector and would love to contribute in that direction,” he said.Yash Jaluka, who secured the fourth rank and hails from Jharkhand, did his undergraduate studies at the Kirori Mal College and postgraduation from the Delhi School of Economics (DSE). “I want to work in Jharkhand and focus on better implementation of government schemes. We do have a lot of schemes and improving governance systems will be my priority. DU was hugely influential; I saw what a good public university can do as we had students from all financial backgrounds studying there and excelling in their field of study. DSE was particularly helpful in my exam preparations,” he said.Mamta Yadav, 24, who graduated from Hindu College in 2017 and pursued BSc physics, secured the fifth rank this year in her second attempt. “Many seniors from Hindu College had cleared UPSC and the exposure helped us in understanding in what the role entails. People in DU are from different backgrounds so one can speak to teachers, researchers, and others while deciding on a career path.”Two toppers are also graduates of IIT-Delhi. Arth Jain, 24, who ranked 16th and studied mechanical engineering at IIT-Delhi, graduated in 2019. He said he was inspired by his father who is an IPS officer. Shashwat Tripurari, 23, who secured the 19th rank, also graduated from IIT-Delhi and studied civil engineering at the institute in 2018. He is currently working as an IPS officer after clearing the CSE last year.Of all candidates who cleared the exams this year, 545 are men and 216 women. The top 25 candidates comprise 13 men and 12 women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/upsccse-2020-at-least-five-among-top-20-are-du-graduates-credit-varsity-for-their-success-101632506229116.html
25-09-2021||Delhi||Gang war in courtroom: Gogi among 3 shot dead||Gunmen dressed as lawyers killed notorious gangster Jitender Maan, alias Gogi, in a shocking and sensational shooting inside a courtroom in Delhi’s Rohini before police shot dead the two assailants. At least three dozen rounds were fired by the shooters and the police team that responded. Eyewitnesses said the judge Gagandeep Singh was seated when the shooting began in front of him. The judge and roughly a dozen others in the courtroom escaped unhurt, and the police said that the casualties were limited to the trio, but a few eyewitnesses said that one woman was injured by shrapnel.Pranav Tayal, the deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) said the three men – Gogi and the assailants – succumbed to the gunshot wounds at the crime scene. “As Gogi was hit, the Delhi Police staff present there on escort and other duties responded in a controlled, calibrated manner and in the counter fire, both the assailants received gunshot wounds and were immobilised,” Tayal said.The shooters are alleged to be members of the gang led by his friend-turned-rival Sunil Maan, better known as Tillu Tajpuriya. The two shooters, identified by police as Rahul Tyagi and Jagdeep (also known as Jagga), were focussed on shooting Gogi instead of the police team that shot them dead, eyewitnesses said. People present at the court complex said premises was full of police, which made the attack a significant security lapse. “There were at least 30 police personnel, in uniform and plainclothes, in and outside this courtroom. It appeared the attackers knew there was no escape after the killing,” said RK Jha, an eyewitness lawyer.Once close friends, Gogi and Tajpuriya turned bitter foes as they rose through the world of crime. For the last decade, both of them ran rival extortion gangs targeting people in outer Delhi and parts of Haryana.Their rivalry has erupted in gunfights, and at least 10 of their associates have died in the past. Police said Gogi managed to escape from police custody while being produced in a court in Haryana in 2016, and stepped up his rivalry against Tajpuriya before being arrested by the Delhi Police’s special cell last year. The most wanted criminal in Delhi until his arrest, Gogi was accused of being involved in over 30 crimes spanning murder, attempt to murder, extortion, possession of illegal arms, carjacking and land grabbing.In March this year, Gogi’s associate Kuldeep Maan, also known Fajja, escaped police custody while being taken to GTB Hospital for treatment. Fajja was eventually gunned down by police in Rohini, and a number of police personnel accompanying Gogi to court was increased.On Friday, a jail van with 10 police personnel from the Third Battalion and Gogi left Tihar Jail around 10.45am and reached the court in 45 minutes. He was placed in the lock-up while his documentation process was carried out. At the court premises, another 15-20 policemen from the special cell and Rohini district police waited in plainclothes. “Gogi remained in the lock-up until he was summoned. We took him through a separate and secure route till the courtroom,” said a senior officer with the Third Battalion, which escorts prisoners to and from jail.Around 1pm, Gogi was brought to the courtroom, about 30 minutes after another gangster Gogi once knew but was also at odds with (he too is known as Sunil Maan) was produced in the same courtroom in connection with an attempt to murder case of 2010 in which both were co-accused. Eyewitnesses said there were about 15-17 people, including the judge, policemen and lawyers, in the courtroom at that time. “A few minutes after Gogi was brought in, he was being produced before the judge when two men who were dressed like lawyers suddenly pulled out guns and fired at him from behind. Gogi turned around in response, but ended up getting shot repeatedly in his chest and other parts of his body,” said another eyewitness lawyer, Sunil Tomar, adding that the judge moved into his chamber soon after.While the number of bullets received by Gogi will be known after autopsy, eyewitnesses said he was shot at least half-a-dozen times. DCP Tayal said a case was registered in connection with the shootout and investigation has been taken up in accordance with the guidelines of the Supreme Court and National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). Joint commissioner of police (northern range) is looking into the incident and is also conducting a review for further strengthening the court security. Chief Justice of India NV Ramana spoke to the chief justice of Delhi high court over the incident and advised him to talk to both police and Bar to ensure the functioning of courts is not effected, said people in the knowledge of the matter. The issue of safety and security of court complexes and judicial personnel is already under the consideration of the Supreme Court in a batch of petitions. In the wake of violence on Friday, the matter may get prioritised next week, added the people cited above. Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson for the Delhi Police, said the police team immediately launched a counter offensive to kill both suspects. The shootout lasted several minutes during which policemen took shelter behind the court walls to fire from outside. A video of the shootout showed a policeman appeared to be firing inside the courtroom before turning around to point his gun at the public – suggesting the police anticipated more assailants. Sounds heard from another 23-second video suggested that at least 10 rounds were fired in that brief period.In Alipur village, where Gogi’s mother lives, residents spoke about the attack in hushed tones and avoided venturing near the gangster’s home. “This gang is over. Even Gogi’s close associates will move to other gangs,” said a resident Praveen, who did not give his full name.In the courtyard at Gogi’s home, a small group of men sat silently on charpoys and plastic chairs. Most of them believe that the Delhi Police’s special cell “allowed” the attack to happen. “After Fajja’s encounter, the special cell expected Gogi to seek revenge,” said Ravinder Mann, his cousin.The Aam Aadmi Party said the courtroom murder reflects the Delhi Police’s “incapability” in managing law and order. “This is very shocking. No such case of gang war inside the court room has happened anywhere in the country. There are cases of violence that have happened inside court premises and vicinity of courts, but never inside a courtroom, in the presence of a magistrate and lawyers. This is a big security lapse, especially when we are told that the police had inputs about a potential gang war. It exposes that the Delhi Police is incapable of ensuring safety. By bypassing all rules in the rule book, the central government has appointed one of its favourite officers as commissioner. We request the Delhi High Court to take suo motu cognisance of the matter and initiate probe against officials who are responsible for the lapse,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana said a security review of the court premises will be carried out. “Our officers acted swiftly and shot the two gunmen. The investigation of this case will be done by the crime branch. The officers will check the background of the people involved in the case. The person who died was involved in many heinous cases. Police will probe all aspects of the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gang-war-in-courtroom-gogi-among-3-shot-dead-101632505448512.html
25-09-2021||Other||Mansa engineer secures 34th rank in UPSC exam||Bathinda A mechanical engineer from the Indian School of Mines (now Indian Institute of Technology), Dhanbad, Simrandeep Singh, 28, has secured the 34th rank in the 2020 Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam for top posts in civil services across the country. A native of Mansa city, this was Simrandeep’s third attempt. He studied up to Class 10 at the Akal Academy in KauriWARA village before joining the DAV School at Mansa city. He had also cracked the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) exams this year, and was waiting to join as a deputy superintendent of police (DSP).Simrandeep had opted for Punjabi literature, his passion, as an optional subject for the UPSC. He has also worked with Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) for five years in Bhopal and completed his MBA from Guru Kashi University at Bathinda’s Talwandi Sabo town in 2020.He credits his father, Ajaib Singh, an ayurvedic medicine practioner, for encouraging him to prepare for and crack the UPSC exam. His mother Paramjit Kaur is an arts teacher at Government Middle School at Mansa’s Nangal Khurd. Simrandeep married Manpreet Kaur, an MBA, in March this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mansa-engineer-secures-34th-rank-in-upsc-exam-101632501848572.html
25-09-2021||Patna||Bihar inspector molests 6-yr-old, is thrashed by public before arrest: Cops||KATIHAR: A police inspector was arrested on Thursday in east Bihar’s Katihar district on charges of molesting a six-year-old girl who was returning home late in the evening. The police officer was first thrashed by a mob that gathered after the girl complained to her mother before he was formally placed under arrest for the child’s sexual abuse.The officer, identified as Krityanand Paswan, was also booked under Bihar’s prohibition law after a breath analyzer test concluded that he was under the influence of alcohol.Paswan was the station house officer (SHO) of Katihar’s SC/ST police station and has been suspended with immediate effect, Katihar superintendent of police (SP) Vikash Kumar said. He was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by a district court on Friday.Kumar said two First Information Reports (FIRs) have been lodged against him; the first in connection with molesting a minor girl and the second, for consumption of alcohol.”“The SHO was taken into custody soon after the complaint was lodged by her mother at the additional town police station under various sections including POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act,” Kumar said.The incident reportedly took place on Thursday evening when the minor was on her way back home with her grandmother but the precise circumstances of the crime are still unclear. According to one version, the officer was able to lure the child away from her grandmother and molested her behind the bush.Once home, the child complained about the officer to her mother, who went to Paswan to figure out the details. “As I tried to seek information about the incident, the SHO under the influence of alcohol turned abusive” the mother alleged.Scores of local residents who heard about the incident reached Buddhu Chowk in the town where the SHO along with other policemen was on duty. Soon, they started thrashing him, some with sticks and rods. Later, the local police station officers rescued Paswan from the crowd and took him to the town police station where he was placed under arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-inspector-molests-6-yr-old-is-thrashed-by-public-before-arrest-cops-101632496868118.html
25-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana SHO booked for slapping Moga deputy mayor||Moga A day after sub-inspector (SI) Kuldeep Singh, station house officer of Ludhiana Division number 5, slapped Ashok Dhamija, a Congress leader and deputy mayor of Moga municipal corporation, the local police on Friday booked him for criminal intimidation, and other counts. The Moga Police have also written to the district administration to conduct a magisterial inquiry into the incident. No arrest has been made. On Thursday, the SI had reached the shop of Sahil Kumar, nephew of deputy mayor, at the scrap market in connection with the investigation of a two-wheeler theft case. Sahil had called Dhamija after seeing the police.In his FIR, Dhamija alleges, “When I asked cops about their purpose of their visit, they told me that the owner of the scrap shop had purchased stolen bikes. They also demanded bribe for settlement for this case. I informed them that I am the deputy mayor of Moga MC and also the president of the local Scrap Dealers’ Association. Later SI Kuldeep Singh slapped and misbehaved with me.” The incident was caught in CCTVs installed at the shop.Moga SSP Dhruman H Nimbale, said, “We have registered a case against SI Kuldeep Singh under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the City Police Station. We have also requested the district administration to conduct a magisterial inquiry, especially into the allegation of bribe. Further action will follow after the inquiry is completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-sho-booked-for-slapping-moga-deputy-mayor-101632493207643.html
25-09-2021||Other||19 hospitalised for gastroenteritis in Sangrur village||Sangrur Nineteen residents of Meemsa village near Dhuri town of Sangrur were hospitalised for gastroenteritis after drinking contaminated water on Friday. In the disease, your stomach and intestines are irritated and inflamed. The cause is typically a viral or bacterial infection. Its symptoms are watery diarrhoea and vomiting, with stomach pain, cramping, fever, nausea, and a headache.The health department has collected samples of drinking water and stool. “There are around 758 households in the village and our three teams have covered 200 houses for a door-to-door survey. The situation will be controlled soon,” said Dr Kirpal Singh, senior medical officer, Sherpur Government Hospital. Sandeep Dass, a village resident, said three members of his family were suffering from the disease after drinking contaminated water. “An announcement has been made from the gurdwara in the village to drink only boiled water and ensure a check-up from the dispensary in case anyone has the symptoms,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/19-hospitalised-for-gastroenteritis-in-sangrur-village-101632491827401.html
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Economy on path of revival: Sitharaman lauds Haryana for fiscal prudence||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana has been consciously making efforts and managing its fiscal affairs in an objective way, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Friday. “Haryana has been managing its finances very well. It made no additional borrowing during the pandemic,” Sitharaman said at a press conference in Chandigarh. The Union finance minister was on a day-long visit to Haryana to attended a seminar in Panchkula organised by the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as part of its 20-day long ‘Sewa and Samarpan’ programme coinciding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday.The BJP’s central leadership is visiting BJP-ruled states to attend the functions kicked-off on September 17. During this campaign concluding on October 7, the Haryana BJP has planned to hold 71 blood donation camps and plant 71,000 saplings, besides conducting seminars on 71 big ticket policies and programmes of the Centre.According to the Union finance minister, one immediate indicator of Haryana “managing its fiscal affairs in a balanced and objective way” was during the Covid-19 pandemic when the state didn’t utilise its additional borrowing capacity that the Centre had increased.Stating that each state has its own strengths and challenges, Sitharaman said there is no harm in borrowing additionally because the states have activities for which they need funds.“But Haryana is one state which did not utilise its additional borrowing capacity that we gave... Haryana is managing its fiscal matters well,” she said, pointing out that during her meeting with Khattar, she as a matter of ‘curiosity’ touched the issue of Haryana not opting for additional borrowing.Responding to a question, the Union finance minister said she could see clearly “the good signs of revival of economy”. The revenue collection (both GST and direct taxation) going up is an indicator of revival, she said.The half-yearly target of revenue collection, she said, has already been achieved. The GST collection in the region on an average is somewhere over ₹1 lakh crore per month, she said.“These are not small indicators and not some sporadic indicators either... they clearly show that the economy is on a sustained path of revival,” Sitharaman added.Will extend all possible help to Punjab: FMOn Punjab accusing the Centre of adopting a “biased” funding formula (60:40 sharing ratio) while releasing funds under the Border Area Development Programme (BADP), the Union minister dismissed the allegations, saying there are some guidelines for deciding the ratio of border area funds.“We are not punishing Punjab... it is being done on recommendation of the finance commission. I want to assure that I will do all that is possible to help Punjab,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-made-no-additional-borrowing-during-covid-pandemic-fm-101632478629723.html
25-09-2021||Other||Repair service lanes or face action, Patiala divisional commissioner warns NHAI||Patiala divisional commissioner Chander Gaind, on Thursday, directed the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to immediately repair the service lanes under the elevated road project of Ludhiana-Ferozepur four-lane highway and make them motorable before September 30.Presiding over a review meeting, accompanied by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Gaind said the service lanes are in a deplorable state and the commuters are a harried lot due to the careless attitude of the executive agencies.Gaind said this project was of utmost public importance and NHAI must resolve all the issues promptly by removing the bottlenecks by September 30 to ensure a smooth ride for city residents during the upcoming festive season.He also asked the NHAI officials to clear the unnecessary barricading on road for the smooth flow of traffic on this stretch.Gaind deployed SDM Jagdish Sehgal to monitor the repair work and submit a report on October 1 regarding its status.Giving a warning to the executive agency, he said that he would write a letter to the NHAI chairman against the erring executive agency if it fails to complete the repair work timely.Gaind also directed NHAI that the drainage system on both sides of the highways must be redesigned to ensure that water does not get stagnated.Meanwhile, the commissioner of Patiala Division also reviewed the implementation of other flagship programmes, including Ghar-Ghar Rozgaar, Smart City, Smart Village Campaign, Model Playgrounds, Tandarust Punjab Mission, etc. He said all officers involved must ensure that every eligible beneficiary is covered under these flagship programmes.He lauded the Ludhiana district administration for achieving a 100% target under the Ghar-Ghar Rozgaar programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/repair-service-lanes-under-elevated-road-project-on-priority-or-face-action-commissioner-of-patiala-division-warns-nhai-101632424860774.html
