26-09-2021||Noida||Noida reports 16 dengue cases in five days, tally reaches 37||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar has reported 16 fresh dengue cases in the past five days, taking the tally to 37 on Sunday, said officials of the district health department.The fresh cases were reported from the district hospital, Post Graduate Institute of Child Health, and some private hospitals, they added. The first case of dengue was reported in the district on September 6.“Gautam Budh Nagar has reported 37 dengue cases so far. At present, three patients are undergoing treatment at different hospitals and the remaining are recovering at their respective homes,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar.The district has not reported a single dengue case last year, compared to 40 cases reported in 2019.Meanwhile, the district has been put on alert regarding vector-borne diseases and viral fevers, including scrub typhus and leptospirosis, following a dengue outbreak in western Uttar Pradesh districts like Agra, Mathura, and Firozabad earlier this month.“All the three patients of scrub typhus from Gautam Budh Nagar have recovered. And, no cases of leptospirosis have been reported so far,” said Sharma.According to the Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, the district is taking all preventive measures to control breeding of mosquitoes. “Sanitation and fogging drives have been ramped up across the district, to stop the spread of dengue and viral fevers. Fortunately, cases of dengue and malaria have remained low in Gautam Budh Nagar so far,” said Sharma.Meanwhile, the second Chief Minister Aarogya Mela or health camp -- which resumed last week after it was put on a halt following the second wave of Covid-19 in March this year -- was held in the district on Saturday. According to official data, a total of 2,054 patients turned up at 33 camps at primary, and urban primary health centres across the district.“Five out of 127 patients tested for malaria have tested positive on Saturday. This is in addition to the 23 total cases of malaria reported in the district so far,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-reports-16-dengue-cases-in-five-days-tally-reaches-37-101632680861609.html
26-09-2021||Other||CSIR’s 80th foundation day celebrated at IHBT, Palampur||The 80th foundation day of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) was celebrated at the Institute of Himalayan Resource Biotechnology (IHBT), Palampur on Sunday.Formed in 1942, the CSIR is known worldwide for its scientific and industrial contributions in various fields and has an effective network of 37 national laboratories across India.Presently, the council has about 12,500 scientific, technical and administrative personnel serving the nation.Chief guest Prof RK Khandal, fellow, the Royal Society of Chemistry, London and president R&D and Business Development, India Glycols Limited, Noida delivered the foundation day lecture on ‘Changing industrial trends: Increasing demand for renewable chemicals’.In his address, Khandal highlighted on clean energy, eco-friendly technology, and making new and renewable chemicals using waste material.“Sustainability of agriculture is crucial for the coming times,” said Khandal, while appreciating the work done by the institute to strengthen the rural economy by developing technologies from Himalayan bio-resources.He emphasised on the need of adopting green and clean technology for bio-fuel production such as making bio-fuel from biomass, which is known as ‘purple ethanol’. He said CSIR can play an important role in the direction of production of bio-fuel.Earlier, IHBT director Dr Sanjay Kumar briefed about the key activities and achievements of the institute.He congratulated scientists of the institute who received the CSIR technology award for achievements in the field of biology and technology dissemination.He said the IHBT published total 145 research papers with an average of 3.43 and highest impact factor of 11.38. In addition, 27 book chapters were published and total 51 patents were filed.At the same time, there was also innovation of technology at the grassroots level due to which the institute has strengthened the relationship with various stakeholders through entrepreneurship development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/csirs-80th-foundation-day-celebrated-at-ihbt-palampur-101632680860507.html
26-09-2021||Other||Himachal logs 112 fresh Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh logged 112 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the state’s total case tally to 2,18,314 while the death toll rose to 3,653 after three patients died of the contagion.Among the fresh cases, 57 were reported in Hamirpur, 24 in Kangra, seven each in Mandi, Shimla and Solan, four each in Kullu and Una, and two in Bilaspur.The active cases have come down to 1,746 while recoveries reached 2,12,899 after 163 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,791 cases reported till date, followed by 30,832 cases in Mandi and 27,155 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-112-fresh-covid-cases-101632680500440.html
26-09-2021||Other||Weaver service, design resource centre to open in Kullu||a weaver services and design resource centre will be set up in Kullu to encourage handicraft products of Himachal Pradesh besides providing a better platform for their export, Union minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal said on Sunday.He was interacting with handicrafts and handloom artisans under ‘Seva and Samarpan’ campaign on the golden jubilee of the statehood of Himachal Pradesh.Goyal said Himachal has immense potential for handicraft, handloom and skill upgrade of artisans.He said modern equipment and training will be imparted to prepare qualitative new designs in the weaver services centre. He said more attention is needed to modernise design, quality, packaging and marketing so that weavers get better prices for their products in the international market.The Union minister suggested to organise district-wise exhibitions of the products in big cities, people associated with the textile industry and five-star hotels so that their branding can be done at national and international level.He asked the weavers to get their trademark registered for which the central government had reduced the registration fee by 80%.He also interacted with the entrepreneurs in district and distributed woodcraft, handloom, embroidery machines and certificates to the local handicraft and handloom artisans.In his address, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said necessary steps had been taken to encourage the artisans in state.At present, there are 13,572 registered weavers in state whose livelihood is related to skill of weaving and embroidery. The handkerchief of Chamba along with Kullu shawl and cap and the shawl of Kinnaur had been given GI tags.“To facilitate online sales platform for weavers, an MoU had been signed with Flipkart and the department is also doing online sales of products,” he said.Jai Ram said there’s been a big change in design and quality of handicraft and handloom products in state in the last 50 years and thousands of families had made it a means of livelihood. He said Kullu handicraft, especially caps and shawls, are recognised internationally.“When any head of state comes to India, the Prime Minister welcomes them with a ‘kullavi’ cap and muffler which is a matter of pride for the state,” he said.He urged the weavers to preserve traditional clothes as they are associated with our culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weaver-service-design-resource-centre-to-open-in-kullu-101632680384399.html
26-09-2021||Noida||Noida police bust fake job racket, arrest five||The Noida police arrested five men from Sector 3 on Saturday for their alleged involvement in a fake job racket, as part of which they cheated nearly 500 job seekers by fetching their data from a private company and taking money from them on the pretext of facilitating their application process. Police are on the lookout for the mastermind of the racket, who are on the run. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said police received information that some people were operating a fake job racket from a fictitious call centre in Noida’s Sector 3. “The Sector 20 police conducted a raid on Saturday and arrested five people from the spot,” he said. The suspects were identified as Vishal, 30, Vijay Singh, 26, and Mohit Sharma, 24, from Ghaziabad, and Sajid Khan, 26, from Meerut and Akshay, 25, from Baghpat. During interrogation, Singh said, the suspects revealed that they used to procure the job applicants’ data from a job portal. “The suspects used to call people and extracted money on the pretext of registration, processing files, offer letter, etc. They charged ₹1,900 for registration and ₹4,500 for processing application of each candidate. They have cheated nearly 500 people in the last one year from different states. However, they did not provide any job to the applicants,” he said. Police recovered 13 computers, two laptops, two mobile phones, 17 walkie-talkie, 17 SIM cards, one POS machine, and seven debit cards from their possession. Sub-inspector Ranjeet Singh filed a complaint in this regard after the arrests were made. He said that the investigation showed that the five men worked at the call centre while the masterminds--Alok Sirohi (27) and Perwez Khan (28)--are absconding. A case has been registered against the seven people under Section 420 (cheating) and Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC. “The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-bust-fake-job-racket-arrest-five-101632680200791.html
26-09-2021||Other||External affairs committee head visits Sobha Singh Art Gallery||Member of Parliament and chairperson of the standing committee on external affairs PP Chaudhary, along with other parliamentarian members of the committee, visited the Sobha Singh Art Gallery and Museum late on Saturday.The chairman and other members evinced keen interest in paintings done by Sobha Singh and artefacts associated with him.Chaudhary appreciated family of the late artist for meticulously maintaining the ‘Temple of Art’ at their own expenses.“Had an amazing experience seeing the heritage preserved so nicely. It was like meeting Sobha Singh Ji personally,” he wrote in the visitors’ book.“The family has kept the painting and his life as naturally as possible. It was a nostalgic moment. His family is mainly the conduit of keeping him alive,” he added.Chaudhary also met Sobha Singh’s daughter Bibi Gurcharan Kaur, his grandson Hirday Paul Singh and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/external-affairs-committee-head-visits-sobha-singh-art-gallery-101632680083332.html
26-09-2021||Noida||Residents of Noida housing complex protest against developer||Noida: Residents of Civitech Stadia housing complex in Sector 79 on Sunday protested against the developer for failing to provide basic facilities such as proper lifts, well-planned parking space, and fire safety measures, among others. They also complained that the developer has not even been able to execute the registry of their flats for a long time now.Civitech Stadia -- comprising around 520 units, out of which 300 are occupied -- is developed on five acres. The project is developed under the Noida authority’s ‘Sports City Scheme’ that was supposed to have adequate sports services.“We shifted to this housing complex two years ago, thinking we would lead a peaceful life here. But the developer is not providing us the promised services. Lifts do not work properly, exit gate remains closed, parking space is improperly allotted, flats have not been registered, and the developer is not even returning ₹52,000 -- advance payment for electricity connection,” said Deepak Garg, president of Civitech Stadia residents’ association.Buyers said they want to obtain individual electricity connections under a new policy. Earlier, developers used to take connections for all the flats together.“The developer has sold parking on the surface, where it cannot be allowed, as it blocks the way of fire tender. And if we try to communicate these issues, the staff misbehaves with us. We do not understand why the developer is not refunding the ₹52,000 we had paid for the electricity connection,” Rishabh Gupta, joint secretary of Civitech Stadia residents’ association.Meanwhile, Subodh Goel, managing director of Civitech Developers Private Limited, said the protest is completely unjustified. “Two years ago, people moved into their flats and paid ₹52,000 for the electricity connection. We have been providing them all the services properly, including electricity. Now, they want to obtain individual connections and want a refund. We are paying ₹12,000 out of the total ₹52,000 because the remaining ₹40,000 for the power load will be adjusted. How can we refund ₹40,000 that we paid to the government? All other issues are baseless because the lifts work properly, there are no parking issues, and our residential society has excellent common facilities... Registry of flats has been halted as the Noida authority has banned it, so it is not our fault,” said Goel.Avinash Tripathi, Noida authority officer on special duty in-charge of the group housing, said, “We will look into the matter and take appropriate action if the homebuyers approach us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-of-noida-housing-complex-protest-against-developer-101632679900604.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||North Delhi corporation puts ‘cell towers on wheels’ plan on hold after opposition from residents||With complaints pouring in from residents and municipal councillors about the cellular towers on wheels, the remunerative projects cell of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation issued directions to all deputy commissioners on September 20 to put on hold installation of any new cellular tower in its jurisdiction till a review is undertaken. The order issued by the section officer of remunerative projects cell highlights that most of these complaints state that the sites for installation of ‘cell on wheels’ are located in the middle of colony or on a very small municipal park and many of the proposed sites are in close proximity of residential areas. “All sites of CoW will be reviewed by the concerned zonal deputy commissioner in consultation with RWAs and public representatives,” said the order. The zonal officers have also been asked to submit a detailed report after the review exercise, proposing alternate locations preferably within 500m from the allocated site.Yogesh Verma, chairman of Keshavpuram zone and former leader of the house in the north corporation said that over 200 cells on wheels have been installed after the new mobile tower policy was introduced last year. “We can understand that there is no scientific evidence to prove that these towers impact the health of people living around them but we cant be rigid about public sentiment. All such new installations have been stopped now and review will be carried out to find nearby locations, which are away for human settlement,” he said. Verma added that mobile connectivity is also necessary and a mid-way solution needs to be found. Last year, the Cellular Operator Association of India stated that Delhi would require additional 14,000 towers by 2024 to resolve connectivity issues.The issue of growing resistance to cells on wheels is not just restricted to north Delhi. Last month, more than 56 resident welfare associations (RWAs) in south Delhi also petitioned the south corporation on problems regarding the new mobile cellular towers while demanding a more consultative process to fix the locations. According to experts, there is no conclusive scientific evidence to prove that the electromagnetic radiation from cellular mobile towers causes health hazards.Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjiwan Resident Welfare Association, one of the petitioners said, “We are aware of the studies that state mobile towers are safe but a large number of residents are concerned about the possible impact of mobile tower radiations. There should be sustained effort to raise awareness and consultative process should be undertaken to find a suitable location,” she said. Makhija added that they have been resisting the installation of cell on wheels tower since August 23. “120 residents signed against the installation while only 2-3 residents were in favour. SDMC guidelines state that NOC is required from RWAs in DDA flats and group housing societies, then why are we being discriminated?,” she asked.Bhavreen Kandhari from Defence Colony said residents have submitted a petition in the court against the installation of cell on wheels tower in the central park in Defence Colony. “The installation was stopped and the erected structure has remained on the park premises. Parks should be left alone as these spaces are used by children and elderly. We are aware about the studies but do not want to take any chances,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-delhi-corporation-puts-cell-towers-on-wheels-plan-on-hold-after-opposition-from-residents-101632679551529.html
26-09-2021||Other||Army’s trekking expedition flagged off from Baijnath||A recreation and trekking expedition in the Dhauladhar mountains by a Strike One team of the Indian army was launched from Baijnath in Kangra district on Sunday to commemorate the Swarnim Vijay Varsh (completion of 50 years of the 1971 War) along with the 75th anniversary of India’s independence.The eight-day expedition titled ‘Brahmastra Hill Area Recreational and Trekking Expedition’ is aimed at interaction with ex-servicemen and locals along the route and to make them understand the army’s vision of Swachh Bharat and initiatives taken in this direction.Moreover, it aims to promote the goodwill of the army and motivate the youth to join the army, said a spokesperson.He said the 17-member team undertaking the expedition includes two officers, two junior commissioned officers and 13 soldiers of the army.The trekking expedition will cover a distance of 105km starting from Utrala in Baijnath to Holi in Chamba district.The flagging-in of the expedition will be done at Holi on October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/armys-trekking-expedition-flagged-off-from-baijnath-101632679541629.html
26-09-2021||Noida||Mihir Bhoj row: Over 600 booked for organising mahapanchayat in Dadri||More than 600 people, who participated in a mahapanchayat in Dadri on Sunday over the issue related to the statue of ninth-century king Mihir Bhoj, were booked for allegedly violating Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Police said that the organisers of the mahapanchayat were not given permission to hold any such event. Leaders of the Gurjar community, who have launched a ‘Gurjar Swabhiman Bachao’ movement, called for a mahapanchayat at the Mihir Bhoj Degree College in Dadri where Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had unveiled a statue of king Mihir Bhoj on September 22. However, they were not allowed to organise the meeting there. The people then held the mahapanchayat at a temple in Chithera village, some 3km away, between 11am and 3pm. The Gurjar community has been protesting the removal of the caste’s name from the plaque installed below the 15-foot statue of the ninth-century ruler. The community leaders have maintained that king Mihir Bhoj was a Gurjar.Shyam Singh Bhati, GB Nagar president of Akhil Bharatiya Veer Gurjar Mahasabha, who organised the mahapanchayat, said that some people deliberately removed the word ‘Gurjar’ from the plaque of the statue. “The Gurjar community’s sentiment was hurt, and we called a meeting on Sunday over the issue,” he said. Bhati said that the community leaders have given one week for the administration to add the word ‘Gurjar’ to the plaque, or they will intensify their protest in different parts of the state. He also said that about 2,000 people from Delhi, Gurugram, and other NCR cities participated in the event at Chithera village.Pramendra Singh Bhati, another Gurjar leader, said that the plaque should be replaced with a new one having ‘Gurjar’ written on it as soon as possible. “If they do not replace the plaque, we will continue our protest,” he said. On Sunday, there was a heavy deployment of police personnel at the degree college in Dadri. Police officials said that more than 250 people were detained for illegally organising a meeting.Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer, Dadri police station, said a case was registered against 150 named and 500 unnamed people under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), and sections 269 and 270 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. “All the people were released in the evening,” he said. Abhishek, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that there is an enforcement of CrPC Section 144 in the district and a gathering is not allowed. “We detained some people who were trying to organise a meeting at the college. Some people were also detained from Chithera village,” he said. Police on Tuesday arrested two persons for allegedly damaging posters with photos of king Mihir Bhoj, CM Adityanath, Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar, among others in Dadri. A case was also registered against nearly 100 people for blocking road and protesting over the issue on September 22, the day the CM had visited Dadri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mihir-bhoj-row-over-600-booked-for-organising-mahapanchayat-in-dadri-101632679420630.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||Gogi murder: Look at Delhi’s most notorious criminal ganglords||Dreaded gangster Jitender Mann, alias Gogi was killed in a daring shoot-out by two assailants inside a courtroom in Rohini courts complex on Friday, when Gogi went there for hearing in a case. Both assailants were gunned down by the police in retaliatory firing. The police suspect that the shoot-out is the culmination of one of the most notorious rivalries between two gangs of Delhi --- Gogi and Tillu Tajpuriya gangs. Once friends, Gogi and Tajpuriya fell apart after difference over candidates in college election. The case has put a spotlight on these gangs and their rivalries in the national Capital. Here are some of the most notorious gangsters of Delhi: Name: Jitender Maan, alias Gogi, 30Status: Shot dead inside a courtroom at Rohini courts complexCrime: Nearly 30 cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, robbery, carjacking, land grabbing Main rival/s: Sunil Maan alias Tillu TajpuriyaResident of outer Delhi’s Alipur, Gogi was pursuing his graduation from Delhi University’s (DU’s) Swami Shraddhanand College in 2010 when differences broke out between him and his friend Sunil Maan aka Tillu Tajpuriya from Tajpur village (Alipur) during the college elections. As Tajpuriya’s cousin was also contesting the elections, he and his associates allegedly assaulted a candidate whom Gogi and his associates supported. The candidate withdrew his name from the elections and Gogi held Tajpuriya responsible for it. It was beginning of the decade-long rivalry between Gogi and Tajpuriya that has resulted in bloodbaths on Delhi’s streets and killings of nearly two dozen people from both the sides. The duo strengthened themselves by joining hands with other gangsters of the neighbouring states – both for raising funds through illegal activities such as extortion and land grabbing and executing extortion killings. Both of them topped the Delhi Police’s list of most wanted criminals while they evaded their arrest. Gogi was arrested along with his three associates from an apartment in Gurugram by the counter intelligence unit of Delhi Police’s special cell in March 2020, after running away from law for almost four years. He was lodged in Tihar jail as a high-risk prisoner.------Name: Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuriya, 32Status: Lodged in Mandoli jail, DelhiCrime: Nearly 10 cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, criminal conspiracy, theft Main rival/s: Jitender Maan aka GogiNetworking and association: Tajpuriya gang has been in association with gangs led by jailed gangsters like Neeraj Bawana, Sunil Rathi, Naveen Bali and Kaushal.Criminal life at a glance: Born in Tajpur Kalan village in outer Delhi’s Alipur, Tajpuriya entered the crime world in 2010-11 following enmity with his former friend Jitender Maan alias Gogi over not supporting each other’s candidate in the college elections. The bloodbath started when Gogi and his associates allegedly killed Tajpuriya’s associate, Deepak alias Raju at northwest Delhi’s Mahendra Park in 2015. Raju was in a relationship with Gogi’s cousin sister, and he used to tell everyone that he was Gogi’s brother-in-law. Humiliated, Gogi killed Raju. In response, Tajpuriya and his associates killed Gogi’s key aides Arun alias Commando and Niranjan alias master, in 2015. Tajpuriya was arrested in 2016 by the Haryana Police, and is presently lodged in Delhi’s Mandoli jail. His gang has the support of many gangsters from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Despite in jail, he has allegedly been involved in the planning murders, extortion other illegal activities. He is suspected to be the prime conspirator in Gogi’s killing.--------Name: Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri, 37Status: Arrested in July, presently in Haryana Police’s custodyCrime: Nearly 40 cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, and attack on police personnel. Carried ₹7 lakh reward on his arrest.Main rival/s: Not known but Jatheri was supporting Gogi against TajpuriyaNetworking and association: In the recent years, Jatheri’s criminal network was spanning over states like Haryana, Rajastha, Punjab and Uttarahand, apart from Delhi where he had become the undisputed ganglord after Gogi’s arrest in 2020. He is backed jailed gangsters like Lawrence Bishnoi and Sampat Nehra.Criminal life at a glance: While pursuing ITI course from Sonepat, Jatheri and his associates snatched a mobile phone from one Shahar Khan at a liquor shop in Delhi’s Samaipur Badli in 2004. It was the first crime registered against him. He was caught and sent to jail. Jatheri’s name was added to the list of Haryana Police’s most wanted in 2012, when he and his three associates rammed a prison van with a truck near Dulina village of Haryana’s Jhajjar district and opened fire, killing three prisoners — all rivals. Two policemen were also injured in the incident. Jatheri was later arrested and convicted for life in the case. After his escape in February 2020, Jatheri was heading a major international crime alliance, with links to Virender Pratap aka Kala Rana (operating from Thailand), Goldy Brar (based in Canada) and Monty (operating from the UK). This alliance was involved in high-profile extortions, interstate bootlegging, especially in dry states, illegal firearms smuggling and land grabbing.------Name: Lawrence Bishnoi, 29Status: Presently in Ajmer jailCrime: Nearly 10 cases of murder, extortion and criminal conspiracy, mostly in Punjab. One case under Arms Act in DelhiMain rival/s: Not known, but Bishnoi was supporting Gogi in his rivalry with Tajpuriya Networking and association: Apart from managing the extortion network in Punjab and Rajasthan, Bishnoi has been instrumental in helping gangsters like Jatheri and Gogi establish their dominance in Delhi’s crime world.Criminal life at a glance: Born in a rich family in Punjab’s Ferozepur district, Bishnoi was a college student in Chandigarh and the campus president of the Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU) in 2011. He was first named in an assault and robbery case but he came to limelight in 2018, when a gangster from Rajasthan, Sampat Nehra, was arrested from Bengaluru and his interrogation revealed that he was planning an attack on a Bollywood actor at Bishnoi’s behest. Most notorious of his crimes in Delhi include involvement in conspiracies, extortion and shoot-outs with police, including the one at the GTB hospital after which gangster Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja escape from the police custody. Despite being lodged in Ajmer jail, Bishnoi was providing logistical support to Gogi, Jatheri and other criminals in Delhi. It is because of this reason that he was brought to Delhi for interrogation by the special cell and is presently lodged in a Delhi jail.-----Name: Deepak Pahal, alias Deepak Boxer, 25Status: Absconding; carries ₹2 lakh reward on his arrestCrime: Nearly 10 cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and attack on policeMain rival/s: Tajpuriya gang because of his association with his mentor Gogi (now dead)Networking and association: Since Gogi’s arrest in 2020, Pahal has been leading his gang and working in coordination with Jatheri, Bishnoi, Nehra and others in Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab.Criminal life at a glance: Born in Ganaur in Sonepat, Pahal aspired to become a boxer since Haryana’s boxer Vijender Singh won a bronze medal in 2008 Beijing Olympics. Despite resistance from the family, Pahal began pursuing a career in boxing at the age of 15, and soon became a junior national champion. In 2012, when Indian Boxing Federation was banned, Pahal and many other aspiring boxers felt devastated and some of them were recruited by gangsters. Pahal became Gogi’s confidant and got the nickname of ‘Boxer’. He is allegedly involved in helping gangsters Gogi, Kala Jatheir and Kuldip Mann, escape police custody. On March 25 this year, Pahal and his over a dozen associates executed the successful escape of Fajja from police custody following a gunbattle with four policemen at GTB Hospital. One attacker was killed and other was injured. Pahal allegedly had thrown red chilli powder on the policemen’s faces before snatching a patient’s bike and fleeing with Fajja, who was gunned down three days later by the special cell team at Tulsi Apartment in Rohini. After Gogi’s killing, Pahal is seen as the one who can take revenge from Tajpuriya’s gang.------Name: Sunil Rathi, 41Status: Presently in Delhi’s Mandoli jailCrime: Over 30 serious cases of triple murder, double murder, gangwar inside jail, attempt to murder, extortion, and firingMain rival/s: Multiple gangs in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are among his rivals. In Delhi, rivalry with Gogi gangNetworking and association: Rathi’s gang is primarily active in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and has been working with Tajpuriya, Naveen Bali, Neeraj Bawana among others.Criminal life at a glance: Rathi was born in Tikri village in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat. He stepped into the world of crime after the murder of his father Naresh Rathi, the then chairman of Tikri Nagar panchayat, and brother (his identity could not be ascertained) in 1998, allegedly by their political rival Sompal Rathi of the same village. Since then, over a dozen people have been killed from both the sides. After completing his intermediate from Meerut, Rathi involved himself in criminal activities in Uttarakhand, especially in Roorkee and Haridwar. He formed a gang and started targeting doctors and businessman for extortion. On July 9, 2018, Rathi allegedly shot dead UP’s dreaded gangster Prem Prakash Singh, better known as Munna Bajrangi, inside Baghpat jail. Rathi in his statement told the police that Bajrangi had offensively called him fat because of which he felt humiliated and pumped several bullets into his body. In July 2002, Rathi and his three associates allegedly shot dead three employees of a car showroom in Delhi’s Okhla Phase-3 during a robbery of a locker containing ₹75,000. Rathi has been allegedly running his extortion ring from jail and also helping his gangster friends in their gang wars.-------Name: Neeraj Shehrawat alias Neeraj Bawana, 32Status: Presently lodged in Tihar jailCrime: More than three dozen cases of murder, extortion and land grabbingMain rival/s: His main rival is the Rajesh Bawana gang. He supported Tajpuriya gang, which is why he is also considered a rival of Gogi gang.Networking and association: Bawana’s gang is having association with Tajpuriya’s group and with Uttar Pradesh’s Sunil Rathi’s gang, Naveen Bali and Kaushal gang.Criminal life at a glance: Till his arrest in 2015, Bawana was considered one of Delhi’s most feared and wanted gangsters, who terrorised businessmen and realtors with extortion demands and was involved in land grabbing. Bawana considered fugitive don Dawood Ibrahim as his model. During 2008-09, he spent a few months with Fazal-ul-Rehman, a close aide of Dawood, in Tihar jail and the latter persuaded him to start extortion. After his release from the jail, Bawana developed a formidable syndicate with its tentacles spread across various states. His gang included desperate criminals and gangsters such as Naveen alias Bali, Amit Bhura, Sunil Rathi and many others. Over the years, as he rose in the hierarchy of the crime world, he befriended, way laid and killed many gangsters and local criminals in Delhi, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Even after Bawana was arrested in 2015, he is allegedly continuing his extortion business with the help of his key aides like Tajpuriya, Rathi and Bali.----------Name: Naveen Dabas, better known as Naveen BaliAge: 30Status: Presently in Delhi’s Mandoli jailCrime: More than 20 cases of murder, extortion and robbery. Also booked under MCOCA.Rivalry: Has been in rivalry with Rajesh Bawana gang. Has been supporting Neeraj Bawana’s Tajpuriya’s gangs and because of that he is also considered an enemy of Gogi gang.Networking and association: Bali’s gang is having association with Tajpuriya’s group and with Uttar Pradesh’s Sunil Rathi’s gang, and Kaushal gang.Criminal life at a glance: Born to a farmer in Sultanpur Dabas village near Bawana in outer Delhi, Bali dropped out of school and joined wrestling training at Chhatrashal stadium. Within three years, he became a professional wrestler and participated in national competitions. During that period, he came in contact with Neeraj Bawana, and began criminal activities in 2006. After being in jail twice, Bali and his associates tried to kill gangster-turned-politician Krishan Pehalwan, and committed a double murder, both in 2008. Thereafter, Bali along with Neeraj Bawana got involved in extortion, murder, and kidnapping, till they both were arrested in 2015. Bali has been supporting Tajpuriya, and he is also a suspect in the murder conspiracy of Gogi. Recently, a video of Bali and another jailed criminal having liquor party in a police office in Delhi was circulated on social media.--------------Name: Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja, 29 Status: Killed in shootout at Tulsi apartment in RohiniCrime: More than nine cases of murder, extortion attempt to murder and robbery.Main rival/s: Was in rivalry with Tajpuriya’s gangsNetworking and association: Fajja was the key hitman of gangster Gogi (also dead) and was having association with Kala Jatheri, Lawrence Bishnoi and Sampat NehraCriminal life at a glance: Born in 1992, Fajja is a resident of Naya Bans in outer Delhi’s Narela. After completing his schooling, Fajja got admission in Kirori Mal College in Delhi University. He opted Botany (honours). In 2012, he fell in the bad company and assaulted a person because of which a case was registered. In 2015, he and his associates robbed an i-20 car and committed a murder the same year but was arrested. Fajja later joined Gogi’s gang and began committing crimes with him. He was arrested with Gogi and two others from a Gurugram flat in 2020. In March this year, Fajja fled from the police custody after a sensational shootout that took place at GTB hospital between his associates and the police party that was escorting him back to jail van after his visit to the surgery ward for a medical check-up. One assailant was gunned down and another was injured by the police. Three days after his escape, the special cell team traced him to a flat in Tulsi Apartment in Rohini, where he was gunned down during a gunbattle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gogi-murder-look-at-delhi-s-most-notorious-criminal-ganglords-101632679180284.html
26-09-2021||Other||‘Beti Hai Anmol Yojana’ benefits 1.03 lakh girls in Himachal||Aimed at empowerment of the girl child, the Himachal Pradesh government’s ‘Beti Hai Anmol Yojana’ has benefited a total of 1,03,622 girls in the last three-and-a-half years, said a government spokesperson.Under the scheme, post-birth grant of ₹12,000 is given for up to two girls of identified families living below poverty line.The scheme aims to improve the sex ratio and help girls become self-reliant and independent. The amount is deposited into bank or post office account of the girl child, which can be withdrawn on completion of 18 years of age.Scholarship is also provided to the girl child, from schooling till graduation, on annual basis.An amount of ₹450 is provided to girls studying in Class 1 to 3, ₹750 in Class 4, ₹900 in Class 5, ₹1,050 per annum in Class 6 and 7, ₹1,200 in Class 8, ₹1,500 in Class 9 and 10, ₹2,250 in Class 11 and 12, and ₹5,000 per annum is given to girls undertaking undergraduate courses.The spokesperson said under the scheme, 1,03,622 girls have been provided benefits worth ₹30.91 crore since January 1, 2018 till June 30, 2021, in two phases.In 2018-19, benefits worth ₹11.31 crore were given to 31,448 girls. Similarly, in 2019-20, an amount of ₹12.11 crore was spent under the scheme benefiting 40,855 girls.This year, till June end, 31,319 girls have been given benefits worth ₹748.43 crore.Besides this, for welfare of the girl child and to make them self-reliant, the state government has also announced a provision of post-birth grant of ₹21,000 as fixed deposit at the time of birth of a girl child by rationalising and unifying the scheme with ‘Beti Hai Anmol Yojana’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/beti-hai-anmol-yojana-benefits-1-03-lakh-girls-in-himachal-101632679000289.html
26-09-2021||Other||5 teachers suspended for dancing in class||Agra Five assistant teachers from a primary school in Sandhan, Achhnera in this district were suspended after a video showing them dancing to film songs in class went viral. A committee has been constituted to probe the matter and submit its report within 15 days. The suspension order was passed on Saturday by the office of the Basic Shiksha Adhikari in Agra. The assistant teachers Rashmi Sisodia, Jivika Kumari, Anjali Yadav, Suman Kumari and Sudha Rani were seen dancing in the classroom of the school in the video, said to have been recorded on March 21 this year. “The songs to which the teachers were seen dancing were not educative. By dancing in class, the teachers violated the Teachers’ Service Rules and tarnished the image of the education department, besides causing anger among villagers,” said Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) Brajraj Singh in his suspension order. An explanation was also sought from the principal of the primary school, Dinesh Chand Parihar and the teachers named. Parihar said in his reply that the video was recorded on March 17 and he had no prior information of any such dance performance by teachers in school. Besides, he had gone for an academic meeting that day. “Four of the teachers, except Jivika Kumari, filed their reply stating that ‘Bal Sabha’ and online classes were organized for the children on March 17. These teachers also apologized for their behaviour. The block education officer in his report mentioned that explanation by these five teachers was not found satisfactory and recommended action against them,” said BSA Agra in his suspension order. The teachers were blamed for improper behaviour as they danced to film songs which were not educative. They were also accused of attempt to tarnish the image of teachers and the department, violation of Government Employees’ Regulations 1978 and Right to Education Act, not obeying instructions from higher authorities and negligence in conduct. “In the light of the report by the block education officer, it was found befitting to suspend these five teachers and get the matter probed. As such, a three-member committee has been constituted which would provide charge-sheet to all five teachers in three days and conduct probe and submit report in 15 days,” said BSA Agra Brajraj Singh in his order passed on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-teachers-suspended-for-dancing-in-class-101632678880515.html
26-09-2021||Other||Pratapgarh clash: Five FIRs against Cong leaders Pramod Tiwari, Aradhana Mishra||Following the clash between supporters of Congress leader Pramod Tiwari and BJP MP Sangamlal Gupta at Sangipur development Block auditorium during the Gareeb Kalyan Mela on Saturday, a total of five cases have been registered by police against Pramod Tiwari, his daughter and MLA from Rampur Khas Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ and others. While one FIR was registered late on Saturday evening on the complaint of the BJP MP at Lalganj police station, another four FIRs too got registered against the Congress leaders and their supporters later in the night by 11.32pm, police said.SP (East) Prakash Dwivedi said on the basis of complaints received regarding the incident, FIRs have been registered. “Investigation are now being carried out,” he said. The first FIR has been registered on the complaint of BJP MP Sangam Lal Gupta in which he requested that the FIR be registered at Lalganj police station as anti-social elements were present at Sangipur police station and he was unable to go there.Based on his complaint, a named FIR was registered against 27 people, including Pramod Tiwari, his daughter Aradhana Mishra and Sangipur block pramukh Bablu Singh, besides another 50 unidentified people under relevant sections of IPC for rioting armed with deadly weapons, unlawful assembly, voluntarily causing hurt and endangering human life or personal safety of others etc at Lalganj police station at 7.41pm.At 9.14pm, another FIR against the Congress leaders and their supporters was also registered on the complaint of a BJP worker Devendra Pratap Singh followed by one more FIR against them at 9.53pm on a complaint of Abhishek Kumar Mishra, son of a woman who had recently contested the panchayat polls followed by another FIR at 10.52pm on a complaint of BDC member Om Prakash Pandey.Later at 11.32pm, another FIR was registered against the Congress leaders and their supporters based on a complaint of police constable Sunil Kumar who was providing security to the BJP MP.From the side of Congress leader Pramod Tiwari, Sangipur block pramukh Ashok Kumar Singh claimed to have submitted a complaint to the police accusing five named people, including BJP MP Sangam Lal Gupta, and his unidentified supporters accusing them of tearing up government documents, violence and misbehaviour with women in connection with the incident.Likewise, one Dharamendra Tiwari and another Chotelal Saroj claimed to have submitted complaints at Lalganj police station against BJP MP and his supporters but no FIRs were registered till Sunday evening. All allegations false: Pramod Tiwari Reacting to the incident, Congress leader Pramod Tiwari said the BJP MP was to visit the venue of the function at Sangipur at 12.30pm while he was to visit along with his daughter MLA Aradhana Mishra later in the afternoon.“However, the MP came late at around 2.30pm and both Aradhana and I welcomed him. His supporters started raising slogans and people accompanying him then started misbehaving with zila pamchayat members as the stage was small and all could not be adjusted. They damaged the mike and also pushed away the announcer. This turned the entire scene ugly and then they clashed with others present at the spot. Nine of my supporters have sustained injuries,” Tiwari alleged. He claimed that all the allegations being made by the BJP MP Sangam Lal Gupta were false. “We have asked all our supporters to ensure peace and the state government is free to undertake police investigation to find out the truth. We will extend full cooperation,” he added. He also claimed that under pressure of the state government, the police were only taking action based on FIRs filed by those in ruling party and failing to act on their police complaint.It was a premeditated attack: BJP MPHowever, BJP MP Sangam Lal Gupta stuck to his complaint and alleged that his supporters and he were attacked in a premeditated incident. “Their supporters even assaulted the Sangipur SHO present at the site and also damaged my vehicle,” he further alleged.Meanwhile, a heavy police force has been deployed in Sangipur and Lalganj areas to ensure peace. IG, Prayagraj range, KP Singh who had also visited Pratapgarh and taken stock of the situation after the incident said, “The situation is under control and the investigation is under way,” he added.CO Lalganj suspendedCircle officer of Lalganj in Pratapgarh district Jagmohan Singh was suspended by the state government for laxity in his work in connection with the incident at Sangipur. The CO was accused of failing to deploy adequate police force at Sangipur development block auditorium where leaders and supporters of two political parties were to attend the event.Congmen demand judicial probeA delegation of Congressmen led by party’s district president Lalji Tripathi met district magistrate and SP, Pratapgarh, and handed over a memorandum demanding a judicial probe into the incident and withdrawal of cases registered against Congress leader Pramod Tiwari, MLA Aradhana Mishra and others following the Sunday incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pratapgarh-clash-five-firs-against-cong-leaders-pramod-tiwari-aradhana-mishra-101632678820274.html
26-09-2021||Other||Project Srijan takes traditional Kangra art online for wider reach||Srijan, a government endeavour, launched a year back to give the much-needed push to the fading art of Kangra-style painting, is helping artisans find a virtual marketplace for their artwork.Symbolising new beginnings, Srijan has successfully launched artisans’ products on various online platforms, including Amazon and Jaypore.The ideation and marketing project is a collaboration of master artisans, creating paintings and black pottery, and a team from district’s Rait development block.Going beyond traditional paper, artists have created paintings on various novel mediums, including glass plates, wooden stands, slates, and earthen clay plates, for which black pottery experts were roped in.“Preserving the traditional legacy of this art, all paintings revolve around Ras Nayika, Krishna and Radha-Krishna themes,” said Rait block development officer (BDO) Latika Sehajpal, the brain behind the project, which is an extension of Himachal Pradesh’s Mukhya Mantri Gram Kaushal Yojana.“When we launched Srijan, it was always confronted with questions about where these products will be sold. But our vision was clear from the get-go. Srijan was not solely about making paper paintings available for sale and generating income for artisans. It was also about the need to innovate and strike a chord with modern customers,” she said.The official said all products were priced between ₹3,000 and ₹10,000 for a larger reach: “While Jaypore is giving artisans access to the domestic market, Amazon caters to the niche and foreign markets.”“Each painting’s USP is the use of natural mineral paints. All online listings include detailed description of the product to acquaint customers with Himachal’s rich legacy,” said Sehajpal, adding that with the festive corner around the corner, the product offerings will be increased and pine-needle products will also be introduced soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/project-srijan-takes-traditional-kangra-art-online-for-wider-reach-101632677980926.html
26-09-2021||Gurugram||Polio drive: Gurugram achieves over 51% target on Day 1||The district health department on Sunday achieved over 51% of the total target for pulse polio vaccinations on the first day of a three-day campaign, officials said. The district has been set a total target of administering polio drops to over 359,000 children between the ages of zero to five. Officials said that 184,430 children were given the polio drops at the booths on Sunday. The campaign was inaugurated by the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, by giving polio doses to the children at the Civil Hospital in Sector 10. He also took stock of the arrangements made for the campaign at the Civil Hospital. “All the departments should cooperate to make the campaign a success by working in a planned manner. I appeal to all residents that all the parents must ensure that their children, up to five years of age, get polio dose during this three-day campaign,” Garg said. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “We received a good response on the first day of the campaign and achieved 51.28% of our target. On Monday and Tuesday, door-to-door visits will be done for children who could not be given the polio dose on Sunday. We have also kept in mind the migratory population of Gurugram and aim to give polio doses to their children too.” According to the health department data, polio doses were administered at 1,579 booths set across the district. For the campaign, the district administration has deployed as many as 112 mobile teams, with over 400 areas identified as high-risk areas. In the district, a total of 5,184 vaccinators are participating in the campaign, along with the deployment of 29 transit teams and 240 supervisors. Last Friday, the health department officials said that children of refugees from Afghanistan are also being included in the three-day pulse polio campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/polio-drive-gurugram-achieves-over-51-target-on-day-1-101632677141475.html
26-09-2021||Gurugram||Four injured near Chandu Budhera in collision with speeding car on wrong side||A 57-year-old senior executive of a city-based real estate company and his three family members were injured when a speeding car coming from wrong side crashed into the vehicle they were travelling in near Chandu Budhera village on Saturday, the police said. The victim, identified as Mahesh Babu (57), his wife, Priya Devi, and two grandchildren, were admitted to a hospital in the vicinity and a case has been registered under sections 279 and 337 of the Indian Penal Code at the Farrukhnagar police station. In his complaint to the police, Babu, a resident of Madan Puri Road in New Colony, who works as a general manager with DLF, said that the incident took place when he was returning from his village in Jhajjar district. “Due to the impact of the crash, my wife and grandsons suffered injuries and we were taken to the hospital by passersby,” he said. Subash Boken, the spokesperson for Gurugram police, said, “The matter is being investigated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-injured-near-chandu-budhera-in-collision-with-speeding-car-on-wrong-side-101632677140166.html
26-09-2021||Gurugram||Groundwater conservation: Research students from USA’s Columbia University to conduct study||As part of an academic exercise to conserve groundwater, research students of the Water Resources Department from Columbia University in the United States of America will collaborate with the Gurujal Society to undertake a study of the city.According to the district administration, the joint group will work together to analyse hydrological data, check underground water resources and formulate a long-term plan for boosting groundwater by at least five metres in the district.Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg said that the students will take up this work jointly with GuruJal, which is the nodal agency for water resource management and rainwater harvesting.Narender Sarwan, the secretary of GuruJal Society said the university approached it after the society had shared a research paper on work being done in Gurugram. “The Columbia University approached us and we decided to work jointly. Research students would be analysing the data and also visit Gurugram to conduct research,” he said.Over the past two years, Gurugram’s water table has declined by five metres, as per the data recorded by the groundwater cell of the Agriculture Department. At present, the water level is around 38.7 metres and in the last 10 years, the level has plummeted by 7.7 metres, as per government data.“The falling water table in the district is a matter of serious concern. Our objective is to reverse the trend and various measures have been taken in last four to five years to address the situation,” Garg said.The district administration said that all data collected by GuruJal in its projects have been shared with the research students. “The students will visit after studying the practices of GuruJal and also analysing the data. They will conduct field trips to assess the local situation,” Sarwan, who is also a district development and panchayat officer, said.Sarwan also said that students of the university will also visit the Aravallis and suggest measures to make it greener as well as preserve the existing greenery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/groundwater-conservation-research-students-from-usa-s-columbia-university-to-conduct-study-101632677082842.html
26-09-2021||Gurugram||Pedestrian safety: Committee to analyse five points with most fatalities||Following discussions about pedestrian safety at a road safety meeting earlier this month, the district administration constituted a four-member committee to survey five key crossings on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and suggest measures to resolve pedestrian issues.Officials said that the committee will focus on Shankar Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Signature Towers, Rajiv Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk, where 80-85% of the on-road fatalities are pedestrians, due to an array of reasons ranging from lack of pedestrian amenities to long detours to access pedestrian bridges.“Our first priority is to safeguard citizens. It was observed that at all these five points, footfall is among the highest in the city. However, they also have a high number of road accidents and fatalities involving pedestrians. Hence, a committee has been formed to first identify the issues pertaining to each of the points, and accordingly, come up with solutions for implementation,” Dr Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said.In addition, the committee also has the responsibility to align each of the crossings in such a manner that all road users, including motorists, those using non-motorised transport, cyclists and pedestrians, have equitable distribution of the right of way (ROW) at these five points.The committee comprises officials from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Gurugram traffic police, Raahgiri Foundation and Regional Transport Authority (RTA).The five points, all located on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, are among the 21 black spots in the city where the highest number of road fatalities have been reported. Any 500-metre stretch of road where more than five road fatalities are recorded in a three-year period is termed a black spot.The issue of pedestrian safety at the five points was raised in a district road safety meeting held earlier this month, following which the committee has been formed.“The committee has carried out a preliminary on-ground survey at the five points. From the initial survey, we all have discovered that the subways at each of the five points have virtually no takers. In addition, the foot overbridges (FOBs) are located at far-off distances and not properly placed,” Sarika Panda Bhatt, the co-founder of Raahgiri Foundation and one of the committee members, said.With regard to the FOBs, Bhatt said that instead of providing a path to cross from one end of the highway to the other, it is primarily helping pedestrians reach an adjoining arterial road. In addition, due to poor placement, it takes pedestrians nearly three times the distance and time to cross the road using the FOB, due to which these structures have few or no takers.Bhatt said that almost 80-85% of road fatalities at these five points are pedestrians.“The pedestrian amenities at each of the five points are not making any difference. Instead, the committee is likely to recommend the installation of traffic signals below the overhead flyover at each of the junctions as a solution. The committee will be carrying out more on-ground surveys before submitting a final report to the administration for perusal,” Bhatt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/pedestrian-safety-committee-to-analyse-five-points-with-most-fatalities-101632677080158.html
26-09-2021||Bangalore||Bharat Bandh: Karnataka govt instructs police to maintain ‘peace and order’||Karnataka state police have been directed to take necessary precautions in order to maintain peace and order on Monday, the day of a 10-hour long Bharat Bandh, home minister Araga Jnanendra told reporters on Sunday."Police have been instructed to take all the necessary precautionary measures to maintain peace and order in the wake of Bharat Bandh tomorrow," Jnanendra said.The Bharat Bandh has been called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, to mark a year of the Central government passing the three controversial farm laws, which they have been protesting against for 10 months now.Protesting farmers have planned for a ‘Raasta Roko’ andolan and police have been instructed to maintain strict vigil so as to ensure no untoward incidents are reported in and around Bengaluru. Police sources told news agency PTI that since most organisations have only extended moral support to the bandh it is unlikely to impact normal life in the state or in the capital.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai appealed to farmers to allow financial activities to be conducted since the country is still recovering from the financial losses brought by the Covid-19 pandemic. "All sectors are recovering from Covid, financial activities are taking place, farmers are also participating in it....I appeal to farmers organisations to allow businesses and activities to function," Bommai urged.Public transport employees’ unions, hotel owners association, lorry, auto rickshaw, and taxi owners unions said they support the protest, but will continue to operate on Monday, citing losses incurred during the pandemic. Metro services are also likely to operate in Bengaluru during the bandh hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bharat-bandh-karnataka-govt-instructs-police-to-maintain-peace-and-order-101632676081423.html
26-09-2021||Other||Three of four Doaba districts represented in new Punjab cabinet||Jalandhar The Doaba region, comprising the four districts of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, has got three ministerial berths in the state cabinet. This is three times the lone minister, Sunder Sham Arora from Hoshiarpur the region had, under former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.With the induction of Pargat Singh (Jalandhar Cantonment MLA); Sangat Singh Gilzian from Tanda Urmar (Hoshiarpur) and Rana Gurjit Singh from Kapurthala, three of the four districts have got representation. The region has 23 assembly segments of the state’s 117. Scheduled Castes (SCs) form around a third of Punjab’s population, the highest in the country. Most of the SC population is concentrated in the Doaba region. In 2017, after the Congress stormed to power by bagging 77 seats, 15 MLAs were from Doaba, but only Kapurthala MLA, Rana Gurjit made it to the cabinet. In January 2018, Gurjit was dropped after a controversy over mining auction. In April 2018, Arora was inducted into the cabinet. At the time. Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema and Sangat Singh Gilzian had expressed their dissent. MLA Pargat Singh, now a minister, said the three major districts of the region had got representation in the cabinet. “This will certainly help the party in the assembly polls. We are committed to delivering on promises made through our work in 90 days,” he added. Gilzian, who is from the OBC community, said, “The new cabinet is a balanced one. Doaba has also got its due after long.”A Congress MLA added that the new ministers had to work to balance district interests as well the state’s welfare. “State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has a tough task ahead, as has to tackle internal bickering in Kapurthala district. Rana Gurjit Singh and Sukhpal Singh Khaira have not been accepted fully,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-of-four-doaba-districts-represented-in-new-punjab-cabinet-101632676119989.html
26-09-2021||Other||Moga mining contractor booked for illegal sale of stored sand||Moga Tightening the grip against illegal sand mining on the Sutlej riverbed, Moga Police have registered a case of theft against MS and Rana Company Kot Ise Khan, an official mining contractor, for selling its stored sand, without following the legal procedure. The company has also been booked under the Sand Mining Act. Over the past week, this is the third case that the district police have registered against illegal mining. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said a mining quarry of Pipli village had been allotted to MS and Rana Company Kot Ise Khan. “Due to the monsoon, the company had stored its sand at Sherpur Taiba village with the permission of the mining department. Company officials, however, were found to be selling sand in an illegal manner at the site,” the SSP added. “The owner and worker were selling sand without weighing, without issuing computerised slips and without clicking the pictures of vehicles. Further investigation is on” he added. A case under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC and the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act has been registered against the firm. On September 19, the Moga Police had busted an illegal sand mining racket with the arrest of eight men Sherpur Taiba village. They had also recovered eight vehicles, including five tractor-trailers and tippers loaded with sand and three earthmoving machines. On September 23, police had recovered a tractor-trolley loaded with sand from Dharmakot, with the driver fleeing the spot. All three cases were registered at Dharamkot police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moga-mining-contractor-booked-for-illegal-sale-of-stored-sand-101632675099998.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray pushes for more funds to tackle Maoist-hit areas in Maharashtra||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday participated in the meeting on left- wing extremism (LWE) held in Delhi and pressed for more funds for development in the affected districts for education, infrastructure and communication. While state government said Maoist activities in three affected districts were under control, it has reportedly expressed concerns over the spread of the activities in key cities of the state. Thackeray, along with the chief ministers, home ministers from few other states, participated in the review meeting convened by the Ministry of Home Affairs and chaired by its minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Sunday. Launched in 2015, the National Policy and Action Plan on LWE, the central government has focused on the development of Maoism-infested districts. Three Maharashtra districts — Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and Gondia — were identified as the LWE-affected districts with more development funds provided for them under the national policy. During the meeting, the CM has reportedly said that Maoist activities in three districts have subsided significantly over the past few years. Expressing satisfaction over the funding from the Centre, Maharashtra CM reportedly urged the Centre for more funds for the infrastructure related to the police stations, communication network and road construction. “The naxal activities in these districts have come down significantly. Infrastructure network in these districts have been strengthened over the past few years and it has helped the infested areas to come to the mainstream. Facilities like single-window services have been provided to the villagers in these districts. Many such government schemes are made available at police stations. The state has demanded for more funds for development of schools, installing more police posts and ensuring better communication network for these districts. The poor connectivity of internet services in remote places of these districts not only hamper the communication by the police forces, but also prove hurdle some for students. The state has raised demand for improvement on this front,” said an official from the home department. The CM has reportedly expressed concerns over the movement spreading its wings in some of the cities in the state. “The home department has information about sporadic activities in some parts of the leading cities of the state. There could be attempts to make the tribal areas as their experiment hubs for the activities. The uncertainty, poverty and unemployment could be used for spreading the base. The state government wants the Centre to focus to neutralise such attempts,” said the official.According to the statement issued by the Central government, the Union home minister said it is very important to neutralise the sources of income of the left-wing extremists. The agencies of the Central and state governments should try to stop this by making a system together. He urged all the chief ministers to give priority to the problem of LWE for the next one year, so that a permanent solution can be found in this problem. He said that it requires building pressure, increasing speed and better coordination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-pushes-for-more-funds-to-tackle-naxal-hit-areas-in-maharashtra-101632674259695.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Lok Adalat disposes of 8.5 lakh cases in a day across Maharashtra||To dispose of cases that were pending due to the pandemic, the Lok Adalat was held on Saturday across the state. More than 36 lakh pending cases were taken up by the Lok Adalat and over eight lakh cases were disposed of, resulting in the settlement of disputes worth ₹1,317 crore. Apart from that the Lok-Adalat also disposed of 4.83 lakh traffic e-challan cases which helped the traffic department recover around ₹22 crore. The Lok-Adalat was organised at three high court legal services committee/sub-Committee (HCLSCs), and 34 district legal services authorities (DLSAs) and 309 Taluka Legal Services Committees where total of 36,32,270 pending cases including more than 32 lakh pre-litigation cases were taken up before these Lok-Adalat. An official said, around 8.48 lakh cases, which include more than 7.20 lakh pre-litigation cases and over 63,420 pending cases were settled. A three-day special drive before the day of Lok-Adalat was also undertaken wherein 64,219 pending cases were disposed of. To ensure the comprehensive outcome in MACT, matrimonial, cheque bounce cases and other civil cases were also heard before justice AA Sayed while conducting pre-Lok-Adalat sittings. The next Lok Adalat is scheduled for December 11, 2021. Proceeding held at 346 venuesAccording to Milind Todkar, deputy secretary, Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority (MSLSA), a total of 1,411 members had presided over the Lok Adalat proceedings at the 346 venues across the state on Saturday. The panel consists of a retired and a working judicial officer along with an advocate and a social worker. The Lok Adalat was preceded by counselling sessions which started three–10 days prior to September 25. Both parties were called and after discussion, they arrived at an amicable settlement which was placed before the Lok Adalat panel for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lok-adalat-disposes-of-8-5-lakh-cases-in-a-day-across-maharashtra-101632673899685.html
26-09-2021||Other||8-yr-old dead, two missing after boat capsizes in E Champaran||An eight-year-old girl died while at least two people were missing after a boat carrying 20 people capsized due to strong water current in Sikarahana river in Chiraiya block of East Champaran district on Sunday, officials said.A rescue operation team was pressed into service. It was, however, yet to find the missing persons until Sunday evening.According to officials, the mishap occurred when passengers, who were residents of different villages, were on their way to the riverine areas to collect fodder for livestock. The incident occurred around 9.30am.“The girl’s body has been recovered, and two other girls are missing.The rescue operation was stopped in the evening owing to darkness. It will restart Monday morning,” said” said Iftekhar Ahmad, subdivisional magistrate (SDM), Sikarahana.The remaining passengers were rescued by local fishermen and divers, while two of them swam to safety. “One of them is currently under treatment,” said Anil Kumar Rai, additional district magistrate (ADM), disaster management, East Champaran. One of the passengers and officials said the boat lost balance due to strong current. However, officials also attributed the mishap to boat overloading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8yrold-dead-two-missing-after-boat-capsizes-in-e-champaran-101632673779802.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 3,206 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deaths||Maharashtra has witnessed a significant fall in the average daily caseload of Covid-19 cases, helping the state government in easing the curbs and opening up schools, religious places and theatres. The state reported 93,515 cases in September with a daily average of 3,612 cases, from the caseload of 5,125 cases in August. The state recorded 3,206 new Covid-19 cases and 36 deaths on Sunday, while Mumbai recorded 477 new cases and five deaths.The state government has announced to open schools from October 4, religious places from October 7 and cinema halls from October 22.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “Since all districts in Maharashtra have less than 5% positivity rate, it indicates that the pandemic is under control. We have increased the pace of vaccination and even the testing has been ramped up. This has helped in controlling the spread of virus.”Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic said, “We cannot be in the state of perpetual lockdown and easing is inevitable. In addition, with vaccination being done so well, curbs can easily be relaxed. The education of the kids is getting affected as online classes can never match offline education. In addition, there are scores of people whose livelihood depends on religious places, auditoriums and theatres. However they need to be reopened with proper Covid-19 protocols,” he added.The state’s tally has now reached 6,544,325. There were 165,990 tests done on Sunday, while the number of recoveries clocked 3,292. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 37,860, while the toll has reached 138,870.Pune tops in active cases with 9,386 patients followed by Thane (5,862) and Mumbai (5,166).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-3-206-new-covid-19-cases-36-deaths-101632673659799.html
26-09-2021||Other||2 LeT terrorists allegedly involved in killing of BJP leader killed in north Kashmir||Two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists, allegedly responsible for the killing of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and his two family members in July last year, were killed in an encounter with security forces in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district on Sunday, officials said.Police said that a cordon and search operation was started on Saturday evening after the forces received information about the presence of terrorists at Watnira area of Bandipora.A joint operation by police, army and CRPF triggered a faceoff with the terrorists after contact with the hiding terrorists was established in the morning hours on Sunday.“Due restraint was exercised to avoid any collateral damage. A surrender appeal was made to the terrorists, however, they brought down heavy fire on the security forces, forcing them to retaliate,” said Lt Col Emron Musavi, PRO Defence, Srinagar.Police officials said two terrorists were killed in the encounter. “Their bodies were retrieved from the site of the encounter,” a police spokesman said.The slain have been identified as Azad Ahmad Shah and Abid Rashid Dar alias Haqani affiliated with the proscribed outfit LeT.“The killed terrorist Abid Rahid Dar was Pakistani trained terrorist who had crossed over the Wagah Border in April 2018 and had infiltrated back in the year 2019,” said the spokesman.The police said that both the terrorists were involved in planning and executing terror attacks on security establishments and civilian killings.“Moreover, terrorist Abid Rashid Dar was instrumental in recruiting the gullible youth into terror ranks of proscribed terror outfit LeT in north Kashmir,” the spokesman added.The police spokesman said that both the slain terrorists, along with the other two foreign terrorists, Usman and Sajad alias Haider, were involved in the killing of BJP leader Waseem Bari, his brother and father.“The involved foreign terrorists Usman and Sajad were already eliminated in an encounter at Kreeri on August 17, 2020, while the other two local terrorists involved got killed in today’s encounter,” the spokesman said.The official said that all four militants involved in case FIR No 74/2019 of police station Bandipora pertaining to the killing of the BJP leader and his family have been eliminated.“Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including 02 AK-47 rifles 01 pistol and other incriminating material, were recovered from the site of encounter,” the spokesman said.“All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation and to probe their complicity in other terror crimes,” he said.A case under relevant sections of law has been registered and an investigation has been initiated.“People are requested to cooperate with police till the area is completely sanitized and cleared of all the explosive materials, if any,” the police spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-let-terrorists-allegedly-involved-in-killing-of-bjp-leader-killed-in-north-kashmir-101632673603375.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||All-women Covid-19 vaccination drive at public centres in Mumbai on Monday||Brihanmumbai Municipal corporation (BMC) will conduct its second women-only Covid-19 vaccination drive in the city, on Monday, between 10am and 5pm across all municipal and government vaccination centres. On Tuesday, the drive will be held exclusively for students and teachers during the first half of the day between 9am and 2pm, and for citizens due to get their second dose in the second half of the day between 3pm and 8pm. In this afternoon session, no one will be given a first dose at any public vaccination centres. On September 17, BMC had held a women-only vaccination drive in the city, and a total of 107,934 women were vaccinated in a single day at public vaccination centres. Meanwhile, a total of 127,000 women were vaccinated on that day at both public and private vaccination centres.So far, 3,802,508 Mumbaiites have received both their doses of the vaccine, so 41% of Mumbaiites above the age of 18 years have been vaccinated. BMC’s total target population - all citizens above the age of 18 years old - is 9,236,500 citizens. The civic body has completed vaccinating 86% of the total population, or 7,925,708 citizens, as of Saturday. There was no vaccination drive on Sunday.BMC has decided to hold a special vaccination drive for women to reduce the gender disparity in vaccination. According to information available on the CO-Win portal, 5,218,652 women have been vaccinated, while 7,000,944 men have been vaccinated; 2,881 other citizens have been vaccinated.Women will be able to walk in to public vaccination centres and do not need to pre-book an appointment on online for their vaccine shot. During the second session on Tuesday, for citizens who want to get their second dose, beneficiaries will have to carry along the certificate of their first dose. Teachers and students will be required to carry their identity cards, along with government-issued identification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allwomen-covid-19-vaccination-drive-at-public-centres-in-mumbai-on-monday-101632673601310.html
26-09-2021||Patna||Unlock 7: Majority of pre-primary schools in Bihar to reopen after Durga Puja||The majority of city-based pre-primary schools are mulling to reopen for students after the Durga Puja vacation in a bid to assess the Covid-19 situation.On Friday, the state government allowed the reopening of pre-primary schools and Anganwadi centres from Monday as a part of Unlock 7.Keeping the health safety of young children at high priority, the majority of pre-primary schools have decided to continue online classes for junior students and wait till Durga Puja for assessing the Covid-19 situation.Mary Alphonsa, principal of Don Bosco Academy, said, “We have decided not to call pre-primary students from Monday. First, we will check the response of parents for sending their wards to school. The final decision regarding resumption of pre-primary classes will be taken after Durga Puja vacation.”“We are conducting first term exam for pre-primary students through online mode, which will continue till September 30”, she added. Other prominent schools, including Carmel High School, Loyola High School, St Xavier’s High School and St Michael’s High School are also considering resumption of pre-primary classes in mid-October.Meanwhile, the rise in viral fever and flu symptoms among children in early September has worried many parents who now are apprehensive about sending their wards to schools.Poonam Sinha, the mother of a five-year-old, said, “It’s not safe to send young children outside. Covid-19 cases have declined but there is a sudden rise in viral fever and dengue cases. I don’t want to put my son at risk. I will not send him to school till the situation normalises.”Pre-primary schools in the state are facing closure since March last year.Several playschools closed during the pandemicThe prolonged closure of schools led to the shut down of thousands of playschools in the city owing to the financial crisis. Ridhima Sharma, a playschool operator near Bailey Road, decided to shut down her playschool in April this year.“Bearing operating costs, including building rent and teachers’ salaries, became next to impossible due to prolonged closure of the school. The majority of parents withdrew their wards and they stopped paying fees for online classes. After suffering huge loss, we decided to shut down in April”, she rued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/unlock-7-majority-of-pre-primary-schools-in-bihar-to-reopen-after-durga-puja-101632673600092.html
26-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi ministry expansion: New picks reflect BJP focus on OBCs, Dalits||The seven new ministers inducted into the Yogi Adityanath government reflect the Bharatiya Janata Party’s focus on picking educated, mostly young leaders, from non-Yadav Other Backward Castes (OBCs) and non-Jatav Dalits as ministers who have got a people-connect, BJP leaders admitted. Most of the new ministers in the Yogi government are below 55, with at least two of them being under 45 years. Each of the new faces would have their task cut out, a senior BJP leader said, adding, that with around 90 days left for the Yogi government to undertake major policy decisions, these new ministers would have to hit the ground running. The BJP is still mulling whether something on the lines of the “ashirward yatra”, which was undertaken by those leaders who found a place in the Narendra Modi government in July, should be launched. Party leaders admitted that the new ministers would surely undertake “community-connect” initiative, though its form is yet to be decided. While Jitin Prasada is all set to be nominated to one of the four MLC posts, the rest of the six ministers are already lawmakers, helping the party select three OBCs and Dalits for MLC posts. BJP leaders said the party has also decided to nominate members of Gurjar, Bhurji and Nishad communities as MLCs. Apart from Jitin Prasada, the party has also named Virendra Singh Gurjar (Shamli), Sanjay Nishad (Gorakhpur) and Gopal Anjan Bhurji (Moradabad) as its MLC picks, thus ending a long-delayed suspense on the subject. “This would mean that along with seven ministers, these MLCs would help our caste outreach further. Only Jitin ji is minister and would be nominated as MLC too. The rest of the six ministers and three remaining MLC positions are all filled up by different subcastes of OBCs and Dalits,” a BJP leader said. “This is the first time, a member of Bhurji caste has been made an MLC,” BJP leaders said. “We would readily undertake whatever task the party assigns to us,” said Dharamvir Prajapati, the new minister of state and OBC leader, who was made BJP MLC in January. His appointment showcases the BJP focus on Dalit-dominated Agra belt from where the party has six lawmakers, two MPs, and a mayor. In July, the BJP’s Agra Lok Sabha MP SP Singh Baghel was appointed as a Union minister of state in the Narendra Modi government. The BJP’s focus on riverine communities comprising boatmen and fishermen, who are also being wooed by the opposition Samajwadi Party, was apparent in the appointment of Sangeeta Balwant Bind, 41, a postgraduate woman politician from the community. “None has done as much for the marginalised class as BJP and we would definitely strengthen this outreach initiative,” she said soon after being sworn in as a minister of state. The BJP has also nominated Nishad party leader Sanjay Nishad as MLC, party leaders said. PROFILES OF NEW MINISTERS Jitin Prasada, 47, Cabinet minister Once referred to as the “young turk” and a key component of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s team, Jitin Prasada, has been made a cabinet minister, less than five months after he defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party. The BJP in UP has its own homegrown Brahmin leadership like Union minister Mahendra Nath Pandey, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and the state’s cabinet ministers Shrikant Sharma. There are others, too, like UP ministers Ram Naresh Agnihotri, Satish Chandra Dwivedi, Neelkanth Tiwari, Chandrika Prasad Upadhyaya and Anand Swaroop Shukla. But, the BJP has consistently been getting influential community leaders from other parties. These include UP’s law minister Brajesh Pathak, who was previously a prominent Brahmin face of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), former Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) chief Rita Bahuguna Joshi, now BJP’s Lok Sabha MP from Prayagraj. The entry of Prasada in BJP, who had floated an organization to highlight the perceived injustice against Brahmins in the Yogi Adityanath government, was seen as RSS-BJP’s attempt to wean away a young, Brahmin leader from the Congress and also to symbolically indicate that the party treated the leaders of the community well, party leaders said. Sanjay Gond, 46, Minister of State (MoS) The BJP’s only scheduled tribe (ST) MLA in Uttar Pradesh represents the Obra assembly constituency from Sonbhadra district, where he is quite popular due to his simplicity. The Gonds are present in a sizeable number in the backward eastern UP areas of Mirzapur, Chandauli and Sobhadra. By his appointment, the Yogi Adityanath government appears to have taken a leaf out of the Samajwadi Party template, which had also appointed a member of Gond community as minister. Back then, Vijay Singh Gond had been made a minister. Sanjay Gond was elected on the BJP ticket after defeating Vijay Singh Gond’s son Virendra. In 2017 two assembly seats were reserved for the scheduled tribes and both assembly seats are in Sonbhadra. Sanjay’s wife was recently elected block pramukh. Paltu Ram, 51, MoS This first-time Dalit lawmaker represents the Balrampur (reserved) assembly constituency in UP. Resident of Gonda in eastern UP, Palturam belongs to the Khatik subcaste of Dalits. In the 2017 UP assembly elections, he defeated the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance candidate by a margin of over 25,000 votes. A postgraduate who rose from student politics, Paltu Ram is known for his oratory and simplicity. Dalits are a key component of the RSS-BJP plan for the 2017 UP polls. Chatrapal Gangwar, 65, MoS An OBC leader, former RSS pracharak Chatrapal Gangwar, who retired as a school principal, became a lawmaker in 2017 after defeating the BSP candidate in the Bahedi assembly segment of Bareilly Lok Sabha seat. Representing the Kurmi sub-caste of OBCs, his induction is being seen as the party’s attempt to strike a balance after another prominent Kurmi leader Santosh Gangwar, the Lok Sabha MP from Bareilly, resigned as Union minister recently. Dharamvir Prajapati, 54, MoS This BJP MLC from Agra, originally hails from Hathras in western UP started his career as a RSS swayamsevak (wholetimer). The chairman of Mati Kala Board, set up by the government to boost artisans, he was made MLC in January. Soft spoken, this BJP leader has previously been BJP’s OBC cell general secretary and has twice served as secretary in the UP BJP set-up. His appointment showcases the party’s focus on the Dalit-dominated Agra belt. During previous Deepotsav celebrations, Prajapati had been quite active getting clay artisans from across the state to make earthen lamps to be lit in Ayodhya on Diwali. His connect with artisans has made him quite popular. Sangeeta Balwant Bind, 41, MoS The postgraduate politician is the daughter of a retired postman and belongs to the riverine (Nishad) OBC community. “A BJP lawmaker from Ghazipur, Bind’s selection showcases the party’s desire to promote young and educated faces from the marginalized community,” a BJP leader explained. She entered politics via student politics as well as after a stint in rural panchayat polls. Wife of a homeopathic doctor, she is a first-time lawmaker who has been made minister. Dinesh Khatik, 44, MoS This first-time BJP lawmaker who won against Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) from the Hastinapur assembly constituency of Meerut is an old RSS hand who has been associated with the BJP since long. His father also was with the RSS while his brother has been a member of zila panchayat. Apart from politics, Dinesh also manages a brick kiln and lives in Meerut’s Ganganagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-ministry-expansion-new-picks-reflect-bjp-focus-on-obcs-dalits-101632673480477.html
26-09-2021||Other||FM’s bête noire Warring is minister, south Punjab share drops to two||Bathinda The rejig of the state cabinet under new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has reduced the representation of south Malwa to two from three. State finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who represents Bathinda Urban, has retained his ministerial berth. Joining Manpreet is two-time Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, 43. A political bête noire of Manpreet, the outspoken legislator had carved his niche in state politics after winning from Gidderbaha, considered to be a bastion of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), in 2012.Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who represented Rampura Phul (Bathinda) and Guru Har Sahai (Ferozepur), have been dropped as ministers. Both were considered close to former CM Captain Amarinder Singh; Kangar was revenue minister, while Sodhi was handling sports and youth affairs and NRI affairs portfolios.GIDDERBAHA BACKDROPSAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal had won from Gidderbaha five times in a row from 1969 to 1985; later too, the segment continued to be in favour of the Akalis. In 2012, however, a greenhorn Warring had defeated Manpreet, then a Punjab People’s Party (PPP), now defunct, candidate. Manpreet had contested from Gidderbaha for the fifth consecutive time. After this victory, Warring won again from Gidderbaha in 2017. After the last assembly elections, however, Warring had been sulking as Manpreet, a new entrant to the Congress fold was inducted as a cabinet minister, while his claim was ignored. Over the past few months, Warring has accused Manpreet of corruption. Manpreet, however, has not responded to the accusations. The Gidderbaha MLA has never retracted his allegations.On June 27, Warring joined the Akalis in opposing and taking potshots at Manpreet and his aide’s alleged support to illegal mining in Bathinda. He had tagged the then CM Amarinder Singh and sought action against all those involved. “These are the people who are pulling Congress down,” he had tweeted. On July 12, Gidderbaha MLA had demanded disciplinary action against Manpreet for favouring Akali leaders over the Congressmen. Warring had tagged former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Twitter, urging him to take note of Manpreet’s alleged anti-party activities, and seeking his removal from the state cabinet. He had also accused Manpreet of interfering in Gidderbaha to weaken him. Warring came to the notice of Rahul’s close aides during the former’s campaigning in 2009 Lok Sabha elections in Uttar Pradesh. He also led the Indian National Youth Congress from 2014 to 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fms-b-te-noire-warring-is-minister-south-punjab-share-drops-to-two-101632672519738.html
26-09-2021||Patna||Will Kanhaiya Kumar’s entry to Congress herald new start for party in Bihar?||Will former JNU student leader Kanhaiya Kumar be able to transform the image of the Congress party in Bihar? Will he be able to carve a niche for himself in the highly polarised caste-based politics? Or, he will find it hard to get the opportunity to grow in the face of opposition from within the party? This type of debate dominated the discussion at the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) office on Sunday, a day after Independent Gujarat legislator and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani broke the news of joining the Congress along with Kanhaiya Kumar on October 28 in New Delhi. Although the former JNUSU leader Kanhaiya, who unsuccessfully contested Begusarai Lok Sabha election as a CPI candidate and lost it to the BJP stalwart and Union minister Giriraj Singh, refused to make any categorical statement, many Congress leaders said that his joining would give another chance for the party to revive its lost glory. Former BPCC chief Anil Sharma, who was also a former Patna University Students’ Union chief, said the party would benefit from Kanhaiya’s joining. “Kanhaiya Kumar has been into the leadership role and cornering the government on the issues of mass interest in a powerful way. His presence would be able to unite the anti-government clamours and add strength to the fight against the fear of India slipping into dictatorship mode,” added Sharma. Former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Sciences, DM Diwakar, however, was sceptical if Kanhaiya or the Congress would anyway be beneficial to each other. “Credibility of the former JNUSU leader would go away once he leaves the CPI, which gave him enough freedom and tremendous opportunity to grow. In Congress, he would not be able to do much as ‘paper tigers’ in the party would not allow him to grow and Rahul Gandhi or the party high command would have little time to listen to him. The Congress still has many potential leaders but they are left to perish under the new kind of a setup where the party in-charge calls the shot,” argued Diwakar. However, former head of the economics department at Patna University, Nawal Kishore Chaudhary says the Congress would be a major gainer on Kanhaiya’s joining. “He is one of the most articulate leaders with a clear vision. He would easily fit into the Congress’s political ideology which is left of the centre. Kanhaiya would have a bigger role to play in the state as well as national politics as the Congress has a pan-India presence,” said Chaudhary, adding that the Congress can bank on Kanhaiya as its youth face in the wake of the rise of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Chirag Paswan in the state politics. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), which has not been keen on the rise of Kanhaiya Kumar in the state politics, however, did not foresee any substantial gain in electoral politics for the Congress. “He (Kanhaiya) is not any factor in a caste-based politics. Allies of the RJD mostly depend on the charisma of Lalu Prasad and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to win the elections,” said Maner MLA and chief RJD spokesman Bhai Birendra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/will-kanhaiya-kumar-s-entry-to-congress-herald-new-start-for-party-in-bihar-101632672402107.html
26-09-2021||Pune||National Medical Commission raises staffing issue at PMC’s Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College||PUNE Although the PMC’s proposed Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College has been approved by the central government, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has raised fresh issues which need to be addressed in the next 21 days. If these issues are not addressed then the PMC would likely have to push its admission schedule to next year. One of the key errors pointed out by the NMC team is the shortage of manpower. At present, 48 professors have been appointed. Ravindra Bhinwade, additional municipal commissioner confirmed that this is one of the conditions put forward by the NMC and that the PMC is working on recruiting more teaching and non-teaching staff as per the NMC’s guidelines The appointment of non-teaching staff is also in the final stages. For this, the municipal administration issued an advertisement on Friday. The admission process for medical colleges in the country is conducted through the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET). The first phase of ‘NEET’ has been completed this year and so the PMC would be able to admit students only though the second phase, if the issues raised by the NMC are addressed. The proposed medical college, the first to be built and run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), had started preparations to admit 100 students by December this year. The admission process will start after the PMC gets formal approval from the Union ministry of Health and Family Welfare. However, before that, the National Medical Commission has sent a letter to the corporation stating that the issues need to be addressed. The NMC team arrived in Pune last week and after meeting PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar had laid out the conditions required to start the college. The team had inspected the proposed site of the college, the building on Sanas ground and also the relevant documents. After their visit they presented a detailed report to the central ministry which points out some of the issues on hand that need to be seen to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/national-medical-commission-raises-staffing-issue-at-pmc-s-atal-bihari-vajpayee-medical-college-101632671981342.html
26-09-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest dept dedicates North India’s biggest Palmetum to citizens||The Uttarakhand Forest Department on Sunday dedicated the state’s first Palmetum and the biggest one in North India, to the people in the Haldwani area of Nainital district. The Palmetum, which took over three years to develop, has over 110 species of palms. Prof Lalit Tiwari, a professor of Botany from Kumaon University dedicated the Palmetum to the people in Haldwani. Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests (CCF) and in charge of the state forest research wing said the main aim of the establishment of Palmetum is to promote conservation, further research and to create awareness about the importance and ecological role of various palm species. “The project which has been established in an area of approximately 3 acres, was developed over the last three years under CAMPA scheme at a cost of ₹16 lakh”, he said Elaborating on the details of palm species that have been grown in the Palmetum, Chaturvedi said around 4 species are critically endangered, 2 species are endangered, 2 species are vulnerable and 6 species are near threatened as per IUCN categorization, while one is threatened as per the Uttarakhand Biodiversity Board and one is rare as per the Indian Biodiversity Portal. “One palm species is endemic to Uttarakhand. It is called Trachycarpus Takil (Takil Palm) and is the only Palm that can survive sub-zero temperature and has also been declared as a threatened species by the Uttarakhand Biodiversity Board; other endangered/threatened species include Beaucarnea recurvata (Ponytail Palm), Hyophorbe lagenicaulis (Bottle Palm), Dypsis leptocheilos (Redneck palm) , Hyophorbe verschaffeltii (Spindle Palm) and so on,” he said. Chaturvedi said Palm species have diverse uses and play a significant role in many cultures across the world. “Apart from coconuts, many important items come from Palm species; dates, betel nuts, palm oil, acai fruit, Palm wine and so on. In August, the Uttarakhand Forest department had dedicated the High Altitude Herbal Garden situated at nearly 10,500 feet height and believed to be the highest herbal garden in India, to the people. The garden spread over three acres has rare Himalayan herbs including Brahma Kamal, Neel Kamal and Phen Kamal, associated with the trinity of Hindu Gods- Bhahma, Shiva and Vishnu. On September 12 this year, the Forest Department’s research wing also dedicated country’s largest open-air fernery, housing around 120 species of ferns to the public. Ferns are ancient group plants, which were once dominant plants in forests but are now outnumbered by flowering plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-forest-dept-dedicates-north-india-s-biggest-palmetum-to-citizens-101632671499703.html
26-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan ranks 3rd in women unemployment after Haryana and J&K||Not only is Rajasthan leading in crime against women but is also performing poorly in women employment. According to the recent report of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy May-August 2021, Rajasthan ranks third in the country, following Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir, in unemployment for women. The national average of women unemployment is 14.28%. India’s average unemployment rate is 8.57%, with 7.9% for men and 14.3% for females, as per the CMIE report. The 17th volume of Unemployment in India, A Statistical Profile by CMIE has estimates generated using data collected during household visits between 1 May 2021 and 31 August 2021. According to the CMIE report, the women unemployment rate in Rajasthan is 65.31%, which is the highest after Haryana (78.97%) and Jammu and Kashmir (72.60%). The male unemployment rate is 21.20%, which is second highest after Haryana with 25.27%. Urban women are more unemployed than women residing in rural areas. The urban unemployment rate of women is 92.1%, and that of rural is 54.8%. The report states that Rajasthan is the most unemployed state after Haryana in terms of overall unemployment. According to the report, the unemployment rate of Haryana is 35.7% while that of Rajasthan is 26.7%. Rajasthan and Haryana are the only states to cross the 20% mark in terms of unemployment. The report tells that 55.75% of the graduates and youths with higher education degrees are unemployed in Rajasthan. On the contrary, this figure stands at an average of 20.21% nationally. The state also has the highest unemployment rate for the uneducated when compared with the neighbouring states of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. A total of 28.06% of illiterate youths have no job. Former chairperson of Rajasthan women’s commission, Lad Kumari Jain, said, lack of literacy, higher education facilities and socio-economic and culture setup is the basic hindrance to women development and growth. In rural areas, MNREGA, Aanganbadi, and other welfare schemes are giving employment to women but in urban areas, there are very few job opportunities. “More than 50% of the sanctioned posts reserved for women are lying vacant. The women aren’t still given priority,’ she said. Commenting on the report Paras Banjara, a social activist who is associated with Suchna Aur Rojgar Adhikar Abhiyan, said “Post Covid there is a boom in unemployment and the government has failed to address the issue. In rural areas, there is MNREGA which helps in jobs but in urban areas, there is no job guarantee scheme. The state seems to be visionless in terms of employment generation,” he said. Rajasthan has earned the dubious distinction of registering the highest number of rape cases in the country followed by Uttar Pradesh, National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2020 data has revealed. Rajasthan recorded 5310 rape cases, Uttar Pradesh comes second with 2769, followed by Madhya Pradesh with 2339 and Maharashtra with 2061 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-ranks-3rd-in-women-unemployment-after-haryana-and-jk-101632670840753.html
26-09-2021||Other||Brahm Mohindra emerges as only power centre in Royal City||Patiala In what observers claim is the turning back of the clock by over two decades in the politics of the Royal City, Brahm Mohindra, the six-time MLA, has emerged as a ‘new’ power centre here. The Patiala Rural MLA is also local bodies minister in the new chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi’s cabinet. In former CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s cabinet, Mohindra was number two, but in Patiala, power was concentrated only in the New Moti Bagh Palace, the Capt’s residence, from where his wife, Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur, called the shots. From development works, fund allocation, and postings and transfers in Patiala, Preneet managed everything, with assistance from the former CM’s Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Amarpartap Singh Honey Sekhon. Bureaucrats had also been directed to honour Preneet’s writ. Such sweeping powers did irk some Congress MLAs in the region who even went to the extent of revolting and holding a press conference, accusing the ‘OSDs’ of interference in their domain. In spite of all this, power was not shared with the MLAs or anybody else; the New Moti Bagh Palace retained its hold on power. This has been on since 2002, with Mohindra also kept out of the loop. In fact, Mohindra was also forced to shift his constituency from Patiala to Samana in 2002, with former cabinet minister Lal Singh emerging as the new ‘Man Friday’ for Amarinder. Things turned around in the relationship between Amarinder and Mohindra in 2015, after Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa intervened and got the two senior leaders to be friends. Before this, the two were foes, and publicly so.More recently, though Mohindra was seen as next to CM Amarinder in the state government hierarchy, he still did not have the freedom to take decisions relating to Patiala, even for departments under him. Today, Mohindra is the only cabinet minister from Patiala, thus the bureaucracy has to listen to him. His position as the new power centre has been further strengthened by both Amarinder and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, the Nabha MLA, losing their hold on power. “The message is loud and clear that Mohindra is the only power centre in Patiala. It has been conveyed to the bureaucracy in no uncertain terms. Protocol also dictates that officers are bound to follow the directions of cabinet ministers. Officials has been told to do work of MLAs in their respective areas without any outside interference,” said an official. A Congress worker said, “This is same position which Mohindra held before the entry of Amarinder into the Congress in 1998. He has regained power in Patiala after 25 years.” Mohindra has thanked the Congress high command, adding that his doors were open and he welcomed all Congress workers and the public to approach him for development and welfare works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/brahm-mohindra-emerges-as-only-power-centre-in-royal-city-101632669459791.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court commutes life sentence of husband as he did not intend to kill wife||The Bombay high court (HC) recently commuted the life imprisonment sentence of a man, who was convicted for murdering his wife, to eight years after it was informed that the man had not intended to kill his wife when he assaulted her with a pestle. The HC, while hearing the appeal against the conviction by the trial court, was informed that as the wife had refused to return to her matrimonial home and resolve the dispute, the husband hit her with whatever came in his hand.The HC held that in such circumstances the offence could not be considered without keeping in mind the emotions involved. Court added that as the man had lost his self-control and had assaulted her in a fit of rage he could not be convicted for murder. The court, however, held that as the offence was a culpable homicide, it sentenced him to eight years of rigorous imprisonment.The division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice Sarang Kotwal while hearing the appeal of Ankush Chavan was informed by court-appointed lawyer advocate Lokesh Zade that the October 2016 conviction by the Islampur sessions court was based on the premise that Chavan had assaulted his wife with the intent of killing her, which was not the case. Zade further submitted that the FIR for an offence under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Chavan was registered based on the complaint by the deceased woman’s sister. Zade argued that as Chavan’s wife had left her matrimonial home and was living with her sister, Chavan had only gone to his sister-in-law’s house to convince her to return to her matrimonial home. However, after the wife refused to accompany him, in a fit of rage Chavan had assaulted her which led to her death. Hence, Chavan had neither premeditated the murder nor had he intended to kill his wife the conviction and sentence should be set aside.Chavan and his wife were married in 2002 and had three children. According to the complaint, the deceased woman had disclosed to her sister that Chavan suspected her character and on one occasion had threatened to kill her. Fed up with the nagging by the husband since their marriage the wife left her matrimonial home and went to the house of the sister on April 18, 2015. Chavan had lodged a missing person complaint the next day and gone to his sister-in-law’s house on April 20 suspecting that his wife was there and that is when the fatal incident occurred.The additional public prosecutor, however, argued that the trial court had taken into consideration all aspects of the incident and based on the deposition by witnesses had convicted Chavan for murder and hence there was no need for the HC to interfere with the order.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that Chavan was insisting upon his wife to return to her rightful matrimonial abode with a hope that the crises would be ironed. However, as the wife denied the offer he felt that there was no hope that his wife would return with him and being enraged and deprived of self-control, had assaulted his wife with whatever was available just nearby. “In these circumstances, it would be necessary to read the mind of the offender and not consider the offence devoid of emotions,” the bench noted in its judgement.In light of this observation the court held that the offence would not fall under section 302 but section 304 (Whoever causes the death of any person by doing any rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide) and set aside the sessions court order and commuted the life imprisonment sentence to eight years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-commutes-life-sentence-of-husband-as-he-did-not-intend-to-kill-wife-101632668259673.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai hospital’s 2018 projects help maintain medical records of 23K Covid patients||A critical Covid-19 patient has to undergo several diagnostic tests daily in a hospital. Maintaining essential reports of thousands of Covid-19 patients is an uphill task for the already overwhelmed medical staffers. However, amid the pandemic, a pilot project of BYL Nair Hospital, Mumbai Central that was initially implemented in 2018 — Hospital Management Information System (HMIS) — has provided a sigh of relief to the healthcare workers (HCWs). The project was widely criticised by doctors in 2018. All the medical documents including prescriptions, discharge summary, bed count, X-ray films and CT scans are maintained online with individual unique health identity (UHID) cards of the patients.HMIS is an ambitious project of BMC that is aimed at revamping the structures of the hospitals. Easy to maintain recordsUnder this, ₹100 crore worth system, all the data starting from the medical records and reports will be made online across the civic-run hospitals. Under the pilot project, over 700 high tech Lenovo computers were brought in 2018 to replace the old ones at Nair Hospital to run HMIS. The application has been developed in a joint venture of the IT department of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Nair Hospital, Inspira Enterprise Private limited, Manorama Info Solutions Limited, Med synaptic Private Limited and Dynacons systems and solutions Limited.Since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, over seven lakh individuals have contracted Covid-19 in the city and almost 20% of them have procured treatment in civic-run hospitals. Amid the overflowing of patients during the first and second wave, the medical staffers, especially the nurses, struggled to maintain the records of the patients. Often due to the manpower crunch, several doctors complained of getting the reports from the radiology and laboratory late, which are essential in providing timely treatment to Covid-19 patients.However, the HMIS in Nair Hospital eased up the work of the HCWs.In the last 18 months, the HMIS of the hospital has stored medical records of 23,293 Covid-19 patients. Of these, 449 of them were outpatient department (OPD), 11,159 were inpatient department (IPD) and 11,685 of the patients were in an emergency ward.“With the growing number of Covid-19 patients, it is important to digitally record all patients. For enhanced management of Covid-19 crisis, HMIS is also enabled with different dashboards and advanced analytical reporting that provides a summarised as well as a detailed view of hospital departmental statistics like total registered cases, hospital beds occupancy, symptomatic and discharged patients,” said Dr Ramesh Bharamal, dean of the hospital.Facilitate faster, safer diagnosis of patientsThe radiology department is directly connected with the software which helps in faster and more efficient reporting. Through an advanced technology— Picture Archiving and Communication System, the reports of the CT-scan, X-ray, sonography among others are directly uploaded on the system. This has helped in reducing the dependency on the manpower strength and wastage of the films.“As we have seen, the health condition of a Covid-19 patient can deteriorate suddenly within a few minutes. So, this requires time detection of the health complications of the patient. Now, as the laboratory and radiology department are synced with the system, doctors are being able to access the reports quicker on their desktop, without waiting for the HCWs to physically procure those,” said Dr Sarika Chapane, nodal officer of HMIS.All patients are provided with UHID cards that hold their individual unique number with barcode numbers. The cards also have the name of the patients, locality, age, gender and contact number.Not only that, the record of the daily usage of medicines is being maintained online under the sales registry. The data is uploaded online with the drugs’ batch number, quantity with the UHID number of patients. This helps in maintaining transparency and curb cases of malpractice in the hospital. Due to these live updates, the hospital is able to keep a tab on the availability of drugs and their shortages.In OPD, the patients according to their UHID numbers are separated into new and follow up wards. The hospital has also installed over 15 LED TVs in OPDs which are linked with HMIS. The screens keep updating the patients in the waiting area when they are due for the checkup with their names and UHID numbers.“Amid the pandemic, it is essential to maintain the social distance in the OPD. So, with this system in place, we have been able to disperse the crowd,” said Dr Chapane.The UHID cards have played a pivotal role in reducing the physical contact of the HCWs with the suspected patients on OPD.“So, with the scanning of the barcode on UHID cards, the on-duty doctors or nurses on OPD can see all the detailed medical reports on the desktop without touching the physical files of the patients, this has helped in controlling the spread of the infection,” said Dr Chapane.With the successful implementation of HMIS at Nair Hospital, the system has also been initiated in other civic-run hospitals like Dr RN Cooper in Juhu, Rajawadi in Ghatkopar, Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivli and Kasturba Gandhi Hospital in Chinchpokli.In 2018, when the system was initiated, medicos refused to use it without data operating officers. The doctors at Nair Hospital claimed it would only add up to their workload.But now, amid the pandemic, the hospital hasn’t received any such opposition.“When a doctor is new, the data operating officer assists him/her for some time. But eventually, the doctors themselves have to upload the details of the patients. Doctors are also being trained to provide printed prescriptions to the patients in OPD through the system,” said Dr Chapane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hospital-s-2018-projects-help-maintain-medical-records-of-23k-covid-patients-101632668079277.html
26-09-2021||Other||Delhi trader 3rd to be arrested by Pune cybercrime cell in fake MyLabs domain case||PUNE: A trader from Delhi has been arrested by the Pune cybercrime cell for advertising a fake domain named MyLabs to make it look like the Covid-19 home testing kits approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are available on the website for less. The man has been identified as Bhavesh Paswan who has his own trading business in the name of Paswan Import Export, according to the police. Two men from Jamnagar, Gujarat - Sanskar Sankrit alias Rishi, 19; and Prashant Singh alias Guddu, 24 – have already been arrested and will remain in police custody till Monday, making Paswan’s arrest the third one in the case. Paswan allegedly helped the two men arrested earlier. Senior police inspector Dagdu Hake said,A cybercrime cell official said, “Sankrit and Singh approached Paswan in order to get an advertisement on facebook for cheap home testing kits. They told him to channel the customers he got from the advertisement toward them for 1% of the money they made. Paswan did get some enquiries but so far, it does not seem like anybody fell for the scam.”Sankrit and Singh had purchased a domain named mylabsales.com and made up an email id called chetanrawal@mylabsales.com for the purpose of conning people. They were trying to use the reputation of Mylabs Discovery Solutions Private Limited to push their product, Coviself, supposedly a home testing antigen test to detect whether one has Covid-19 or not.A case under sections 420 (cheating), 465, 468, 471 (forgery), 109 (punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with sections 66(c) and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-trader-3rd-to-be-arrested-by-pune-cybercrime-cell-in-fake-mylabs-domain-case-101632667420855.html
26-09-2021||Lucknow||UPPCL serves charge sheets on 23 engineers||The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) management has served charge sheets on 23 engineers and three clerks, all of whom are accused of having caused a huge revenue loss to the corporation by issuing a large number of temporary power connections in gross violation of rules in Gautam Buddha Nagar district under the Meerut discom. All the 23 engineers were last week transferred from Noida and Greater Noida to far-off districts in eastern UP while the three clerks were shifted within the Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL), also called the Meerut discom. The action comes amid the power engineers regularly holding protests every day in the 18 districts under PVVNL and the UP Rajya Vidyut Parishad Abhiyanta Sangh, an engineers’ body, threatening a state-wide stir against what they term as the “arbitrary” transfer of 23 engineers. UPPCL chairman M Devraj said charge sheets were served on all the accused and further action would be taken against them, depending on how they defend themselves in the reply that they had been asked to file to the charges framed against them. “On Saturday, we served charge sheets on 23 engineers and three clerks, asking them to respond to the charges within three weeks,” he said. “All the accused will get sufficient opportunity of being heard before the competent authorities take further departmental action against them,” he added. Devraj said that a three-member probe committee found that 23 engineers and three clerks issued temporary electricity connections, throwing all the norms to the winds to illegally benefit the consumers concerned while causing huge revenue loss the corporation. The accused include 12 junior engineers and three executive engineers. Temporary power connections, under the rules, are issued for the purpose of construction of house, building and attract a higher tariff than the regular connections that later replace temporary ones after the constriction is over. According to the UPPCL chief, all types of irregularities were committed in issuing temporary power connections in GB Nagar. “For example, connections of lower KWs (kilowatts) were issued for construction of huge buildings where connections of greater KWs needed to be given,” he said.All the 23 engineers, Devraj said, were moved out of the Meerut discom and the three clerks transferred within the same discom on the basis of the probe committee’s findings. He dismissed the Abhiyanta Sangh’s allegations that the accused were transferred without any prior probe. UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Avadhesh Kumar Verma, in the meantime, on Sunday claimed that irregularities in issuing temporary power connections in Noida must have caused the corporation a revenue loss to the extent of ₹100 crore. “We demand the state government intervene into the matter and appoint an independent probe committee to conduct a fair conduct investigation and punish the guilty,” he demanded. “We also demand the government to ensure that the relevant files and documents are taken into safe custody lest the accused destroy the evidence,” Verma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcl-serves-charge-sheets-on-23-engineers-101632665919120.html
26-09-2021||Other||Hinjewadi land scam: Additional sessions court rejects bail plea of 2 accused in ₹7.76 crore case||PUNE PR Ashturkar, judge presiding over the additional sessions court in Pune, rejected the bail application of Chand Mulani in connection with the ₹7.76 crore Hinjewadi Waqf land-scam case. Mulani and another accused identified as Imtiyaz Shaikh have been booked under various sections of IPC related to fraud and cheating by the Bund Garden police after a complaint was lodged by Pune Regional Officer of the Maharashtra Wakf Board.The judge in his order stated: “At the outset it is necessary to mention here that the issue regarding title/ownership or even trusteeship cannot be decided in the present proceeding. Though much is argued regarding the status of property, from perusal of the papers furnished by the police, it can be seen that, by way of Government Resolution the property of the Trust was declared as ‘Wakf Property’. The documents prima facie clearly indicate that the applicant and Imtiyaz forged a ‘no-objection certificate’ allegedly issued by the Wakf Authority. The main point of concern, at this stage, is transfer of a huge amount of compensation to a private account belonging to Imtiyaz Shaikh. The investigation is in progress. The applicant had played a major role in the entire process. He must be well aware about the documentary evidence. In such a situation, if at this stage, the applicant would be released on bail, the possibility cannot be ruled out that he may hamper or tamper prosecution evidence. Thus, it is not desirable to release applicants on bail at this juncture. Hence the application stands rejected.” The state prosecutor had earlier argued that the role played by Mulani is clearly revealed. He not only impersonated one of the office bearers of the trust, but also aided prime accused Imtiyaz to siphon crores of rupees of the government. The FIR lodged at the Bund Garden police station claims the duo allegedly impersonated the president and secretary of a trust which owns prime Waqf land in Maan near Hinjewadi, and accepted ₹7.76 crore after land acquisition for the fourth phase of the Rajiv Gandhi IT Park. The FIR states that the Tabut Inam Endowment Trust, which is registered with the Waqf board, owns eight hectares in Maan village of Mulshi taluka, Pune district. The government was scheduled to give around ₹9.64 crore to the trust and accordingly sanctioned and released ₹7.73 crore.The Waqf board received a complaint from the trust that they did not receive any compensation from the state . During an enquiry by the deputy collector (land acquisition), it was revealed that the accused, Shaikh and Mulani, had posed as the trust’s president and secretary and submitted a forged document of the Waqf board giving its consent to their appointments, after which the collector’s office released the amount to them instead of the bonafide trust members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hinjewadi-land-scam-additional-sessions-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-2-accused-in-7-76-crore-case-101632665559108.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Teen biker killer in Palghar highway mishap||Aditya Balasubramaniyam, 18, a resident of Andheri East, was killed as an unidentified container truck allegedly ran him over at the Charoti bridge on Mumbai-Ahmedabad National Highway No. 48 on Sunday morning. The victim was with a group of 20 bikers who had ventured out for a regular weekend ride on the highway. Aditya was riding a KTM Duke 390 Superbike-MH47 F 3317 when he lost control. The teenager came under the rear wheels of the truck, said a Kasa police officer. The victim was proceeding to a hotel near Amboli in Talasari with the other bikers and was to return to Mumbai the same evening, said the officer. “We have registered a case under Section 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code (causing death by negligence) against the unidentified truck driver. The post-mortem report is awaited,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/teen-biker-killer-in-palghar-highway-mishap-101632665139214.html
26-09-2021||Dehradun||Tehri reservoir reaches full capacity for the first time||The Tehri reservoir located in Uttarakhand’s Tehri Dam Project on Friday reached full reservoir capacity of 830m for the first time, THDC India limited said in a statement.“This day shall be remembered as the beginning of a new era in the history of the Tehri dam project from where it started delivering the maximum intended benefits to the society fully,” the company said. The company also thanked Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and state irrigation minister Satpal Maharaj. It said that Maharaj acknowledged the situation of wastage of national resources in view of restricted impoundment of the reservoir and granted the permission to fill the reservoir to its full capacity.The dam’s power plant provides 1000MW of peaking power and more than 3000 million units of energy annually to the northern grid, of which 12% goes to Uttarakhand, free of cost.The permission to fill the reservoir to 830 metre was given last month by the state government. “The reservoir touched elevation level (EL) 828m on September 11 and thereafter filling was done at 0.30m in 48 hrs to reach EL(+) 830m on September 24,” the company said.The Tehri reservoir is the first earth and rockfill dam of such height in India. “THDCIL took every precaution, reviewed available literature about the initial filling of high dams worldwide and consulted eminent hydro project experts to frame the dam filling program along with the program of regular monitoring of the structures through instruments installed and geodetic observations,” the company said.The Tehri Dam project was conceived in 1949. The THDC India Ltd was brought in to finish the project. The company said that it took cognisance of the issues and impact on quality of water and environment due to the dam and set up panels to examine it. “Several government departments and panels of eminent scientists and experts were constituted to deliberate these issues and after their recommendations, construction of the main dam started in 1990 with raising of the upstream cofferdam. Seismic safety of the dam was again reviewed by the Indian and Russian experts,” the company further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/tehri-reservoir-reaches-full-capacity-for-the-first-time-101632664352817.html
26-09-2021||Pune||Forest department confiscates PMC’s water pipes from NIBM- Mohammadwadi area over permission imbroglio||PUNE The forest department, last week, confiscated a number of pipes belonging to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The pipes were picked up from the NIBM- Mohammadwadi area, where it was to be laid underground as part of the city’s 24x7 water supply project. M J Sanas, range forest officer (Hadapsar division), said, “We confiscated the water pipes and other material as it was being laid underground in the area which belongs to the forest department. The road belongs to the forest department. We had informed them (PMC) in advance that they should seek permission. They did not, forcing us to take action.” PMC’s water supply chief Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “The site in question is a tar road where underground cables of different service providers have already been laid. No board was put up stating it belonged to the forest department, so we went ahead without realising that it was forest land. The work is part of the PMC’s 24x7 scheme aimed at providing water to the NIBM and Mohammadwadi areas. The issue will be resolved amicably.” The road in question is located between Anandvan and the Gaibi Peer dargah. Nana Bhangire, a corporator from Mohammadwadi, Prabhag 26, said, “It is mandatory to take permission from the forest department before doing any work. It seems that the PMC proceeded without permission, but we will take up the issue with the forest department and ensure that the issue is resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forest-department-confiscates-pmc-s-water-pipes-from-nibm-mohammadwadi-area-over-permission-imbroglio-101632663818965.html
26-09-2021||Other||Amritsar war heroes memorial to get 8th gallery on Punjab’s role in world wars||Amritsar The Punjab government has released ₹10.8 crore for the construction of the 8th gallery at the state-of-the-art Punjab State War Heroes Memorial-cum-Museum in the holy city of Amritsar. The gallery, dedicated to Punjab’s history and glorious contribution to the World War-I and World War-II, will also display the history of the Battle of Saragarhi and the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Once work starts, the new gallery will be ready in two months, officials claim. The other seven galleries in the memorial, inaugurated in 2016 by the then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, are dedicated to the civilisation of Punjab and its brave warriors; the Battle of Alexander and Porus; the Rise of the Sikh Empire and the Anglo-Sikh wars; the Battle of Jammu and Kashmir in 1947-48; Indo-China war (1962); Indo-Pak war (1965); Indo-Pak war (1971); the liberation of Bangladesh, and the Kargil war (1999). Constructed at a cost of ₹150 crore and spread over 7 acre on the Amritsar-Attari road, the memorial was reopened for visitors in June after being closed for a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have got ₹10.8 crore from the state government for the memorial, including the construction work of the high-tech gallery depicting the glory and contribution of Punjab and its people during the World War-I and World War-II. A Delhi-based private firm is being hired. The gallery’s work, once started, will be completed in two months. The art work in the gallery will offer vivid experience,” said Col HP Singh (retired), project director of the memorial. The authorities are also spending nearly ₹1 crore on the construction of a ‘Wall of Honour’ in the memorial. In 2018, the authorities had announced that the names of 4,000 fallen soldiers of Punjab, who have laid down their lives in wars since the country’s Independence, and 54 those who have been missing since the first Indo-Pakistan war (1947-48), will be inscribed on stainless steel plates. The plates will then be affixed on the boundary walls of fountains inside the memorial. Sources said ₹8 crore will be available for use soon, with some amount to be spent on the promotion of the memorial. According to the Punjab tourism department, of over 50,000 people visiting Amritsar a day, only between 8,00 and 1,000 persons also visit the memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-war-heroes-memorial-to-get-8th-gallery-on-punjab-s-role-in-world-wars-101632663759048.html
26-09-2021||Pune||PMC opens swimming pools for all vaccinated with both Covid doses||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued an order allowing all swimmers who have taken both Covid-19 vaccine doses to be allowed to use swimming pools in the city. The PMC order states that swimming pools within societies, clubs, and at sports complexes can allow entry to citizens who have taken both doses of the vaccine. The order is also applicable for the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) and the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB). “As order came yesterday (Saturday), we have opened the swimming pool for people today (Sunday). An earlier order allowing athletes to use the pools came on September 17, so our pools are ready. The decision will benefit senior citizens who have advised water therapy to recover from health issues,” said Amit Golwalkar, secretary, Tilak Tank. “In the last two years many swimmers have been facing health issues as they were not able to swim, which was part of their daily routine,” added Golwalkar. Narendra Achrekar, coach at the Harmony Aquatic Club, said, “The winter season is the off-season for swimmers. So only regulars will be back in the pools. The decision will be beneficial for trainers as they will be able to work again.” Vandana Joshi, who had been advised to walk in the water for her knee problems said, “My other medicines had increased since I was not able to access a swimming pool. I will be starting regular therapy again from Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-opens-swimming-pools-for-all-vaccinated-with-both-covid-doses-101632663579161.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court appoints receiver on property of deceased man after mother alleges usurpation by daughter-in-law||The Bombay high court (HC) while holding that the mother has an equal right in the property of her son at par with the wife and children of the deceased son, recently appointed an interim receiver to take symbolic possession of the numerous properties in the name of the deceased man. The HC appointed the receiver after it was informed that the deceased man’s wife and children had already alienated properties worth ₹1.85 crores and were neither responding nor appearing before the HC and the petitioner mother had an apprehension that her daughter-in-law would alienate her from the entire estate in her son’s name. The HC also directed the issuance of an advertisement in an English and regional newspaper to ensure that the wife and children were sufficiently informed of the case. The single-judge bench of justice Gautam Patel, while hearing the interim application in the testamentary petition of 80-year-old Premlatha Amin was informed by advocates Zubin Behramkamdin and Bahraiz Irani that the petitioner’s son Minil Kumar Amin had died intestate at Udipi in Karnataka in April 2021. The advocates further informed the court that though the properties and estate of the deceased had to be shared between the mother, wife and son equally, the wife was trying to usurp the share of the octogenarian, hence the interim application was filed to restrain the wife from transferring the assets in the name of the deceased to her name. The advocates also informed the bench that though the wife and son of the deceased had been informed of the case they had not appeared before the court, hence a Receiver should be appointed till the petition was decided. According to the petition the deceased Minil was working as a brand manager of a company in Kuwait since the 1990’s and based on his earnings had bought substantial properties in Mumbai and outside. He was married and had a son who was studying in the US. The petition states that Minil and his wife had a strained relationship as a result of which Minil’s had contracted many ailments. Due to the ailments he retired from his job and returned to India in October 2020. The petitions state that after his return, Minil’s wife did not allow the mother to meet or speak to him and finally in April 2021 when the mother came to know that her son’s health had deteriorated she took the help of her daughter and decided to go to Udipi. That is when Minil’s wife informed his brother that Minil had died. Thereafter, the mother had written to all the bank and housing societies where her son had bank accounts and properties informing them of Minil’s death and a request to not transfer anything in the name of the wife as a petition was pending in HC. The advocates informed the bench that despite the letters, one of the banks had allowed the wife to transfer ₹1.85 crore to herself. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that though the wife and son of the deceased had been informed of the case they had failed to be present through video conferencing and hence said, “I believe it will be necessary to take certain protective steps regarding the estate to ensure that it is preserved and, at the same time, to ensure that any case the Respondents may want to put forward is not prejudiced. But the one thing that is unacceptable is for the Respondents to defeat the Petitioner’s claim by remaining absent.” The court while granting one more opportunity for the wife and son to appear appointed an ad-interim Receiver to take symbolic possession of the immovable and movable properties in Mumbai and also directed the mother to serve notice of the petition through advertisements in an English and a regional paper to the wife and son and posted hearing of the interim application and petition to October 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-appoints-receiver-on-property-of-deceased-man-after-mother-alleges-usurpation-by-daughterinlaw-101632663458921.html
26-09-2021||Lucknow||Carcass of tigress found in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve area||The carcass of a tigress was recovered from the Mailani range forests in the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) area near Chhedipur village on the Gola-Pilibhit road here on Sunday, an official said. This is the third tiger casualty this year in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh.Field director (DTR) Sanjay Kumar Pathak said, “The carcass of a tigress, estimated to be one to two years’ old, was recovered from the Bharigawan beat of the Mailani range near Chhedipur village along the Gola-Pilibhit road on Sunday.”“All vital organs of the tigress were found intact, barring some abrasion marks on the carcass indicating the casualty due to some road accident,” he added.The field director also said, “The exact cause of death can be ascertained only after a post-mortem examination by a team of experts from the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Bareilly.”“The autopsy would be carried out as per National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines,” he added.Meanwhile, the Mailani range forest officials visited the spot and took the carcass to the range headquarters for further proceedings.The DTR field director also reached the spot and carried out a preliminary investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/carcass-of-tigress-found-in-dudhwa-tiger-reserve-area-101632662138974.html
26-09-2021||Kolkata||At Bhawanipore, campaign is multifaceted in Banerjee vs Tibrewal contest||A daily routine for Anirban Sarkar, a sales executive, having Punjab-style tea at Balwant Singh’s Eating House after a morning walk has become quite a different experience ever since Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee and her challenger, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) youth leader Priyanka Tibrewal, started campaigning for the September 30 Bhawanipore assembly bypoll. “The popular eatery on Harish Mukherjee Road seems to be on every politician’s radar because they get to interact with voters from all backgrounds. Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri came to offer prayers at Gurdwara Sant Kutiya located next door. Bhawanipore is often referred to as mini India because of its population. The constituency is home to Kolkata’s oldest Sikh families as well as Gujaratis, Marwaris, Odiyas and Biharis,” said Sarkar. “As a voter, I felt bad when the chief minister did not contest her old seat during the March-April polls. After she was defeated by the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandirgram, I somehow knew that she would contest again from Bhawanipore. Minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won the seat, resigned from the assembly to make way for her. Somehow, the campaigning is far more intense than what we saw when Chattopadhyay was fielded,” Sarkar added. Kuldip Singh, whose family has been running a business for 40 years near the century-old Jadu Babu Bazar on Asutosh Mukherjee Road, said, “Not a single day has passed when politicians from both sides have not knocked on the doors of voters. The agitation in Punjab and Haryana against the Centre’s farm laws is being highlighted by the TMC. Many national issues are figuring in the local election.”Spread over a part of the constituency, Odiya para - a neighbourhood named so decades ago when plumbers and car mechanics from Odisha permanently settled down - has witnessed BJP leaders making multiple trips since last week. “Sambit Patra (BJP national spokesperson) distributed leaflets and said as an Odiya he closely relates to Bengali culture,” said Ramesh Behera, who works at a garage on Dr Rajendra Road.Campaign in the constituency has been vitriolic and passionate with the BJP attacking Banerjee of being pro-minority and riddled in corruption. The CM has sought every single vote and claimed these votes would show the BJP’s its place in West Bengal. Although two other assembly constituencies are going to polls in the state, the most ferocious campaign is happening in Bhawanipore. Vote for Bhawanipore will take place on September 30 along with Samserganj and Jangipur assembly seats in Murshidabad district. The state Congress has not fielded anyone following instructions from the national leadership that apparently wanted to offer a good gesture to Mamata Banerjee in the wake of her efforts to unite national and regional forces against the BJP. The CPI(M) has fielded Srijib Biswas, a low-profile candidate.BJP and TMC leaders said the possibility of a low turnout, a regular feature of bypolls, is not ruled out. Of the 2,06,389 voters in the constituency, only 1,26,592 visited polling stations on April 26 when the state assembly polls happened and 784 exercised their franchise through postal ballot. Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay won and later resigned to vacate the seat for Banerjee. Chattopadhyay won the seat by securing 57.71% votes while BJP candidate, actor Rudranil Ghosh, a debutant in politics, came second with 35.16%. With 5211 votes, the Congress came third while people who did not want to vote for any party and pressed the NOTA (none of the above) button accounted for 1570 votes, the fourth largest in the final tally. According to TMC and BJP leaders, more than 20% of people in Bhawanipore are Muslims while Sikhs and non-Bengali speaking Hindus comprise around 34% of the local population. Of the eight civic body wards in this assembly segment, non-Bengali speaking Hindus comprise almost half the population in three wards. Calcutta high court lawyer Tibrewal, who has been tirelessly walking from door to door, said, “It is wrong to assume that BJP is concentrating only on areas that have more non-Bengali speaking voters. We are reaching out to all. I was born and brought up in Kolkata. I am a Bengali like anybody else.” Though Tibrewal speaks Bengali, albeit with an accent, leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, and the BJP’s new state president Sukanta Majumdar are shuttling in and around Bhawanipore every day. To draw public sympathy, the BJP is highlighting the post-poll violence which, it claims, has taken the lives of 52 workers and leaders till September 22. On Saturday, the BJP held a demonstration with 40 of these families near Hazra Park where the chief minister was assaulted by a Left worker in 1990 when she was a youth Congress leader. The incident catapulted her image. Adhikari has held back-to-back meetings at civic ward No 79 in the Chetla area where Hindu Bengalis comprise the largest chunk of the population. “A cat doesn’t climb a tree unless compelled,” he quipped at a meeting, taking a dig at the TMC’s hectic campaigning. Though Banerjee won the Bhawanipore assembly seat in 2011 and 2016, TMC trailed the BJP in two civic wards in these polls. Although the margins were wafer-thin, the ruling party has kept history in mind. “We have to ensure that Mamata Banerjee wins by a margin of at least 0.1 million votes,” the chief minister’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said at a public meeting on Sunday evening when the two campaigned together for the first time. Banerjee has entrusted eight senior party leaders and ministers to monitor the campaign in the eight civic wards. Among them, transport and housing minister Firhad Hakim, a trusted lieutenant of the chief minister, is the most visible. “All voters want Mamata Banerjee because she is the only formidable force against the BJP,” said Hakim. Union minister Smriti Irani, who speaks Bengali and even played the lead in a Tollywood movie during her acting career, campaigned on Saturday in civic ward No 72 where Bengalis are in the majority. With security and Covid protocols stopping her from campaigning on the streets, the chief minister is addressing at least one public meeting in the afternoon or evening after leaving Nabanna, the state secretariat. With Durga Puja, Bengal’s biggest festival, less than a month away and pandals being set up on the streets, Banerjee is reminding voters that before the assembly polls the BJP’s national leadership accused her of not allowing Hindus to organize Durga Puja. “You (BJP) come and see how people from all religions observe their festivals in Bengal. Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Jains live as equals here,” Banerjee said on Friday at a meeting in civic ward No 71 where Bengali Hindus outnumber others. On Saturday, while addressing a meeting in ward No 63 where Muslims live in large numbers, she said, “Our state ranks first when it comes to awarding scholarships to minority students. People used to think they only study in madrasas. More than 0.1 million Muslim students have opted for higher education. They are becoming doctors, engineers and Indian Administrative Service officers. This makes the country proud.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/at-cosmopolitan-bhawanipore-campaign-is-multifaceted-in-banerjee-vs-tibrewal-contest-101632660640154.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||MoEFCC seeks attention towards construction in Powai lake||For the second time in less than two months, the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) has taken cognisance of alleged violations of environmental law at Powai lake in the city and has directed the government of Maharashtra to “take appropriate action in the matter” and intimate the ministry of the same. The MoEFCC had in August responded to a complaint by a student at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) and asked the state to submit a report on a cycling track being built around the lake, which environmentalists have alleged poses a threat to the ecology of the area. The state’s response in the matter is yet to be submitted.Now, responding to yet another complaint raised by a Omkar Mahadeo Supekar, a PhD student at IIT-B (which abuts the lake), the MoEFCC on September 21 wrote to the principal secretary, Maharashtra forest department, seeking “immediate attention towards construction activities in the ecologically sensitive water catchment area of Powai Lake”. The directive was issued by CB Tahsildar, assistant inspector general of forests (Central) at the MoEFCC’s Integrated Regional Office in Nagpur.In a letter to the Centre on September 6, Supekar highlighted that three of his representations in the matter have not yet been responded to by concerned authorities. Supekar also wrote that “The construction activities fall within 100 metres of the riparian area and will affect the waterbody and ecosystem of Powai Lake”. He also said that a “gabion structure” currently built on-site, to facilitate further construction, “is not at all eco-friendly since it does not provide any space for water percolation and the water permeability is very less. The sand and stone dumped on this structure hardly allow the water to reach the ground.”The has also invited objections from environmentalists, who said that forest and wildlife clearances for the project have not been granted despite being mandatory. In a letter last month, addressed to officials from the Union environment ministry, the central and state pollution control bodies and the state forest and wildlife departments, Stalin D, wetlands committee member and director of non-governmental organisation (NGO) Vanashakti, wrote, “The lake is home to the Indian marsh crocodile, a Schedule 1 protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972... the National Board for wildlife and forest departments have not given any clearance... for this activity.”Local authorities, including the BMC, MPCB and the forest department are yet to respond to any submissions in the matter. A member of the forest department, seeking anonymity, said that since the matter has been referred to a high-level authority, i.e. the principal secretary (forests), it would be resolved at that level. “We have not been given any instruction at a regional level to initiate any action against the work,” the official said.In addition to these construction activities, citizens and environmentalists have also recently highlighted other alleged violations that pose a threat to the lake’s ecosystem. Earlier this month, an MCGM contractor was found to be spraying glyphosate-containing herbicides to rid the lake of water hyacinths, which could pose adverse toxicological effects on aquatic flora and fauna. Last week, it was also alleged that an MCGM contractor was dumping discarded Ganesh idols in the lake after Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations.Ajay Rathore, chief engineer, hydraulics department of BMC, did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment, as did Ajit Kumar Ambi, assistant municipal commissioner, S ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/moefcc-seeks-attention-towards-construction-in-powai-lake-101632657940692.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Villages in Thane district set to get cleaner, greener||From advancing to a plastic-free village to adopting new farming technologies, over 431 villages in Thane district are going towards a clean and green future in the next three months. In an initiative taken by Zilla Parishad (ZP) to ensure villages have clean toilets and roads, attractively painted walls, the village youngsters have now taken up the task of painting the walls, planning proper drainage systems, cleaning the streets and chowks among others. The district has five talukas - Murbad, Shahapur, Bhiwandi, Kalyan and Ambernath - where the initiative is implemented. ZP has given 100 days to these villages to make a change in the village, on January 26, the cleanest and greenest village will be awarded. ZP PRO, Pankaj Chavhan said, “All villages have joined their hands for this initiative. Our main motto is to educate them about different styles of composting, good drainage systems, segregation of the garbage, cleanliness and beautiful stain-free walls. We will guide them all and with their own ideas, they have to make a better village. Whichever village will use this opportunity best, will win the competition by January 26.” Tokawade village in Murbad is aiming for a plastic-free village. Shalu Thorat, 45, resident of the village said, “We are inculcating the habit of replacing plastic among all villagers. We are also repairing the drainage system in the village and painting the walls to ensure they are not stained with paan stains.” In Shahpur village, resident Jagdish Pawar, said, “We usually plant only rice, however, we are trying to adopt many different crops and trying new farming techniques. We have been arranging workshops for the same. Apart from this, the bus stop condition is really bad in our area which we will clean. We are going to clean all socially used premises in the vicinity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/villages-in-thane-district-set-to-get-cleaner-greener-101632657939448.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: What must you read in a mutual fund before investing in it?||Since the start of this year, asset management companies have announced roughly 100 new mutual funds with each fund catering to different investors with distinct risk profiles. Many of the new fund offerings (NFO) were cheaper with low net asset values (NAVs). Offers of low NAV have enticed many laymen investors blissfully unaware of the details that must be looked into before investing in mutual funds. While a low NAV justifies the rupee cost averaging approach and helps accumulate more units initially, there are hard facts that one must not ignore while reading a fund to evaluate its prospects. Mutual funds differ because of portfolios and risk-return valuations, so before you purchase one, you need to assess and evaluate these aspects:Check for different risk levelsThe risk factor is different for all mutual fund categories. You must check if the mutual fund is very risky, moderately risk or entails low to moderate risk. For example, many people unable to trace and track stock market movements prefer investing in equity mutual funds. Though these are less risky than direct investments in shares and stock, they come with a certain quantum of risk. Before investing in any mutual fund, check for the inherent risk in the pictorial representation of the risk called riskometer. Every mutual fund scheme has a level of risk assigned to it in the riskometer – view that carefully before investing.Portfolio mattersUsually, we talk about portfolios while planning an investment basket or investing in our choice of stocks as per our risk appetite. But did you know that you must also check the portfolio of a mutual fund to check the sector it is invested in the most? Take for instance two midcap funds. Axis Midcap Fund focuses more on financial services sector with up to 17.49% invested in those stocks, while IT stocks constitute 13.97 % of the total allocation. Compared to this, Kotak Emerging Equity Fund has no IT stock and its investment in financial services sector is 12.47 % of its total portfolio allocation. Knowing the sectors that a mutual fund invests in allows you to make informed decisions: what’s happening currently in the IT and financial sectors? How would stocks in companies from these sectors perform differently from that of the hospitality sector or any other that has been marred under the pandemic effect.Quality of stocksCheck for the quality of stocks in the portfolio. Follow the list of names of the companies and the percentage of investments made in them. For example, stocks of TCS, L&T Technology Services, IRCTC, SRF Limited, Godrej Real Estate, etc. are expected to yield higher returns in the long run owing to the nature of their businesses or enjoy monopoly status in today’s times. Check if the highest quality of stocks top the list as their presence in the portfolio reflects the ability of the fund to deliver superior returns on the amount invested. The quality of stocks in the portfolio would be reflected in the returns that underscore your portfolio performance.Direct plans versus regular plansWhile buying a mutual fund scheme, you will be given the option to choose between direct and regular mutual funds. Basically, these differ only in terms of their expense ratios. As is evident from their higher NAVs, direct plans generate higher returns compared to regular plans. The expense ratio of the former is lesser than the latter. This is because direct plans can be invested in sans any intermediaries while the regular plans involve buying through an agent or broker and hence involve commissions and brokerage charges.Consistency of returnsPast performance is not the hallmark of guaranteed returns in future. A mutual fund earning 17% returns in one year that goes down to 10% in the next year is a cause of concern. Compare this with a mutual fund that has been giving 10% returns year on year. Consistency in performance is important as it underscores the fund manager’s ability to hedge risks while earning good returns that beat inflation. A consistent fund has better chances of delivering better returns every year for a prolonged period.Fund Manager PerformancePerformance evaluation of a fund is the key to evaluating a fund manager’s skills. Superior returns of a fund reflect the skilled fund manager’s ability to manoeuvre through the oscillating stock market movement, especially, during situations like the stock market crash in March 2020. Do a background check of the fund managers attached to the mutual fund to ascertain their ability to earn high returns in sync with your financial goal.NAV performanceMany people shy away from investing in mutual funds with higher NAVs. Comparing NAVs is futile as mutual funds with the same portfolio will yield similar returns. However, some funds perform better than others or have more assets under management, thus, explaining their higher NAVs. There is a common misconception that mutual funds with lower NAV are cheaper, and hence, better. Also, just because some mutual funds have high NAVs, they must not be ignored.Periodic rebalancingNever invest in a single mutual fund alone just because its portfolio and scheme details match your financial goals. Check different mutual funds, their portfolios and decide how they can add value to your investment goals. Before you start investing, check for the asset allocation in these mutual funds. Besides, you must frequently visit to check how your mutual funds are performing. Also, do periodic rebalancing of your funds based on your new goals, which means redeem a non-performing fund to invest in a fund that promises higher valuations.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-what-must-you-read-in-a-mutual-fund-before-investing-in-it-101632655661073.html
26-09-2021||Other||Ahead of festive season, terrorist arrested in Jammu; hunt to nab 2 associates on||Ahead of the festive season, Jammu and Kashmir Police said they arrested a terrorist of The Resistance Front (TRF), an offshoot of the Lashkar-e-Taiba, near Jammu railway station on Sunday.The terrorist was identified as Sheikh Sunain Yousuf alias Raja alias Sultan, son of Mohammad Yousuf Sheikh of Gadapora in Shopian district.The nine-day long Navratri festival begins October 7 when pilgrims from across the country and abroad throng the holy cave shrine of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi in Katra.“On the basis of credible inputs about the movement of a Kashmir based terrorist to Jammu for a specific task to create terror in the area, Special Operations Group (SOG) Jammu laid special checkpoints at different locations of Jammu city,” said a police spokesperson. “During checking near railway station Jammu, a scooter rider dropped his pillion rider at some distance, about 50-60 metres behind the checkpoint, and fled away. The pillion started running towards a nearby lane. He was carrying a blue and black bag on his back. On his suspicious movement, a police party chased him and he was overpowered at some distance,” he added. On preliminary questioning, he disclosed his identity as Sheikh Sunain Yousuf alias Raja alias Sultan, son of Mohammad Yousuf Sheikh of Gadapora in Shopian. “During the search, a star pistol loaded with seven cartridges was recovered from his possession. He was put under sustained questioning on the spot by officers of the SOG Jammu,” he added. The spokesperson said, “He disclosed that he is an active terrorist of the TRF and had come to Jammu for a specific task which was not yet conveyed to him by his handlers”.He had come to Jammu on the directions of his handler Ahmed Khalid alias Hamza alias Haqparast, who is in PoK and an active handler of terrorists of the TRF outfit. “Sheikh Sunain Yousuf was also in touch with valley-based handlers through telegram and signal apps. The questioning of the arrested terrorist is going on,” he said. A hunt has been launched to nab two of his associates who provided support to him for reconnaissance.It is also believed that links of Jammu-based handlers and overground workers (OGWs) will also come to the fore. In this regard, a case FIR number 315/21 under sections 20,23,38,39 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and 7/25 of the Arms Act stands registered in Police Station Bahu Fort. Further investigation of the case is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-festive-season-terrorist-arrested-in-jammu-hunt-to-nab-2-associates-on-101632655178966.html
26-09-2021||Other||All educational institutions in Odisha to be closed on Monday as cyclone Gulab nears coast||Odisha on Sunday announced that schools and educational institutions in the 11 coastal and adjoining districts will remain closed on Monday (September 27) as cyclone Gulab is all set to hit the coast in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday night, bringing a massive amount of rainfall to at least 7 districts in its wake, officials said.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who is in New Delhi, chaired a virtual meeting and asked the chief secretary and collectors to be prepared in view of Cyclone Gulab. The state government has asked all the districts in the path of the cyclone for evacuation.Cyclonic storm Gulab, which lay centred at over northwest & adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal 160 km east of Kalingapatnam and 125 km southeast of Gopalpur by 1.30 pm, would landfall late Sunday evening, India Meteorological Department scientist Umashankar Das said.The southern Odisha district of Gajapati that is likely to be most affected has already started experiencing the initial damages. Officials said landslide at Gumma block of the district led to disruption of road communication between Namangada to Ajayagada. More than 5,000 people have been evacuated from the hillside and low lying areas of Gajapati and Koraput districts fearing a repeat of the October 2018 incident when cyclone Titli brought a copious amount of rainfall in two days causing massive landslides which resulted in 40 deaths.IMD officials said Paralakhemundi, Gumma, Mohana, R. Udayagiri and Nuagada in Gajapati district and Rayagada and Kasinagar in Rayagada district are likely to be affected the most as they come in the direct path cyclone Gulab.“Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with extremely heavy falls at one or two places very likely to occur over the districts of Ganjam, Gajapati, Kandhamal, Rayagada, Nabarangpur, Koraput and Malkangiri,” IMD scientist Das said and issued Red Warning for the districts.Officials also issued an orange warning for Puri, Khurda, Nayagarh, and Kalahandi districts with heavy to very heavy rainfall at one or two places. Yellow warnings have been issued for Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapada Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Cuttack, Boudh, Sonepur, Bolangir and Nuapada districts.Special Relief commissioner Pradeep Jena said 103 teams of fires services, 42 units of ODRAF and 24 units of NDRF have been deployed ahead of the cyclone hitting the coast. The East Coast Railway has so far cancelled 34 trains, diverted 16 trains and rescheduled 8 trains keeping the cyclone Gulab in kind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-educational-institutions-in-odisha-to-be-closed-on-monday-as-cyclone-gulab-nears-coast-101632654039784.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Man arrested for allegedly raping woman, threatening of Sakinaka victim-like assault||Chembur police have arrested a 24-year-old daily wage labourer for allegedly raping a 20-year-old woman after threatening to assault her in the same way as the Sakinaka victim, officials said. According to the Chembur police, the incident took place at 3 am on Saturday when an inebriated Dheeraj Singh stopped the victim and her friend in an alley while they were returning home.The police officers said that the victim had gone to Marine Drive for a stroll along with a male friend. At 3 am when they were returning, Singh, who is acquainted with the woman, stopped them. Officials said that Singh was holding an iron rod and when he threatened the woman and her friend, the latter fled from the spot leaving the woman alone with Singh. The accused then threatened the woman saying that he would brutalise the woman in a similar way as the Sakinaka assault victim. Under fear of the impending threat, the woman accompanied Singh to an adjacent vacant lane where he raped her.After the incident, the accused fled the spot leaving the woman. The victim then approached the Chembur police and lodged a complaint. “Two special teams were formed to nab Singh as the woman revealed his name and address. We arrested the accused and produced him before the court,” said an officer from Chembur police station.Jaikumar Suryavanshi, senior police inspector of Chembur police station, said that they were scanning the CCTV cameras of the area and have also called the woman’s male friend to record his statement.“The accused has been booked under Section 376 (punishment for rape), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code,” said Suryavanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-woman-threatening-of-sakinaka-victim-like-assault-101632651879379.html
26-09-2021||Dehradun||SC committee seeks reply on illegal felling in Corbett tiger reserve||Supreme court-constituted Central Empowered Committee has directed Uttarakhand’s chief secretary and secretary Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change to send their replies “at the earliest” on allegations of illegal felling of thousands of trees for Pakhrau tiger safari, construction of structures and water body in Corbett tiger reserve landscape, officials said. The development follows a complaint filed by Supreme Court advocate and wildlife activist Gaurav Kumar Bansal to Central Empowered Committee (CEC), a committee constituted by Supreme Court on September 20. Bansal, in his complaint, alleged that thousands of trees have been uprooted in the name of the establishment of Pakhrau tiger safari as well as in the name of construction of structures near Moregati Range office and a water body between Kalagarh and Moregati. Bansal said a tiger safari is being developed in Gujjar Sot, Pakhrau Block, Sonanadi Range, Kalagarh Division in Corbett Tiger Reserve. Responding to allegations raised in the complaint, Amarnatha Shetty, member secretary CEC in his letter dated September 24 asked both chief secretary Uttarakhand and secretary MOEFCC that “specific comments of MOEF&CC and state government of Uttarakhand in the above-said matter may please be sent to the CEC at the earliest”. Bansal said the Forest Advisory Committee of the MOEFCC had recommended the proposal only after the written assurance from Uttarakhand Forest officials that only 163 will be felled for the setting up of the tiger safari. “Contrary to its undertaking, forest department officials have uprooted thousands of trees in the name of establishment of Pakhrau Tiger Safari and that too within Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is one of the best and oldest national parks in the country. It is not only against the statutory approvals granted by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) but is also contempt of the 2001 SC order in which the apex court expressly observed that no tree whatsoever shall be felled in the Corbett Tiger Reserve by the state or anyone else”. When contacted, Rahul (who goes by his first name), director CTR said the allegations that thousands of trees were cut for the safari project is incorrect. He said all the required permissions have been sought for the project. “We look into the issues raised in the complaint and the letter of CEC and send our response accordingly” Earlier this month, Bansal had also sent a legal notice to CZA and NTCA to withdraw their “approval” for the establishment of the tiger safari in CTR. Responding to the notice, Sonali Gosh, Deputy Inspector General of Forests at Central Zoo Authority in her September 17 letter to the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) and chief wildlife warden Uttarakhand had asked them to verify facts and submit their response for further necessary action · According to the minutes of the meeting of the forest advisory committee (FAC) held on September 21, 2020, the proposal for seeking prior approval of the Centre for non-forestry use of 106.16 hectares of forest land for setting up of the Tiger Safari was recommended by the FAC on certain conditions that all conditions in the statutory approvals obtained from NTCA and CZA would be complied with and the state government would ensure the infrastructure of the tiger safari is created mainly from bamboo and other natural materials. The minutes also noted that as the construction activity over 4000 square metres is carried out under the project, the proposal does not require Environment Clearance and consequent Wildlife Clearance from the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wild Life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/sc-committee-seeks-reply-on-illegal-felling-in-corbett-tiger-reserve-101632650800613.html
26-09-2021||Patna||Union minister lauds work done by AIIMS-Patna during Covid-19||Union minister of state for health and family welfare Dr Bharti Pravin Pawar has appreciated the work done by the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS)-Patna during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. In her video message on the 10th foundation day of the institute on Saturday, she also appreciated hospital’s telemedicine service, which helped patients seek expert consultation through phone. It enabled the institute to reach out to patients in rural areas with medical consultation, e-prescription and drug oversight. Spelling out the institute’s achievements, AIIMS-Patna director Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh said 12,590 patients were admitted for treatment at the institute out of the 137,619 patients who came for consultation between April 2020 and March 2021. In addition, 1,994 Covid-19 patients were admitted at the institute, of which, 1,125 were treated and discharged. As many as 1,348 Covid-19 patients were treated by plasma therapy. The institute conducted 850,000 real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a confirmatory test for Covid-19, during the pandemic, added Dr Singh. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit president, Lok Sabha MP and member of the AIIMS-Patna institute body Dr Sanjay Jaiswal inaugurated the event in presence of BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav, Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, AIIMS-Patna president Dr NK Arora, additional secretary, Union ministry of health, Dharmendra Singh Gangwar and AIIMS-Patna founder director Dr GK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/union-minister-lauds-work-done-by-aiims-patna-during-covid19-101632650317762.html
26-09-2021||Patna||500 proxy candidates caught appearing in exam in last 5 yrs linked to Bihar||Earlier in September, a second year student of Bachelor of Dental Science (BDS) programme was held from Varanasi while writing the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET), impersonating as an aspirant. She was arrested from the examination centre and confessed to have received ₹5 lakh through her mother from a gang to appear in the prestigious examination. As she was from a poor family, she easily fell into the gang’s trap, a police officer aware of the case said. This is not an exception; a senior police officer said more than 500 such people from Bihar have been arrested from different parts of the country in the last five years. Several arrests have been made from Bihar, which has a dubious record of tampering with the examination process through question paper leaks or impersonation. Ranjit Don was perhaps the most infamous such example from Bihar, associated with serial tampering of competitive examinations.Bihar Police say a well-organised network is involved in this fraud and it preys on willing candidates and hired experts for a price. Not surprisingly, be it Vyapam scam, Railway recruitment Group D, UP service selection commission, assistant professor recruitment, UP civil court staff recruitment, Constable/PRC recruitment, SSC online competitive examination, Chandigarh transport undertaking (CTU) conductor recruitment exam or the NEET, most incidents of tampering or any other irregularity is linked to Bihar due to the presence of organised gangs that have pan-India network. Police said the gangs lure examinees for important competitive exams through their parents in exchange for a hefty sum and pay such poor students, who have qualified that examination before and are willing to appear this time on behalf of real examinees.“The network takes care of the logistics of managing question papers and tampering with admit cards in connivance with some insiders at the level of identified examination centres. As the stakes for the exams are high, both parents of candidates as well as scholars fall for the risky shortcuts,” a police official, who didn’t wish to be named, said.There have been several examinations where imposters have been found operating, including at the police recruitment examination in Sheikhpura in July this year, when 18 persons were caught while appearing in proxy, including for their relatives.Last week, eight imposters, including four girls, were caught in Patna at an examination centre for the teachers’ D.El.Ed exam—a diploma course in elementary education.Even the board examination held in February this year reported such fraud with over 65 proxy candidates getting arrested. Even in the Fauqania exam conducted by the Madarsa boss, imposters were caught appearing for their kin in the month of March. Earlier this month, a similar gang was busted when four persons were arrested while trying to tamper with the Group-D exam of the East Central Railway using hi-tech devices like Bluetooth, sophisticated earphones. They also recovered admit cards of various competitive exams, original certificates etc. from them, pointing to a larger nexus. Last year in November, over 650 real applicants, including 20 women, appearing in the physical efficiency test (PET) for recruitment of constables in Bihar police were arrested since their biometric credentials taken during the written examination did not match with those collected at the PET. Chairman of the Central Selection Board of Constable (CSBC) KS Dwivedi said the imposters might have taken the examination in place of the arrested candidates due to lapses at the examination centres.The modus operandi of the gangs has undergone change with time. Himself a former medical student, Ranjit Don was considered a mastermind of the medical entrance test leak racket. Though he was caught by the CBI in 2003, the beneficiaries of his misdeeds were said to have spread nationwide by then.Reportedly, he made hundreds of crores by helping thousands of undeserving doctors, engineers, MBAs and bankers to get into the mainstream. He proved that no examination system in the country was foolproof. “Now, question-leak is fraught with huge risk due to improved systems and so arrangements are made for tampering the exams real-time through solvers and imposters with the help of managed exam centres.“The imposters use fudged pictures on admit cards and use oil or some adhesive on the thumb for fingerprint to avoid detection during matching. The gangs earn in millions depending on the examination. It could be as high as ₹4 to 5 million per candidate. However, the subject matter experts, hired for the swap, get pittance despite the huge risk involved and are exploited by gangs due to their poverty,” said a senior police officer of the state home department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/500-proxy-candidates-caught-appearing-in-exam-in-last-5-yrs-linked-to-bihar-101632649657657.html
26-09-2021||Lucknow||Adityanath to expand cabinet today ahead of 2022 polls, may add 7 new faces||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will on Sunday expand his cabinet and is likely to induct seven new faces months ahead of the assembly election in the politically crucial state early next year, people familiar with the development said. The seven ministers will be inducted into the cabinet at 6pm, according to Raj Bhavan officials.The names of former Congress leader Jitin Prasada, Sanjay Nishad, Baby Rani Maurya, Sangeeta Balwant, Tejpal Nagar, Chhatrapal Gangwar, Sanjay Gond and Dharamvir Prajapati are doing the rounds. The expansion comes keeping the states elections in mind after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 325 seats in the 403-member assembly in 2017. The Samajwadi Party and its allies won 54 and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) of Mayawati got 19 seats.UP is expected to go to the polls in early 2022 and the BJP has decided to contest the polls under the leadership of Adiyanath. Last week, Adityanath expressed confidence that the BJP would return to power in the state with an overwhelming majority in the assembly election.Earlier this week, defence minister Rajnath showered praise on Adityanath "for maintaining the law and order situation in the state". "People may give arguments but till law and order are in place, Uttar Pradesh cannot progress. The state cannot develop without good law and order. An able administrator, the chief minister has been performing religious events as well," Singh said on Friday.He said the chief minister had done commendable work and his name sends shivers down the spine of criminals. "This country has seen enormous change since PM Modi came to power with a majority. Look at PM Modi, when he had to choose the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, he chose Yogi Adityanath from Gorakh math," Singh also said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also praised Adityanath and his government for leading "the biggest development campaigns of the country".(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/adityanath-to-expand-cabinet-today-ahead-of-2022-polls-may-add-7-new-faces-101632643954121.html
26-09-2021||Lucknow||Our daughters, our pride, say Lucknowites||It’s often said that daughters are shadows of their mom. This Daughter’s Day we spoke to a few mother-daughter duos based in Lucknow who share the same professional page and feel that being in the same field have made their bond more valuable and has surely enhanced their understanding on the whole.Fashion designer Asma Hussain has two daughters. Amira who happens to be a graphic artist while the younger one Naila is happily following her mother’s footsteps and creating ripples in the fashion industry. Talking about their bond Hussain says, “The mother-daughter bond is the and daughters is the strongest of all parent-child bonds. I love my daughters they have always stood by me and appreciated my hard work — as a mother as well as a professional. It was only the other day that my elder daughter told me that ‘mom you have been more than a mother to us. You have been a friend who will always be on our side, loving and protecting us...’ I felt overwhelmed with joy. Truly, I am blessed to have daughters like them and I am proud to say that they will wholeheartedly take my legacy forward.” Dance teacher and performer Archna Verma and her daughter Shreya not only share love for the dance form but have also shared the stage multiple times performing kathak together. “My daughter is my world. I know she has imbibed all from me. When I came to Lucknow after marriage I joined Pt Arjun Mishra Kathak Academy and she used to accompany me as a two-year-old. Since then, she has been following me and learning the dance form. At 13, today she is a kathak exponent and performs across country. She has made me proud as a mother as well as an artiste. Whenever I look at her I see myself in her on stage.” A teacher with illustrious career of 23 years at La Martiniere Girls College and a single parent, Manju Sharma feels proud that since her daughter too joined same profession and took up a job as a lecturer at National Degree College they have started connecting a lot better. “Radhika says now she totally understands me as well as my principles and this makes me so happy as mother. She has been my strength be it as a child or as a young girl. Being in the same profession has made our equation fun and amazing. You can say we are on same page as professionals and share life all in all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/our-daughters-our-pride-say-lucknowites-101632639335929.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||Cinema halls, auditoriums to reopen in Maharashtra from Oct 22; SOPs next week||A day after the Maharashtra government announced reopening of schools and places of worship across the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday allowed cinema halls and auditoriums to open their doors to patrons from October 22. The state government will issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) early next week for the management of cinema halls and auditoriums, senior officials said.CM Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with a delegation of cinema and theatre owners on Saturday, following which, the decision on reopening was taken. The state has been relaxing restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in a graded manner since August.Theatres and auditoriums are expected to operate at 50% of the seating capacity post the reopening and may only allow fully-vaccinated people’s entry, but a final call is yet to be taken on the same, officials said. A senior bureaucrat said that the SOP will be finalised on Monday in a meeting held by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas and other senior officials.“Like last time, the cinema halls and auditoriums will open with 50% seating capacity. The meeting also discussed if only fully vaccinated people should be allowed with a view to lower the risk and also encourage vaccination. However, the final call will be made next week,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Maharashtra, meanwhile, continued to report new infections around the 3,500-mark. On Saturday, it logged 3,276 fresh Covid-19 cases. It also added 58 deaths, taking the death toll to 138,834. The state’s active case count has reduced to 37,984. Mumbai logged 455 fresh cases on Saturday, taking its tally to 740,760. It reported five fatalities, pushing the death toll to 16,079. Mumbai’s active caseload was 5,276.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cinema-halls-auditoriums-to-reopen-in-maharashtra-from-oct-22-sops-next-week-101632630273857.html
26-09-2021||Jaipur||Ahead of REET, Rajasthan suspends mobile internet, SMS services in 5 districts||The Rajasthan government has snapped mobile internet and SMS services in five districts of the state for 12 hours on Sunday as the state holds Rajasthan Teacher Eligibility Test or REET to select teachers for government schools to prevent cheating in exams, according to reports. The services will be unavailable from 6am to 6pm in Ajmer, Alwar, Dausa, Jhunjhunu, and Jaipur rural districts, the reports added. Collectors of the Ajmer, Alwar, Dausa, Jaipur and Jhunjhunu districts can decide if they want to extend or shorten the blackout period and officials in several other districts can decide if they want to suspend mobile internet.As many as 16.51 lakh candidates have enrolled for REET 2021—the biggest exam in the state in terms of the number of candidates. REET is being conducted by the Ajmer-based Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education at 3,993 exam centres across the state.Also read | REET: Govt says personnel found leaking question paper will be terminatedThe state government has announced free travel for REET candidates in both state roadways and private buses while the North Western Railway is also operating 26 special trains covering almost all important stations from September 25 to 26 to help candidates reach their exam destinations and back home. The state government has also deployed its personnel to make all arrangements and directed the state police to check on those involved in duping candidates in the name of help in clearing REET.Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the state government is committed to the successful conduct of the exam keeping the safety and convenience of the examinees. He said chief minister Ashok Gehlot is keeping an eye over the arrangements for REET 2021 and no laxity of any kind will be tolerated.Meanwhile, six REET candidates were killed and five others injured when a van in which they were going from Baran to Sikar to take the exam rammed into a tractor-trolly in Jaipur district's Chaksu area on Saturday. Chief minister Gehlot expressed condolences on their and announced an ex-gratia of ₹50,000 to the injured and ₹2 lakh to the families of the deceased on Saturday. "I request all the candidates to be careful while travelling. Do not drive at high speed and recklessly. Use public transport as much as possible. No exam can be bigger than your life,” Gehlot said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ahead-of-reet-rajasthan-suspends-mobile-internet-sms-services-in-5-districts-101632628208957.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||Rohini court shootout: Delhi Police nab 2 accused based on CCTV footage||The Delhi Police on Saturday arrested two men in connection with the dramatic courtroom shootout in Rohini earlier this week that left gangster Jitender Gogi and two of his attackers dead. The accused – identified as Umang and Vinay – were held by the police in the national capital on the basis of closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera footage from the Rohini court. According to police officials familiar with the matter and cited by the ANI news agency, the shootout was planned by four assailants and while two of them were shot dead by the police right after they fired at Gogi, the two others who were absconding have now been held.Also Read | Lawyers seek security overhaul after Rohini court shootout left three deadAccording to Delhi Police officials cited by the news agency, Umang was supposed to wait outside the court in a car as a backup and “escape plan”, while the three others would go inside the courtroom and eliminate Gogi. But since the plan failed, Umang fled away alone in the car. All the four individuals earlier met at a mall and left for the court.The Delhi Police later arrested Umang and Vinay based on “unusual activity” captured in the CCTV near Gate No 4 of the Rohini court.Gangster Jitender Gogi was shot dead inside a Rohini courtroom on Friday by two assailants who were dressed as lawyers. When they spotted Gogi, who was being presented before the court, the gunmen took out their weapons from under their lawyers' robes and opened fire, killing the gangster on the spot. Special forces personnel, who were in charge of escorting Gogi, fired back at the attackers and killed them on the spot.Also Read | ‘Such incidents have been recurring’: Bar Council of Delhi chairman on Rohini court shootoutThe Rohini courtroom shootout grabbed headlines and paralysed judicial work in at least seven district court complexes in the national capital this week, as lawyers abstained from work demanding modification of security norms in court precincts. Thousands of lawyers abstained from court proceedings on Saturday, which led to several cases being adjourned.Rakesh Sehrawat, the chairman of the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), also held a meeting with Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Saturday and pointed out security shortfalls inside the Rohini court. A plea was also moved in the Delhi high court urging it to direct authorities to take requisite measures for the safety and security of district courts in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rohini-court-shootout-delhi-police-nab-2-accused-based-on-cctv-footage-101632623265450.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Speeding car with Punjab Police ASI at wheel kills scooterist||A speeding car, being driven by a Punjab Police assistant sub inspector, claimed the life of a 38-year-old scooterist at the Sector 7/8-18/19 roundabout on Friday night.Police said the victim, Varinder Kumar, a resident of Sector 116, was a private contractor.He was headed home from his office in Sector 7 when the ASI’s speeding Maruti Suzuki Dzire hit his Honda Activa and dragged it for a few metres.An injured Varinder was taken to PGIMER, where he was declared brought dead.The ASI, Inderjit Singh, who lives in Sector 19, Chandigarh, was arrested, but later released on bail. He is posted at the Punjab Police Headquarters in Chandigarh.A case under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against him at the Sector 19 police station.The victim is survived by his wife and two minor children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhspeeding-car-with-punjab-police-asi-at-wheel-kills-scooterist-101632608255044.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||50% of Chandigarh’s eligible people fully vaccinated against Covid||Half of the eligible population in Chandigarh is now fully vaccinated against Covid-19, the UT health department said on Saturday. The UT is performing much better than most states, as the Union ministry of health and family welfare had recently stated that only 23% of the country’s eligible beneficiaries had received both vaccine doses, while close to 66% have received at least one dose.According to the latest electoral list and central government’s set target, around 8.4 lakh people are to be immunised in Chandigarh. As on Saturday, 8,91,202 (105%) people, including migrants, have taken their first shot in Chandigarh, while 4,27,772 (50.74%) are fully vaccinated. Among them, at 1,33,447, the 18-44 age group has the highest number of people who are completely inoculated (see box). In the last seven days, 7,552 people were vaccinated on average every day. On Saturday alone, 9,620 doses (both first and second) were administered.Though the UT health department had vouched that 100% of the eligible population was vaccinated with the first dose on August 15, the central government had revised the city’s population target and acknowledged the milestone on September 15. “As more and more people are getting fully vaccinated in Chandigarh, the infection is spreading at a slower rate among the community. Only four fresh infections were reported on Saturday as most people now have antibodies to fight the virus. I appeal to people to come forward to take their second jab as soon as they meet the criteria,” Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/50-of-chandigarh-s-eligible-people-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-101632608253886.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police on the hunt for ATM card-swapping gang||Police are on the lookout for an ATM card-swapping gang from Moradabad that has been active in the city recently.In the latest case, police said the gang, led by Monu, targeted a man trying to withdraw cash from an ATM at the Mauli Jagran Complex market on September 22.The victim, Amarjit, said he wanted to withdraw ₹10,000 using his friend Rahul’s debit card. But the machine was not working. Two men present in the kiosk offered to help him, but that also didn’t work.He informed his friend that the money could not be withdrawn, but Rahul alerted him that ₹35,720 were debited from his bank account through multiple transactions. Amarjit then realised that the debit card had been swapped and informed the police.A case under Sections 420, 406, 380 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station on his complaint. During probe, police established it was the handiwork of Monu’s gang that has targeted at least five people through similar modus operandi recently. Efforts are on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-on-the-hunt-for-atm-card-swapping-gang-101632608246974.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Driver killed as auto overturns in bid to avoid crash||A 48-year-old man was killed after his auto-rickshaw overturned in a bid to avoid a collision with a motorcycle at the Sector 40-41 lightpoint on Friday.Police said the motorcyclist had jumped the red light and came in the way of the auto, forcing its driver, Rakesh Kumar, to slam the brakes, which caused the vehicle to turn turtle.Kumar’s son Karan, 22, told the police that the accident took place when he, his sister and father were headed from their house in Housing Board Colony, Mauli Jagran, to Phase 5, Mohali, to drop her at her computer class.While he and his sister escaped unhurt, his father suffered head injuries. He was rushed to PGIMER, where he died during treatment. The motorcyclist, Keshav, 24, a resident of Jhujhar Nagar, Mohali, was arrested and later released on bail.He was booked under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 39 police station.The police impounded both the auto-rickshaw and motorcycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhdriver-killed-as-auto-overturns-in-bid-to-avoid-crash-101632608245442.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Delayed realty projects: GBP Group head now faces up to three-year jail term||In fresh trouble for Satish Gupta, the managing director of Gupta Builders and Promoters (GBP) Group, the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Punjab, has ordered legal proceedings against him, which may lead to a jail term of up to three years.The authority acted on the complaint of a resident of Chandigarh’s Sector 7, who had complained that he booked a commercial space of 100 square feet in GBP Smart City project in New Chandigarh and paid ₹10 lakh. An agreement came about in February 2020. But later, he came to know that requisite approvals were not obtained by the builder. In fact, the group was penalised for the very same project in May 2019, but no remedial steps were taken, the complaint stated, demanding penalty for the builder and refund of his deposit.Accepting the complaint, the authority, presided over by chairperson Navreet Singh Kang, ordered proceedings under Sections 59 (2) and 61 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act against Gupta and the company.Under Section 59 (2) of the Act, a promoter can face a jail term up to three years for not complying with RERA orders, while Section 61 may invite a penalty of up to 5% of the estimated cost of a real estate project.Statutory approvals missingIn May 2019, upon checking the sites, RERA had found that the said project did not have basic statutory approvals, such as CLU, approvals of layout and building plans, and grant of licence to develop a colony. Therefore, a penalty of ₹1.5 crore was imposed and two months deadline was set for remedial measures. The authority held that despite being penalized then, the managing director executed another agreement in 2020 without registering the project.During the proceedings, the respondent’s counsel had stated that the May 2019 order was under challenge before the RERA Tribunal and therefore, the same dispute can’t be adjudicated before RERA. However, the authority did not find any substance in the contentions as there was no stay order, and directed the RERA secretary to initiate proceedings as per law.Over 2,500 investors affected by group’s delaysThe group head is already in the thick of controversy over multiple delayed projects, and a fresh FIR was registered on September 24 against the firm’s management following a complaint by several allottees. The complainants alleged that the GBP Group promised them possession of various commercial and residential properties in 2016, but even after five years, there had been no progress. Some FIRs already stand registered against the promoter, who police say is on the run.The realty firm has several ongoing projects in Mohali, with estimated affected investors over 2,500. Among them, Camelia, comprising residential and commercial units, in Kharar, and GBP Centrum (commercial) in Zirakpur have been under construction since 2016. Athens (residential and commercial) and Aeroze (residential), both on the Airport road, have not seen any construction for years, and construction has not even begun at a residential colony in New Chandigarh, though plots have been sold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delayed-realty-projects-gbp-group-head-now-faces-up-to-three-year-jail-term-101632608244419.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh youth caught with restricted injections awarded 10 years in jail||Three years after he was nabbed with 26 vials of restricted injections, a 22-year-old man was sentenced to 10 years in jail by a local court.The court also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on Kishan Chanchal, alias Chipad, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, who was convicted under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.In court, Chanchal, who was 19 years old when he was arrested in 2018, prayed for a lenient view, claiming that he was poor, and his old parents and siblings were dependent on him.But the court of judge Dr Rajneesh observed that the sale and consumption of narcotics in an illegal manner was immensely affecting society.“Nowadays, drug menace has become a social malady. It has attained monstrous proportions and it is tearing families apart. Drug addiction destroys the trait of appreciation of a person, who cannot differentiate between fair and unfair, and commits heinous crime... The need of the hour is to choke the supply of the drugs and to curb it with a heavy hand,” the judge said, in the order dated September 17.The accused was nabbed near Mullanpur barrier on July 1, 2018, after he was found in possession of 13 injections of buprenorphine (2ml each) and 13 injections of pheniramine maleate (10ml each) with no supporting documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-youth-caught-with-restricted-injections-awarded-10-years-in-jail-101632608243272.html
26-09-2021||Other||No new Covid case in Panchkula again||For the eighth time this month, Panchkula reported no new Covid-19 case on Saturday, while four people were found positive in Chandigarh and two in Mohali.With this, tricity’s daily tally dropped from 10 to six in the past 24 hours.No fresh casualty was recorded in any jurisdiction for the third straight day.Tricity’s active cases also dropped slightly to 98 from 99 on Friday. At 44, Chandigarh has the highest number of infected patients, followed by Mohali with 33 and Panchkula with 21.The latest infections in Chandigarh were from Sectors 46, 47, 38 and Hallomajra, and those in Mohali from Dhakoli and Mohali city.With this, Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,209, of which 64,346 patients have successfully recovered, while 819 have died. Mohali’s infection count stands at 68714, including 67,618 recoveries and 1,063 deaths. With no fresh case, Panchkula’s total cases stayed at 30,729. As many as 30,331 patients here have been cured and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-new-covid-case-in-panchkula-again-101632608242259.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Man shot during botched robbery||A scrap dealer’s driver was shot and injured when two miscreants tried to rob him and his brother of ₹10 lakh near Swara village in Mohali on Friday evening. The victim, Parmod Kumar of Balongi, was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital , Sector 32. In his complaint to the police, Dhaminder Kumar, the brother of the injured man, said, “My brother and I were returning to Mandi Gobindgarh after selling scrap, when a car with its horn blaring came up behind us near Kasba Resort at Swara. We allowed the vehicle to pass, but the car intercepted us.” Two masked youngsters who were armed with pistols alighted from the vehicle and walked up to their car. One of the men approached Parmod, who was driving the vehicle, while the other came towards Dharminder.  The accused tried to take the bag of money from Dharminder who managed to push the accused away by hitting him with a door of the car. At this, the other robber fired his weapon, which hit Parmod on the shoulder. The bag of money, which was lying at Dharminder’s feet, was saved as people started gathering on hearing the gunshot, forcing the accused to drive away. A case was registered under Sections 307 (shoot with attention to kill) , 379B (theft), and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act at the Kharar (Sadar) police station. The police are scanning CCTV footage in the area, but no arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohaliman-shot-during-botched-robbery-101632608184248.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | O Noor of the Himalayan moors||Not all tricity citizens have been fortunate enough to undertake a pilgrimage to Hemkund Saheb nestling at over 15,000 feet in Uttarakhand. But a lot of them have heard anecdotes of ancestors and friends who have taken the rugged, adventurous route to this pristine gurdwara associated with Guru Gobind Singh. As pilgrim lore has it, sheer exhaustion instantly dissipates upon entering the divine alpine ambience.No pilgrim can forget the ethereal spectacle of the Hemkund slopes garlanded in the monsoons with clumps of the sacred Brahma Kamal flower (Saussurea obvallata),also known as ‘God’s own lotus’. Associated with the image of Lord Brahma cupping a white lotus in one of his four hands, the perennial herb is the state flower of Uttarakhand but declared ‘endangered’ because of over-extraction for religious, cultural and medicinal uses. On the flip side, cynics compare it to a glorified ‘patta gobhi’ (cabbage)...! Its strongly aromatic or smelly flowers can cause a headache, a dicey proposition accruing from the health hazards that haunt high-altitude jaunts. So intoxicating is the effect of the Brahma Kamal blooming in ethereal alpine environs on aesthetic sensibilities that it has found mention in the epics and a particularly eloquent one at that in Kalidas’ Meghdoot: “Land lotuses on an overcast day, neither open nor closed…The lovelorn Yaksha is talking of his wife’s tear-laden eyes...”. Centuries after the mahakavi’s romantic flourish, a Gujarati explorer from Bhavnagar, Bhavesh Visani, ‘translated’ the verses into a truly memorable photographic composition of the Hemkund ambience. Last August, Vasani trekked to the shrine with his son. Brahma Kamals were blooming on the far side of the Hemkund lake with pure white clouds floating low like billowing dresses shed by the cavorting Gods far, far above. The relieved robes fell down in reflections, without so much as a giveaway rustle of silk, upon the floor of a lake tiled with many-splendoured hues.“The ambience is indescribable. The snow-melt waters are crystal clear but turn into an aqua-rainbow due to reflections. The lake changes colours from green to blue to silver and even something like shards of glass, hues so original they can’t even be found in Picasso’s palette. This kaleidoscope of colours casts a magical spell due to the ever-changing light as the sun plays hide and seek with the clouds. These wild Brahma Kamals seem to be Nature’s offerings to the shrine,” Visani told this writer.Meanwhile, mosaics of monsoon magic linger nearer to the tricity due to the rains extending well into September. An enthralling spectacle is of swarms of common mormons mud-puddling in drenched soils along the Shivalik foothills. During monsoon mud-puddling, male butterflies gather on substrates like wet soil, dung and rotting animal bodies to obtain nutrients such as mineral salts, sodium and ammonium ions, amino acids and simple carbohydrates, which may be absent in nectar. Males pass on these collections to females as nuptial gifts through the spermatophore (a sac of nutrients combined with the sperm). Females apportion these gifted nutrients towards improving egg viability.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-o-noor-of-the-himalayan-moors-101632608126069.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column | Embrace the chaos, accept the imperfect||As you read this, the cells in your body are dying and degrading, you are getting older with every passing second, your tea is getting colder, and the floor getting dustier. Zoom out a little – someone lost a loved one, a business deal failed, protests erupted, a relationship ended, and trees were cut down in the rainforests. Zooming out further, the entire universe is heading towards collapse. The universe inches towards chaos, entropy and lack of order, this being the fundament of thermodynamics. Stephen Hawking in A Brief History of Time says, “The increase of disorder or entropy is what distinguishes the past from the future, giving a direction to time”. Chaos and disorder is inevitable, entropy is a measure of this disorder, which further explains why our life gets more complicated as time goes by. By aiming to achieve order, structure and a faultless situation, we are subconsciously giving in to the fact that life is not perfect, and that we are not in complete control. Most modern day youngsters set an overly high personal standard and their self-evaluation is inordinately critical. A constant self-requirement to perform exceedingly well at all stages, be it the work space, home front, as a parent, for a parent, a hobbyist or a socialite. This need for order and toxic perfection has hit young generation particularly hard. A recent estimate shows that almost 30%of undergraduate students experience symptoms of mental unrest and depression, which is directly linked to their hunger for flawlessness and the need to have their lives under control. Science evolved from our everyday lives, making one believe that this law of thermodynamics takes its basis from the entropy in our everyday life. How everything tends towards disorder and our life always seems to get more complicated. The clean home becomes cluttered by the end of the day, the butterflies in the stomach wear off as the relationship progresses, youth fades, hair grey, skills become obsolete time, the house needs repair, paint chips, walls dampen, and the cracks become deeper. Perfection is unattainable, it is imaginary, a fanciful dream. Order is always artificial and temporary, disorder is not an omission, it is the default. A world without imperfection and chaos, would be a world where dreams are fulfilled in the first attempt, where everything stays the way we leave it, where nothing breaks or fails, and everything remains immaculate. This would be the same world without a need for progress and growth, without science, innovation and creativity trying to improve our lives, a monotonous one without efforts to reduce the distortions. The existence of chaos, disorder or entropy is what keeps us on our toes and makes our life purposeful. John Green, in his book, Looking for Alaska, says, “Everything that comes together falls apart. Everything. The chair, I’m sitting on. It was built, and so it will fall apart. I’m going to fall apart, probably before this chair. And you’re going to fall apart. The cells and organs and systems that make you - they came together, grew together, and so must fall apart. The Buddha knew one thing science didn’t prove for millennia after his death: Entropy increases. Things fall apart.” As you read this, pick yourself up, embrace the chaos, the inevitable entropy, clean up the messy room yet again, reheat that cup of tea and accept the imperfect. shazuks@gmail.com( The writer is an advocate at Punjab and Haryana high court, Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-embrace-the-chaos-accept-the-imperfect-101632607762198.html
26-09-2021||Other||I&B minister Anurag Thakur inaugurates first Himalayan film festival in Leh||Union minister for information and broadcasting, Anurag Thakur, on Saturday inaugurated the first Himalayan Film Festival at Sindhu Sanskriti Kendra in Leh. The festival is being held from September 24-28 as a part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. It will showcase films from 12 Himalayan states and UTs. The aim is to provide a platform for filmmakers to showcase their works. Shershah, a film on late Captain Vikram Batra, was screened during the opening session. A short film on late Tashi Rabgias was screened during the event to felicitate the eminent scholar and historian from Ladakh. Speaking during the event, Thakur termed cinema as an effective medium to foster cultural diversity. He announced that the transmission of DD Kendra Leh programme would be extended to one hour from half an hour from October 1. Lieutenant governor RK Mathur expressed hope that the festival would encourage filmmakers and talented youth from Ladakh to take this field. Member Parliament from Ladakh, Jamyang Tsering Namgyal said a lot of initiatives have been taken in Ladakh by the Centre in last two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ib-minister-anurag-thakur-inaugurates-first-himalayan-film-festival-in-leh-101632607582786.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC relaxes penalty for trade licence renewal||In a major relief for traders and industrialists, the Punjab local bodies department has allowed the Mohali municipal corporation to relax the penalty for renewing trade licences.According to the Punjab Municipal Act, all commercial and industrial establishments within the municipal limits have to get the trade licence renewed every year after March 31.While there are around 10,000 traders in the city, only 1,000 approach MC after expiry of their permits. Earlier, the penalty was ₹1,000 and ₹100 per day till renewal was sought. Now, the fine will be levied depending on when the application is filed.All renewals will invite a ₹1,000 fine. However, if the application is filed in the first quarter of the year, 25% of the licence fee, which ranges from ₹500 to ₹4,500 depending on the trade, will be levied as penalty. The penalty will increase to 50% licence fee, if paid in the second quarter, 75% in the third quarter, and to 100% in the fourth quarter.The relaxation comes after MC forwarded a proposal in this regard in June this year. MC secretary Ranjeev Kumar said, “Earlier defaulters had to pay a hefty penalty, but now they just have to pay a ₹1,000 fine and a portion of the licence fee. So far, trade licences brought in ₹30 lakh a year for MC, but with relaxations, this should increase to ₹1 crore. The traders, who have not applied or renewed their licence, should do it immediately.”Inspectors to check licencesThe civic body has also appointed inspectors and divided the city into four zones to check the licences.Phases 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6, and villages Shahimajra, Madanpura and Mohali will be part of Zone 1.Zone 2 includes Phases 3A, 3B1, 3B2 and 7, Sectors 70 and 71, Mataur village, and Industrial Area Phases 7, 8, 8-A and 8-B.Phases 8, 9, 10, 11, Sectors 48-C, 65-A, 66-A, 66, 67, 68 and 69, Kumbra village and Industrial Area Phase 9 are listed in Zone 3.Zone 4 will comprise Sectors 76 to 80 and Sohana village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-relaxes-penalty-for-trade-licence-renewal-101632607402335.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Random Forays | The admirable art of laughing at oneself||Blessed are those who retain the innate ability to be able to laugh at themselves once in a while, or even often. A certain amount of calmness and peace-within is obviously needed for an individual to be able to take a dig at himself or herself, in this very demanding world of ours.The entertaining lines of a popular nursery rhyme, that have stayed in the mind since childhood, go like this “Hey, diddle, diddle/ The cat and the fiddle/ The cow jumped over the moon/ The little dog laughed to see such fun/ And the dish ran away with the spoon!”The little dog in question has emerged from my past to be of immense interest to me while I’m writing this piece. While the composite picture of that nursery rhyme has various versions, and parents of toddlers must know it well, the dog’s image, rollicking with uncontrolled mirth as he was, is particularly noteworthy. He represents most of us, when we roll over in gleeful laughter at the expense of someone else, or because someone else may actually be trying to make us laugh, like a baby with his antics.Yet, only a rare human being would ever relish to that extent, a laugh at his own expense, but all dogs might. A child, enveloped in the most pristine sheen of innocence and an animal cub or pup, might thoroughly enjoy themselves even when others are undertaking a royal giggle at their expense.I for one often find myself feeling slightly edgy when the joke is on me! One does try to take it sportingly, and over the years one has improved in many ways. But somewhere down under, the feeling of being able to pull everybody’s legs and not get one’s own pulled, remains present even if dormant. In fact it is a good test for me, once in a while, to analyse my own mindset in such a situation.The British Psychological Society records in an online publication, that, to be capable of laughing at oneself is usually considered a mark of good character and the foundation of a robust sense of humour. Paradoxically, it goes on to add that those with the proclivity of laughing at themselves are not necessarily likely to be the laughing sorts in life as a whole.Yet it is clearly a frothy sense of humour and a lighter outlook, despite the world and its shenanigans that sets such personalities apart. Not for them an ego-centred approach to everything and everyone. Those who can take a joke on themselves sportingly are remarkable people. Their minds are largely uncluttered by thoughts of perception, acceptance and one-upmanship.I have been fortunate to have had the company of several close friends over the years whom I could tease with aplomb, and they would laugh more than I would. In my family, my maternal grandmother stood out. My grandfather was the wittiest gentleman around, who could pull a joke out of a hat at any moment, and nani was usually on the receiving end. All present would be unable to rein in their mirthful tendencies even slightly, in such situations, with my grandfather beaming at having produced yet another gem from his unique repertoire. But nani would never ever complain, and in fact would laugh the very loudest. Once she had understood the joke, that is!My wife, Neena, is another champion of this league. I have had many an occasion to wax eloquent, with tongue in cheek, on her Himachali roots and the quaintness of customs that her family has followed for decades. But she has never ever been even remotely offended, though our conversations have often offered landing stations for my joke missiles. It is another matter that she was much more of a topper than I ever was, and had she started throwing back a few funny punches, my own roots would have been tested to the hilt.Perhaps it is friendship and of course love, which permeate such relationships, and obviate the need to feel cut up when light hearted humour is in the air. The trick is to not go too far. As is the case with everything else in life too.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-the-admirable-art-of-laughing-at-oneself-101632606923481.html
26-09-2021||Other||Deadwood employees in Jammu revenue department to face the axe soon||Divisional commissioner, Jammu, Raghav Langer, has directed deputy commissioners of 10 districts under his charge to immediately submit a list of deadwood employees in the revenue department, as per the directions of the government. Langer passed these instructions at a virtual meet with deputy magistrates on late Friday night. He directed deputy commissioners to expeditiously complete the verification exercise to facilitate removal of non-performers as per the provisions of the Civil Service Regulations, 1956. Jammu and Kashmir government has started compiling data of ‘deadwood’ employees to be retired at the age of 48 or those who have completed 22 years in service. Screening committees have already been constituted at the district-level for identification of employees to be terminated on parameters such as performance. Langer asked DCs to convene meetings of the review committees, assess the performance of employees in the light of Article 226(2) of the Civil Service Regulations and send the recommendations so that the process for their termination can be started. In another meeting, the divisional commissioner also directed the DCs to submit a revised list of martyrs, prominent citizens for renaming of schools, roads, rotaries on their names||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deadwood-employees-in-jammu-revenue-department-to-face-the-axe-soon-101632606922243.html
26-09-2021||Other||143 new Covid cases, 1 death in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 143 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death on Saturday. Of the total, 108 cases were reported from the Valley while 35 infections were detected in Jammu division. Summer capital Srinagar had the highest new infections at 52.The day also saw 184 recoveries, bringing down the active case count in the UT to 1,563. The highest number of active cases is in Srinagar at 723, followed by 176 in Baramulla and 165 in Budgam. Officials said that 49,771 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/143-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101632606562111.html
26-09-2021||Other||Militant on the run for 19 years lands in Kishtwar police custody||Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday arrested a former militant turned absconder, who was evading arrest for the past 19 years. He was identified as Dulla alias Jameel, son of Ghulam Bakarwal of Arnas in Reasi, who was presently putting up at Kundwar Chatroo in Kishtwar. “On specific information received through reliable sources, a special police raid was constituted. A team led by Chatroo SHO, inspector Sandeep Parihar, arrested the absconder,” said a police officer. Jameel was wanted in a case FIR number 38/2002 under sections 435 (mischief), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the RPC and 7/27 Indian Arms Act registered at Chatroo police station. “Subsequently, the absconder was produced before the court of the principal district and sessions judge in Bhaderwah and lodged in judicial custody,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/militant-on-the-run-for-19-years-lands-in-kishtwar-police-custody-101632606322181.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout | The smile on Rehmat Masih Matoo’s face||The story today is not about Padree Rehmat Masih Waiz, who was born to a Dalit Muslim family in Narowal in 1857 and wrote soulful hymns in praise of the Lord and Master Jesus Christ after converting to Christianity. The Rehmat Masih that we talk of belongs to the present times and was immortalised in literature in a classic story penned by leading Punjabi Dalit writer Bhagwant Rasulpuri. The storyteller belongs to the second generation of Dalit writers, who along with Gurmeet Karyalvi, Des Raj Kali and many others, have told the story afresh from subjugation to assertion, contrary to earlier writers such as Prem Gorkhi, Atarjit, Nachattar who wrote about the oppression mete out by the upper castes.An unforgettable characterRehmat Masih is a spirited character who comes from the Valmiki community and converted to Christianity but led the same life of not just the poorest of the poor but also that of the shunned and the humiliated. Rasulpuri as the narrator introduces him thus: “I have to talk to you about the person who has just got down the tempo. Yes, he is Rehmat Masih Matoo, Master Rehmat. His bronze face is shining as if he has been unaffected by the dust. Joyfully pulling at his Cavender cigarette he moves along, sometimes in his safari suit and sometimes in a white kurta-pyjama. After retirement he dreams of becoming the Mesiah of the Valmikis.”Thus, we see Master Rehmat in many roles in his journey for survival. As a schoolboy he bunks school and occasionally watches a Dharmendra film or along with his friends learns the art of eating tasty food, such as pakodas, rasgulla and barfi, by turning into a dishwasher at wedding feasts. His talent for sketching leads him to become a drawing master at the village school in the quota reserved for the Scheduled Castes. Thus, he moves through hurdles and caste biases to finally retire from his job, which he almost lost several times.And it is a moment of pride for him when he sees his daughter become a hockey player and marry well and his son buy a motorcycle and proudly putt the letter ‘V’ just above the headlight saying, “When a Jat’s sons can write ‘Singh is King’, why can’t we write V for Valmiki?’ And indeed, there is a smile on the face of Master Masih as the sentiment is echoed by the young Dalit singer Ginni Mahi when she sings ‘Fan Baba Sahib di’ referring to BR Ambedkar, who framed the Constitution of India, or joyously chants ‘Danger Chamar’. The moment has come for him to see caste shame turn into pride.Who is afraid of the word ‘Dalit’?It is this journey from disgrace to pride that is best expressed by eminent scholar Harish K Puri, who pioneered work on the Dalits among the Sikhs: “The term Dalits is used to signify solidarity among the Scheduled Castes of India for a joint struggle for basic rights to human dignity and social equality. Dalits is a hold-all term ,which became more prominent since the launch of the Dalit Panthers Movement among the Maharashtra Panthers so as to emphasise underlying unity in the midst of diversity and post-Ambedkar fragmentation”.He says that it is out of place that a notice be issued against this word, which expresses the changing lives of the Dalits in different parts of the country, Punjab included. He adds it is a moment of psychological empowerment for the Dalits, who see one of them heading the state.Others who are well-versed in Dalit studies such as Ronki Ram, a professor of political science, have pointed out that it is a word of dignity for a people who have been addressed in derogatory terms over centuries. Journalist-writer Des Raj Kali asks: Who is afraid the word ‘Dalit? He is quick to answer his own query, “Certainly not we the Dalit who have earned this word. This is a word that represents assertion of identity and has a history behind it. It is also not a word that is unconstitutional by any means. It is a word that has emerged from a long struggle enriched by sensitive creative minds such as the poet Namdeo Dhasal in Maharashtra or Lal Singh Dil in Punjab”. Storyteller Raulpuri adds, “If V for Valmiki fetches a smile from Rehmat Masih Matoo so does D for Dalit!”nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-the-smile-on-rehmat-masih-matoo-s-face-101632606262102.html
26-09-2021||Other||Poonch man arrested for killing minor brother-in-law||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday arrested a man, who, they claimed, had killed his minor brother-in-law, in Mendhar sub-division of Poonch district. A police official said that on June 8, Mohammad Shariq, 14, of Gohlad was found dead in a pond after which inquest proceedings under section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure were initiated. “During the course of investigation, the victim’s parents also expressed their suspicions about foul play and said their son might have been murdered,” he added. “During investigation, we found that Shariq was murdered by his brother- in- law (sister’s husband) Mohammad Qasim, 30, son of Mohammad Sageer, a resident of Gohlad,” he said. “The accused Qasim was allegedly having an extra-marital affair, to which Shariq had objected. The young boy had asked Qasim to mend his ways, else he would expose him. Following this, the accused hit him with a blunt object on his head and threw him in a pond,” said the officer. The accused has been arrested under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poonch-man-arrested-for-killing-minor-brotherinlaw-101632605422009.html
26-09-2021||Other||Safina Baig appointed chairperson of JKPC women’s wing||Baramulla district development council (DDC) chairperson Safina Baig was on Saturday appointed the president of the women’s wing of Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference.Baig’s husband, Muzuffar Baig, is a former deputy chief minister and MP. The couple was earlier with the Peoples Democratic Party, but resigned last year after Safina was denied a DDC ticket.Former legislator and PC senior leader Mohammad Khurshid Alam felicitated Baig and said she will play a crucial role in ensuring active participation of women in politics. He said the Peoples Conference believes in equal representation of women in politics to ensure their issues are at the forefront of legislative agendas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/safina-baig-appointed-chairperson-of-jkpc-women-s-wing-101632605183518.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn proposes 40% hike in MC grant-in-aid||With the municipal elections just about two months away, the Chandigarh administration has revised its grant-in-aid (GIA) estimates for the current fiscal by 40%. In the 2021-2022 budget, the GIA for the municipal corporation (MC) was set at ₹502 crore. It has now been proposed to be increased to ₹700 crore under the revised estimates. “The revised estimates will be submitted with the Union government within a week, and the GIA’s final quantum will depend on its approval,” said a senior UT official privy to the development. The MC has so far received ₹250-crore GIA in two equal quarterly instalments, and expects to get the enhanced GIA of ₹450 crore, if approved, by early next year for spending within this fiscal. Earlier this year, the UT had also released ₹50 crore for village development in addition to the GIA. For the MC, which is facing a fund crunch, the increased GIA will be a major boost, particularly for carrying out development works. Most of its funds currently are used up in revenue expenditure, including paying employee salaries and utility bills. The corporation started the current fiscal with a deficit budget of ₹670 crore. Its finances received a major setback when the UT administration decided to stay the hike in water tariff till March 2022. The civic body was expecting to earn an additional revenue of ₹90 crore from the hike, which was imposed in October last year. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said the increased GIA will help bridge the widened gap in revenue after the hike in water charges was rolled back. The funds will also be utilised for new development works and for upgrading the solid waste processing plant. The MC will be able to clear various pending bills as well.Sharma said the administration has also sent reminder letters to the Union government for implementation of the fourth Delhi finance commission’s report in the city. Its implementation will increase the MC’s share in the UT’s overall revenues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-proposes-40-hike-in-mc-grantinaid-101632605182305.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet expansion: 7 fresh faces, 8 old ministers likely to take oath today||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is all set to expand his cabinet with swearing-in scheduled for 4:30pm at the Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh on Sunday to fill all the 15 berths in his council of ministers. However, there was still confusion over the final list as Channi reportedly had a midnight video conference with Rahul Gandhi after some senior MLAs, who got to know that they didn’t make it to the cabinet, conveyed their strong displeasure to the party high command. There can be 18 ministers in the Punjab cabinet, including the chief minister and his two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni who have already been sworn-in. After getting the names cleared for inclusion in the cabinet from the Congress high command, Channi, who returned from the national capital on Saturday morning, met Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit in the afternoon and took time for the swearing-in ceremony. ALSO READ: Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota gets additional charge of Punjab DGPEven as the chief minister has kept the names of his ministers a secret, information gathered from multiple sources in the state Congress reveals that seven fresh faces are likely to be inducted on Sunday. Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Gurpreet Kotli and Rana Gurjit Singh are the new faces likely to get the cabinet berth. While Verka is a Valmiki community leader, Gilzian repersents the other backward classes (OBCs) whereas the rest five are Jat Sikhs. The Congress high command has said to have given the nod to drop five ministers from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet: Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Sundar Sham Arora. However, eight ministers from the previous cabinet — Brahm Mohindra, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Manpreet Singh Badal, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Aruna Chaudhary, Razia Sultana, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu — are being retained, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-expansion-7-fresh-faces-8-old-ministers-likely-to-take-oath-today-101632604882210.html
26-09-2021||Other||5 youth from Himachal crack UPSC civil services exam||Five youths of Himachal Pradesh have cracked the UPSC civil services examination-2020. Among them is Ishant Jawal from Ghumarwini of Bilaspur who secured All India Rank 80, Vyom Bindal from Solan 141st rank, Abishek Dhiman of Hamirpur who stood at 374th, Umesh Labana, a visually impaired candidate from Kolar of Sirmaur at 397th place and Vishal Chaudhary from Baddi of Solan district, who secured the 665th place. IAS was not his first aim Ishant Jaswal, 24, a mechanical engineering graduate of National Institute of Technology (NIT), Hamirpur, worked at a multinational company (MNC) in Noida for around a year. “It was during this job that I decided to take up civil service exams,” said Jaswal. He quit the job and took up coaching in Delhi and cracked the exam in his first attempt. His father served in the army while his mother is a homemaker. From excise officer to IAS Abhishek Dhiman, 27, always dreamed of becoming an IAS officer. An engineering graduate, Dhiman was first selected for the post of excise and taxation inspector but did not join. He later served as block development officer (BDO) for a year. He later cracked the state civil services exam and was under training at Himachal Institute of Public Administrative (HIPA), Shimla. Dhiman said he did not take any coaching for UPSC, and it was his third attempt. He hails from Galore in Nadaun subdivision of Hamirpur district. His father retired as a sub-divisional officer (SDO) in public works department and mother is a school lecturer. He did his schooling from Hamirpur and Kullu and graduated from Vellore Institute of Technology, Tamil Nadu, in mechanical engineering. Dhiman stresses on regular revision. “It doesn’t matter how many hours you study but daily revision is the key to the success,” he said. Disability not a deterrent100% visual disability did not deter Umesh Labana, who hails from Kolar of Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur, from cracking the UPSC civil services exam. Labana got the AIR of 397 and topped the visually impaired category. He studied MA Political Science from Himachal Pradesh University and also cleared the NET-JRF exam. Labana said cracking the civil services exam was always his first aim. He is currently doing Ph. D from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). The expert member of the state advisory board on disability, Prof Ajai Srivastava said Labana was always a brilliant student. He made full use of technology to aid his studies. He had cracked the civil services exam last year also but failed the interview round. Labana’s father is a farmer and mother retired as a teacher. Desire to serve people Twenty-six-year-old Vishal Chaudhary has cracked the civil services exam in his third attempt. Chuadhary, whose father works as a pharmacist in the Ayrveda department of state government, got his initial education from Aurobindo School Baddi and passed Class 12 from Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, Chandigarh. He did his B. Com from Shri Ram College of Commerce and M.Com from Delhi School of Economics. He cracked NET-JRF in 2018 and simultaneously appeared for the civil services exam. Chaudhary gives credit for his success to his parents and teachers. “No goal is far if you work with dedication,” said Chaudhary, adding that he always desired to work for people and finally his dream would be realised. Seven years of hard work Vyom Bindal, 29, cracked UPSC exam in 6th attempt. He has graduated from NIT Hamirpur in mechanical engineering. He also worked in an MNC for some time before taking up civil services exam. He has secured 141st rank. Bindal said one must not get disheartened from failure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-youth-from-himachal-crack-upsc-civil-services-exam-101632604825879.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Woman found dead on road in Ludhiana||A woman was found lying dead by passersby in Partap Singhwala on Hambran Road on Saturday. Police say the dead woman appears to be in her early 50s. She had suffered a fatal head injury. The body has been sent to the civil hospital for the postmortem. The police also made announcements in the surrounding areas to identify the woman.Sub-inspector, Jaskanwal Singh, SHO at PAU police station, said it seemed to be a murder, but the cops are also probing a road mishap angle. Missing elderly man found dead
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC stops distribution of hiked water and sewer bills in time for assembly polls||The fracas over hiked water and sewer bills came at a rather inconvenient time for the ruling party as the assembly elections are right around the corner. Realising that the hiked bills could be a hot-button issue, the civic body has been directed to stop distribution of water and sewer invoices for the time being. The bills are issued to around 1.4 lakh properties in the city. However, around 45,000 bills have been re-routed to the municipal corporation offices and the field staff are awaiting orders to restart the distribution process.The MC general house had approved a resolution to hike the water-sewer tariff for different categories by up to 60% in November 2020 and had also revoked the exemption to houses with area up to 125 square yards. The new tariff was imposed in April this year.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said, “There was quite a furore over the revised tariff and many residents had approached Congress MLAs, after which verbal directions were issued to stop the distribution of water-sewer bills.” However, mayor Balkar Sandhu said there was no political interference in the working of the MC. “No such incident has come to the fore in the recent past. MC officials have been directed to speed up recovery of dues from residents.” In June, the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) had raised an agitation against the civic body over hiked water-sewer charges and revocation of exemption to houses under 125 square yards. Congress MLA Surinder Dawar had also voiced his objection. Later, the mayor had restored the exemption but had remained adamant on hiking the utility tariff saying that it was one of the conditions imposed by the World Bank for approving a loan for the 24/7 surface (canal-based) water project.Delay to cause losses Residents hoping to avail a 10% rebate, or avail the one-time settlement policy (under which they can clear pending dues without incurring interest or penalty) by paying their bills before September 30 a may miss the deadline. The MC official said, “Many residents will not be able to avail the rebate or waiver, if the bills are not distributed in time. A few aware residents might pay their bills on their own, but most wait for the physical copy of the bill.”The MC’s drive to recover dues from residents has also been hit, with the department recovering around ₹10 crore against an annual target of ₹75 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-stops-distribution-of-hiked-water-and-sewer-bills-in-time-for-assembly-polls-101632604583032.html
26-09-2021||Other||Piyush Goyal hails development journey of Himachal||Union minister for consumer affairs, food and public distribution Piyush Goyal on Saturday hailed Himachal Pradesh for the “progress it has made” in all these years.Presiding over a state-level function of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana here, Goyal said Himachal has made tremendous progress in all spheres of development during its 50 years of statehood. He said not only has the state pioneered in various sectors, but also shown the way for other states in the country.Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, an ambitious scheme launched by the Central government, food security has been ensured for people during the Covid pandemic. He said food grains worth ₹643 crore have been distributed free of cost to families in the state.He said a population of more than 44 lakh benefited under the scheme.Food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Rajinder Garg, vice-chairman, state civil supplies corporation Baldev Tomar, secretary, Union ministry of food and public distribution Sudhanshu Pandey and secretary, food and civil supplies, Himachal Pradesh C Paulrasu, were among others present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/piyush-goyal-hails-development-journey-of-himachal-101632604162047.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Exhibition held at govt arts college||The faculty members of Government College of Art, Sector 10, Chandigarh, organised ‘Reflections 2021’, an art exhibition, to celebrate ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’. SS Gill, secretary, technical education, Chandigarh administration, inaugurated the event. As many as 30 faculty members showcased around 100 works including, paintings, sculptures, graphics, etc.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFS:Hotel cook dies of electric shock from fridge A 22-year-old cook died after receiving en electric shock from the refrigerator at a hotel in Dhakoli on Saturday. Surinder of Ambedkar Colony, Zirakpur, was rushed to the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, in an unconscious state, and was declared brought dead. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. Traffic restrictions in place today
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to use e-rickshaws to collect garbage||Emulating the Chennai garbage collection model, the municipal corporation has invited tenders for the purchase of 150 e-rickshaws to streamline door-to-door garbage collection. A proposal has been made for purchasing 1,000 e-rickshaws for 95 wards under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). The e-rickshaws have separate spaces to collect segregated (wet and dry) waste. At present, the informal sector is involved in door-to-door collection of waste carts, which are difficult to pull and consume a lot of time. The MC has also ordered a micro survey to determine daily waste collection. Steps are also being taken to involve the informal sector as is done in Chandigarh. As per the 2011 census, garbage is collected from 3.5 lakh properties in the city. Around 100 metric tonnes of garbage is generated in the city on a daily basis. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said solid waste management is a priority for the civic body and new contractors will be hired for transportation of garbage from secondary dump sites to the main dump site. E-rickshaws will be provided for shifting garbage from households to secondary dumping sites.The MC has been struggling with solid waste management after A2Z company terminated its contract with MC in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-to-use-e-rickshaws-to-collect-garbage-101632603922054.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: World Tourism Day to be celebrated over two days from Monday||The Chandigarh tourism department will celebrate World Tourism Day on Monday and Tuesday by organising various cultural activities as a part of Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav. A UNESCO heritage tour of the Capitol Complex will be organised six times a day on these days. A “run for tourism” will be organised at Sukhna Lake on Monday and a nature walk on the Sukhna Lake circuit will be organised in collaboration with the Chandigarh department of forest and wildlife. There will also be free hop on hop off bus rides. A sufi evening will be held live on Monday evening at the open air theatre in Kalagram, Manimajra, by Ali brothers. A Punjabi musical evening will be held here on Tuesday as well by Prabh Gill. Chandigarh and Ambedkar Institute of Hotel Management will also hold various activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhworld-tourism-day-to-be-celebrated-over-two-days-from-monday-101632603684384.html
26-09-2021||Other||Himachal: 45 from Tibetan art institute among 202 fresh Covid cases in state||Forty-five artisans, trainees and staff of Norbulingka Institute-- an institute of Tibetan Art and Craft at Sidhpur near Dharamshala town were among the 202 people tested positive for Covid on Saturday as the state’s total case tally rose to 2,18,202. The death toll rose to 3,650 after four patients died of the contagion. Among the fresh cases, highest 103 were reported in Kangra, 30 in Mandi, 22 in Bilaspur, 19 in Una, four in Kullu, 18 in Shimla, two each in Sirmaur and Solan and one each in Chamba and Kinnaur.The active case count climbed to 1,800 while recoveries reached 2,12,736 after 164 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,767 cases reported to date followed by 30,825 cases in Mandi and 27,148 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-45-from-tibetan-art-institute-among-202-fresh-covid-cases-in-state-101632603382235.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrests two shopkeepers for selling fake products||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested two local shopkeepers on Saturday for selling items of substandard quality by using the packaging of known brands. Those accused have been identified as Kapil Dev, 30, and Ashok Kumar, 32, both resident of Kajheri village. Police said Kapil owns Ganesh Karyana Store in Sector 52, Kajheri and Ashok owns RK enterprises in the same area. Police said the shopkeepers purchased substandard consumable items like salt, tea and detergent, repacked them and sold them.The police arrested them based on information provided by Romesh Dutt of Speed Search and Security Networks Private Limited in Sector 34, Chandigarh. He told the police regarding the sale of duplicate/spurious daily use and consumable products of known brands at these two shops. At Ganesh Karyana Store, the fake items recovered include 765 kg salt, 332 kg detergent and 242.8 kg tea. From RK enterprises, police recovered fake items including 6,520 kg salt and 69.25 kg tea. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and 63, 65 of Copy Right Act was registered at Sector 36 police stationFrom the preliminary interrogation, it has revealed that they procured these duplicate product from Delhi. The accused were produced before a court on Saturday and remanded to two days in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrests-two-shopkeepers-for-selling-fake-products-101632603321964.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Surprise visit of Punjab school education secretary sends Ludhiana officials into a tizzy||Punjab school education secretary Krishan Kumar carried out an unscheduled inspection of a handful of schools across the district, which sent school heads and education department officials into a tizzy as videos and photographs of his visit were circulated on messaging groups. The secretary was in town to check arrangements for the National Achievement Survey to be conducted in November this year and made an unscheduled visit to Government High School, Ghulal; Government Primary Smart School, Ghulal, Samrala; and a Government School in Bhamia Kalan on Saturday.With the rumour mill working overtime with reports of his visit to schools in the Mangat Block, which was refuted by block primary education officers, teachers and principals called their counterparts in different schools and blocks to confirm his visit and ascertain if he would visit their school as well. Rumours swapped Some union leaders dismissed the photos and videos as dated. “It is unlikely that the secretary visited Ludhiana as teachers here have strongly condemned his inaction in the Punjab School Education Board mid-term paper leak and have also been demanding the transfer of the district education officer,” said a teachers’ union leader.Confirming his visit to the industrial hub, Kumar said, “Yes, I am in Ludhiana and visited a few schools in the district.”An education department officer said, “We received information about his visit around 10 days ago, but the date was not confirmed. His visit came as a surprise to school authorities, and he interacted with students and teachers.”The secretary emphasised on the need to adhere to Covid safety guidelines. Sukhdarshan Singh, president, Anti-Cheating Teachers’ Front, Punjab, who was the whistle blower in the PSEB midterm paper leak controversy, said. “He did not inform anyone about his visit since he did not want to alert the teachers unions who could have questioned him about his inaction against the paper leak in the state.”Protests erupt The Joint Teachers’ Front staged a protest after Kumar’s visit to the district. Union leader Hardev Singh Mullapur accused Kumar of spreading fear and uncertainty among school heads. “The secretary should have informed schools before his visit. We knew that he would visit Ludhiana on Saturday, but he did not reveal which schools he would visit, which is unacceptable,” said HardevAnother leader, Deep Raja, demanded Kumar’s immediate transfer to some other department accusing him of putting students future in dark. “The secretary is pressuring teachers to only focus on NAS and the mainstream syllabus is being compromised. He will ruin the future of the students and should immediately be relieved from his current posting as education secretary,” said Raja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/surprise-visit-of-punjab-school-education-secretary-sends-ludhiana-officials-into-a-tizzy-101632603082997.html
26-09-2021||Other||Sacred Heart, Ludhiana student qualifies for senior national badminton championship||City lad Lakshay Sharma won a silver medal in men’s singles category in the Punjab State Senior Badminton Championship held at Mohali from September 15 to 19. Post his win, Lakshay, 16, has been selected in the Senior Punjab Team for North-zone interstate and senior national championship 2021. In a tight match, Lakshay Sharma defeated seed 1 Ritvik Mohanty in the semi-final by 15-21, 21-16, 21-11. He lost the final match and had to settle with the silver medal. Lakshay, who is a Class 11 student at Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, is being coached by his father Mangat Rai Sharma who is an NIS qualified national badminton coach. Principal Sister Veena Dsouza congratulated Lakshay for his achievement.GNKCW conducts home science, fine arts workshop The internal quality assurance cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Gujarkhan Campus, Model Town, Ludhiana, in collaboration with the department of home science and department of fine arts, organised a one-day workshop on the theme: Best out of waste. Narinder Rai from Vidya Mandir Social Work Art’s Training Institute, New Delhi, was the resource person. He gave a demonstration of creative art skills in papercraft. He made different ornamental items out of paper.BCM College students learn about equal opportunityThe equal opportunity cell of BCM College of Education, Ludhiana, organised a session to sensitise the students about rights and duties of responsible citizens of India. Harsimran Kaur, a student, gave a PPT on ‘Efforts made by the government’. Another student, Jyoti, recited a poem entitled ‘Equality’. Akanksha presented an animated video on the ‘Unequal opportunity race’. Workshop on National Education Policy heldAtam Devki Niketan, Ludhiana, organised a workshop on National Education Policy (NEP) by Collins Learning. The day began with a lamp lighting ceremony. Resource person Shraddha Anand and SS Jain Girls School committee president Nand Kumar Jain, senior vice-president Vipin Kumar Jain, vice-president Banka Bihari Lal Jain, general secretary Rajiv Jain, secretary Rakesh Kumar Jain, manager Satinder Kumar Jain, Naresh Jain and principal Mridhu Ablash. Shradha enlightened the teachers with details of NEP and conducted various activities related to the topic.BCM Kindergarten celebrates Daughters’ DayBCM Kindergarten, Basant Avenue, Dugri, Ludhiana, organised a refinement programme to celebrate Daughters Day. Parents and children celebrated this day. Parents expressed their love by taking part in indoor gardening, modelling, tap your feet, poetry time, etc. Teachers appreciated all the participants and expressed their gratitude. Parents also shared their pictures with the class teachers.DD Jain holds Covid vaccination campDevki Devi Jain Memorial College, Ludhiana, organised its fourth Covid-19 vaccination camp, in collaboration with the civil hospital, on Saturday. As many as 297 students were vaccinated under the supervision of senior medical officers Dr RS Chahal, Dr Aman Kaushal, and principal Sarita Bahl. President Nand Kumar Jain appreciated the medical team for their contribution amid the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sacred-heart-ludhiana-student-qualifies-for-senior-national-badminton-championship-101632603081956.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Congress protests against BJP over ‘anti-public’ policies||The Chandigarh Pradesh Congress Committee, led by president Subash Chawla, staged a protest against the “anti-public” policies of the BJP outside the municipal corporation office in Sector 17 on Saturday. Police barricaded the spot and had to resort to the use of water cannons to disperse of the protesters. Carrying placards and banners with messages like “take back hike in water tariffs immediately”, the party leaders and workers gheraoed the MC office for nearly three hours. “The protest was held to wake the BJP from its slumber. The public is fed up with the BJP’s anti-common man and anti-farmers policies. In fact, the public has made its mind to topple BJP rule, beginning from the upcoming Chandigarh MC elections,” Chawla said. AAP opposes inflationThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Chandigarh unit on Saturday took out a protest march from Sector 19/27 light point to Sector 18/19 light point against the increasing prices of petrol, diesel, gas, vegetables, pulses etc under the Narendra Modi-led central government. Party volunteers, led by senior party leader and former MP Harmohan Dhawan, AAP Chandigarh unit co-in-charge Pradeep Chhabra and convener Prem Garg raised slogans against the central government. On the occasion, Dhawan said, “The general public is distressed due to the huge increase in the prices of diesel, petrol, gas cylinders and food items in the rule of the BJP government. Due to the wrong policies of the central government, the condition of the common people has gone from bad to worse.” Meanwhile, lashing out at the BJP, Pradeep Chhabra said , “ About eight years ago, the BJP had gained power by misleading the people by raising the slogan of “bahut hui mehangai ki maar, ab ki baar Modi sarkar”. Along with this, it was also promised that good days will come; but due to the wrong policies of the central government, inflation is at its peak today. The unbridled inflation has troubled the public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-protests-against-bjp-over-anti-public-policies-101632603024066.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hours after ₹35-lakh robbery in Ludhiana, 3 execute ₹18 lakh ATM heist||Merely 10 hours after ₹35 lakh was stolen from two employees of a gold trade company, robbers struck at an ATM machine at Bhutta village and decamped with ₹18.38 lakh on Saturday morning. Cameras captured three men breaking the locks and entering the ATM kiosk. The robbers then proceeded to spray black paint on the cameras and broke open the SBI Bank ATM. Villagers were alerted to the crime when they heard the robbers in the bank around 3am. Panchayat member Mandeep Singh arrived at the spot with some villagers and gave the robbers who were about to escape in a black car, a chase, but to no avail. “When the robbers saw us,they sped up their vehicle. We pelted the car with stones in a bid to stop them and their car’s windowpane was broken in the attempt. We immediately alerted the police and bank officials,” he said. This is the second time the SBI ATM has been targeted. Around one-and-a-half year ago, an unidentified accused had attempted to break open the ATM, but the attempt had been foiled by alert villagers. The commissioner of police has ordered that at least one security personnel be deputed at all ATMs from 8pm to 6am. In an order issued under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the commissioner had said no ATM would be allowed to be open without a security personnel.The police chief, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, said, “We have some clues about the whereabouts and identity of the miscreants. The case will be solved soon. Different teams have been formed to ensure their arrest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hours-after-35-lakh-robbery-in-ludhiana-3-execute-18-lakh-atmheist-101632602663741.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ayushman Bharat Yojana: PGIMER bags top position among UT hospitals||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Saturday bagged the award for the best performing hospital under the UT category for implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY). The institute has been providing medical facilities to beneficiaries under the scheme from October last year to August 31 this year. The award was announced by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya during the inaugural function of the third anniversary of Ayushman Bharat Yojana—Aarogya Manthan 3.0, which is being celebrated by the National Health Authority and Union ministry of health and family welfare.The Ayushman Bharat Yojana aims to help economically vulnerable citizens who are in need of healthcare facilities. It was rolled out in September 2018 to cover about 50 crore citizens of the country.“PGIMER has been implementing the central health insurance scheme from October 2018. So far, more than 26,250 patients have been treated at the institute under the scheme. The award is an acknowledgment of the consistent efforts made by all stakeholders of the institute to provide seamless healthcare services to the beneficiaries,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director of PGIMER.He added, “This year, the health sector had another challenge at hand—to balance medical facilities between Covid and non-Covid patients. PGIMER was providing emergency services to all non-Covid patients round-the-clock, including poor Ayushman beneficiaries. Hence, our efforts were acknowledged.” The Ayushman Bharat Yojana now plans to make secondary and tertiary healthcare completely cashless. The beneficiaries are now getting an e-card, that can be used to avail services at empanelled hospitals, public or private, anywhere in the country.UT health department organises awareness campsThe Chandigarh health department organised awareness camps on AB-PMJAY at different places in the city, including Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16 and Manimajra civil hospital on Saturday. During the camps, Dr Amandeep Kang, UT director of health services, interacted with the visiting patients and their attendants and they were educated about the scheme.An awareness rally was also organised at the Sukhna Lake to percolate the benefits of the scheme to the public. So far, about 65,250 beneficiaries from 20,000 families in Chandigarh have been issued Ayushman cards out of a total target of 23,678 families listed under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ayushman-bharat-yojana-pgimer-bags-top-position-among-ut-hospitals-101632602614783.html
26-09-2021||Other||UPSC Civil Services 2020 results: Rajdeep, Satinder do Ludhiana proud||A city-based doctor, Rajdeep Singh Khaira, 28, of Jamalpur, bagged AIR 495 in the Civil Services Exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), results of which were released on Friday night.It was Rajdeep’s fifth attempt at the exam. Currently posted at civil hospital Koon Kalan, Ludhiana, Rajdeep wants to serve the people of his state and looks forward to bringing massive transformation here.“While serving in the civil hospital under the state department of family and welfare, I realised that to bring a positive change in people’s lives, I need to work in the administrative services,” shared Khaira.Rajdeep graduated from Government Medical College, Patiala four years back. Talking about his preferable posting, he said, “Nothing can be more satisfying than to work for one’s state. I will not face any cultural or language barriers here. Language can be a major hindrance if I am posted elsewhere.”Rajdeep, who appeared in three interviews earlier after clearing his pre and main examination, said that one should never quit before achieving the target. “Quitting should not be an option. We all should have a never-give-up attitude. I failed multiple times but kept trying till I succeeded,” he added.‘Remained determined despite odds’Satinder Kaur, 36, a former resident of Dugri Phase-1, secured AIR 563. Kaur, who shifted to Delhi after marriage, cleared the exam in her fourth attempt.Satinder always aspired to get into administrative services but had to earlier work in various multinational companies due to a lack of financial resources at home.“My father retired from the excise and taxation department in 2003. I prepared for UPSC in 2011 but had to drop it due to financial issues at home. After getting married, I shared my desire to be an IFS officer with my husband Dhruv Sharma. He supported me so, I took coaching for a year in 2017 and eventually focussed on self-study,” she said.Kaur, who loves to travel to hills, did her Class 10 from BCM School, Shastri Nagar, Ludhiana. She completed her Class 12 from Guru Nanak Girls College, Model Town, and pursued her BTech degree from Ludhiana College of Engineering and Technology, Katani Kalan, following which she pursued MBA from the Institute of Marketing and Management, Delhi.“I always wanted to do something big and different. My uncle and my father were my inspiration as they were both government employees. Despite my odds, I remained determined and, with perseverance, could finally achieve my target,” told Kaur, who appeared in the SC quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/upsc-civil-services-2020-results-rajdeep-satinder-do-ludhiana-proud-101632602363909.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine for kids not needed to reopen schools: PGI paediatricians||Citing the low severity of virus cases reported among children, paediatricians from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Saturday said authorities need not wait for a vaccine to be rolled out for those under the age of 18 before reopening schools. The paediatricians were speaking at a North Zone Pedicon event on Saturday, which was organised by the Chandigarh Association of Paediatricians, in which around 300 delegates participated.PGIMER paediatrician Dr Arun Bhansal said, “The PGIMER had conducted a sero survey for the paediatric population in August, in which it was found that 72.7% of the children, aged six to 18, had acquired natural antibodies against Covid. Despite the spread of the virus among the paediatric population, only a few cases of severe infection were reported in the UT and over 95% children were asymptomatic.” “Besides, children are going to malls, markets and parks, where they can be exposed to the virus, so there is no point in closing the schools where children can actually learn and grow. Due to closure of schools children have been acquiring health problems, psychological and physical, while sitting at home,” he said. “This is the right time for reopening schools as most of adults in our country are vaccinated. Instead of waiting for vaccines, the school management should vaccinate staff”, Dr Bhansal added.The paediatricians also said that PGIMER had recorded multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), a post-Covid complication. So far,100 such complications have been reported at PGIMER. The UT education department has reopened classes for students in a phased manner. In July, offline classes had started for students in Class 9 or higher, after which school was opened for Classes 7 and 8 in August, and students of Classes 5 and 6 also resumed classes from September 2. The summative assessment exams for Classes 5 to 8, which will be held between October 4 and October 20, will also be held physically with only genuine exceptions. The attendance has also increased from 10-15% to 50% in some government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-for-kids-not-needed-to-reopen-schools-pgi-paediatricians-101632602195326.html
26-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: State BJP chief inducts leaders from other parties||“The farmer agitation is planned by the opposition to defame the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of assembly elections in the state but people have faith in the party and know that it has been working for the betterment of farmers,” said state BJP president Ashwani Sharma, while welcoming leaders from other political parties into the BJP’s fold at circuit house on Friday evening.Felicitating Darshan Singh Daba, former president of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ party on his joining the BJP, Sharma stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been working for the betterment of the country due to which a large number of leaders from other political parties are joining BJP.“The BJP will not stop as people have faith in the party led by PM Modi, who has been working for the betterment of farmers too,” he added.BJP leader Rajesh Bagga stated that Daba had contested assembly and parliament elections in the past, and the party will grow stronger with more leaders from other political parties joining it due to its pro-people policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianastate-bjp-chief-inducts-leaders-from-other-parties-101632601525074.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Biography of Olympic bronze medal winning hockey players released||A book titled “Tokyo Olympics De Saade Hockey Khidari”, a brief biography of the players of the Indian hockey team who won a bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics, was released in Chandigarh on Saturday. This is the fifth book authored by seasoned writer Navdeep Singh Gill, who is also a media adviser to the Punjab Olympic Association (POA).The book was released by POA president Brahm Mohindra during an event. Senior vice-president Rajdeep Singh Gill, secretary general Raja KS Sidhu, Hockey Punjab secretary Pargat Singh and Punjabi players of Olympic medal winning hockey teams, including captain Manpreet Singh were also present on the occasion.Former Indian Hockey captain, Padma Shri Pargat Singh, said, “This book will serve as a source of inspiration for future generations.” He added that Punjabis have excelled in every field, besides making a significant contribution in the sports internationally.In Tokyo, the Indian hockey team won a medal in the Olympic Games after 41 years.Navdeep Singh Gill, who serves as the information and public relations officer with the Punjab government, said that the book comprises a brief biography of all 19 hockey players and chief coach Graham Reid.Gill has been writing about sports and players for the last 20 years. The author has previously authored four books including ‘Khed Ambar de Punjabi Sitaare’, ‘Main Avain Vekhiaan Asian Khedan’, ‘Akhi Vekhian Olympic Khedan’ and ‘Naulakha Bagh’.Tokyo Olympics medallist Harmanpreet Singh, Mandeep Singh, Simranjit Singh, Hardik Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Varun Kumar, Shamsher Singh, Gurjant Singh and Krishan Bahadur Pathak besides hockey Olympian Devinder Singh Garcha, Baljit Singh Dhillon, Hardeel Singh Grewal and Tejbir Singh and Dronacharya Awardee Hockey coach Baldev Singh were among those who were present during the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/biography-of-olympic-bronze-medal-winning-hockey-players-released-101632601523056.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate: First phase of polling for registered graduate constituency today||Finally, the first phase of polling for the registered graduate constituency of the Panjab University senate will be held on Sunday. The first phase will see polling at 211 of the total 272 polling booths, which are spread across seven states and union territories.There are 32 polling booths in Chandigarh, 11 in Haryana, 159 in Punjab, five in Himachal Pradesh and four in Delhi, where polling will be held on Sunday while 61 booths will hold the elections on a later date, which hasn’t been announced as of now.The voting will be held from 8am to 1pm and from 1.30pm to 5pm. Any type of electrical and electronic recording devices, including mobile phones and cameras, won’t be allowed inside the polling booth. Members of the polling parties, who will man booths in Himachal Pradesh and Delhi, have already left the city. Observers will be on duty at all centres and videography will be carried out throughout the day. There will be police backup for the strongroom along with CCTV surveillance. The strong room will be set up in a room of the Gymnasium Hall (towards ICSSR building).The elections were originally scheduled for August 18, but had been delayed due to non-availability of required polling booths in Punjab and Haryana. The matter had also gone to the Punjab and Haryana high court. Of the eight constituencies of PU senate, the registered graduate constituency is the largest with 3,61,869 voters, who elect 15 members to the senate. As many as 43 members will be in contention from the whole constituency.The total number of candidates in fray is now 41, not 43. One of the candidates, Avtar Singh Bedi, has passed away while Sanjeev Kumar, whose name was earlier in the list, has decided not to contest the elections now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-first-phase-of-polling-for-registered-graduate-constituency-today-101632601221907.html
26-09-2021||Other||Property tax: September 30 last day to avail 10% rebate; Ludhiana MC offices to remain open today||Even as September 30 is the last date to submit the property tax with a 10% rebate for 2021-22, over 1.47 lakh residents are yet to clear their dues.The municipal corporation (MC) suvidha kendras remained open in all four zonal offices to facilitate the residents on Saturday and will also remain open on Sunday. The MC officials stated that residents can also avail of a 10% rebate on submission of water-sewer user charges till September 30.As per the officials, around 1,700 property owners submitted the tax return on Saturday, out of which over 1,150 residents submitted the return in Suvidha Kendras, while others submitted the tax online. The MC recovered ₹1.35 crore as property tax on Saturday.MC superintendent Vivek Verma stated that there is confusion among the residents that a 10% rebate can be availed on submission of property tax by November end under the one-time settlement policy floated by the state government for property tax. However, there is no extension in the rebate period for the current year and it can only be availed till September 30.Apart from submitting the tax returns at MC Suvidha Kendras, the residents can also pay the tax online at mcludhiana.gov.in, said Verma. No rebate will be provided and no penalty will be imposed on the payment of tax till December 31.However, a 10% penalty will be imposed on payment from January 1, 2022, till March 31. The penalty will increase to 20% along with 18% annual interest on payment after March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/property-tax-september-30-last-day-to-avail-10-rebate-ludhiana-mc-offices-to-remain-open-today-101632601041916.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC General House meeting: Congress councillors stage walk out||Congress councillors walked out of the municipal corporation General House meeting on Friday to protest against the non-submission of a report on smart parking. Speaking during the meeting, Satish Kainth, a Congress councillor, said, “We were assured in the last House meeting that a report on the working of smart parking will be presented before the house in September. But, no report was submitted on Friday. On one hand, residents are suffering because of poor parking facilities, and at the same time, parking contractors are given undue benefits by the MC. We will demand CBI enquiry into this.” In response, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, said, “You can speak on the issue during the question hour, but first, we have to discuss the agendas tabled before the house.” Kainth also alleged that the BJP-ruled MC is steeped in corruption. Sharma retorted, “A corrupt party like Congress can only see corruption everywhere. Do you want me to remind you about the rail scam, booth scam and all instances of Congress’ corruption.” The Congress and BJP councillors had heated exchange of words in the well of the house over the issue. Afterwards, the three Congress councillors present walked out. Ruling benches, including the mayor, demanded strict action against erring MC officials for delay in issuance of the allotment letter to IIT Ropar for preparation of the detailed project report and request for proposal for the upgradation of the solid waste processing plant in Sector 25. BJP city chief and councillor Arun Sood, said, “When the House passed the resolution for allotment of the DPR and RFP preparation to IIT Ropar in July, then why would allotment letter be issued only in September. It only shows intent of the officials to delay the start of the project.” The start of the project is set to get delayed, as IIT Ropar’s report is expected by October-end. Earlier, the MC was expecting it by September 15. The work on the project can now only start next year, as tendering process is likely to start after the elections. The solid waste processing plant is working at only 20% of its capacity and most of the city’s solid waste is being dumped untreated. BJP has been trying to showcase an upgraded waste processing plant as one of its major achievements in the coming civic body elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-general-house-meeting-congress-councillors-stage-walk-out-101632600924679.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Six more people down with dengue fever in Ludhiana district||Though coronavirus cases are on the wane, the dengue toll in the district climbed to 141 on Saturday as six more cases were confirmed. As many as 117 cases have been reported from city areas, while others have been reported from Payal Khanna, Sudhar, and Sahnewal among other areas. There are around 1,207 suspected dengue cases in Ludhiana. Around 110 confirmed dengue patients from other districts and states are also admitted in district hospitals.On Friday, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma had directed different departments, including the municipal corporation (MC), and the health department, to launch a drive to check mosquito breeding. Lone Covid case reported One fresh case of the coronavirus was reported on Saturday. Now, the total Covid cases in the district stand at 87,354, while there are 22 active cases. As many as 2,101 patients have succumbed to the virus. There are currently 18 patients in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-more-people-down-with-dengue-fever-in-ludhiana-district-101632600503030.html
26-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC to launch cleanliness drive||The municipal corporation (MC) has decided to commence a cleanliness drive from next week under the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to provide a clean look to the city before the upcoming festive season.The MC will also undertake road repair works in different parts of the city.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with MC officials, including zonal commissioners, in this regard at the Zone D office on Friday. Directions were also issued to the staffers in the horticulture wing to maintain the green belts, parks, and central verges properly.Sabharwal stated that the drive will be carried out at 10 major roads of the city in the first phase. He further said that road repair works could not be initiated in the city till now due to the rainy season, and the officials have been directed to start them as soon as the weather gets clear. The celebrations of the mahotsav will continue for around a week, and MC will also involve NGOs to take up cleanliness drives in the city.Malhar road civil works to be finished by October 7: MCWith the project of the development of Malhar Road into a smart road missing deadlines in the past, the MC officials stated that the civil works on the stretch will be completed by October 7.Inspecting the ongoing works on Friday, Sabharwal said that they had set September 30 as the deadline for the work but, it got delayed due to heavy rainfall in the city.“Further, the work of laying underground wires has to be taken up by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), and there has been a delay from their side, said Sabharwal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-to-launch-cleanliness-drive-101632600501926.html
26-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: PSPCL holds consumer grievance redressal camps||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) held bijli panchayats (consumer grievance redressal camps) at CMC, Model Town, Focal Point, and Jagraon divisions of the district on Saturday.The consumer grievance redressal camps were organised under the leadership of the director, distribution, and CE, Central Zone.Sanjiv Parbhakar, deputy chief engineer, West Circle; Jagdev Singh Hans, deputy chief engineer, City East Circle; senior xen Sukhbir Singh Dhiman, along with SDO Jasbir Singh, SDO Nirmal Singh, and SDO Mandeep Singh, were also present during these camps.Industrial representative Rajesh Jain, along with area councillors, was also in attendance.According to the officials, they resolved billing issues on the spot.Jagdev Singh Hans assured the public that improvement works related to the power supply will be completed within the stipulated period.He stated that the PSPCL is committed to providing uninterrupted and quality supply to its consumers.He added that such camps will be organised in the future as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-pspcl-holds-consumer-grievance-redressal-camps-101632599781687.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Suspended for implicating man, 3 Ludhiana cops reinstated within 4 days||Suspended for implicating a man in a drug peddling case, a former station house officer and two assistant sub-inspectors were reinstated on Saturday, four days after former Ludhiana commissioner of police Naunihal Singh suspended them.The cops who were reinstated are former Meharban SHO, sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur, and ASIs Rajandeep Singh and Kamaljeet Singh. However, a departmental probe against them is still on.The complainant, Gurdeep Singh of Noorwala village, who was allegedly arrested with opium during a special checking as per official records, says the suspension was a mere eyewash and said he would challenge the decision in court. The complainant had submitted CCTV footage, which showed him being arrested from his house, rather than from a checkpost. The cops were suspended and an inquiry had been initiated by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) on September 17. Officials said Naunihal had reinstated the officers before his transfer on September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suspended-for-implicating-man-3-ludhiana-cops-reinstated-within-4-days-101632598642893.html
26-09-2021||Other||Basera scheme: Proprietary rights granted to 35 slum households in Ludhiana||Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Sanjay Talwar and deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Saturday granted proprietary rights to 35 slum households in Bhola Colony and Baba Jiwan Singh Nagar under the state government’s ‘Basera’ scheme.Presiding over an event, the MLA called the programme a landmark step towards urban development. Under the programme, proprietary rights will be granted to every household occupying state government land in a slum in any city.The MLA said that a survey is already underway in Wards 12, 15, 16, 17, and 21 to identify more eligible families.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that under this scheme, those living in houses of a maximum size of 30 square yards will be benefitted.He asked the officials to ensure that every eligible slum dweller gets the benefit of the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/basera-scheme-proprietary-rights-granted-to-35-slum-households-in-ludhiana-101632598641716.html
26-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 12,000 aspirants take Punjab police constable recruitment exam||Over 12,000 applicants from various districts took the Punjab Police Constable Recruitment exam here in the city on Saturday.According to the joint commissioner of police (JCP - Rural) Sachin Gupta, who is the nodal officer, the exam was conducted at 22 centres in the city. Apart from deploying force inside as well as outside the campus, the cops had also installed mobile jammers and CCTV cameras on the premises, he said.He added that the police had made all arrangements keeping in view the Covid-19 protocol. Hand sanitizers were placed at all examination centres, and the cops on duty ensured social distancing among aspirants. The candidates were asked to leave their mobile phones and wristwatches outside the examination hall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana12000-aspirants-take-punjab-police-constable-recruitment-exam-101632597803016.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Drug peddling racket busted in Hoshiarpur jail||A drug peddling racket that was being operated from Hoshiarpur jail was busted on Saturday, with the arrest of an inmate with 45g heroin, an electronic weighing machine and empty pouches.The accused, Shaman Sharma of Basant Nagar, was arrested following a tipoff, said sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge CIA Staff 3.The accused said he would get directions from Shakti Singh of Bhagwan Nagar, who is lodged at the Hoshiarpur Jail. His aide, Bhanu, used to handover the drugs to him, which he used to smuggle to addicts. The sub-inspector said it is suspected that the accused possessed a mobile phone. A case was registered under sections of the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-peddling-racket-busted-in-hoshiarpur-jail-101632597681317.html
26-09-2021||Other||Undertrial dies in Yamunanagar hospital||A 33-year-old undertrial prisoner from a village in Radaur block died in Yamunanagar civil hospital on Friday after being brought from the district jail, police said on Saturday.Police said deceased Mahavir Singh was in judicial custody from September 9 after he was booked in a bike theft case lodged at Yamunanagar Sadar police station on September 3.DSP (Jagadhari) Rajender Kumar said it was informed that Singh had fainted in the jail premises while returning from a canteen and was brought to the hospital where he had died.Meanwhile, his family reached the hospital on Saturday and levelled allegations against the police and jail authorities.As per the FIR lodged earlier, a local, Harish Kumar had told the police that two bike-borne men had stolen his bike from near a flyover in Aurangabad village. No accused was named in the case, except an incomplete bike number.Suresh Kumar, SHO of Jagadhri city police station, said the allegations are baseless and said, “We’ve already recovered the stolen bike and an enquiry by the area magistrate was initiated on his death to determine all facts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/undertrial-dies-in-yamunanagar-hospital-101632597021104.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||DCs to submit excess rain reports in 48 hours: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has directed the deputy commissioners (DCs) to submit reports on areas that received more than 100mm rain in the past few days.The DCs will have to submit the reports within 48 hours.Chautala said this is being done so that farmers can be compensated for their losses by conducting special girdawari of the affected areas. He said the crops that are not covered under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana will also be compensated.The deputy CM, who also holds the portfolio of revenue and disaster management department, said there is a possibility of non-seasonal rains till September 30 as per the forecast of the meteorological department.He said the state government will compensate loss of crop including horticulture produce and pulses that are not covered under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana.He said at present, there is a possibility of more damage in pulses and cotton crops and after receiving the report, special girdawari will be done.He said the problem of waterlogging has also come to notice in zones around the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dcs-to-submit-excess-rain-reports-in-48-hours-dushyant-101632596847113.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC asks Sonepat police to ensure minor child is not removed from district||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Sonepat police to ensure that a child whose custody is a matter of dispute between an NRI couple not be removed from the jurisdiction of the district.The HC bench of justice HS Sidhu also directed the police to ensure that the boy whose age is stated to be 2.5 years is safe and take passport of the child into their custody. Further, the child is to be produced during a hearing on September 28 through video conferencing.The bench of justice HS Sidhu acted on the plea of the NRI father, from UK, who had sought that a warrant officer be appointed to produce the minor child, who is stated to be in illegal custody of the family of the mother in Sonepat.As per the plea, the marriage was solemnised in November 2010 and they have two children, a 10-year-old girl and the boy. Due to marital discord between the couple, the woman had left for her maternal home with both the minors from the UK in March 2020 without informing her husband. When he went to her home, she refused to accompany him. He approached the HC in October 2020 seeking direction to police to get the children released.The plea further claimed that in July 2021, a UK court had directed that the children be made available to spend time with the father for which time was fixed. However, during video calls, he had notice something “unusual” and when in September 2021, he went to meet the children, he was allegedly assaulted by his wife’s family. The father had apprehended that he feared the child could be illegally removed from Sonepat as the wife has gone back to the UK and child could also be taken to an undisclosed location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-asks-sonepat-police-to-ensure-minor-child-is-not-removed-from-district-101632596661412.html
26-09-2021||Other||Haryana CM reaches Karnal to inaugurate development projects worth ₹14 crore||Nearly a month after the incident of lathi-charge on farmers for opposing a meeting of the ruling BJP in Karnal, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday reached his constituency.Amid heavy police deployment, the chief minister visited Karnal and inaugurated development projects worth around ₹14.46 crore.During his visit, the CM also held an open session (Janta Darbar) for redressal of grievances of people of Karnal. The open session evoked good response as hundreds of people reached there with their grievances.The chief minister said for the past few months such programmes could be conducted but on Saturday, an open session was organised for redressal of grievances of people.Later, the CM inaugurated three developmental projects, including railway overbridge worth ₹13 crore, at the railway station.Reacting to a question about the Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on September 27, the chief minister said in a democracy, everybody has the right to protest.“I urge people to remain on their work but nobody will be forced. But the government is committed to ensure that the law and order is not disrupted,” he added.The chief minister did not comment on BJP leader and former Union minister Birender Singh attending INLD’s rally in Jind. “This should be asked to people who attended this rally in which people were called in the name of late Devi Lal,” he said.The CM’s visit remained peaceful as farm unions did not hold any protest against his visit after a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-cm-reaches-karnal-to-inaugurate-development-projects-worth-rs-14-crore-101632596547917.html
26-09-2021||Other||Historic Imambada gate in Lucknow reconstructed in record time||LUCKNOW: The majestic 173-year-old gate of Lucknow’s Sibtainabad Imambada that collapsed last year during lockdown has been reconstructed in record 90 days.The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which undertook the reconstruction exercise on June 23, has completed the exercise in a record time.Finishing touches are now being given and the gate is expected to regain its old glory by October, ASI officials said.“More than 80 percent of the work has been completed. We are giving finishing touches to the structure and by October this would be complete,” said Dilip Khamari, superintending archaeologist, Lucknow Circle.The gate of the Imambada collapsed on April 2, 2020, during lockdown.The reconstruction work began on June 23 soon after ASI floated the tender.“The local company that bagged the tender said that the restoration would take within 120 days, but we are trying our best to complete the work before the deadline,” said Nitin Kohli, the contractor and expert who is heading the reconstruction work.ASI officials said that once ready, the gate would look exactly the way it looked in 1847, the year when the construction of Sibtainabad Imambada got completed. Located in the heart of the city, Sibtainabad is among the most beautiful Imambaras.“Reconstruction is way tougher than restoration. In restoration, we restore or strengthen up the existing structure whereas in reconstruction we have to start from scratch,” Kohli said.To give the gate the original Nawabi era look, the entire construction was done exactly the same way as it was done originally during Nawabi era. “Biggest task was the procurement of the old lakhauri bricks that are used in the construction of the gate. We also used surki and lime for binding and plastering in order to give original finishes to the structure,” Kohli added.Mohammed Haider, mutwalli Sibtainabad Imambada said, “The reconstruction of the gate is in its final phase.”Haider also said an anti-encroachment drive was needed as there were many shops that were operating illegally inside the Imambada gate. “District administration and ASI should ensure that the gate is free of any encroachment in future,” he said.According to historians, the 173-year-old gate, was built in 1847 along with the Imambada, which came up during the reign of Amjad Ali Shah, the fourth King of Awadh. But it could not be completed during his lifetime and his son, Wajid Ali Shah subsequently completed the construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/historic-imambada-gate-in-lucknow-reconstructed-in-record-90-days-101632596545754.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm attack: SAD to hold protest in Bathinda on Oct 3 in support of cotton growers||Notwithstanding the call of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders to all political parties to suspend public programmes in Punjab, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday announced a mega protest rally in Bathinda on October 3 in support of cotton growers.After visiting several villages in Bathinda, Sukhbir on Saturday said the party demands immediate release of ₹50,000 per acre compensation to farmers whose standing cotton crop was damaged to an infestation of pink bollworm. He said more than 80% of cotton crop has been damaged but the Punjab government has failed to sense the crisis faced by farmers. He batted for a crop insurance scheme in Punjab to protect the interest of the agrarian community.“Volume of infestation hints at large scale availability of spurious Bt cotton seeds. The Punjab government should order a probe on how the spurious seeds landed in the state. Rural economy is on the verge of collapse as cotton growers are left with no resources for the next crop,” he said, while demanding a compensation of ₹15,000 each to farm labourers.The call of protest on October 3 has a political significance amid a standoff between the SAD and farmer unions over holding political activities.The event will be held after a month when SAD had to stop all political programmes after SKM activists created a ruckus at Sukhbir’s rally in Moga on September 3.In the last few months, Sukhbir and Bathinda Lok Sabha MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal had to abandon their scheduled visits in villages due to strong opposition from the farmer unions. However, on Saturday, Sukhbir was able to make inroads in the rural areas without any resistance. He visited six villages of Bathinda and Mansa districts.While a section of farmer union activists showed black flags at Sukhbir’s motorcade at Sekhpura village, a number of farmers gathered to welcome SAD president.Lachhman Singh, whose 5-acre crop was affected, said they gathered to welcome Sukhbir to raise the voice of the distressed farmers.Similarly, a large number of farmers at Jajjal, Jaga Ram Tirath and Jhanda Khurd gathered to welcome the SAD chief.3.25 lakh hectares under cotton cultivation in stateA total of 3.25 lakh hectares is under cotton cultivation in Punjab. Nearly 40% of the area under the crop in Bathinda (95,000 hectares) and Mansa (65,000 hectares) is under the pest attack, said the chief agriculture officer (CAO) Manjit Singh for two districts. He said the district administrations have orders girdawri to assess crop loss.Fazilka has an estimated 96,000 hectares and no pest attack was reported till Saturday, said CAO Hardev Singh.Muktsar CAO Charanjit Kainth said of 40,000 hectares in the district, pink bollworm was detected in only two fields of Gidderbaha and Lambi areas and the situation there is under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pink-bollworm-attack-sad-to-hold-protest-in-bathinda-on-oct-3-in-support-of-cotton-growers-101632596361739.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Will eliminate paper leak gang: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said the state government intends to completely eliminate the gang involved in paper leaks.Addressing a press conference, Khattar said a toll free number 1800-180-2022 has been set up by the state vigilance bureau for tightening the noose around those involved in the paper leaks.“All aspirants who have ever been contacted by the perpetrators of paper leaks should immediately share the information on this toll free number,” he said.‘Power, water theft cases should not be considered crime’Regarding the NCRB data on law and order in state, the chief minister said cases of electricity and water theft should not be considered as a crime but bad habits.“The perpetrators of electricity and water theft should be penalised by imposition of financial penalty,” he said.The power department has collected ₹121 crore as penalties, Khattar said.“Our disposal of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) cases, excluding the power and water theft cases is about 77.2%. The disposal rate is about 86% for crime against person, 93% for crime against women, and 94% for cases of the Arms Act,” the CM said.Khattar said this year, paddy procurement will start from October 1 because of heavy rains. Earlier, procurement used to start from September 25.‘BJP never humiliated its ousted CMs’On a question regarding the removal of Captain Amarinder Singh as Punjab chief minister, Khattar said BJP has also replaced its chief ministers but has never humiliated them like the Congress did.“Dissension is also prevalent in the Haryana Congress. Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda is also treading the same path. For many years, the state Congress has not been able to structure its organisation,” he said.Public interface for volunteering, self-employment launchedKhattar on Saturday launched a ‘Samarpan’ portal which aims to encourage volunteerism. He said people willing to volunteer will get an opportunity to give their services in the field of education, skill development, sports, and agriculture.The voluntary services provided through the ‘Samarpan’ initiative are linked with various programmes and initiatives of government such as education, women and child development, farmer’s welfare, and skill development.The CM said ‘Samarpan’ will provide a platform for volunteers who wish to do something good for the society. He also launched a foreign cooperation department (FCD) official website www.fcd.haryana.gov.in to help non-resident Haryanvis to reconnect, rediscover, and revive their roots in Haryana.FCD’s website will provide comprehensive information about Haryana, Haryanvi culture, reasons to invest in Haryana, and the export performance of the state.Khattar also launched ‘HUNAR’ (Haryana, Udyam, Naukri Aur Rozgar) mobile application developed by Haryana Skill Development Mission.Through this app, the Mission will give training to candidates for self-employment and setting up an enterprise in different activities besides regular wage employment training.In addition to this, students will be given training in industrial, technical, vocational, and competitive courses through the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-eliminate-paper-leak-gang-khattar-101632596301688.html
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda ASI suspended for assaulting colleague||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Bathinda police, Gobind Singh, was suspended for allegedly manhandling a colleague and snatching his service revolver on Saturday.Gobind was accused of misbehaving with Vishnu Das, an ASI at Sangat police station.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ajay Maluja said the accused cop, who is posted at Vardhman police post in the city, was found in an inebriated condition.The incident took place when Vishnu was on duty at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University where an examination for state police constables’ recruitment was held on Saturday.“Under influence of an intoxicant, Gobind reached the examination centre in the morning and started misbehaving with Vishnu. On being objected, Gobind tore Vishnu’s uniform and forcibly took his official weapon. The erring cop was overpowered by the staff on duty,” said the SSP.Maluja said Gobind was immediately pulled out from the field duty and departmental action has been initiated against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-asi-suspended-for-assaulting-colleague-101632596241385.html
26-09-2021||Mumbai||39 inmates in Byculla Women’s Jail test Covid-19 positive, BMC seals premises||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday sealed the Byculla Women’s Jail premises after 39 inmates were found infected with Covid-19.Civic officials said they initially received complaints that a few inmates were down with fever after which three Covid-19 cases were detected.Post this, a fever camp was set up in which 36 more cases of Covid-19 were detected. Assistant municipal commissioner E ward (under which Byculla Prison falls) Manish Walunju said that on September 17 the local health post was informed about multiple fever cases inside the jail. “It was then decided to hold a fever camp on September 19 for the first time. We did a repeat camp later.”According to BMC officials, over 120 Covid-19 tests were conducted of all the inmates as well as the support staff in the premises from which a total of 39 inmates tested positive. The inmates have been quarantined at Patanwala municipal school in Mazgaon area which has especially been taken over as a Covid Care Centre by the authorities.Further, one of the inmates also included a pregnant woman who has been admitted to GT hospital as a precautionary measure.A BMC official said, “We suspect that someone who may have been admitted into the jail recently may have brought in the virus. The premises have been sealed by the authorities, and a definite source cannot be attributed in such scenarios.”In a similar incident a month ago, 22 children including staff members tested positive for Covid-19 at St Joseph’s School in Agripada. This was followed by around 18 children from Mankhurd Children’s Home who had also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/39-inmates-in-byculla-women-s-jail-test-covid-19-positive-bmc-seals-premises-101632596001396.html
26-09-2021||Other||Punjab reports 25 fresh Covid cases||Punjab recorded 25 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday that took the infection tally to 6,01,468, according to a medical bulletin. The death toll stands at 16,505 with no Covid-related fatality was reported in the last 24 hours. One death case was added to the toll after reconciliation of data, it said. Among the new cases, Pathankot and Rupnagar reported three each, followed by two in Amritsar. The number of active cases dropped to 282 from 287 on Friday, it said. Twenty-eight people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,681, according to the bulletin. A total of 1,43,89,012 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far and 4,26,061 doses of vaccine were administered on Saturday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-reports-25-fresh-covid-cases-101632595941293.html
26-09-2021||Other||Regional parties will form front to counter BJP, say Opposition leaders at INLD Jind rally||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) party on Saturday organised the ‘Samman Diwas Samaroh’ in its erstwhile stronghold Jind to mark the 108th birth anniversary of late Devi Lal.Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, former Jammu and Kashmir CM Farooq Abdullah, Janata Dal (United) leader KC Tyagi and senior BJP leader Birender Singh marked their presence along with INLD supreme Om Prakash Chautala.However, RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary, former PM HD Devegowda, former UP CM Mulayam Singh Yadav skipped the meeting, which turned out to be a jolt to Chautala’s plan to announce a third front of non-Congress and non-BJP parties on Devi Lal’s anniversary.The rally saw the Opposition leaders attacking the Modi government over three farm laws and accused it of doing ‘divisive’ politics. The Opposition leaders stressed on forming a front of the regional parties to bring change in the national politics.Former Haryana CM and INLD patriarch OP Chautala said farmers have been protesting against Centre’s three farm laws for one year but the Union government is reluctant to resolve their grievances.“Our party is standing by the protesters and the Centre will be forced to repeal these laws. The government has been delaying Ellenabad bypolls due to fear of losing the BJP candidate’s security deposit. If our party is voted to power, we will waive off all loans and give jobs to every youth as per their qualification,” he added.BJP is lying everyday, says FarooqMeanwhile, Farooq accused the BJP of “dividing people on caste and religion lines” and alleged that the party has done nothing in J&K after scrapping Article 370 from the erstwhile state.“I want to salute Haryana as its youths are protecting our borders. People associated with BJP are lying everyday. They had promised to give 50,000 government jobs in J&K but have done nothing in this regard. They talk of Lord Ram. Ram was of everyone irrespective of religion, but BJP is calling him just theirs,” he said.“Farmers are the backbone of the country but are forced to protest. Government should repeal the three farm laws and bring new laws with farmers’ consent. After BJP came to power, our relations with the neighbouring countries have turned bitter. To ensure peace, we need to keep friendly relations with the neighbours,” he added.“People of J&K had chosen India instead of going to Pakistan during Partition and we love this country. No one can challenge our patriotism,” Farooq added.Devi Lal had united the society: BadalPrakash Singh Badal asked Chautala and KC Tyagi to bring all regional parties on the same platform to fight BJP.“Regional parties can only understand problems of farmers and the rural population. We should make sure that regional parties form government in all states. Devi Lal had united all sections of society and should follow his path,” he added.Farmers earning less than labourers, says TyagiJDU general secretary KC Tyagi said farmers of the country are in distress and are earning ₹27 per day “which is less than what a labourer earns”.“It’s time to review yourself in Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar could not attend the rally as the state is facing a flood situation. He has good relations with Devi Lal’s family and was the lone CM in country who made frequent visits to Tihar jail to meet Chautala. This is the time to assess the challenges being faced by people in country. Chautala should bring like-minded people on the same stage,” he added.BJP’s Birender Singh attends INLD rallyIn a surprise move, former Union minister and senior BJP leader Birender Singh attended Opposition INLD’s rally in Jind.He was welcomed by INLD leaders with the party’s green turban and he wore it.In a veiled attack on BJP, Birender urged the gathering to remain cautious of people who are playing divisive politics.“We need to strengthen our brotherhood and give a befitting reply to those trying to divide us. If Chautala will invite me again next year, I will definitely come,” he added.Birender said Chautala had sent him an invitation to attend the rally and he came to pay tributes to Devi Lal.“Only a few people control maximum wealth in the country which forced farmers to protest for their crop rates. Nowadays, no politician can sacrifice their post but Devi Lal had sacrificed the PM’s post. We need a leader like him to lead us through these tough times,” he added.The senior BJP leader, who had resigned as a Union minister after the BJP fielded his son Brijendra Singh from Hisar parliamentary seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, has been criticising his own party after his son was not accommodated in the Union ministry.Singh has sharpened his attacks against BJP since farmers started protesting against the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/regional-parties-will-form-front-to-counter-bjp-say-opposition-leaders-at-inld-jind-rally-101632595762457.html
26-09-2021||Other||Not farmers, goons of Charuni attacked BJP MP, MLA in Kurukshetra: Dhankar||Don’t call them farmers, these are the goons of Charuni (BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni), Haryana BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar said on Saturday, while reacting to the alleged attack on the convoy of Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini and Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha.“There are 19 lakh families of farmers. But these are not farmers, there are some from Congress and others associated with Charuni. All of them should be identified likewise, but not as farmers,” Dhankar said.The leader said this after meeting state home minister Anil Vij at PWD resthouse in Cantonment, while he was chairing his weekly Janata Darbar. Vij heard at least 1,500 complaints from across state in eight hours, officials said.Later, Dhankar inaugurated a newly-constructed statue of party ideologue Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya at Sector 10, Ambala in the presence of Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria, MLA Aseem Goel, party’s state spokesperson Sanjay Sharma, district party president Rajesh Bataura and other workers. The saffron party is celebrating the birth anniversary of Upadhyaya, a Jan Sangh leader.Amid heavy police deployment, farmers associated with the Charuni group protested against the leader’s presence 200m away from the venue.Dhankar hit-out at the farmers’ agitation against three farm laws: “The laws are yet to be implemented but a false narrative has already been placed. People try to paint a good initiative as wrong and protest against it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/not-farmers-goons-of-charuni-attacked-bjp-mp-mla-in-kurukshetra-dhankar-101632595462694.html
26-09-2021||Pune||Your Space: Allow reopening of offline classes in schools in phased manner||The state health officials have reported a drop in Covid cases during the Ganeshotsav festival as compared to the previous week, and less cases reported than the corresponding festive period last year. As the authorities’ strict norms like online darshan by mandals and no immersion at riversides saw a welcome change, readers share views on resumption of offline classes by educational institutes and reopening of other service sectors... Rural children are missing online classes The Supreme Court has stayed the school reopening decision. It has refused to give directions to the central and state governments to enable students to attend physical classes. Many social scientists are urging to reopen in-person schools as benefits outweigh the risk especially as poor rural children are missing out on online education. According to a survey, only 8% of rural students are studying online regularly. Economist and social scientist Jean Dreze was part of a report which said schools are essential service and it was said that they should be the last to close and the first to reopen. Many doctors of various medical associations are saying that it is safe to resume offline classes after taking all precautions. Unlocking of offline classes may be delayed till Diwali and it is understandable. But post Diwali, all offline classes should reopen. The state of Kerala has already made it clear that it will reopen all schools on November 1. Closed schools are a “looming disaster” and we must not allow it to last longer. Santosh Bhagat Reopen schools under strict safety measures Though schools and colleges have reopened in many other states, the situation in Maharashtra is sensitive. Looking at the current scenario, it has been more than a year that students are taking online learning. However, the issue is that the sudden transformation of the education sector from offline to online has affected delivery of quality education. It was very hard for teachers and students to suddenly change their teaching techniques from offline to online. In today’s context as everything is allowed to reopen, the government should think about taking decisions to open higher secondary school and colleges. However, at the same time steps such as vaccination of age group 12-18 should be started as early as possible. Vaccination of teachers should be ensured. We should not wait for the decision till the cases are zero. Steps should be taken to ensure that the benefits of offline classes that young students have missed should be not be extended for a longer period. We all know that the Covid pandemic is not over yet. Even if the government takes decision to reopen schools - real time monitoring of Covid cases is must so that spread of the virus should be curbed. With strict measures let’s reopen schools to spread the knowledge and let us all take care to check the spread of the virus. Apurv Londhe Reopen businesses to save jobs As we can see that a lot of students are suffering in rural and urban areas due to continuous online classes, reopening of schools will be a good decision. Students are now facing the issue of online fatigue which is affecting their learning. In such a scenario, when we can see that Covid cases have not seen a spike after Ganpati festival, school should start offline. Along with this, other service sector businesses should also resume offline functions as it will help those who are struggling with their jobs. It is equally important that no one forgets that the danger of Covid is not over. Taking all precautions is important to address the third wave. Many of us have lost loved ones in the second wave, and so hand sanitisation, social distancing and most importantly wearing masks should become the new normal. Mansi Waghmare Allow offline classes in phase mode I think that schools and other service sector industries should be reopened, but strictly in phases. As the festival season is not yet over, there are chances that Covid cases may see a rise after Dussehra or Diwali. As many people step outside for festivities and in the festival fervour forget that the virus is still present. But meanwhile, the schools and other places should be reopened in a phased manner. Moreover, vaccination of students from 12 to 18 years should be started soon if offline classes are to be continued. If the children are vaccinated, they will be safer. Most teaching staff at government and private schools are vaccinated. If children are inoculated, they can be free of any added tensions. Offline classes are important as teachers and students can interact much better than online learning. And so I think, with all precautions being taken, if the Covid cases remain low, offline mode should be given a go-ahead. Pragati Kulkarni Reopen schools after Diwali If anyone has suffered the most during the past 18 months, it is students. Online education suddenly was very challenging for students as well as teachers. However, they have time and again coped with the indoor schedule. But now that the Covid cases have dropped, students should get an opportunity to go offline to classes. Also, teachers have been working their best to provide and reach out to as many students as possible. But due to online education, many students are not receiving proper education. The lack of one-to-one interaction has affected weaker students the most. So, it is of utmost importance that students are presented with a possibility of offline school. Many parents can be seen struggling with kids who are not screen dependent for everything. This not only affects the cognitive growth of the child but can lead to obesity among children. Many kids now prefer staying indoors for their evening play with no physical exercises. If the education continues online, it will affect these students the most. However, schools should reopen after Diwali as Covid cases may drop further and it will be safer for the children. Pranita Lanke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-allow-reopening-of-offline-classes-in-phased-manner-101632595461272.html
26-09-2021||Pune||Two lakh traffic violation e-challans settled in Pune court||Pune: Citizens have been visiting the district court to pay the e-challan issued by the Pune city police for violation of traffic rules. More than two lakh e-challans issued by the traffic police for violating traffic rules was to be settled in the Lok Adalat on September 25. For this, notices are being sent to the vehicle owners concerned. The notice states that the offence is punishable under the Motor Vehicles Act for violating traffic rules. If the violator does not pay the fine either online or at the Motor Vehicle Court on the district court premises, then further action will be initiated. Citizens have started filing their fines in court since September 24 to avoid further action if the fines are not paid. The facility has also been made available online to pay the fines imposed by the traffic police. A link to this is also given in the message sent to citizens. The traffic branch has taken strong steps for enforcement of rules in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-lakh-traffic-violation-e-challans-settled-in-pune-court-101632595160586.html
26-09-2021||Pune||Solve highway flooding issues, Nitin Gadkari tells officials||Pune: Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday asked elected representatives and officials from Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli to sit together with NHAI officials and solve the issue of flooding of national highways due to heavy rains. Earlier in July, heavy rains had triggered massive flooding at the two-kilometre stretch on the national highway in Kolhapur, interrupting vehicular movement for four days. Following the floods, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said he will speak to Gadkari about the possibility of building flyovers on the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway stretch passing through Kolhapur for uninterrupted vehicular movement during flooding. Speaking after laying the foundation stone of a highway project in Karad, the Union minister of roads, transport and highways said all stakeholders will need to understand the project details so that the problem can be solved permanently. “I assure you the road will be a good one and all problems related to it will be solved,” Gadkari said. Speaking about waterway projects, he said 11 out of 17 issues that existed between states in 1970 have been solved, but those between Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa remain. “We don’t have water scarcity, we have issues of water management,” Gadkari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/solve-highway-flooding-issues-nitin-gadkari-tells-officials-101632595101074.html
26-09-2021||Jaipur||Bus stands in all 33 districts of Rajasthan see heavy rush of REET candidates||A day ahead of the scheduled Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers-2021 for the recruitment of third-grade teachers, a heavy crowd of candidates was seen at bus stands in all 33 districts of the state on Saturday. The candidates were seen catching buses for the district where their exam centres are located. The state government has announced free travel for REET candidates in both state roadways and private buses while the North Western Railway is also operating 26 special trains covering almost all important stations from September 25 to 26 to help candidates reach their exam destinations and back home. The exam is being held on a large scale on Sunday as around 16.51 lakh candidates have enrolled for it. This is the biggest exam in the state in terms of the number of candidates. Looking at the challenges in conducting the exam in a fair manner and without any inconvenience to the general public, the state government has deployed its machinery for making all arrangements and directed the state police to check on those involved in duping candidates in the name of help in clearing the exam. Rajasthan transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the state government is committed to the successful conduct of the examination with the safety and convenience of examinees. He said chief minister Ashok Gehlot himself is keeping an eye over the entire arrangements for REET-2021 and no laxity of any kind will be tolerated. The test is being conducted by the Ajmer-based Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education at 3,993 exam centres. All the preparations for the exam have been completed and it will be ensured that there is no use of unfair means in the examination, Board chairman DP Jaroli said. He added that the candidates who have submitted multiple applications have been identified. Meanwhile, in a tragic incident, six REET candidates were killed and five others injured when a van in which they were going from Baran to Sikar to take the exam rammed into a tractor-trolly in Jaipur district's Chaksu area on Saturday. All of them had exam centres in Sikar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bus-stands-in-all-33-districts-of-rajasthan-see-heavy-rush-of-reet-candidates-101632594356078.html
26-09-2021||Other||Attack on BJP MP, MLA’s vehicle: 134 farmers booked on attempt to murder charges||A day after the windshields of the vehicle of BJP’s Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini and Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha were damaged during a protest by farmers in Kurukshetra, police have booked 134 farmers under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including attempt to murder charges.As per information from the Kurukshetra police, nine farmers, including Jasbir Singh, Rajender Singh, Akshay, Dilbag Singh, Amrik Singh, Jai Bhagwan, Uday Singh, Jassa and Krishan Kumar, have been booked by name whereas 125 others have been booked under Sections 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 307 (attempt to murder) and 341 (wrongful restraint), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC for attack on the BJP leaders who were escorted out unharmed.The FIR was registered on complaint of a sub-inspector of the Kurukshetra police who was deputed to monitor the security of the venue of BJP’s meeting at Saini Samaj Dharamshala.However, police said no arrest has been made so far and the investigation to identify farmers involved in the attack is going on.Police had detained around 30 farmers after the protest on Friday evening but there are reports that they were released as hundreds of farmers gathered at Kurukshetra Police Lines and held a protest.They had threatened to intensify the agitation if those detained were not released at the earliest.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said they asked police to release the farmers who had no role in the attack and they were released late at night.He said as of now, not a single farmer was in police custody. He slammed the government for misusing power and police to suppress their agitation by imposing Sections such as attempt to murder on the farmers.Kurukshetra superintendent of police (SP) Himanshu Garg said investigation is on and no arrest has been made so far.On Friday, the MP and the MLA, along with other BJP leaders, had visited Kurukshetra to attend a meeting of BJP’s OBC Morcha.The activists who were protesting for several hours had surrounded their vehicles and later windshields of two SUVs were found broken. The BJP leaders alleged that the protesters had pelted stones at their vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/attack-on-bjp-mp-mla-s-vehicle-134-farmers-booked-on-attempt-to-murder-charges-101632594981455.html
26-09-2021||Pune||Firm resolve beats weak eyesight as Pooja cracks UPSC exam||Pune: Life is a journey of gratitude in pursuance of happiness’ – this is the mantra that 28-year-old Pooja Kadam followed and secured 577th rank in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination. Pooja who could only see 30% from her eyes stood tall in front of every challenge to achieve her dream. Hailing from village Taka, Ausa taluka in Latur district, Pooja after completion of the higher secondary certificate, moved to Pune for further studies. Along with studying at Fergusson College, Pooja started preparing for competitive examinations. “While I was in MA first year, the eyesight got weaker, I had to use recording technology for studying. It was tough, but I had decided to keep finding solution for every problem and not stop till I clear the exams,” said Pooja, who did her competitive exam preparation at Jnana Prabodhini Parshala, Sadashiv peth and The Unique Academy. Studying for 12-14 hours and 4-5 hours of sleep was the daily routine for Pooja. “Exercise, meditation, Vipassana was the core part of daily routine. In the morning, I used to decide ‘mission of the day’ and work accordingly the whole day,” said Pooja who had so far appeared for five prelims, four mains and two interviews. “Whatever assignment I will get, I will give it my best. No work is small for me. Since I come from a village, I would like to work for women empowerment and problems faced by villages,” said Kadam, who stays at Hadapsar. “For Pooja coming to Jnana Prabodhini was always a challenge, she always needed support while commuting and her batchmates helped a lot. I have seen her struggle, but she never complained,” said her brother and advocate Manoj Kadam. For Pooja, listening to audio notes and understanding the concept without reading was the biggest challenge while preparing for the exams. “In the initial days, it was very difficult, but I got used to it. I received good support from batchmates and coaching faculty,” said Pooja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/firm-resolve-beats-weak-eyesight-as-pooja-cracks-upsc-exam-101632594802689.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||Telangana CM Rao discusses irrigation projects with Union minister Shekhawat||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Saturday called on Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and discussed about the state’s various irrigation projects besides Jal Jeevan Mission.“As we look forward to the effective implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission’s Har Ghar Jal in all states, various issues regarding the same in Telangana, among others, were discussed,” Shekhawat tweeted after meeting Rao.The Telangana chief minister is scheduled on Sunday to attend a high-level meeting of ‘CMs of ten Naxal-hit states’ to be chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah.Rao, who is on a three-day visit to the national capital, is also scheduled to meet Union food minister Piyush Goyal to discuss the PDS paddy issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/telangana-cm-rao-discusses-irrigation-projects-with-union-minister-shekhawat-101632594741029.html
26-09-2021||Other||Senior Kerala Congress leader Sudheeran quits political affairs committee||Amidst discussions on the reshuffling of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, former KPCC chief V M Sudheeran resigned from the political affairs committee of the party’s state unit, party officials said here on Saturday.The displeasure over the reshuffle procedures and the working style of the present leadership under new KPCC chief K Sudhakaran were said to be the reasons behind his sudden decision, they said.Sudheeran handed over the resignation letter to the state leadership on Friday, the officials added.Though contacted, the leader was unavailable for comment.Known for his non-corrupt and idealist image, Sudheeran’s firm stand on various issues had led to differences between him and many of his party colleagues in the past.Reacting to the reports of Sudheeran’s resignation, senior Congress leader and MLA, P T Thomas, said the KPCC chief would intervene into the issue and clear any misunderstanding of the veteran leader.He also said Sudhakaran had visited Sudheeran at his home recently and held a detailed discussion.“Sudheeran is one of the most respected leaders of the Congress party in Kerala,” he said.Thomas, also the working president of the KPCC, said major discussion or consultation with regard to the reshuffle of the state unit leadership was yet to be started. Recently, KPCC former general secretary K P Anil Kumar and its secretary P S Prashanth had resigned from the primary membership of the grand old party over the selection of new DCC presidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/senior-kerala-congress-leader-sudheeran-quits-political-affairs-committee-101632594682324.html
26-09-2021||Other||BJP MP manhandled during Congress-BJP clash in Pratapgarh||PRAYAGRAJ: Several people were injured as Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers came to blows during the Gareeb Kalyan Mela held at Sangipur development block auditorium in Pratapgarh district on Saturday. BJP MP Sangamlal Gupta was also allegedly attacked by supporters of Congress leader Pramod Tiwari and his daughter Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’, who is MLA from Rampur Khas. The MP was rescued by police and escorted to a safe place. Congress leader Pramod Tiwari was also manhandled and Aradhna Mishra’s mobile was lost in the melee. Later, on the complaint of MP Sangam Lal Gupta, a named FIR was registered against 27 people, including Congress leader Pramod Tiwari, his daughter and MLA Aradhana Mishra, block pramukh of Sangipur Bablu Singh and 50 unidentified people under relevant sections of IPC for rioting armed with deadly weapons, unlawful assembly, voluntarily causing hurt and endangering human life or personal safety of others etc. Further investigation was underway, said SHO of Lalganj police station Kamlesh Kumar Pal. Eye witnesses claimed that the two leaders pushed and shoved each other. The BJP MP’s vehicle also got damaged during the ruckus, a clipping of which went viral on social media. According to reports, BJP MP Sangamlal Gupta was invited as the chief guest at the Mela. He was to reach the block at 1 am but was late. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari and Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ reached the Mela venue at around 2 am. A few minutes later, the BJP MP also arrived, leading to tension among Congress and BJP workers. After a heated argument, both groups attacked each other. Police somehow restored order and escorted Gupta (whose clothes were torn in the clash) out. However, in a video which went viral, it can be seen that some people chased his vehicle and damaged it. The programme was also suspended following the chaos. Heavy force reached the spot and controlled the situation. BJP MP Sangamlal Gupta said Congress workers assaulted him and tore his clothes. “I had gone to attend the government programme where armed assailants, around 60 in number, were already present in a pre-planned manner. They first attacked SHO Sangipur and then assaulted me when I objected. I received injuries and was rescued by security personnel. The attackers damaged my vehicle and chased and assaulted BJP workers with me,” the MP complained. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and former Rajya Sabha member Pramod Tiwari blamed the BJP leaders and their supporters for the incident. He said that the BJP leaders did not believe in democracy as they were intoxicated with power. Police brutally thrashed Congress workers, Tiwari added. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said instructions had been issued to take action against those involved in the attack on BJP MP Sangamlal Gupta. Circle officer Jagmohan said the incident would be investigated. Force had been deployed in view of tension in the area, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-mp-manhandled-during-congress-bjp-clash-in-pratapgarh-101632594681117.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||₹300 crore black money detected from 2 Tamil Nadu financing groups: CBDT||The income tax department has detected “unaccounted” income of over ₹300 crore after it raided two private syndicate financing groups in Chennai, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on Saturday.The searches were carried out on September 23 on 35 premises in Chennai.“The searches, so far, have resulted in the detection of undisclosed income of more than ₹300 crore and unaccounted cash of ₹9 crore has been seized,” CBDT said in a statement.The evidence found on the premises of the financiers and their associates revealed that these groups have lent to various big corporate houses and businesses in Tamil Nadu, a substantial portion of which is in cash, the statement said.The department detected that the groups “are charging high rate of interest, a part of which is not offered to tax.”“The modus operandi adopted by the groups revealed that most of the interest payments by borrowers are received in dummy bank accounts and the same has not been disclosed for tax purposes,” the policy-making body for the tax department said.The “unaccounted monies” are disguised and brought into the books of account of the groups as unsecured loans, sundry creditors, etc., the CBDT claimed.Numerous undisclosed property investments and other income suppression by these persons were also found, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/300-crore-black-money-detected-from-2-tamil-nadu-financing-groups-cbdt-101632594623586.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||In major shake-up, 39 senior cops transferred or handed fresh posts||Delhi Police chief Rakesh Asthana on Saturday transferred or handed new posts to 39 senior officers in his first major reshuffle after taking charge as commissioner in July. Several units within the force, such as a community policing unit or a human resources division, were established for the first time as part of the shuffle, and each will be headed by a special commissioner. The 39 officers include seven deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) of the south, south-east, central, north, south-west, Dwarka and outer north police districts. The capital has 15 police districts. Saturday’s reshuffle is significant because DCPs are officers equivalent to superintendents of police (SP) in state police forces, who coordinate with the top brass and junior officers, as well as residents. Among those transferred were DCP (south-east) RP Meena and DCP (south) Atul Thakur, who were moved to police headquarters. DCP (Central) Jasmeet Singh has been transferred to the special cell, which is the Delhi Police’s anti-terror unit. The special cell will now be headed by six DCPs, up from three earlier. Officers in Delhi Police said the increase will ensure there is more focus and scrutiny of cases filed or investigated by the special cell. Among several important cases, the cell is probing the Delhi riots conspiracy case and the recent arrest of six men who are allegedly part of a Pakistan-trained terror module. Among the special commissioners transferred or given new roles, Dependra Pathak, who was special commissioner (special CP) of the intelligence unit, has now been appointed special CP of Zone 1. The zone includes three police ranges — eastern, north and central. Asthana also appointed Virender Chahal as the head of the traffic police. Chahal, who was the special CP of traffic, is now in charge of the traffic management division. To ease law enforcement, the national capital has been divided into thousands of beats. A beat may be limited to a single lane, a group of lanes, a housing colony or multiple colonies. The beats within a particular area make up one police station. Several police stations are clubbed under one police district, each headed by a DCP. Each of Delhi’s 15 police districts has 8-15 police stations. At least two police districts together make up a range. For instance, the north-east and east districts form the Eastern Range. Each range is headed by an officer of the joint commissioner (joint CP) rank. The DCP reports directly to the joint CP. At least two or more ranges form one zone. Effective Saturday, Delhi will have two police zones. While Pathak is the special CP of Zone 1, Satish Golcha has been appointed special CP of Zone 2, which comprises New Delhi, southern and south-western range. S Sundari Nanda, who was earlier in charge of the police headquarters, is now special CP of the human resources division, a new unit, which will deal with managing grievances of the 80,000-strong police force, their training and welfare. Special CP Muktesh Chander, who was in charge of licensing and operations, has been given additional charge of two new units — community policing and the media cell. “The new police chief has implemented several changes [since he took charge of the force]. Till a few years ago, the special cell had only one DCP. Now there are six. The CP office is now called the CP secretariat. There are also two DCP rank officers, who will help the CP. Many posts, such as human resources, community policing or media cell did not exist,” said a police officer, who asked not to be named. “This change is good. There will be more focus by senior officers. Such new initiatives can only happen when someone from outside comes to lead the force.” Asthana, an officer of the Gujarat cadre, who was earlier the director-general of the Border Security Force, was on July 17 appointed Delhi Police commissioner. While this is not the first time that an officer from a different cadre has been appointed as police chief, Asthana is the first such appointment in at least 19 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-1st-major-shake-up-under-delhi-police-chief-asthana-39-senior-cops-transferred-or-handed-fresh-posts-101632594622408.html
26-09-2021||Other||Fulfilled 202 poll promises in four months: Tamil Nadu CM Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Saturday said his government has delivered on 202 of the 505 promises made in the run-up to the state assembly polls,The chief minister assured to meet the people once every three months, with a list of achievements, to inform them about his government’s progress, claiming no other government in the Indian subcontinent has achieved so much in a short period. “Of the 505 promises, 202 assurances were delivered by my government within 4 months. Of all the governments in the Indian subcontinent, such a pace of implementation can only be attributed to the DMK government,” he said in a video message posted on his twitter site. This achievement, he said, should not be viewed as a momentary acceleration. “This is how we perform and will continue to do so, every single day. Will meet you once every 3 months to let you know of the progress we made with the list of achievements,” Stalin said.The CM said he would meet the people not as someone who takes them for granted thinking he will have to face them only after 5 years. “It is you and my conscience that drives me. You order. I am waiting to deliver,” he said. Stalin said he has taken charge of chief ministership because of people’s votes. “Each and every vote that was cast serve as a strong base for me to be in Fort St. George. Each one of you cast your votes with the belief that we will always keep up our promises. We will always deliver the best of services to our people,” he said. He also expressed pride that his government was safeguarding the trust that the people have “invested in us.” “You have voted us. And we have kept most of our promises. Hence, I am talking to you, brimming with pride... presenting the DMK’s election manifesto, I said as Thalaivar Kalaignar (his father and late Chief Minister M Karunanidhi) always says, ‘we say what we do, and do as we say’,” Stalin said. In just 4 months after assuming office the DMK government delivered upon most of the promises. Listing some of the achievements, he said on May 7, within a few hours of assuming office he signed 5 important files including coronavirus relief of ₹4,000 for all 20.09 million rice ration cardholders, reduction of Aavin milk prices by ₹3 per litre, free bus rides for women in government city and town buses, and formation of a new department, ‘Chief Minister in your constituency’, to act upon public grievances. “The first 4 of 5 promises were part of our election manifesto. Following this, to safeguard the interests of farmers and to improve agricultural production for the first time, a separate budget was presented for agriculture. Loans amounting to ₹2,756 crore lent to women self-help groups through Cooperative Credit Societies were waived, jewel loans lent through Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies were waived,” he said.Reduction of petrol prices by ₹3 per litre, reviving and implementing Anna Marumalarchi Thittam (Anna Renaissance Scheme) in rural areas on an estimated budget of ₹1,200 crore, reviving and implementing the Namakku Naame Thittam with the support of local communities on an outlay of ₹100 crore, cash awards for Olympic medal winners were among the promises fulfilled.Apart from passing resolutions against Centre’s new farm laws and CAA in the Assembly and exemption from NEET, the government announced ex-gratia of ₹25 lakh for the families of doctors who lost their lives during COVID-19 treatment efforts, ex-gratia of ₹25 lakh for families of police officials and personnel who lost their lives during the Covid-19 frontline efforts, enhancing quota for women in government employment to 40%, among others. “Most of our promises have been kept… 51 promises from the Governor’s address, 2 promises from my reply, 43 promises from the budget, 23 promises from the agriculture budget, 64 promises from the announcements by ministers, and 16 promises from other announcements have also been delivered,” he noted. Initiatives which were not part of the DMK’s manifesto like 7.5% reservation for students from government schools on preferential basis in all professional courses, total fee waiver for beneficiaries of this reservation, free travel scheme in government buses extended to transgenders and differently abled, ₹5 lakh fixed deposit for the children orphaned due to Covid-19 pandemic, to name a few were also delivered. “All the above were not announced by us but delivered. We not only did what we said but also did what we have not said,” Stalin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fulfilled-202-poll-promises-in-four-months-tamil-nadu-cmstalin-101632594621022.html
26-09-2021||Lucknow||World Lung day: Persistent breathlessness, cough not to be ignored, says doctor||Breathlessness or cough should not be ignored if they trouble for long, said Dr Surya Kant, HoD department of respiratory medicine, King George’s Medical University on Saturday.“Keeping your lungs healthy is a pre-requisite to help all your body organs function well. Yoga can be one good option to keep your lungs fit,” said Dr Surya Kant.The department of respiratory medicine at KGMU observed the World Lung Day and the theme was Care for Your Lungs.“We breathe oxygen through the lungs. If our lungs are damaged then how will we be able to survive as lungs are responsible for circulation of oxygen in our body,” said Dr Surya Kant.Statistics say that about 17 lakh people die every year due to air pollution in our country. “There has been a significant increase in cases of lung diseases, whether it is pneumonia, Tuberculosis, asthma, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or whether it is Covid-19, all of them are associated with the lungs,” he said.Dr RAS Kushwaha, Dr Santosh Kumar, Dr Ajay Kumar Verma, Dr Anand Srivastava, Dr Darshan Kumar Bajaj, Dr Jyoti Bajpai and the resident doctors attended the event||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/world-lung-day-persistent-coughing-not-to-be-ignored-says-doctor-101632594500947.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||Ensure south Delhi temple is protected, not encroached upon: HC to police||The Delhi high court has directed the police to ensure that a temple at Noor Nagar extension in south Delhi’s Jamia Nagar is “protected”, “maintained” and not encroached upon.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva in his Friday order also asked the police to ensure that law and order in the area is maintained.“Petition is accordingly disposed of, directing the respondents to ensure that there is no issue of law and order in the area and the area depicted as mandir in the layout plan is protected and maintained as a mandir and no encroachment by any miscreant is permitted on the same,” the judge said.The court’s order comes on a plea by the 206 ward committee of Jamia Nagar, seeking directions to the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to stop encroachments on and demolition of the mandir and dharamshala.The petitioner had also sought directions to the Delhi Police to ensure that the temple is not encroached upon or demolished by miscreants.It said that part of the area, which was the temple’s dharamshala was “demolished overnight” and the area levelled, to allow it to be encroached upon.The counsel appearing for the petitioner association presented photos of the demolition being taken while also submitting the layout plan of the temple available on the website of the Delhi government’s urban development department.Appearing for the corporation, the counsel said they were not carrying out any demolition action, and added that when the property was inspected, no construction activity was also found on the subject area.The counsel further told the court that the issue now pertains to law and order and protection of the area, which will be the Delhi Police’s responsibility, which it had sent a communication to.The police’s lawyer assured the court that they shall ensure there is no encroachment on the said area, and that the area demarcated as a temple in the layout plan will be preserved and protected.He also ensured that there will ensure that there is no law and order issue at the spot.Taking note of this, the court disposed of the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ensure-south-delhi-temple-is-protected-not-encroached-upon-high-court-to-police-101632594440961.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||‘Gogi’s assailants planned to escape through judge’s door’: Police||New Delhi: The two men who shot dead gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi in a courtroom in Rohini court complex on Friday may have planned to escape through the judge’s entry-exit door as they had moved towards that direction immediately after pumping bullets into Gogi’s body, but were gunned down by the police personnel who feared that the suspects may harm the judge, said police officials privy to the investigation, quoting the statements of the personnel who were involved in the counter fire.On Saturday, police detained one suspect, who had allegedly dropped the two attackers outside the court in an i10 car around 10am on Friday, nearly three hours before the shooting, and hope his questioning will lead to the people who ordered the hit. The prison department has also sounded an alert in the three jails in Delhi -- Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli -- where several members of Gogi and his rival gangs are lodged.To be sure, the police have not officially shared any information about the suspects’ escape plan as, they say, they are yet to verify it from the prime conspirators who, as per the initial investigation, are Gogi’s arch rival Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuriya, and his associates such as Sunil Rathi, Naveen Bali, Neeraj Bawana,Vicky and Kaushal. Except Vicky, who hails from Haryana’s Sonepat, the other suspected conspirators are lodged in different jails in Delhi and the neighbouring states. The crime branch team that is investigating the case will soon take their custody to question them on the conspiracy, the officials said.According to police, the suspect detained on Saturday was also dressed as a lawyer and drove his car, without the two assailants, to the court premises around 10.30 am using gate number 4. Investigators are scanning the CCTV footage from near the court gates to determine from which gate the attackers entered the premises and to ascertain if they were searched and frisked by the security personnel presents there, said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named.“The special cell team is questioning the suspect to ascertain the identities of the key conspirators,” the officer said.Around 1pm on Friday, Gogi was escorted to court number 207 on the second floor of Rohini court complex by 10 police personnel of the Third Battalion, while 15-20 personnel from the special cell and the Rohini district police were present there in plain clothes. Eyewitnesses as well as police officers said that the judge Gagandeep Singh was seated when the two assailants dressed as lawyers pulled out their guns and began firing at Gogi in front of the judge. The policemen present there responded and killed the suspects in the counter fire.“One of the policemen involved in the counter fire told the senior police officers that the judge rushed to his chamber using the door dedicated for his entry and exit from the courtroom. As the suspects also ran in the same direction, the policeman opened fire thinking that they may use the same door to escape or try to hurt the judge. The other policemen also responded and killed the duo before they could climb the judge’s desk. Since the attackers died, their exact escape plan would be known only when we interrogate the conspirators,” said a second senior police officer, who did not want to be identified.“Had the assailants managed to cross the desk, they would have easily escaped from the court campus as the staircase was just outside that judge’s entry-exit door,” added the officer.Police said they are looking at Tajpuriya as the prime conspirator as he was involved in a bitter feud with Gogi for nearly a decade.The dead assailants were identified as Rahul Tyagi, who hails from a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut, and Jagdeep alias Jagga, from Sonepat in Haryana. Initial investigation and information collected by the police through their criminal intelligence network has hinted that the two were hired for the hit allegedly by Tajpuriya’s close aide, jailed gangster Naveen Dabas, better known as Naveen Bali.The name of another associate of Tajpuriya, Sunil Rathi from Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat, is also being probed in the conspiracy. Rathi is a key accused in the murder case of UP’s dreaded gangster Prem Prakash Singh, better known as Munna Bajrangi, who was shot dead inside Baghpat jail on July 9,2018.Investigators said that information collected so far in the case has revealed that Tyagi and Jagga were kept in a flat located nearly three kilometres away from the Rohini court. It has also been learnt that the suspects had conducted a detailed reconnaissance of the courtroom and its premises a day before the hit.“These are all preliminary information and we are verifying it,” said the officer quoted first.Security arrangements at the Rohini court complex was increased on Saturday in the wake of Friday’s shootout that is considered a major security lapse and because of the fact that Tajpuriya’s physical visit to the court in an old case was also scheduled.Tajpuria was brought to the court from Mandoli jail around 10 am on Saturday amid tight security arrangement and was produced for a hearing at the court but the proceedings could not completed due to a strike announced by the lawyers.The next date of hearing was fixed on September 30 and Tajpuria was taken back to jail around noon.Meanwhile, director general (Tihar prison) Sandeep Goel said that an alert has been sounded inside the prison, following which jail officers are now in touch with the police and are rechecking the records of all members of the Gogi and Tajpuria gangs lodged inside the prison complexes at Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli. At least 15-20 alleged members from each gang are lodged inside the three jails. Separately, jail officers are also keeping checks on Tajpuria security.“It is likely that there will be a reshuffle of all these gangsters. It is possible that Tajpuria will also be transferred to a more secure area inside the prison. We are also in touch with police about the security of prisoners during their court production,” a jail officer, who asked not to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-men-who-shot-gogi-in-rohini-court-may-have-planned-to-escape-through-judge-s-doorway-police-101632594380890.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||New AIIMS master plan: 3,000 more beds, 50 OTs in 7 years||A new master plan for redeveloping the premiere All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) will add 3,000 beds to the hospital, including 300 for emergency services, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Saturday. The hospital will also add 50 new operation theatres and a dedicated infectious diseases ward over the next seven years, he said.The hospital already has over 2,000 beds for the treatment of patients.Dr Guleria was speaking during the celebration of the 66th foundation day of the institute. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had also been invited to the campus for the celebration.The master plan details the creation of over 4,000 hostel units to replace the currently ageing buildings, as well as a smart library for students. Dr Guleria said the research needs of the institute will also be kept in mind while implementing the comprehensive redevelopment plan. The plan, he said, will dedicate 1.5 lakh sqm of built-up area for state-of-the-art research laboratories, animal facilities, and a clinical trial facility. The plan will also focus on creating “future-ready” IT support, said Dr Guleria.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya also inaugurated an automated laboratory during the occasion. The laboratory, which will process 50,000 samples a day, will ensure the availability of the most crucial tests needed for emergency and instant decision-making round the clock. It will conduct several sophisticated tests and have a rapid turnaround time of just 2-3 hours, according to the director.“AIIMS, New Delhi, is a lighthouse for the 22 new AIIMS spread across India. The students and teachers from here can help these institutes through their rich experience to replicate the success of this AIIMS throughout India,” Mandaviya said at the event.“Whenever I go to a hospital, I feel very sad to see bouncers [security personnel] where sick people come for treatment, and not to quarrel. But if they are quarrelling, then they must be angry, and this anger must be due to some lack of effort from our end. When a doctor sees the patient as a god, long queues of patients don’t bother them. In fact it this is why patients’ treatment becomes a priority,” he said.A ₹9,053 crore makeover of the institute was announced in 2019 to increase the number of beds in the hospitals to over 5,000 by 2024. The redevelopment plan was also to include ways to integrate the fragmented campus spread across five land parcels.The hospital, before the pandemic, received about 15,000 patients in its outpatient department every day. During the pandemic, the institute saw nearly 800,000 people in the OPD and 150,000 patients in the emergency department, said Dr Guleria. About 80,000 patients were admitted to the hospital, and 50,000 underwent surgeries, he added.Dr Guleria emphasised the importance of digital health and medical education. He said, “We cannot sit on our laurels; healthcare is changing rapidly. Major advances in science and technology have changed the health delivery landscape – from AI, robotics, big data analysis, tele-health, to simulation-based learning--all aspects of health are changing. To be relevant and to train the doctors of the future, we must move faster than before and embrace change. The last 18 months have taught us the immense importance of digital health and online medical education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-will-have-over-3-000-beds-and-50-ots-in-seven-years-guleria-101632594140967.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||Lawyers seek security overhaul after Rohini court shootout left three dead||Judicial work was paralysed in city’s seven district court complexes on Saturday after lawyers abstained from work, demanding modification of security norms in court precincts, a day after the dramatic shootout at the Rohini court complex saw alleged gangster Jeetender Maan (known as Gogi) gunned down by two people from rival gangs, who were then shot dead by the police.Thousands of lawyers abstained from court proceedings on Saturday, which led to several cases being adjourned. The courts, however, passed orders and judgments that were scheduled for Saturday, said Sanjeev Nasiar, spokesperson of the coordination committee of the All District Bar Association.A team of lawyers also met police commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Saturday and discussed security provisions in Delhi’s courts, Nasiar said.During the day, advocate Rakesh Sehrawat, chairman of the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), had a meeting with Asthana and pointed out security shortfalls inside the Rohini court. Sehrawat said he pointed out that metal detectors, CCTV cameras, X-ray machines were not working inside the court, and that CCTV footage from Friday showed that security personnel did not bother frisk anyone entering the court.“We saw in the footage that the security guard was not vigilant. So, we asked the CP to make a person accountable for the security lapses on Friday. We also asked how such heavily armed people could enter a courtroom and open fire during proceedings,” he said.Sehrawat said that the CP also ensured that action would be taken against the erring officers.“He gave us a positive response and called five special commissioners of police during the meeting. He also assured us that the security systems for all district courts will be upgraded to the level of Supreme Court.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “The Rohini district police has been in regular coordination with Rohini court administration and all other stakeholders regarding security of the court premises. Joint commissioner of police (northern range) is already enquiring into the shooting incident in the courtroom and is also conducting a review for further strengthening the court security.”Meanwhile, a plea has been moved in the Delhi high court urging it to direct authorities to take requisite measures for the safety and security of district courts in the city, a day after the shootout inside the Rohini courtroom.The petition, filed by advocate Deepa Joseph, said the Delhi courts had become unsafe for her and fellow lawyers, and are “easy terrain” for gangsters to settle scores.“This shootout inside the court again puts a big question mark on the safety and security of judges, lawyers and litigants inside the district courts in Delhi,” Joseph said.The plea sought direction to the Delhi Police and the Bar Council of Delhi to consider instructing all police personnel at court entrances to ensure they check the ID cards of every lawyer who enters a court.It also sought to direct the Delhi Police to raise security and frisking level of lawyers at par with the Supreme Court and Delhi High Court, and to take disciplinary action against the officers who fail to implement the direction with utmost diligence and seriousness.The plea, moved through lawyers Robin Raju and Blessan Mathews, said the BCD be asked to issue an advisory to all the District Bar Associations in the city to recommend members of their bar to cooperate with police personnel at the main entrance of courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-rohini-shootout-lawyers-in-delhi-abstain-from-work-demand-better-security-101632593964366.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||Forest staff, police to consider joint checks||Officials of the Delhi forest department will conduct a meeting with Delhi Police this week to discuss the possibility of forming joint inspection teams to inspect the forest lands of the Capital, senior officials said on Saturday. A senior forest department official said that they wrote to the police department to schedule a meeting this week to discuss how joint inspections can be conducted in forest areas, such as the central ridge, southern ridge, south-central ridge, Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, etc. “This will help us keep a better watch on forest areas, and prevent encroachment, illegal tree cutting and smuggling in the forests. We are looking at how we can do this with the help of the police. We will work out possibilities and then release more details,” the official said. While the Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Thursday approved a uniform code for the officials of the forest department, assigning uniforms as per their ranks and batons, the teams are still largely unequipped to handle the challenges of protecting large scale encroachment and illegal activities in the forest lands. The total recorded forest area in Delhi is 85sqkm, which is 5.73% of its total geographic area. Of this, reserved and protected forests constitute 91.76% and 8.24% of the total forest area respectively. The forest department is short-staffed and ill-equipped to manage these large forest areas, officials said. In December last year, the forest department informed the National Green Tribunal that the government had started the process to fill 226 vacant posts, including that of 211 forest guards, 11 wildlife guards and four forest rangers. The total number of posts in the department is 434 – 398 forestry staff and 36 ministerial staff. The process of training and recruiting people is still underway. Officials of the forest department said that the meeting with the Delhi Police was prompted by a violent attack on four forest department officials on Thursday at the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. The officials, who were patrolling the sanctuary around 7.30pm in two separate vehicles, were attacked by around 24-25 men carrying sticks, rods and knives. They beat the officials and damaged their vehicles. Deputy conservator forests (south division) Amit Anand said that these attacks were a result of the crackdown initiated by his teams against alcohol smuggling from Haryana to Delhi using forest routes. “Over the last two months, we have confiscated large quantities of alcohol, seized vehicles and have also dug up the regular routes that smugglers use,” Anand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/forest-dept-to-meet-delhi-police-to-discuss-joint-inspection-of-forests-this-week-101632593960853.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||Drive to send overaged diesel vehicles directly for scrapping||In an effort to push residents to scrap overage vehicles, the Delhi transport department will launch a crackdown from Monday to identify diesel vehicles older than 15 years in the Capital and directly send them for scrapping.Delhi transport commissioner Ashish Kundra said such vehicles will be impounded and sent to the scrapping yard if they are found plying on city roads or parked in public places.According to orders passed by the National Green Tribunal in 2015 and the Supreme Court in 2018, registered diesel vehicles over 10 years old and petrol vehicles over 15 years old cannot operate in NCR. “But for now, we are starting the drive with only diesel vehicles that are above 15 years old because they are technically the oldest and the most polluting ones. As our campaign starts from Monday, we urge all owners of old diesel cars, trucks, tempos or buses that are above 15 years old to scrap their vehicles. We have eight empanelled scrappers, the list of which is available on the website of the Delhi transport department. From September 27, if our enforcement team finds any such vehicle parked in public or running in the city, it will be impounded and sent for scrapping. The money from scrapping will be given to the vehicle owner,” said Kundra.
26-09-2021||Delhi||Waive exam fees for kids in classes 10, 12 : Govt to CBSE||The Delhi government has written to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) requesting a “one-time” waiver of the examination fee of class 10 and 12 students studying in Delhi government and government-aided schools, among others, citing the pandemic-induced financial crisis.In a letter addressed to CBSE chairperson on Thursday, Director of Education Udit Prakash Rai said, “CBSE is requested to waive off the examination fee of all the students of classes 10 and 12 studying in all the government, government-aided, patrachar vidyalaya, New Delhi Municipal Council, Delhi Cantonment Board and Department of Social Welfare schools, for the current academic session 2021-22 as a one-time measure.”Rai pointed out that the “severe” economic impact of Covid-19 had led to job losses across the world: “After a long time, formal education has started once again in schools. Now, the problems regarding paying the CBSE examination fee have emerged before the parents. A number of requests have been received from parents, expressing their inability to pay examination fee due to loss of income in the ongoing pandemic.”CBSE Controller of Examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said, “This is a policy matter. If the government has written to us, it will be looked at from all angles and discussed before responding.”In 2019, CBSE hiked the board examination fee for Class 10 and 12 students in the general category in Delhi government schools from ₹375 and ₹600, respectively, to ₹1,500 for five subjects. For Class 12 students, the fee can go up to ₹2,500, including the extra amount for practicals, additional and optional subjects. For SC/ST candidates in Class 10, the examination fee was increased from ₹375 to ₹1,200, and for Class 12, from ₹600 to ₹1,200.Schools have been asked to collect exam fee and submit the list of Class 10 and 12 candidates to the board by September 30. A majority of schools in the Capital, including 1,030 Delhi government schools, are affiliated with CBSE.Before 2019, students from the SC/ST category were charged ₹50 and the remainder used to be reimbursed by the stategovernment to the board. Now, they have to pay the full fee.In 2019, the Delhi government had paid the examination fee for over 314,000 class 10 and 12 students in government schools after CBSE hiked the examination fee substantially.However, it did not pay the fee last year citing fund crunch, and this year too, students have been struggling to pay the fee on their own. Last year, Delhi government school principals and several civil society members had raised funds to help students who could not pay their own examination fee. This year too, teachers and principals of several schools across Delhi have launched crowdfunding campaigns to arrange money to pay the students’ fee.Class 12 student Kajal Soni, who studies at a government school in New Kondli, said, “The fee has increased substantially in the past two years. We are unable to pay room rent because both my parents are sick and there is no earning member at home. I told my school to strike off my name because there is no way to pay the fee when my mother is hospitalised.”Though CBSE announced on Tuesday that it would offer a fee waiver for those students who lost both their parents to Covid-19, principals and activists said this wouldn’t help all students. All India Parents’ Association has also submitted several memorandums to various authorities on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/citing-covid-crisis-delhi-govt-asks-cbse-for-one-time-class-10-12-exam-fee-waiver-101632592701897.html
26-09-2021||Delhi||Results of Delhi’s ongoing sero survey in 2 weeks: Jain||State health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said the results of the ongoing sero-surveillance, which is being conducted to estimate the population-wise prevalence of antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, will be announced within two weeks. Officials have set a target of collecting 28,000 samples for the survey, which began on Friday.“The sixth sero survey started in Delhi yesterday (Friday). 100 samples will be collected from 280 places – 272 municipal wards, the NDMC, and Cantonment board. This is the biggest sero survey. I think it will take about a week to collect the samples and probably another week to get the results,” said Jain in a press briefing on Saturday.Jain referred to the current round as Delhi’s sixth sero-survey as a previous survey, which began in April this year, was cut short because of the increasing surge in Covid-19 cases. The analysis of the 13,000 samples collected in that round showed a sero-positivity similar to the fifth round conducted in January, when 56.13% of the population was found to have antibodies against the virus.The fifth sero-survey too saw collection of around 28,000 samples from across the Capital.“Experts are expecting a high sero-positivity rate; we will have the answer soon,” said Jain.The minister added that although the number of cases and deaths due to Covid-19 has been under control in the city for a couple of months, people must continue wearing masks while stepping out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/results-of-delhi-s-ongoing-sero-survey-in-2-weeksjain-101632592640457.html
26-09-2021||Pune||NDA cadet from Maldives collapses, dies during training at Khadakwasla||PUNE A student from the Maldives died after collapsing during a training exercise at the National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwasla on Saturday, according to a statement issued by a spokesperson.“Cadet Mohammad Sulthan Ibrahim of Maldives collapsed during an organised training activity at the National Defence Academy (NDA) on September 25. Despite best efforts, the cadet could not be revived. A postmortem will be conducted to ascertain the cause of death. The cadet had reported to NDA on March 12 as part of the 145 course and was in the second term. A court of inquiry has been ordered to investigate the incident. The Maldivian Embassy has been informed, and a report of the incident has been initiated with the appropriate police authority. All arrangements are being made to provide a befitting send-off to the deceased with appropriate military honours, in consultation with the Maldives Embassy,” read a statement from NDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nda-cadet-from-maldives-collapses-dies-during-training-at-khadakwasla-101632590600150.html
26-09-2021||Other||Emblems of Empowerment | Weaving her own destiny, the eco-friendly way||Owing to her father’s heart ailment, Syed Tabasum had to get married immediately after completing higher secondary school in 2003. Within five years of marriage, the couple had two children. They would have retired to a quiet family life had it not been for their younger daughter’s illness. “My husband is a government employee but we were still struggling to meet our daughter’s treatment costs,” she reveals, adding that it was then that she decided to take matters in her own hands. She enrolled herself in a polytechnic course and picked up several skills, including fabrication of garments, canvas paintings and knot-making. After the course, she started working as an instructor in the handicrafts department and trained girls in making jute accessories.But the poor working conditions, which included salary delays and frequent travels to far-off places, put her off. She decided that instead of resigning to fate, she would set up her own unit. In March 2014, she sold her jewellery and set up a jute manufacturing unit in Jawahar Nagar of Srinagar. Her family members were against the decision, but she persisted. As fate would have it, she suffered another setback. The devastating flood of September 2014 washed away all her assets. “I lost around ₹35 lakh in the flood. I neither had registration nor insurance. So I lost everything -- machines, boutique, bridal suits and raw materials,” says the woman with a never-give-up attitude, who was back on her foot the next year.“In 2015, I started again. I took loan from the department of industries and commerce and re-established the jute unit,” she reveals.In 2016, she set up another unit dealing in Kashmiri embroidery, particularly Sozni, which provides employment to around 200 girls, many of them orphans. Now in her 40s, Tabasum has emerged as a prominent eco-friendly entrepreneur in the Valley. She was awarded the best entrepreneur award in 2019 by the government of Jammu and Kashmir. “Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah University also presented me with a leadership award after they saw my work during an international conference,” she says.Her textile-manufacturing unit mostly produces jute and leather products, including shopping bags, executive bags, conference bags and folders. She supplies it to universities, colleges and government departments, not just in Valley but also to Lucknow. The unit has an annual turnover of around ₹20-22 lakhs.After the pandemic outbreak, Tabasum’s unit supplied nearly 2.5 lakh masks and PPE kits to the administration.Tabasum says that those who discouraged her when she was first setting out on her journey of entrepreneurship, are now all praises for her. “Back then, everyone asked me why I was stepping out for work when I have two young children to take care of. Now, they come to me for business advice,” she says happily. Her advice to other women looking to change the course of their destiny: “Change won’t come until we take matters into our own hands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emblems-of-empowerment-weaving-a-new-destiny-the-eco-friendly-way-101632578238587.html
