27-09-2021||Pune||Decomposed body found in Ambegaon||PUNE A decomposed and headless body of a man was found on a hillock in Ambegaon on Saturday. The body was handed over to his children on Sunday evening. The man has been identified as Rajendra Mahadev Jadhav (55), an out-of-work labourer from Mahabaleshwar, Satara. Jadhav provided horse rides for tourists at the hill station. “He was facing a murder case for allegedly setting his wife afire and killing her. The case is in Mahabaleshwar. Prime facie it looks like he died by suicide and the animals ripped his head and parts of flesh off and left the carcass to rot,” said assistant inspector Sachin Dhamane of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. he couple has two sons, both of whom are daily wage labourers. An accidental death report was registered in the case at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/decomposed-body-found-in-ambegaon-101632767331862.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC asks GB Nagar DM Suhas LY to explain ‘inaction’ in Rera cases||The Allahabad high court on Monday directed the district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, Suhas LY, to appear before the court on October 4, to explain his inaction in recovering certificates issued by the real estate regulatory authority (Rera) in several cases.“The district magistrate will come out with details of all the pending cases for a recovery, pursuant to the order passed by the Rera authority. This court will pass an appropriate order if no justification is found in the inaction of the district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar... Due to the inaction of the district magistrate, unavoidable litigation is coming to this,” the court ruled on Monday.A bench comprising Acting Chief Justice (ACJ) Munishwar Nath Bhandari, and Justice Piyush Agrawal passed the order in a petition filed by Priya Kapahi, for recovering the advance money for her flat in Eco Village 4 in Greater Noida after the developer failed to give her possession of the flat.The DM allegedly did not take any action in this case for the past 2.5 years.In a separate case, the bench directed the sub-divisional magistrate of Greater Noida, Gautam Budh Nagar, to appear before the court on September 28, to explain why no action has been taken to execute an order of the Rera authority. “It seems to be a deliberate move. An explanation is to be given by the officer, and if the justification is not found to be appropriate, the court will take action against the erring officer,” observed the court.Reacting to this, the DM said, “We have informed the state government that the action in RC cases got delayed due to a delay in e-auction of properties. We will also inform the court about this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-asks-gb-nagar-dm-suhas-ly-to-explain-inaction-in-rera-cases-101632767329541.html
27-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad records 252 dengue cases, highest since 2016’s tally of 621||Ghaziabad recorded 15 cases of dengue on Monday, taking the total tally to 252, the highest number of cases since 2016 when the tally stood at 621.Officials of the district health department said that the number of cases is likely to subside by the end of October as the weather department has predicted the end of monsoon by the first week of the month, and therefore waterlogging in the district should also reduce by thenAccording to officials, the first dengue case in 2021 was detected on September 1. In 27 days, the tally reached 252. Of the 252 cases, 186 patients required admission in hospitals, they said, adding the hospitalisation rate is about 73.8%.According to official figures, the number of dengue cases was 621 in 2016, 232 in 2017, 68 in 2018, 88 in 2019 and 15 in 2020.The number of cases spiked in 2021, with Ghaziabad recording the first 100 cases on September 15, and the next 100 within nine days (by September 24).“The spike in dengue cases this year is mainly due to recurrent heavy rainfall this monsoon. There is heavy waterlogging. Further, this year, we have taken into account all the cases reported by government as well as private hospitals. No case is going unreported,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer.The department is also engaging with various residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to tackle the menace and said that community engagement will help keep dengue cases in check.Officials also praised the Kaushambi RWA for taking up different measures to keep a check on dengue.“The Kaushambi RWA has emerged as a role model for other RWAs as they have put in a lot of systematic and scientific efforts to check the spread of dengue and malaria cases. Similarly, other RWAs should also come forward to do so,” Dr Gupta added.Office bearers of Kaushambi Apartments RWA (Karwa) said that they consulted the National Institute of Malaria Research and the district malaria department, and take regular steps to control the spread of infection.“We work closely with the corporation officials and get them to clean stormwater drains. We get anti-larvae products sprayed in the area weekly, besides infusing burnt motor oil in drains to check the breeding of mosquitoes. Every sixth day, we get bushes and green areas fogged with a special water-based insecticide. Inside our buildings, open spaces, lifts, and corridors we use another kind of insecticide which keeps mosquitoes and insects away for a long duration,” said VK Mittal, president of Karwa.Medical experts agree with officials that dengue and malaria cases will persist till the end of October as the monsoon will end only by the first week of the month.“Cases have shot up this year due to heavy waterlogging, a result of frequent heavy rains. Cases of dengue and malaria generally occur during September and October. So, it is vital that no stagnant water should be present in and around households. This aids the breeding of mosquitoes,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).According to official records, the district had also recorded 15 cases of malaria and 39 cases of scrub typhus by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-records-252-dengue-cases-highest-since-2016-s-tally-of-621-101632767268440.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Pune rural police seize 50 forged SPPU certificates from printing press owner||PUNE: The Pune rural police arrested three men and recovered over 50 forged certificates of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) from a printing press in Purandar late on Saturday. The three men were identified as Ganesh Sampat Javale (39), Manoj Dnyaneshwar Dhumal (39), and Vaibhav Ganpat Lonkar (26), all residents of Pune. The three were remanded to police custody till September 29 by the court. A complaint was lodged by Girish Pundalik Bet (55) of Nana peth and a deputy registrar at SPPU. “They received information that these men were offering printed certificates for a cost. He alerted the police and we raided the place and found the certificates and the format on the computer. So far, we have only found certificates of SPPU, but investigation is on for other universities. One of them owns the printing press,” said police sub-inspector Pundalik Gawade who is investigating the case. The forgery was undertaken at Samiksha Printing Press located in Nira village of Purandar which is owned by Dhumal. The people whose names are on the certificates will also be investigated as potential accused in the case, the police said. A case under Sections 420, 465, 468, 471, 34, and 109 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Jejuri police station of Pune rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-police-seize-50-forged-sppu-certificates-from-printing-press-owner-101632767029704.html
27-09-2021||Noida||Two arrested for unauthorised door-to-door vaccination drive in Greater Noida||Two persons, including a ward boy of an urban primary health centre in Ghaziabad, were arrested on Monday for illegally administering Covid-19 vaccines to nearly 50 people in Greater Noida, police said.A team of police and district health department recovered 19 vials (four used) of Covishield and Covaxin, and 155 syringes (30 used) from their possession.The suspects -- identified as Sushil Kumar (ward boy), 30, and his accomplice Ravi Kumar, 35 -- are residents of Surajpur and Bulandshahr, respectively.In a police complaint, Dr Sachindra Kumar Mishra, in-charge of community health centre (CHC), Bisrakh, said that he received a tip on Monday that two persons were illegally administering Covid-19 vaccines to the residents of Kheda Chauganpur village in the Ecotech 3 area. “A team of police and health department reached the spot where some people had gathered for vaccination. The house owner, Kunwarpal, told the officials that he had rented the house to Ravi,” Mishra said. Police caught the duo red-handed from the spot, as Sushil was administering vaccines to the people and Ravi was holding the vials.Bhuvnesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector Ecotech 3 police station, said Sushil revealed during interrogation that he works as a ward boy at the urban primary health centre in Ghaziabad on contract. “At the health centre, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), Renu, had given Sushil some vials and syringes. Ravi, who is Renu’s brother-in-law, had arranged for some people to conduct the illegal vaccination drive at his rented accommodation in Greater Noida for ₹250 per dose,” Kumar said.The suspects vaccinated 20 people on Monday, and 25 people at a similar vaccination exercise on September 19 this year, police said. A case has been registered against three persons under sections 420 (cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 15 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956.“The duo was produced before a court, and sent to judicial custody on Monday. We have launched a search for the third suspect -- ANM Renu,” Kumar added.Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that a door-to-door vaccination drive in the district is not in place. “I am yet to receive details of this case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-arrested-for-unauthorised-door-to-door-vaccination-drive-in-greater-noida-101632767028455.html
27-09-2021||Noida||In a first, UP’s Ghaziabad administers over 100,000 Covid vaccine doses in a day||During the sixth mega coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive on Monday, Ghaziabad administered over 100,000 doses in a single day for the first time. According to the CoWIN portal, Ghaziabad was one of three Uttar Pradesh districts to administer over 100,000 doses on Monday. The district administered 107,819 doses till 8.30pm on Monday, while Lucknow and Prayagraj administered 174,340 and 115,726, respectively. During the first mega vaccination drive on August 3, the district administered 79,822 doses and during the second mega vaccination drive on August 16, the district administered 42,444 doses. It administered 67,040 doses during the third mega drive on August 27 and 69,248 doses during the fourth drive held on September 6. During the fifth mega drive on September 17, the district administered 74,635 doses. The state government had given Ghaziabad a target to administer 87,000 vaccine doses on Monday, while officials aimed to administer about 130,000 doses as they had a stock of about 180,000 doses for the sixth mega vaccination drive. “We surpassed the official target easily, but could not touch the figure of 130,000 doses we were aiming for. It was largely attributed to traffic jams on major roads due to the farmers’ protest and the Bharat Bandh call. Still, people turned up in large numbers and got themselves vaccinated. We allowed online slot booking and walk-in facilities for all age groups,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination. “The CoWIN portal was slow for about an hour from 11am to 12pm as well as for some time later in the day. This generally happens when the turnout is high. But our teams still achieved the district’s highest single-day figure ever since the first vaccination drive on January 16,” he added. The officials of the district health department said that they roped in about 800 doctors and medical staff to operate 257 Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs), which also included seven malls in Kaushambi, Vaishali, Indirapuram and Ghaziabad city. Malls were roped in for the first time to provide residents with the vaccination facility from 4pm to 8pm. “It was the first time we engaged seven big malls in the city and introduced evening vaccination camps, which started at 4pm and ended by 8pm. Vaccination camps were held in two malls from the morning. Malls were roped in so that people coming there with families after office hours could get themselves vaccinated with ease. This engagement with malls also boosted the vaccination coverage,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer. The Indirapuram Habitat Centre (IHC) CVC saw long queues in the morning as beneficiaries arrived in large numbers from localities like Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Khoda and Sahibabad, among others. “Since morning we had long queues of people who arrived to take the Covid-19 vaccine. Due to heavy rush, we also operated a different queue for women beneficiaries.,” said Sumit Sharma, manager (operations) at IHC. “I had come with my neighbour to get her vaccinated and we arrived at the centre at around 9.30am. However, due to heavy rush and the new token system, our turn came around 1pm. So, I had to take a whole day’s leave from my office. I think the token system and the verification and vaccination process should be simplified,” said Sumit Upadhaya, a resident of Khoda, who was at the IHC. According to CoWIN portal figures till 8.30pm on Monday, Ghaziabad district had administered a total of 2,716,164 doses till Monday, including 738,712 second doses. In Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow is leading with the administration of 3,725,630 doses in total, while Ghaziabad occupies the second spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-a-first-up-s-ghaziabad-administers-over-100-000-covid-vaccine-doses-in-a-day-101632766968395.html
27-09-2021||Noida||CoWIN glitches mar mega vaccination drive in Gautam Budh Nagar||The Gautam Budh Nagar district health department could only vaccinate 29,775 people, against a target of 50,000, at 137 government-run Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) during a mega vaccination drive on Monday. Glitches in the CoWIN portal slowed down vaccination pace at several centres, officials said.Monday’s vaccination drive was aimed at inoculating as many people from the 45+ age category, who have not been given the first dose so far, as possible. Officials had said on Sunday that the drive will also focus on administering as many second doses as possible. “A total of 29,775 people were vaccinated at government-run CVCs on Monday. About 16,494 of them were administered the first dose and 13,281 were administered the second dose. Of these, 9,000 people were over the age of 45, with 4,000 receiving their first dose and 5,000 receiving their second dose,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.According to the door-to-door surveillance carried out by the health department from September 7 to 16, a total of 56,489 people over the age of 45 are yet to get Covid-19 vaccine in Gautam Budh Nagar, said officials. The district health department has been instructed to ensure this age group gets vaccinated.“Over 50,000 people in Gautam Budh Nagar above the age of 45 are yet to get vaccinated. While we could not cover all of them in Monday’s vaccination drive, we are sure that within a week they will be vaccinated with at least the first dose. The department’s ASHA workers are ensuring they turn up for vaccinations,” said Dr Tyagi.Meanwhile, some beneficiaries complained that vaccination did not start on time at their nearest CVC.“We reached the CVC at Gaurs International School at 10am but vaccination did not start till 12pm. A huge crowd had gathered at the CVC, and hence we left without getting vaccinated,” said Naval Kishore Singh, a resident of Greater Noida west.Officials said glitches in the CoWIN portal delayed vaccination at some CVCs. “The health officials were facing a lot of problems on the CoWIN portal as it slowed down due to heavy data entry. As a result, most vaccination centres couldn’t achieve their target for the day,” said Dr Tyagi.Chief medical officer Dr Sunil Sharma said that of the 137 CVCs, 54 were the regular ones run by the health department. “Online slot booking as well as walk-in facilities available at the 54 CVCs, while the rest had walk-in facilities. Slot booking is not required at the new CVCs, but registration on the CoWIN portal is still mandatory,” said Sharma.The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme began on January 16 this year. Since then, Gautam Budh Nagar has administered 2,421,860 jabs, and 735,899 of the beneficiaries have received both doses of the vaccine.During the last mega vaccination drive held on September 17 too, Gautam Budh Nagar had fallen short of its target of 32,000 by managing to inoculate only 25,160 beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cowin-glitches-mar-mega-vaccination-drive-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101632766728426.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: ₹15 lakh loss estimated as buses remain stabled in Ludhiana||The hustle and bustle, which is typical at the local bus stand, was conspicuous by its absence on Monday as it wore a deserted look and buses stood inert in response to the farmer unions’ call for a Bharat Bandh in protest of the passage of the three farm laws.  Around 1,000 government and private buses ferry passengers from the Ludhiana bus stand daily. As many as 108 Punjab Roadways buses and Punbus’ run from the Ludhiana bus stand daily, while 100 PRTC buses ferry passengers from the Ludhiana bus depot daily. Tarsem Singh, who is in-charge of the Ludhiana bus stand, said a loss of ₹15 lakh would be incurred per day. “The strike is expected to be lifted around 4pm, but most buses would remain off the road, which will cause a loss of ₹15 lakh to the Ludhiana depot,” said Singh.Passengers stranded A few passengers, who were unaware of the general strike called by the farmers to mark one year of the passage of the contentious laws, were left high and dry, without a means of commuting. Among those stranded at the bus stand was 22-year-old Rajjak of Kolkata. “We were travelling to Palampur but were stranded in Ludhiana. There is no clarity, whether the buses will ply in the evening. Our employer has been calling us repeatedly,” Rajjak said. Dinesh Kumar Sahni of Bihar had reached Ludhiana bus stand at 11pm on Sunday to board a bus to Sri Macchiwara Sahib, to meet his daughter but was stuck at the depot. To prevent any law and order situation, security was beefed up around the local bus stand and the roads leading to it were barricaded early in the morning. While most shops remained closed, a few food joints near and at the bus stand remained open, much to the relief of stranded passengers. Roadways staff to strike from Oct 11 to 13 Hundreds of Punjab Roadways and PRTC contractual employees joined the protesting farmers near MBD Mall, Ludhiana. The union leaders accused central government of being unjustice and demanded immediate withdrawal of the three controversial farm laws.The leaders also demanded immediate regularisation of Punjab Roadways and PRTC contractual staffers. “We will hold a statewide strike from October 11 to October 13 . We have been struggling to get regularised for a long time and we will gherao the house of newly appointed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi”, said Balkar Singh, a PRTC union leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-15-lakh-loss-estimated-as-buses-remain-stabled-in-ludhiana-101632766609798.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Police cite crater for road rage and murder in Theur||PUNE: A flare up caused by a crater in the road led to the murder of a man and arrest of the other for it in Theur area of Pune on Friday. The Pune police arrested a 23-year-old man for allegedly beating a bike rider to death after the two-wheeler brushed past the tempo that the accused was driving. The incident happened around 7:10pm on Friday along Theur road in Haveli. The deceased was identified as Sundar Shiva Pawar, a resident of Theur. The arrested was identified as Aditya Sudhir Dharashivarkar (23), a resident of Kamdhenu Estate, Mantri Market in Hadapsar. “The crater in the road is so deep that the tempo truck oscillated a little and touched the bike rider, Pawar. He got enraged and came towards the driver side of the tempo and started hurling abuses and tried to hit the driver, Dharashivarkar. He has a fracture in both his right limbs and could not move. He told us that in order to retaliate to the blows that Pawar was raining on him, he kicked him and it landed on his chest and knocked him unconscious,” said assistant police inspector SR Chiwadshetty of Loni Kalbhor police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Vitthal Pawar (35) a resident of Theur area of Haveli, Pune. The deceased man was a labourer and the accused had recently recovered from another accident. The investigator believes that it was the condition of the road that caused the trigger. “The road is in such a bad condition that using it is a task. The two-wheeler rider did not get hurt but he started abusing the tempo driver who could not move his limbs much. He explained that the tempo was oscillating from left to right due to the potholes and that is why it touched the rider,” said API Chiwadshetty. The truck driver has also registered a complaint and a non-cognisable case was registered against the deceased man for assaulting him. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Loni Kalbhor police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-cite-crater-for-road-rage-and-murder-in-theur-101632766608511.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: 25 cancelled trains leave passengers fuming at Ludhiana Railway Station||Passengers were left fuming, as 25 trains which plied through or from the Ludhiana Railway Station were cancelled amid the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions on Monday. The protesting farmers had blocked railway lines in Jalandhar and Samrala, disrupting rail traffic.Around 50 trains were delayed, including Amritsar-New Delhi morning Shatabdi and Amritsar to Nanded Sachkhand express. Also, four trains were terminated at the Ludhiana station. As per railway officials, over ₹50,000 was refunded to passengers in view of the cancellations.Some trains got stranded for at the station for over 10 hours, including the Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi, Amritsar to Nanded Sachkhand Express, Dhanbad-Firozpur Express and Chandigarh-Firozpur train. While Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi was scheduled to depart at 7.02 am, it got clearance around 5pm, leaving the passengers enraged. Amritsar to Nanded Sachkhand Express, which was supposed to depart at 6.40am, left at around 5.40pm.Dhanbad-Firozpur Express, which was scheduled to depart at 6.45am, was terminated at Ludhiana station in the evening along with Chandigarh-Firozpur train, which was to depart at 7.15am.Some enraged passenger barged into the office of station director Tarun Kumar, complaining that they were not told about the delay, despite making confirmation calls at the railway enquiry helplines the evening before.“We repeatedly checked with the railway enquiry helplines to confirm the smooth flow of trains and we were told they will be running as per schedule. They should have cancelled the trains rather than making the passengers suffer like this”, said Dimple, a passenger of Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi ExpressAnother female passenger from Delhi, Pooja, had complained to the station director over dirty washrooms in her berth. “I am travelling with my kids. The AC in the train suddenly turned off and no one gave us water or food, which is the least they should have done. The washrooms were also dirty. Despite our complaints to the station director, he simply expressed helplessness”, she said.Davinder Arora of Nehru Nagar, Ludhiana, said that he had no option but to wait for the train to run since buses were also off road.Meanwhile, station director Tarun Kumar claimed that the trains were being monitored in real time from the control rooms since last evening. “We didn’t cancel any trains on Sunday, since we wanted to ensure minimum harassment to passengers. Cancelling the trains would have been an easy option for us, but we wanted to ensure public convenience. After receiving complaints, I immediately asked the staff to regularly serve water in the trains stranded here and to ensure cleanliness,” said Kumar. Security was also increased, with teams of RPF, GRP and Ludhiana police on their toes since morning. Most shops around the station remained shut, but the liquor shops and a few dhabas at the exit gate were operational.Meanwhile, over 50 members of the Northern Railway Men’s Union protested at the railway station to oppose the agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-25-cancelled-trains-leave-passengers-at-ludhiana-railway-station-fuming-101632766311135.html
27-09-2021||Pune||IPL betting: Two arrested, ₹93 lakh seized by Pune police||PUNE: The Pune police raided multiple places and arrested two men for betting and accepting bets on the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) matches in Dubai, according to a statement issued by Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police. A cache of cash and mobile phones collectively worth around ₹1 crore was recovered from the duo. The two were identified as Ganesh Bhivraj Bhutada (50) of Trimurti Society in Rasta peth and Ashok Bhavarlal Jain (48) of Hyde Park in Market Yard. “Commissioner Gupta received information about illegal operation of online betting on IPL cricket matches and he ordered action against them,” read the statement by Pune police. Bhutada was found with cash worth ₹92,00,000 and a mobile phone and cash counting machine together estimated to be worth ₹65,000. Jain was found with ₹51,700 in cash, along with seven mobile phones, letter pad, and mobile stand which were collectively estimated to be worth ₹7,000. Two separate cases were registered against the two - one at Samarth police station against Bhutada and one at Market Yard police station against Jain. Both the men are facing charges of cheating, forgery, using forged documents as genuine, and sections of the law criminalising gambling in the two isolated cases. The action was led by Priyanka Narnavare, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1 and Bhagyahsree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cyber crime cell and economic offences wing (EoW) of Pune police by forming multiple teams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ipl-betting-two-arrested-rs-93-lakh-seized-by-pune-police-101632766309321.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Riots: Delhi HC dismisses bail plea of accused in head constable’s murder||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Monday dismissed the bail application of an accused in the murder of head constable Rattan Lal during the northeast Delhi riots, saying that the riots did not take place in a spur of the moment and the conduct of the protesters showed that it was a calculated attempt to dislocate the functioning of the government as also to disrupt the normal life of the people in the city.The court also said that the systematic disconnection and destruction of the CCTV cameras also confirms the existence of a pre-planned and pre-meditated conspiracy to disturb law and order in the city.“This is also evident from the fact that innumerable rioters ruthlessly descended with sticks, dandas, bats etc. upon a hopelessly outnumbered cohort of police officials,” the judge said in a 19-page order.Justice Subramonium Prasad, while dismissing the bail application of Mohammad Ibrahim, said that even though he cannot be seen at the scene of crime, he clearly was a part of the mob for the sole reason that he had consciously travelled 1.6 km away from his neighbourhood with a sword which could only be used to incite violence and inflict damage.The court said personal liberty in a democratic polity is important, but it is to be categorically noted that individual liberty cannot be misused in a manner that threatens the very fabric of civilised society by attempting to destabilise it and cause hurt to other persons.“In light of this, the footage of the petitioner with the sword is quite egregious, and is therefore sufficient to keep the petitioner in custody…In view of the facts and circumstances of the cases, without commenting on the merits of the matter, this court is of the opinion that the petitioner (Mohammad Ibrahim) is not to be granted bail,” the court said.It said that Ibrahim has been clearly identified on multiple CCTV footages, carrying a sword and instigating the crowd and the clinching evidence that tilts this court towards prolonging his incarceration is that the weapon which is being carried by him is capable of causing grievous injuries and/or death, and is prima facie a dangerous weapon.Meanwhile, Justice Prasad granted bail to Mohammad Saleem Khan in the same case, noting that there are no video recordings or audio recordings placed before him to verify the contention that he was embroiled in disseminating hate speech.“This court is of the opinion that this footage in itself is not sufficient to prolong the incarceration of the petitioner,” the court said.Communal riots had broken out in north east Delhi claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/riotsdelhi-hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-accused-in-head-constable-s-murder-101632766129614.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU: Training on health, feed mgmt of dairy animals begins||A four-day online training programme on health and feed management of dairy animals started at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) on Monday.The program is being organised in collaboration with National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management, Hyderabad and being attended by dairy farmers and experts from across the country.On the first day of the program, expert stated that scientific feeding of dairy animals is vital for their health and to reach their productive and reproductive potential.Director of extension education of GADVASU, Dr Parkash Singh Brar, highlighted the importance of the livestock sector in the economy, especially when agriculture is facing stagnancy. Further, he stressed on the role of balanced feed in maintaining health and thereby, productivity of the animals. A compendium of lectures was also released during the session.Dr Brar stated that the training will provide detailed insight on feeding of animals during different physiological stages, feeding of silage, mineral mixture, bypass fat and uromin lick. Common infectious diseases, metabolic disorders, mastitis, lameness in dairy animals, biosecurity and role of ethno-veterinary medicine in maintaining health of dairy animals will also be discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadvasu-training-on-health-feed-mgmt-of-dairy-animals-begins-101632766070656.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet to hold meeting in Deccan Odyssey train||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, while speaking on World Tourism Day on Monday, said that the state is focusing on the tourism department and added that the state cabinet will hold a meeting in the Deccan Odyssey train. Ahead of the local body polls in the state, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the three parties — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress— will ensure that those engaging in “political tourism” won’t get any space.On the occasion of World Tourism Day, the state’s tourism department organised an event where a slew of initiatives was launched and reiterated. During the event, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was formally signed for the heritage tours of Bombay high court (HC) and the University of Mumbai buildings. The Bombay HC will now be open to tourists on Saturdays and Sundays, while the university building will be open on all Sundays and all public holidays. In addition, a mobile application and an upgraded website of the tourism department was launched on the occasion. The website will be available in nine languages including international languages French, Spanish, Japanese, besides Indian regional languages. The website will compose information on 350 destinations that are categorized as per themes—beach, forts, hill station, etc.Pawar, who speaking at an event ‘Tourism for Inclusive Growth’ on the occasion of world tourism day, remarked even the three parties have not decided to enter an alliance for local body polls. “The concept of tourism for inclusive development put forth on the world tourism day is not for the leaders or activists of any political party. Ahead of the upcoming local bodies polls, those engaging in political tourism from one party to another party will not get any opportunities. Chief minister, revenue minister [Balasaheb Thorat] and I will ensure this without any doubt,” said Pawar while speaking at the event. Speaking on the occasion, Thackeray said while the tourism department has been hit hardest by the Covid-19, it has drafted the policies to develop the sector in post-Covid. “It created employment opportunities for many. Unfortunately, the tourism department was neglected before this but now we will focus on it in the future,” said Thackeray. He further said that a meeting of the state cabinet will be held in the Deccan Odyssey train, a special luxury train between Mumbai and Pune, to promote it. Aaditya Thackeray, state tourism minister, said, “Each district in Maharashtra has its unique characteristics. In the next few years, we will show Maharashtra to the world in the true sense.” He added that post-pandemic, the state will show what Maharashtra truly is, in terms of what it can offer through tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-to-hold-meeting-in-deccan-odyssey-train-101632765888627.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Central Jail: Mobile phone, tobacco sachets recovered from six inmates||A mobile phone, two SIM cards, battery and tobacco sachets were recovered from six jail inmates during special checking at Ludhiana Central Jail. The Division number 7 police lodged an FIR against the accused on Sunday.Assistant jail superintendent Binny Tak stated the items were recovered from Malkit Singh, Sunil Kumar Paswan, Ravinder Singh, Sanjay Mahato, Balwinder Singh and Mandeep Singh. Assistant sub-inspector Paramjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said police will bring the accused on a production warrant for questioning to find out how they managed to get mobile phones and other contrabands inside the prison.A case has been registered under Section 52 A, 42 and 45 of Prison Act.PAST INCIDENTSOn September 2, seven mobile phones and six sachets of tobacco were recovered from eight inmates.On August 7, four mobile phones were recovered from four inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-central-jail-mobile-phone-tobacco-sachets-recovered-from-six-inmates-101632765828558.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||After fiasco, Maharashtra announces recruitment exams on October 24 and 31||Three days after the fiasco, the Maharashtra government has declared a fresh schedule for recruitment exams to fill up over 6,000 vacant posts in the state health department. The exams to fill up vacant positions in the Class C category will now be conducted on October 24 and for the Class D category it will be held on October 31, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Monday.The health minister held a review meeting with the senior officials after which fresh dates were declared.The state government was in an embarrassing situation when it postponed the recruitment exams at the eleventh hour. It had blamed an outsourced firm — Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL) — for the fiasco.Earlier, the exams were scheduled on September 25 and 26 but owing to lack of preparations the health minister had to declare postponement of examination on late Friday evening, which also led to aggrieved reactions.Nearly 800,000 applicants have enrolled for the recruitment examinations for filling up 6,205 vacant posts for Class C and D categories. The vacant posts under Class C category comprise staff nurses, auxiliary nursing midwives, pharmacists, laboratory technicians, X-Ray technicians, laboratory assistants and others while Class D category posts include ward boys, sweepers and other supporting staff.“We have decided to hold examinations for Class C category positions on October 24 and for Class D category positions on October 31 in a meeting held to discuss preparations and decide the next schedule. Both the dates have been chosen to avoid any risk as they are Sundays and availability of schools won’t be a problem,” Tope told reporters in Jalna on Monday.“We have directed the firm to prepare a dashboard, made available exam centre wise students list and permissions from the schools that are going to be used as exam centres. We have also made it mandatory to provide hall tickets to the students nine days in advance,” he added.NCPL is part of a list of empanelled firms prepared by the state information technology (IT) department. As per the procedure, the departments will have to select the firms from the empanelled list of firms for holding recruitment examinations.On taking action against the firm, the health minister said that the action will be decided by the IT department as they have empanelled it and the role of the health department is limited to setting up exam papers.He assured to hold the examinations transparently and asked students to approach the police if someone offers any help through illegitimate means against money.An audio clip has gone viral in which two people can be heard making various claims related to recruitment exams to be conducted in Amravati.The health minister said they don’t know the authenticity of the audio clip and have asked the police to verify. “I am not aware of the authenticity of the audio clip and the police will verify the same. I have personally spoken to Dr Arti Singh, Amravati police commissioner in this regard and will also write to the home minister Dilip Walse Patil to ensure action is taken against the offenders,” he said in response to a question.The exercise for filling up the vacant positions was started as part of the state’s preparations for the potential third wave that may hit by December or January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-fiasco-maharashtra-announces-recruitment-exams-on-october-24-and-31-101632765770554.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi court imposes ₹5,000 cost on police for seeking adjournment in riots case||New Delhi: A Delhi court has imposed a cost of ₹5000 on the city police for seeking adjournment in a case of northeast Delhi riots and directed an enquiry to decide the responsible officer from whose salary the money was to be deducted.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Arun Kumar Garg, on September 25, fined the police after it failed to comply with an order on April 12 by which the court had directed the investigating officer (IO) to supply a copy of the charge sheet to one of the accused Komal Mishra.The IO submitted before the court that the document has not been supplied till date as he was not aware of the order and sought adjournment to supply it.This irked the court which went to note that special public prosecutors (SPPs), representing the police, and IOs do not appear in the riots cases on the dates fixed and when they appear, after “prodding of senior officers” by the court, they don’t read the files and come.It said that the SPPs and the IOs seek adjournment in a “very casual manner” for compliance of directions passed by the court on the dates on which they had not appeared.“The aforesaid conduct of the police as well as SPPs has already been brought to the notice of senior police officers including SHOs, ACPs, DCP (NE) and Commissioner of Police, Delhi, however, they have failed to ensure that such incidents do not take place anymore,” it noted.The judge said that since the burden of this cost would fall on the public exchequer, hence an enquiry should be conducted within four weeks to fix accountability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-imposes-5-000-cost-on-police-for-seeking-adjournment-in-riots-case-101632765769130.html
27-09-2021||Other||‘I hold judiciary in highest esteem’: Tripura CM after video on contempt of court goes viral||A day after Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb courted controversy with statements on contempt of court, video of which went viral on social media, Deb on Monday defended himself saying that his speech was distorted and taken out of context.He also said that he holds all judicial institutions in the ‘”highest esteem” and never told officers to disregard courts.“The reporting of my speech on 25/9/21 is being twisted and wrongly reported to some print and electronic media to project disregard to the judiciary and judicial institutions. I firmly and unequivocally clarify that I hold all judicial institutions in the highest esteem and am also duty-bound to uphold the majesty of the judiciary. I have not told the officers or even remotely intended to convey any message to disregard courts or disrespect court orders as reported. My words have been published out of context,” Deb wrote on his Facebook on Monday.In the meantime, an RTI activist, Saket Gokhale, wrote to advocate general of Tripura High Court Siddhartha Shankar Dey and requested court proceedings against Deb for his comments.Gokhale has joined Trinamool Congress recently.In the letter, he said that no person, including the chief minister of a state, is above law, and the order of the judiciary applies to all.“Your consent is, therefore, sought in this matter to enable the undersigned to initiate proceedings for criminal contempt of court against Sh. Biplab Kumar Deb for the aforementioned comments about the judiciary,” Gokhale wrote in his letter.No petition was apparently known to have been filed in the High Court. However, no comment from the advocate general was made available on the issue.Deb, while speaking at a biennial conference of the Civil Service Officers’ Association on Saturday, said that the officers should work for people without thinking about the contempt of court.His comments went viral on social media, especially after Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee tagged a video clip of Deb’s speech in his tweet on Sunday.In the video, the CM was seen saying, “Contempt of court is said in such a way as if a tiger is sitting. I am the tiger. The power lies with the person who runs the government. It means that all power lies with the people. We are a ‘by the peoples’ government and not ‘by the court ‘ government.”He made this comment while speaking on the issue of holding back promotions of public servants following a pending court matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/i-hold-judiciary-in-highest-esteem-tripura-cm-after-video-on-contempt-of-court-goes-viral-101632765652263.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Income tax raids at four major steel rolling mills, unaccounted income of ₹300 crore detected||The investigation wings of the income tax department raided premises of four major steel rolling mills based in Jalna, carried out searches at 32 premises linked to them and detected an unaccounted income of nearly ₹300 crore. The tax agency on Monday without naming the business group said that it carried out a search and seizure operation on a group of four major steel rolling mills based in Jalna, Maharashtra. These companies are engaged in the business of manufacturing steel TMT bars and billets mostly using steel scrap as raw material. The operation that started on September 23 was conducted in more than 32 premises across Jalna, Aurangabad, Pune, Mumbai and Kolkata. “During the operation, many incriminating documents, loose sheets and other digital evidence were found and seized. This evidence indicates the involvement of the companies in large scale unaccounted financial transactions made outside the regular books of accounts, including inflation of purchases using entry providers, unaccounted cash expenses and investments, etc,” the I-T department said in a statement released on Monday. It added that the evidence found also indicate the laundering of a substantial amount of unaccounted income earned by the companies in the guise of share premium and unsecured loans using shell companies. Evidence for unaccounted purchases over ₹200 crore has been found. A huge quantity of unaccounted stock was also found in the factory premises of the companies. The tax officials have also unearthed 12 bank lockers during the search operation. Unaccounted cash of more than ₹2.10 crore and jewellery amounting to ₹1.07 crore have been seized from different premises. “Evidence detected so far, indicates that, unaccounted income is likely to exceed ₹300 crore and the four companies have already disclosed additional income to the extent of ₹71 crore consequent to the search,” stated Surabhi Ahluwalia, commissioner of income tax (Media & Technical Policy) and official spokesperson, Central Board for Direct Taxes, in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/income-tax-raids-at-four-major-steel-rolling-mills-unaccounted-income-of-300-crore-detected-101632765648218.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Political parties, farmers stage protest across Maharashtra, demand scrapping of farm laws||Various farmers and workers organisations in the state participated in Bharat Bandh responding to the call given by Samyukt Kisan Morcha to condemn the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government’s ‘anti-farmer policies’ and to push for the demand of scrapping the ‘black’ farm laws. Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) actively participated in the protest, while Shiv Sena announced its support.The protests were held in many districts, while in some cities, the protesters resorted to road blockades as part of their agitation. All India Kisan Sabha and other farmers organisations held protests in Solapur, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Thane, Palghar and parts of western, northern Maharashtra and Vidarbha. Congress and NCP leaders participated in the agitations in various districts. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole led a bike rally in Akola, while its Mumbai unit staged a protest at Sion Circle.Mumbai Youth Congress led by Zeeshan Siddique held a tractor rally at Bandra. NCP’s state unit chief Jayant Patil, state minority welfare minister Nawab Malik participated in the protest rallies in Aurangabad and Mumbai.Ashok Dhawale, president of All India Kisan Sabha said that the protests were held in at least 30 districts of the state. “Not only farmers but students, labourers, workers, politicians supported and participated in the bandh protest in the state. Leaders from all parties had actively participated. Sentiments of the people from all walks of life are strong against the central government. We gave memorandums to district collectors and tehsildars at district and tehsil levels about our demands.”Nawab Malik said, “NCP has actively supported the bandh by participating in the protest in all the districts. We have supported the demand of scrapping the laws. The Modi government is acting adamant on the farmers’ demand.”Patole said that the Modi regime has left all the classes of the society in the lurch. “The policies of the central government are not only against the farmers but also the workers, labourers, poor and the unemployed. Barring a couple of industrialists, the entire country is suffering because of the wrong policies of the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/political-parties-farmers-stage-protest-across-maharashtra-demand-scrapping-of-farm-laws-101632765591240.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Maha-Metro awaits court order to resume work at Kamgar Putala||PUNE: With a few Kamgar Putala slum dwellers having filed a plea in the Bombay high court and gotten a stay on their shifting in August this year, citing Covid-19 as the reason, the Maharashtra Metro Railway Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) has stopped work on the civil court (Shivajinagar) multimodal metro hub and is awaiting the court’s permission to resume work. The next court hearing is scheduled in the month of December.The Kamgar Putala slum spans around 6 acre near the civil district court along the Mutha river, and is among the land parcels required for the elevated metro station along the Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor and the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (PMRDA’s) Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar metro corridor. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) too is considering a development plan (DP) road in the area.Atul Gadgil, director (works) of Maha-Metro, said, “The corporation has shifted around 70% Kamgar Putala slum dwellers with only 30% remaining to be shifted. A few of them have filed cases in the Bombay high court and taken a stay order on the shifting. They have cited Covid-19 as the reason to postpone shifting. In August, the court has given a stay order on shifting the slum dwellers.”“The slum dwellers are ready to rehabilitate however they want to postpone the shifting due to the Covid-19 situation. We are keeping tabs on a possible third wave and will wait till December as the hearing is also scheduled at that time. We will then request the court to give permission to shift the remaining slum dwellers.”The PMC plans to rehabilitate the slum dwellers in Vimannagar and Shinde wasti at Mundhwa. The corporation will provide 25 square metre flats to the slum dwellers in addition to two flats that have a ground-plus-one structure with people already living there.Of the total 1,264 slum dwellers, 923 are eligible for accommodation based on their residential proof. Maha-Metro wants the Kamgar Putala land to develop the civil court (Shivajinagar) multimodal metro hub, and has handed over around Rs40 crore to the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) for rehabilitation of the slum dwellers. The work has reached the last stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahametro-awaits-court-order-to-resume-work-at-kamgar-putala-101632765590049.html
27-09-2021||Gurugram||Zero fatalities at Khandsa Chowk since FOB was opened in July 2020||Construction of a pedestrian bridge has brought down the road fatalities to zero at Khandsa Chowk, earlier classified as a black spot with 22 road fatalities reported between 2016 and 2019, according to the Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ) data.A foot overbridge (FOB) or pedestrian bridge was opened in July 2020 at the spot, which was considered the most dangerous for pedestrians on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway due to the high number of fatalities. The Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway runs right across Khandsa village, dividing it into two halves.According to the HVZ data, 156 accidents took place at the spot between 2016 and 2019 that led to 22 deaths, with 7, 5, 7 and 3 fatalities recorded annually from 2016. In 2020 and 2021 so far, there have been no fatalities, even taking into account January to June 2020, which includes a nationwide lockdown imposed to curtail the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Any 500-metre stretch where more than five fatalities are recorded in a three-year period is termed a black spot.To the left of the expressway, in the direction to Jaipur, residential clusters, schools, banks, ATMs, dispensaries, shops, and grocery stores are located, while on the other side, a smaller section of private offices, warehouses, automobile service centres, industries and a marble market are located.A significant portion of the workforce for the companies comes from the village — which has over 10,000 inhabitants — due to which there is a constant need for residents to cross from one end to the other.According to the village residents, the situation worsened since 2008 as the expressway was expanded to add two additional lanes to the main carriageway. In the absence of any amenity, hundreds of residents crossed the highway amid fast-moving traffic between the gaps in the iron fencing.“Nobody wants to cross the road against vehicles coming at around 100 kilometres per hour. We simply had no other choice but to put our lives in danger and cross the stretch. A few years ago, I had lost two of my friends as they were hit by a speeding truck at night while crossing to the other side,” Vipin Singh, a resident of Khandsa, said.Until 2019, the closest FOB or crossing for Khandsa residents was at either Hero Honda Chowk or Narsinghpur, each of which is located nearly two kilometres away on either side.“Earlier, even if we had a two-hour or three-hour break during work, we would prefer to stay on this side of the highway instead of returning home. Nobody wanted to risk their lives against fast-moving traffic,” Sunil Kumar, who works in the marble market, said.Villagers said that since the construction of the FOB, their work opportunities have also increased.“Besides providing connectivity from one end of the village to the other, a larger number of villagers now get job opportunities in the area. Most private companies earlier preferred hiring residents from Behrampur village, located behind the industrial area, as they didn’t have to cross the highway and could reach offices on time,” Mohit Bharadwaj, a Khandsa resident, said. Following a road safety analysis by HVZ in early 2019, which was shared in a district road safety meeting, the district administration directed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to construct a FOB, at a cost of ₹3 crore, and the construction started in September 2019.A district road safety meeting is usually attended by officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority GMDA, NHAI, municipal corporation, public works department, Gurugram police, district administration, transport authority, and road safety experts, to identify problems across Gurugram roads and accordingly implement changes.“The idea behind holding district road safety meetings is to analyse and then implement changes that can make road infrastructure better or safer. Khandsa FOB is one of the major successes arising from it. We will aim to replicate this model across the city,” Dr Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said.Sarika Panda Bhatt, the project director of HVZ, said, “If placed at the ideal locations, FOBs can have a significant impact on road safety. It not only provides pedestrians and cyclists with safe passage but also brings down accidents and improves traffic management. The Khandsa FOB is the best example of the difference such a structure can make on ground.”Sewa Ram, an associate professor and urban transport systems design expert with the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi, said that a FOB can be successful if placed correctly.“The main factor which makes the Khandsa FOB a success is its location. It not only provides pedestrians and cyclists the ability to cross from one side of the highway to the other but it is also located at the exact point at which they used to cross before. Other FOBs in Gurugram are located in far-off distances and as a result, nobody uses them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/zero-fatalities-at-khandsa-chowk-since-fob-was-opened-in-july-2020-101632765588692.html
27-09-2021||Gurugram||Dengue fear: Clear stagnant water, increase fogging, say residents||Amid rising dengue cases, residents from different localities in the city have demanded increased fogging to prevent the spread of vector-borne diseases. Over the past two days, nine new cases of dengue have been reported in Gurugram, taking the tally to 32 this year. Residents said that fogging is being done in their respective localities only after the issue is raised on social media or complaints are filed separately. Mahendra Tiwari, a member of the managing body of Sagar Kunj group housing society in Sector 9A, said that since the starting of monsoon, water has been stagnating around their society that is leading to more chances of breeding of mosquitoes. “Both the front and back sides of our society have stagnant water, which not just stinks but is also a place for mosquitoes to breed. I have complained to the authorities in person, but no action is taken until the matter is raised on social media. Today (Monday), fogging was done in my locality only after I wrote to the authorities on social media,” Tiwari said. MD Goel, a resident of Khushboo Apartments in Sector 9A, expressed similar concerns and said fogging has not been done regularly. “Last year and even this year, during high Covid-19 cases, fogging was done a few times, but since July, fogging has not been done in our locality. Stagnant water is also not cleared out, which keeps accumulating with every spell of rain,” he said. Residents from newer sectors of the city said they have also raised the issue of water stagnating on green belts and roads with authorities several times, through complaint letters, but there has been no action on the ground. Praveen Malik, the vice-president of United Association of New Gurugram, a body of 40 housing societies from sector 77 to 90, said, “Fogging in housing societies here is being done by the RWAs or developers, but in areas outside the societies, nothing has been done this year. Officials, last week, said that they are acquiring machines on a temporary basis, but no action is visible on ground. The cases of dengue are already rising, and we are still witnessing rain, it is high time that authorities start taking action.” Meanwhile, officials from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram said that intensive fogging was carried out before the monsoon season. “Prior to the monsoon season, we had carried out an intensive anti-vector operations, such as fogging, introduction of gambusia fishes in water bodies, simultaneously with sanitising operations during the second Covid-19 wave. Since then, we only carry out fogging operations in areas where we receive complaints from residents, and for other parts of the city, it is done under the supervision of the health department,” a senior MCG official privy to the matter said.The official said that there are over 110 workers, from the MCG and health department, who are executing anti-larvae operations in the city. Gurugram, this year, has reported 32 cases of dengue with officials from the health department stating that more cases are likely to be reported. However the situation is not alarming yet. Last year, Gurugram had reported 52 cases of dengue. Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “We are seeing a rise in dengue cases, and more are likely to be reported over the next few weeks, but a higher positivity rate is not a problem. So far, we have not witnessed any fatalities, so the situation is still under control. But, due to prolonged monsoon, higher cases are likely this season.” At the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, doctors said that around 50% patients in the internal medicine department’s out-patient ward are reporting fever, influenza or similar complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dengue-fear-clear-stagnant-water-increase-fogging-say-residents-101632765469832.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Over 9,600 applications received for financial aid to Covid-19 victims: Kailash Gahlot||New Delhi:The Delhi government has so far received 9,643 applications seeking ex-gratia relief under the “Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Parivar Arthik Sahayata Yojna” out of which compensation was disbursed in 6,019 cases, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said on Monday.The financial assistance scheme for Covid-19 deaths was notified on June 23 this year, after the second wave of the pandemic took a heavy toll in Delhi. It covers a one-time assistance of ₹50,000 for each Covid-19 death in the family and a monthly assistance of ₹2,500 for families that lost their primary breadwinner and for children orphaned by the viral disease.Gahlot held a review meeting of the scheme on Monday, during which he ordered deploying senior officers on rotation at the government’s call centre located in Noida to handle queries from people about the programmes and assist potential applicants. The Delhi High Court also has been reviewing the scheme on a regular basis and has sought an action taken report from the Delhi government on the same in its hearing scheduled next month. “A list of 25,709 residents of Delhi who died of Covid-19 has been shared by the health department to all the 11 districts of the city. They have been segregated district wise by the revenue department. Till date, around 9,643 applications have been received for grant of the ex-gratia relief, of which 6,995 applications have been approved...and money has been disbursed in 6,019 cases,” said Gahlot. “We are taking utmost care to ensure the grieving families aren’t troubled. Officials have been specifically directed to handle all cases with sensitivity. The number of applications has started to gradually increase as teams of all the SDMs are now physically visiting the homes of each of the affected families. We are aiming to finish all the home visits by the end of this week,” the minister said. Records showed that till Sunday, more than 10,000 families from the list provided by the state health department were visited by officials from the SDMs’ offices.On September 21, the Delhi government waived off the need to submit a surviving member certificate (SMC) to claim financial assistance in case of the death of a spouse due to Covid-19. However, SMC is still needed in all other cases. In cases where the deceased was a single parent, the surviving children are entitled to the ex-gratia, which is to be equally distributed among all children. Similarly if the deceased is unmarried or is a minor son/daughter, the father or mother of the deceased will get relief under the scheme subject to their name appearing in the SMC, the government said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-9-600-applications-received-for-financial-aid-to-covid-19-victims-kailash-gahlot-101632765408780.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC preparing list of unvaccinated HCWs in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is preparing a list of 130,000 healthcare workers (HCWs), who haven’t been vaccinated yet. The civic body claims 273,249 HCWs registered themselves on the centralised Co-Win portal, but 48% of them are yet to get jabbed. As HCWs work in direct contact with Covid-19 patients, they are vulnerable to contracting the infection. On January 16, when the mass immunisation programme was launched across India, HCWs were the first ones to get the jab. The move will also help them clear duplicate data and get the number of unvaccinated HCWs, said officials. The civic body also plans to personally contact and convince HCWs to get immunised. “We are preparing a list of HCWs who haven’t taken the jabs. We will contact them to find out the reason for shying away from vaccination. HCWs, who are qualified for vaccination, will be encouraged to get vaccinated,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.However, Kakani claims the total number of registered HCWs may be inflated due to duplication. “Once, we have the data ready, we will be able to clear the names from multiple registrations which may then give an idea of unvaccinated HCWs,” he added.When HT contacted major civic hospitals, many shared that almost 90% of their HCWs have been vaccinated. “We sensitised our staff on the need to get vaccinated. We have even adjusted their working days and duty hours to facilitate the process. Most HCWs in our hospital have been vaccinated,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair hospital.The BMC has administered over 10,000,000 Covid-19 vaccines in the state, followed by Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-preparing-list-of-unvaccinated-hcws-in-mumbai-101632765348306.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Sena sets focus on Pune ahead of civic polls||PUNE: The Shiv Sena seems to have included the upcoming Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) polls on its priority list as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that rules the civic body poses a major challenge ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls in Mumbai. Since the past few months, Sena leader and party’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut has been visiting the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities regularly and appealing to workers to work hard for the upcoming polls, likely to be held in February next year. On Sunday, Sena turned Raut’s visit to Pune city into a major event. Raut said it will be good move if the alliance of three parties (Sena, NCP and Congress) fights civic polls together, however, even if it does not work out, Sena will be prepared to fight polls. After Raut’s visit on Sunday, Sena leader and cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray will be visiting Pune on Tuesday. Thackeray will be visiting Pune Municipal Corporation where he is scheduled to meet municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar along with elected members of the party to discuss civic issues. It is the first time that a member from Thackeray family will meet Pune municipal commissioner to discuss issues related to the city. During the past few years, Sena had largely ignored Pune as it could not manage a better tally in the civic polls. In the house of 164 members, BJP currently rules PMC with 99 corporators while NCP has 42, Congress 10, Sena 10 and MNS 2. While Sena does not have any representative from the city in the state assembly or in the parliament, it has an MP from Maval which also covers Pimpri-Chinchwad. After returning to power in Maharashtra as a part of Maha Vikas Aghadhi, Sena has shown keen interest in Pune. While the Congress has shown reluctance to strike an alliance for local body polls, NCP and Sena are likely to come together in Pune. Congress leaders said the party might contest the elections solo considering that alliance may not help them get adequate seats. As Thackeray is visiting PMC, Sena wants to give a clear message in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad that the party wants to expand its base in Pune city. A senior Sena leader said, “In the coming days, Pune city will see many events organised by our party as part of aggressive campaign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sena-sets-focus-on-pune-ahead-of-civic-polls-101632765169478.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Plea seeks permission to switch to Covaxin for second dose, HC asks Centre response||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Monday sought the Centre’s response on a plea by a cancer patient seeking permission to take Covaxin as the second vaccine dose, as advised by his doctor, instead of Covishield, which was administered to him as the first dose.Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and asked the authorities to file a response to the petition while considering it as a case of special need.“He is a cancer patient and has special needs. Experts should also consider this,” the court said while listing the matter for further hearing on October 28.Central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia accepted the notice on behalf of the ministry.Petitioner Madhur Mittal said in September last year, he was diagnosed with cancer (stage four renal cell carcinoma) and was advised for urgent operation for removal of infected organs, that is, kidney, and lymph nodes, and in October 2020, he was operated on and the infected organs were removed.Advocate Nitesh Jain, representing the petitioner, said on March 13 this year, he got his first dose of Covishield vaccine and soon after, he developed a severe reaction and had to be hospitalised for four days.The plea said it has been advised to the petitioner to get himself checked from Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Centre New York, USA, for cancer treatment and he approached the institution for an appointment.The petition, filed through advocate Sanjay S Chhabra, said Mittal wanted to get himself vaccinated with both the doses of Covid-19 vaccination, and, as per the doctor’s advice and prior complications of Covidshield vaccine, he wanted Covaxin as the second dose.The plea said when the man tried to book a slot for Covaxin as the second dose on the COWIN website, he was unable to do so as the application only books slots in the same category of the vaccine.“As per the government advisory, respondent has advised the public at large to take both the Covid-19 vaccine doses of the same company, but there are also many cases, where they are mixing Covid-19 vaccines for better results. There is no other recognised way for the petitioner to get Covaxin as the second dose, hence the petitioner is filing the present writ petition,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-seeks-permission-to-switch-to-covaxin-for-second-dose-hc-asks-centre-response-101632765109558.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi ministry expansion shows BJP intent on grooming homegrown leadership||The expansion of the Yogi Adityanath ministry on Sunday showed that the BJP is intent on creating its own homegrown leadership among the marginalised castes such as the most backward of the Other Backward Castes (OBCs) and Dalits.The BJP, despite sealing a pre-poll pact with Nishad party and making its leader Sanjay Nishad an MLC, preferred to appoint its own leader Sangeeta Balwant Bind, a 41-year-old woman politician from riverine community, as a minister of state. She is a postgraduate lawmaker from Ghazipur in eastern UP. “I was never hankering after ministership. I will raise the voice of the marginalised classes in the Upper House and I thank the BJP for nominating me,” said Sanjay Nishad in his first reaction after the swearing-in of the seven ministers in UP. This isn’t the first occasion when the BJP indicated its desire to create its own homegrown leadership among various castes, despite the party sealing alliances ahead of the 2022 UP polls with two OBC-based smaller parties, and indicating the desire to ink pre-poll pacts with more. Its current pre-poll allies include Apna Dal, largely considered to be a party of Kurmis (OBCs) and the Nishad party, which wields influence among community of boatmen and fishermen. In July, while appointing Apna Dal leader Anupriya Patel as a minister of state in the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, the BJP also appointed its own Lok Sabha MP from Maharajganj Pankaj Choudhary, who too is an OBC (Kurmi), as Union minister. “To balance Anupriya, the BJP also appointed its own Kurmi MP Pankaj Choudhary in the Union ministry and a similar template was followed in the expansion of the Yogi Adityanath government,” a party leader said.Apart from preferring its own leader in the UP ministry, the BJP also appointed its lawmaker from Baheri, Bareilly, Chhattrapal Gangwar, an Kurmi (OBC). While this was also seen as an attempt to politically balance the exit of party veteran and Bareilly MP Santosh Gangwar, from union government, the BJP leaders said the basic idea is to ensure that the party develops its own leadership among castes where it has no or marginal representation. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, too, belongs to the Kurmi subcaste. In 2019, after its ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, an OBC belonging to Rajbhar subcaste which wields significant influence in several east UP assembly segments, fell out with the BJP, the ruling party promptly promoted Anil Rajbhar, making him a cabinet minister of the backward classes welfare department which Om Prakash handled prior to his exit. “The BJP still doesn’t have a Rajbhar community leader, who has the same appeal as Om Prakash among his community. But there is a visible effort to create our own leadership among castes where we don’t have it,” a BJP leader said. As for the induction of former Congress leader Jitin Prasada as cabinet minister into the Yogi ministry, a BJP leader said, though the party has several Brahmin leaders, Prasada, too, is part of the BJP. Jitin was made a minister five months after quitting the Congress. Regional balanceAfter Sunday’s expansion, the strength of the Yogi ministry is now 60. These ministers now represent 41 of the 75 districts and offer a diverse caste bouquet. Lucknow, the state capital and Lok Sabha constituency of defence minister Rajnath Singh now has the maximum six ministers. They include deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon (Gopal), Mahendra Singh, Brijesh Pathak, Swati Singh and Mohsin Raza. While Dinesh Sharma, Mahendra Singh and Mohsin Raza are MLCs, the remaining are lawmakers from Lucknow assembly segments. Prayagraj accounts for three ministers – deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya (MLC), Sidharth Nath Singh and Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’. Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too has three ministers – Anil Rajbhar, Neelkanth Tiwari and Ravindra Jaiswal. Sidharthnagar has two ministers — Satish Dwivedi and Jai Pratap Singh. After Jitin Prasada’s appointment as cabinet minister, Shahjahanpur now has two ministers – the other being party veteran Suresh Khanna. Prasada met Khanna over breakfast at the latter’s Kalidas Marg residence on Monday. Prasada too has reportedly been allotted a bungalow on Kalidas Marg by the estate department. Fatehpur has Jai Kumar Jacky (Apna Dal) and Ranvendra Pratap Singh as ministers while Mathura too has two ministers – Chaudhary Laxmi Narain and Srikant Sharma. Kanpur too has two ministers – Satish Mahana and Neelima Katiyar. The other districts that have representation in the Yogi ministry include Gorakhpur, Gonda, Kushinagar, Lalitpur, Chitrakoot, Jaunpur, Ballia, Pratapgarh, Bahraich, Mirzapur, Mau, Amethi, Balrampur, Moradabad, Bijnor, Agra, Meerut, Aligarh, Auraiya, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Muzaffarnagar, Mainpuri, Sambhal, Rampur, Badaun, Saharanpur, Sonbhadra and Ghazipur.Caste compositionThe Yogi council of ministers now has 24 cabinet ministers, nine ministers of state (independent charge) and 27 ministers of state. Of these, there are 27 upper castes, 23 OBCs, 8 scheduled castes, one scheduled tribe and one Muslim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-ministry-expansion-shows-bjp-intent-on-grooming-homegrown-leadership-101632765108305.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Narendra Giri death: CBI probe continues, team records statements||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team continued with its probe into the death of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) chief Mahant Narendra Giri at Baghambari Gaddi Math here for the third consecutive day on Sunday.Accompanied by Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) members, the CBI team reached the Math in the morning and yet again recreated the circumstances under which Mahant’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan hook on September 20. The team later hanged 85 kilogram of weight with a nylon rope from the ceiling fan and asked the disciples to push open the door of the room where Mahant Narendra Giri’s body was found hanging. Another team of CBI officials recorded statements of disciples, sewadaars (servitors) and others who were at the Math at the time of the incident.The CBI officials are also matching the handwriting of Mahant Narendra Giri in the suicide note with his signature available in other documents to establish the authenticity of the purported suicide note.Meanwhile, it has come to fore that all 16 CCTV cameras installed at Baghambari Gaddi Math were not functioning on September 20 evening for around 45 minutes during which the incident occurred. The Math authorities claimed that the CCTV cameras got defunct during that period of time due to power disruption in the area. A twitter account being run in Mahant Narendra Giri’s name is also under scanner. Mahant Narendra Giri had lodged an FIR with Daraganj police station a week before his death in which he had alleged that some unidentified people had created a fake twitter account in his name. He had informed police that he did not have any account on social media platforms. Moreover, Niranjani Akhada general secretary Ravindra Puri claimed that Mahant Narendra Giri’s religious band and chain etc were not found on his body and were found later in his room.“Anant (religious band) is worn by seers and is taken out only on special occasions. I have seen some parts of the video which Mahant Narendra Giri had shot from his mobile before his death. Although I watched only 30 seconds of over 4-minute video, he was saying the same things written in the suicide note,” Puri claimed. Meanwhile, after taking remand of Swami Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep, CBI may question them about their relations with Mahant Narendra Giri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/narendra-giri-death-cbi-probe-continues-team-records-statements-101632764992445.html
27-09-2021||Gurugram||Polio vaccinations: 79% target reached on Day 2 of drive||The district health department on Monday achieved over 79.1% of the total target for pulse polio vaccinations through a door-to-door inoculation drive on the second day of a three-day campaign, officials of the health department said. The district has been set a target of administering polio drops to 359,648 children between the ages of zero to five. Officials said that 100,127 children were given the polio drops on Monday. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Both on first day and second day of the pulse polio, campaign we have received a good response. We hope to achieve the complete target by Tuesday as remaining children will be covered on the third day of the campaign.” For the campaign, the district administration has deployed as many as 112 mobile teams, with over 400 areas identified as high-risk areas. In the district, a total of 5,184 vaccinators are participating in the campaign, along with the deployment of 29 transit teams and 240 supervisors. Meanwhile, on Monday, 11,253 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district across 78 centres, with 4,289 people being given the first dose and 6,964 the second dose. With this, over three million have been vaccinated in the district. On Tuesday, vaccinations will continue at the 43 centres across the district, officials said. The first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 36 centres while doses of Covaxin will be available at five primary health centres. Also, the second dose of the Sputnik V vaccine will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic. Meanwhile, four new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Monday along with three recoveries in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/polio-vaccinations-79-target-reached-on-day-2-of-drive-101632764990811.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||With record rain in September, Delhi reports rise in dengue cases||With record rainfall in September this year, Delhi is reporting an increase in the number of dengue cases, as it added 62 infections in a week, showed data from the city’s civic bodies. The Capital registered 273 cases of the vector-borne disease till September 25. In comparison, the city recorded 212 cases of the infection in the same period last year. To be sure, doctors say fewer dengue patients reported to hospitals last year due to a fear of Covid-19. In 2019, Delhi logged 282 dengue cases in the same period. Municipal officials warned that the breeding is on the rise. “This is the peak time for breeding. Additionally, the city also received record rainfall at unexpected time, which will lead to more breeding. It does, however, seem less than 2010, when there was a lot of rain and Delhi saw one of the worst dengue outbreaks,” said a senior official from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. An official from the East corporation said, “Nowadays, we see cases being reported well into November. Earlier, the number of cases used to go down mid-October, as temperatures started dropping, but now we see that the mosquitoes start breeding indoors, especially in rooms where people switch on heaters during the winters.” Even though the treatment for dengue is symptomatic, people must seek a doctor’s opinion said Dr Ashutosh Biswas, professor of medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) during a public lecture. “Some people who get dengue may develop severe disease. If they receive timely care and support they will be okay. Not everyone needs platelet transfusion. We have done a study, which shows that even with as little 10,000-20,000 platelets, people can recover on their own without any transfusion.” He said, almost 70 to 80% of the deaths due to dengue happens in people with comorbid conditions such as high blood pressure and diabetes. “The children and the old, the people with comorbid conditions like BP and diabetes, those with chronic infections like TB, those with supressed immunity, the pregnant, and those with a history of dengue are at risk of developing severe disease,” said Dr Biswas. Unlike many disease where a previous infection confers immunity, in dengue a previous infection might increase the risk of severe disease. This is because there are four serotypes – the same virus with different make – that can cause the infection and the antibody against one serotype can increase risk of severe disease by another.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-record-rain-in-september-delhi-reports-rise-in-dengue-cases-101632764989515.html
27-09-2021||Gurugram||Bharat Bandh: Barricading by Delhi Police causes 2-km vehicle backlog in Gurugram||Heavy barricading by the Delhi Police at the Sirhaul toll plaza on Monday morning triggered a massive backlog of vehicles for around two kilometres, up to Shankar Chowk, in the city. It took commuters around 30-45 minutes to cross the stretch during the peak hour.The barricading was done by Delhi Police in view of a Bharat Bandh, organised by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a farmers’ organisation, against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre in September last year.Checking was at its peak for about an hour between 9.30am and 10.30 am, as only two lanes of the carriageway were available for vehicles to pass through. The Delhi Police was assisted by its Gurugram counterparts as well as paramilitary forces.“To keep a check on law and order due to the Bharat Bandh, we barricaded a section of Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway at the Sirhaul toll plaza. There was no fixed time for setting up the barricades as such and we could have continued with it for the rest of the day had there not been heavy traffic congestion arising on the national highway from it. We opened more lanes for traffic movement around 10.30am and reduced the barricades,” Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), Delhi Police, said.Singh said that they would keep vigil at the border till Tuesday morning and closely monitor the state of affairs.After the Delhi Police opened most of the carriageway, traffic started returning to normalcy. However, traffic movement on the opposite carriageway, leading from Delhi to Gurugram, was unaffected throughout the day.It is not the first time traffic on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway has been severely affected due to barricading by Delhi Police.On September 17, Delhi traffic police had set up multilayered barricades at the Sirhaul toll plaza due to a protest march by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders in central Delhi against the three farm laws. On the day, it took commuters nearly 30 minutes to cross the stretch. On two separate occasions, agitating farmers had gathered at the Sirhaul toll plaza and blocked the movement of vehicles on the carriageway heading towards Delhi.However, there was no gathering of protesters or any disruption on Monday, according to the Gurugram police.“There was no disruption or protest anywhere on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. Delhi Police had set up barricades due to Bharat Bandh protests around 9.30am, due to which there was temporary congestion on the highway. We informed Delhi Police officials that agitating farmers had been stopped behind by Haryana Police at Jaisinghpur Khera and there was no need for intensive checking. Mutually, it was decided to open the barricades,” Ravinder Singh Tomar, DCP (traffic), Gurugram police, said.Jaisinghpur Khera is located in Rewari district, around 65 kilometres from the Kherki Daula toll plaza.Commuters said that vehicles were stacked in a beeline up to Shankar Chowk.“It took me nearly two hours to reach central Delhi from my house. I was stuck at the Sirhaul toll for nearly 40 minutes. There was heavy barricading by Delhi Police, and at a time, only two to three vehicles were allowed to pass through,” Vinayak Rungta, a resident of Sector 47, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bharat-bandh-barricading-by-delhi-police-causes-2-km-vehicle-backlog-in-gurugram-101632764988361.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Pune hoteliers seek deadline extension till 1 am||Pune: Pune hoteliers and bar owners have sought closing extension till 1 am from the existing timings of 10 pm. The representatives of the Pune hoteliers’ association have written to the district authorities for timings of restaurants and bars till 1 am, like pre-Covid days. “We submitted the letter to the district authorities last week and will also request deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to consider it during the meeting scheduled this Friday,” said Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (Praha), that has around 8,500 members. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) order issued on August 8, the dine-in timings for restaurants have been set till 10 pm. With reported drop in Covid cases, the state government has taken steps to ease curbs. Post Covid review meeting last week, Pawar said that Pune district may see fewer curbs, giving hope to hoteliers to have extended timings. “The decision will be taken after next Friday’s Covid review meet,” Pawar had said. “As the dine-in is allowed only till 10 pm, we cannot accept customers after 9.15 pm-9.30 pm. Post 10 pm, police authorities visit us to check if the deadline is followed. Home delivery is allowed till late,” said Shetty. Many restaurant owners cited financial loss during the lockdown period. “In metro cities, bars and restaurants are allowed to remain open till 1 am. However, every restaurant owner chooses the operation timings suitable to the business. The lockdowns have severely hit our business. With drop in Covid cases, we expect to see businesses back on track and recover losses,” said Arun Shinde, a restaurant owner in Baner. “The request would be considered and a final decision would be taken and announced after discussion with all stakeholders,” said Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol. Pune municipal commissioner and divisional commissioner did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-hoteliers-seek-deadline-extension-till-1-am-101632764869682.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||‘Gangster got live updates in jail as courtroom gunfight erupted’||Sitting inside Mandoli jail in Delhi, alleged gangster Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuriya was allegedly getting live updates on a mobile phone from the four men at the Rohini district court complex who were about to execute the plan to kill his arch rival Jitender Maan, alias Gogi, the investigation into Friday’s sensational and shocking courtroom shooting has revealed, police officers privy to the probe told HT.Tajpuriya has emerged as the prime conspirator in the sensational murder, which, the police officers cited above said on condition of anonymity, capped a decade-long violent rivalry between two of Delhi’s most powerful criminal gangs. They said at about 15 people, including Gogi, have so far been killed by the gangs in several shootings across the city over the years.Gogi was shot dead inside courtroom 207 at Rohini court complex on Friday by two assailants. Security personnel gunned the two shooters down as they were trying to escape through a door used by judges.Police officers aware of the investigation on Monday said that Tajpuriya had in his possession a mobile phone for over a week on wich he would get information about the progress in the plan to eliminate Gogi.To be sure, mobile phones for inmates are banned inside the jail complex.Delhi Prisons (Tihar) administration has initiated an inquiry to look into the allegations that Tajpuriya was using a phone in Mandoli jail, officials said, The inquiry is also aimed at ascertaining if there was any security lapse or connivance of any jail staffers who helped Tajpuriya get access to the phone.When asked about the allegations, Delhi Prisons director general (DG), Sandeep Goel said, “We are looking into it. It will not be proper to give any details on this, since it may have a bearing on the investigation.”A photograph showing Tajpuriya and one of the Gogi’s killers (Jagdeep alias Jagga), which appears to be a screenshot taken during a video call, also surfaced on social media on Monday. Police are trying to ascertain whether the photograph is genuine, or if it was altered digitally. They are also trying to find out the photo’s source. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the photograph.HT reported on Friday that Gogi and Sunil Maan (before he came to be known as Tillu Tajpuriya) were childhood friends who got sucked into the college politics at Delhi University’s Swami Shradhanand College in Alipur. During the 2007 university elections, the two friends ended up supporting two different candidates for the post of the vice president for the college, which is considered the beginning of their decade-long rivalry.were was once a teenager who excelled in sport (volleyball and athletics), represented his schools at several competitions, and got admitted to Delhi University (DU) on the sports quota. There, he and his closest childhood friend, Sunil Maan, got sucked into student politics. Maan is now better known as gangster Tillu Tajpuria in police records.The two went on to become deadly rivals, and for more than a decade, their names can be found together in police files and case papers that detail how they have fought a bloody turf war that spilled blood on the streets of Haryana and the national Capital.Besides the two killers – Rahul Tyagi and Jagga – who were shot dead in the courtroom, two others – Umang Yadav and Vinay Yadav – who accompanied them to the court in a Hyundai i-10 car, were arrested on Sunday by a special cell team.Dressed as lawyers, Tyagi and Jagga walked inside the court complex from gate number 4, and Umang, who was also wearing a black jacket, drove to the court campus. Vinay could not go inside as he was wearing jeans, a police officer associated with the case said.“Since the four men left the Haiderpur flat where they had been staying since September 20, Tajpuriya was constantly on a video call with them. He was taking updates on where they had reached, how far they were from Rohini court, and who was present where in the court premises. Before disconnecting, Tajpuriya asked Umang and Vinay to leave the premises,” the officer said.Senior police officers said that they will soon get Tajpuriya’s custody from Mandoli jail to interrogate him and ascertain his role in Gogi’s murder conspiracy. During questioning, Umang and Vinay told the police about Tajpuriya’s alleged role in the murder. They also indicated that jailed gangsters Naveen Dabas, better known as Naveen Bali, and Sunil Rathi, who is from Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat played a role in the conspiracy. Both are close associates of Tajpuriya, and their names have emerged in several revenge killings executed in the past few years by his gang members.A second investigator said they were also probing if one of the shooters, Rahul Tyagi alias Nitin, was associated with Rathi’s gang. He said that Tyagi was from Meerut, and was involved in a murder case in Sonepat, apart from a few cases in Delhi. “He carried a reward of ₹50,000 on his arrest. If required, we will also seek custody of Bali and Rathi,” the second officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gogi-shooting-delhi-gangster-got-live-updates-in-jail-as-gunfight-erupted-in-rohini-court-say-police-101632764688435.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||High court stays order to implement Delhi CM Kejriwal’s promise on rent payment||The Delhi high court on Monday stayed an order by the single judge bench that had directed the Delhi government to formulate a policy on the implementation of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s promise, made on March 29, 2020,that if a poor tenant couldn’t pay the rent, the state would pay it.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said irreparable loss will be caused to the appellant (the government) if an order of stay is not passed.“There is a prima facie case in favour of the appellant. Balance of convenience is in favour of the appellant and irreparable loss shall be caused. We stay the operation, implementation, and execution of the order of the single judge till the next date of hearing,” said the bench.The court, however, sought to know from the Delhi government counsel whether they had any intention to implement the promise.“So you have no intention to make the payment? Are you willing to pay 5 %... even 1% or pay nothing?” the court said.When the Delhi government counsel, senior advocate Manish Vashisht, said no one has come before them (the government) until now with such a demand, the bench remarked, “You draft a policy and there will be thousands of people before you.” On July 22, the single judge bench of justice Prathiba M Singh ruled that a chief minister’s promise to the citizens was enforceable and directed the Delhi government to take a decision within six weeks on Kejriwal’s announcement in a presser on March 29, 2020, that his government would pay the rent on behalf of poor tenants who were unable to do so owing to Covid-19.The court directed the Delhi government to formulate a policy regarding this, saying it was not a “political promise” made during an election rally. It said statements made by people in power are trusted by the public and so “puffing”, which may be permissible in commercial advertising, ought not to be recognisable and permissible in governance. The judgment came on a plea by five daily wagers who were unable to pay their monthly rent and wanted Kejriwal to come good on his promise, which was also an appeal to landlords to not coerce poor tenants to pay up during the Covid-induced national lockdown.Challenging this decision, the Delhi government on Monday contended that in the backdrop of the outbreak of the pandemic, a “fervent appeal” was made by the chief minister to the public at large not to coerce tenants into paying rent; however, the same was “found” to be “a sort of a promise” by the single judge.“Accordingly to me, there was no promise at all. We only said please follow the statement of the Prime Minister. We said to landlords (that) do not coerce tenants to pay rent..and if, to some extent, the poor do not find the means to pay, the government will look into it,” Vashisht said.In its appeal, the Delhi government submitted that expecting a government to “implement a truncated sentence from the press conference held by the chief minister, devoid of its context and in the face of developments which demonstrate that the eventuality for which the assurance was made never actually transpired, is grossly inequitable”.Appearing for the daily wagers, advocate Gaurav Jain opposed the plea and said his clients have no means to pay the rent.The court issued notice to the daily wagers and granted them time to file their replies.The matter will be heard next on November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-court-stays-order-to-implement-delhi-cm-kejriwal-s-promise-on-rent-payment-101632764508145.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||After wrestling, athletics needs govt patronage in Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh government has already adopted wrestling till the 2032 Olympics but athletics also requires government patronage at least for the next 10 years, according to those associated with sport here.Recently, Athletics Federation of India termed Uttar Pradesh’s walk-racer Priyanka Goswami’s performance “excellent” among all the Indian athletes at the Tokyo Olympics even though she finished 17th. This wasn’t all as AFI, in its post-Tokyo analysis, also chose Uttar Pradesh as the hub for junior athletes and decided to run its talent search programme along with four other states Punjab, Haryana, Kerala and Karnataka.Daughter of a “suspended” bus conductor with UP State Road Transport Corporation, Goswami, who along with three throwers Shivpal Singh (javelin, Varanasi), Annu Rani (javelin, Meerut) and Seema Punia (discus, Meerut), represented India at the Summer Olympics, clocked 1 hr 32 minutes 36 seconds, well outside her personal best of 1:28:45, which she had come up with during the National Open Race Walk Championship at Ranchi this February.Before athletics in Uttar Pradesh could start in an effective manner in the 1980s even though the state body was affiliated to the national federation in 1965, Agra’s Vijay Singh Chauhan had won a decathlon gold at the 1974 Asian Games after becoming the first athlete from the state to participate in the 1972 Munich Olympics.Almost 20 years later, middle distance runner Bahadur Prasad then went to consecutive Olympics in 1992 at Barcelona and in 1996 at Atlanta. Thereafter, athletes like Mau’s Jatashanker (4x400m relay, Sydney Olympics), Agra’s Ram Singh (marathon, Beijing Olympics), Sudha Singh from Rae Bareli (steeplechase, London and Rio Olympics) and Chandauli’s Sanjay Rai (long jumper), who was the first Indian athlete to cross 8-metre mark at 2000 Sydney Olympics kept trying their luck for a medal at the quadrennial Games.Over two dozen athletes from the state, including Madhuri Saxena, mother of India’s new middle distance running queen Harmilan Kaur Bains, Gulab Chand, Ajay Kumar Saroj, Shivpal Singh, Seema Punia, Annu Rani, Priyanka Goswami, Hridayanand, Suresh Patel, Suman Devi. Pramod Tewari etc., continued to make their presence felt at the Asian Games, Asian Championships and even at the World Championships.Surprisingly, a force to reckon with in middle distance, marathon and to some extent in throws, especially hammer and discus, Uttar Pradesh athletes did everything on their own as they didn’t get any support from either the state government or the UP Athletics Association.In real terms, even now they don’t have adequate international facilities for the sport. The only synthetic track with limited facilities at Lucknow’s Guru Gobind Singh Sports College is far from the reach of the athletes. The other centre in Saifai is almost locked. Two other facilities i.e. at the Sports Authority of India centre and at the 35th Battalion, PAC Stadium in the state capital, are not meant for everyone.Former India coach in throws, Rustam Khan, too, does not have adequate facilities at Kaushambi, but his sports stadium is flooded with over 100 athletes, including 60 from Haryana, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh.“It’s been too hectic for me nowadays as I have over two dozen javelin throwers, including 8-10 youngsters in the age group of 7-12 and they all want to follow the passion of Neeraj Chopra,” said Khan under whose tutelage four Indians had medals, including two in javelin and two in hammer at the 2008 Youth Commonwealth Games.He, however, said that for the youngsters he has managed javelin of 300g and 400g, whereas 15 other seniors are training with either their own or government sponsored javelins at the centre. “We need to have imported javelins in an adequate numbers and even in the past, we had this facility when I was posted at Jaunpur last year,” said Khan, a sports officer with UP Sports Directorate.UP’s first Olympian athlete Vijay Singh Chauhan, too, advocates facilities for athletes in the state.“If we had adequate facilities in our time, we could have won many medals at Olympics. Even now, athletes in Uttar Pradesh struggle for facilities and even then we have good results at the national and international levels,” he said.He supported the request of the UP Athletics Association to the UP government to adopt athletics for the next 10 years.“I have been told that there is a mad rush of young athletes, seeking training in throws, especially in javelin, since Neeraj Chopra’s success at the Tokyo Olympics, at various locations across the state and the government should cash in on this enthusiasm by adopting the sport as it has adopted wrestling,” said Chauhan, who was named the “Iron Man of Asia” for his superlative show at the 1974 Asian Games.“Uttar Pradesh has no dearth of talent in athletics and has produced athletes who have brought laurels for the state and for the nation too. Unfortunately, these athletes have no modern facilities to train,” UPAA’s secretary PK Srivastava writes to CM Yogi Adityanath while urging the government to adopt the sport for the next 10 years.“The limited existing facilities in the state are can be used for basic training purposes. Uttar Pradesh needs at least 10 tracks at places like Meerut, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Kanpur, Lucknow, Aligarh, Moradabad, Ayodhyay, Jhansi, etc,” said Srivastava.While presenting a comparative study in support of his demand to the CM, Srivastava mentioned the availability of sport facilities at Haryana (20 tracks) and Kerala (10 tracks), said that UP’s future in athletics was bright, but it needs the government’s patronage now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-wrestling-athletics-needs-govt-patronage-in-uttar-pradesh-101632764328342.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Probe permissions given for buildings on floodlines in Pune: Civic activists||PUNE: Civic activists on Monday sought an inquiry into permissions given for buildings on the blue floodline and act against officers. Civic activists Sarang Yadwadkar, Vivek Velankar, Vijay Kumbhar, Sujit Patwardhan, Narendra Chugh, Shailaja Deshpande and Qaneez Sukhrani have jointly written to the municipal commissioner demanding verification of building permissions issued along riverside after November 2011. Yadwadkar and Velankar said, “We found details that the PMC had approved a multistorey building at Wadgaon Budruk on survey number 13/1A/P which is inside the floodline. There are many such permissions issued by authorities.” “All rivers must be free from encroachments and impediments, all building permissions issued along riverbanks after November 2011 should be reviewed and projects falling inside the floodline should be revoked and inquiry initiated against officers concerned,” Velankar said. Yadwadkar said, “Earlier, the PMC did not earmark the floodlines after publishing the draft development plan in 2013. Irrigation department handed over the floodline details in March 2015. On the basis of the irrigation department’s report, the urban development department marked floodlines on the maps in February 2018. Despite instructions from the irrigation department, PMC kept approving building plans on floodlines.” Activists said that such building constructions will affect the natural flow of river leading to rise in flood levels posing risk to human lives. The municipal commissioner should act against such illegal works which may put citizens’ life in danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/probe-permissions-given-for-buildings-on-floodlines-in-pune-civic-activists-101632764148469.html
27-09-2021||Other||65-year-old protesting farmer ends life at Ludhiana toll barrier||Ludhiana A 65-year-old farmer ended his life by hanging himself from a pipe at a toll barrier near Ghulal village in Samrala late on Sunday. The victim hung himself from the pipe using a piece of cloth, farmers generally use to wrap around their heads. He, along with other farmers, had been on protest against the three Central farm laws, at the barrier. His wife has been protesting at the Tikri border for the past ten months, and doing community service.Farmers came to know about the incident on Monday morning, when they found his body. They say that had all retired into their tents about 10pm. Gurdeep Singh Giaspura, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Qadian), claimed, “The farmer ended his life due to the attitude of the Centre over the farm laws. He was under mental stress.”He added that his wife had been informed and she should reach Ludhiana on Tuesday. The body has been sent to the civil hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/65yearold-protesting-farmer-ends-life-at-ludhiana-toll-barrier-101632764088154.html
27-09-2021||Kolkata||Suvendu Adhikari moves Calcutta HC seeking Mukul Roy’s disqualification as Bengal MLA||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari on Monday moved the Calcutta high court seeking disqualification of the party’s former national vice-president Mukul Roy as a member of the West Bengal legislative assembly. Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017 and returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on June 11 this year, has not yet officially resigned from the BJP. He has been made chairman of the public accounts committee (PAC) of the assembly, a post traditionally enjoyed by an Opposition party legislator. “We want Roy to be disqualified under anti-defection law. Our petition cites a verdict of the Supreme Court which gave speakers three months to take a decision on petitions for disqualification,” Adhikari, who is leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, said after filing the petition. “In our case, four months have passed,” he added. On June 18, Adhikari, submitted a petition to the speaker saying Roy, the legislator from Kishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district, should be disqualified under anti-defection law. Roy was appointed as PAC chairman by speaker Biman Banerjee on July 9. Mukul Roy, who is unwell, could not be contacted. Transport minister Firhad Hakim said, “Adhikari has moved court to seek publicity. He should know that in parliamentary affairs only the speaker takes these decisions.” Adhikari is not the first BJP leader to move the Calcutta high court on this issue. On August 24, BJP legislator Ambika Roy told the court that Mukul Roy’s appointment as PAC chairman violates a five-decade-old convention under which opposition party members get the post. While hearing Ambika Roy’s petition last month, the two-judge division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj said the appeal for Mukul Roy’s disqualification was lying before the speaker and not the court. Appearing for Ambika Roy, senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan told the court that the speaker incorrectly assumed that Mukul Roy was in the BJP when he filed his nomination papers on June 25 for the chairmanship of the PAC. “Power exercised by the speaker must not be arbitrary. I will proceed on the assumption that Mukul Roy has defected from the BJP. A disqualification petition filed in June should not be delayed unnecessarily,” Vaidyanathan told the court on August 24. Vaidyanathan also told the court that in January last year a three-judge Supreme Court bench, comprising Justice RF Nariman, Justice Aniruddha Bose and Justice V Ramasubramaniam, ruled that speakers of assemblies and the Parliament must declare their decisions on disqualification petitions within three months. The decision to disqualify a member is taken only by the speaker. The Constitution does not specify any time frame for the process which involves inquiry and setting up of a committee. The Bengal assembly speaker has already initiated the process and four hearings have taken place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/suvendu-adhikari-moves-calcutta-hc-seeking-mukul-roy-s-disqualification-as-bengal-mla-101632763430104.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Specially-abled woman sexually assaulted in Lucknow, 4 held||LUCKNOW Four people were arrested by the police on Monday for allegedly sexually assaulting a 24-year-old mentally challenged woman in Alambagh area of Lucknow. The incident occurred on September 23 and the arrests were made on Monday, said police officials.Shiv Nandan, Sone Lal, Ashok Kumar and Girijesh Kumar, residents of Alambagh were arrested for the crime. They had taken the Dalit woman to a secluded place and outraged her modesty, said DK Singh, ACP. The victim had left her house on September 23 evening. When she didn’t return home, her family members lodged a missing complaint at the police station. The next day, police found the woman at a secluded place.“As per the complaint lodged by family members, the woman was lured by Shiv Nandan on the pretext of leaving her home. He took her to a secluded place, where he tied the hands of the woman, and outraged her modesty along with three other accused. Based on the complaint, an FIR under Section 376D (gangrape), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and relevant sections of SC/ST (Atrocities prevention) Act was lodged against the accused,” said the officer.The woman was sent for a medical examination and two police teams were formed to arrest the accused. The four were sent to judicial custody following the arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/speciallyabled-woman-sexually-assaulted-in-lucknow-4-held-101632763308262.html
27-09-2021||Other||Bharat Bandh: Total shutdown in Doaba||Jalandhar The call for Bharat Bandh led to a complete shutdown in Doaba on Monday. In Jalandhar, farm unions blocked the national highway at the Punjab Armed Police (PAP) Chowk in the city. In the four districts of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, farmers staged protests at 50 locations. In Jalandhar, the railway station, the bus stand and the markets remained deserted. Rail tracks were also blocked, hitting train traffic. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Doaba, leader Satnam Singh Sahni said, “The Centre thinks that by stretching the farmers’ protest, it can dilute our resolve. However, the farm agitation will continue till the Central government repeals the three farm laws and gives us an assurance on the MSP.” Another leader Balbir Singh said, “Today, we have the support of every section of society. For 10 months now, the Modi government has ignored us. We will continue our protest.” In Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur districts, farmers staged protests. A large number of police personnel were deployed to maintain the law and order in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bharat-bandh-total-shutdown-in-doaba-101632763248558.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Sugarcane price hike: It’s “insufficient”, say Tikait, oppn parties||Leaders of various opposition parties, farmers and their leaders have termed the increase of ₹25 in the purchase price of sugarcane in Uttar Pradesh “insufficient” while claiming that the cost of growing this cash crop has increased manifold in the past few years. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had on Sunday announced a ₹25 per quintal hike in the purchase prices of sugarcane in the state, taking it to ₹350 per quintal.“The hike of ₹25 per quintal is not acceptable to farmers. It is a big joke by the Uttar Pradesh government on the farmers,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said in a statement issued by BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik in Muzaffarnagar.The BKU leader claimed the purchase price of sugarcane was higher and diesel cheaper in neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh. “Due to diesel being expensive in Uttar Pradesh, the state government’s hike is inadequate,” he added.“They promised to increase sugarcane price to ₹375 per quintal in their ‘Sankalp Patra’ but the price announced is less than what it is in Haryana and Punjab. We demand that the sugarcane purchase price be increased to ₹425 per quintal amid growing prices of commodities used in farming,” he demanded.“Farmers have been protesting for adequate price of their crops for over 10 months now and such a little increase in sugarcane price is a joke on farmers,” Tikait claimed.Samajwadi Party leader and former member of state planning commission prof Sudhir Panwar alleged that such a little increase had exposed the BJP government’s claim of being number one.Senior Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Rajkumar Sangwan said the increase was insufficient because cost of growing sugarcane had increased manifold. He further said such a little increase in the purchase price was an insult to farmers and that they would teach the government a lesson in the forthcoming assembly election.“We were expecting an increase of at least ₹40 per quintal but an increment of ₹25 in four years has disappointed farmers,” said Manoj Malik, the former pradhan and a sugarcane farmer of Paswara village in Meerut district. Meanwhile, BJP district president Vimal Sharma said farmers’ welfare was the priority of the government. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sugarcane-price-hike-it-s-insufficient-say-tikait-oppn-parties-101632762888561.html
27-09-2021||Other||Cruise boat flagged off in Varanasi to mark World Tourism Day||Uttar Pradesh tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari flagged off a cruise boat at Sant Ravidas Ghat, Varanasi on World Tourism Day on Monday. A group of school students enjoyed the inaugural ride on the cruise boat. On the occasion, the minister also felicitated eight people for their role in boosting tourism in Kashi. Those honored include Pandit Kishori Raman Dubey founder of Gangotri Seva Samiti, Shashidhar Issar, senior theater artiste, Vijay Dwivedi , a hotelier, Anil Singh, assistant archaeologist at ASI, Manjari Malviya, operator, Alakhnanda cruise, Abhishek Sharma, tourist guide, Akhilesh Pratap Singh, a tourist and Mantu Upadhyay also a tourist. Tiwari said Kashi’s tourism has a different identity. It introduces a tourist to Kashi’s culture. A number of facilities had been added for the tourists in Kashi such as more tourist spots have been developed. He said that eco-tourism was being promoted as it has potential to generate employment opportunities. There are several tourist spots in and around Kashi which had the potential to attract tourism. Earlier, Tiwari flagged off a skating rally in which 25 members participated. The members will skate their way to Lucknow and would reach their destination on October 2. On their way, they would apprise the people of different tourist spots in Kashi and their importance. A tourism calender was also unveiled by the tourism department to apprise the tourists of various important events in Kashi. The members of organizing committees of Dev Deepawali were also honoured on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cruise-boat-flagged-off-in-varanasi-to-mark-world-tourism-day-101632762528145.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||MU announces winter exam schedule||The University of Mumbai on Monday released dates of commencement of winter examinations for professional undergraduate and post-graduate courses. In a circular shared with colleges, the university has also highlighted that they will be sharing question banks for semester 5 subjects in all courses except BA, BCom and BSc.“The question banks will be shared directly with the lead colleges of every cluster, who will then share the same with member colleges. The idea is to bring uniformity in questions and a certain format for final-year exams,” said a senior official from the University of Mumbai.In April this year, the MU first started the move to share question banks with colleges but at that time, they limited the question banks for final year engineering and diploma programs only.Once again this year, the exams will be held in the online mode and in multiple-choice questions (MCQs) format. However, for technical courses, including Engineering, MCA and Pharmacy, theory paper of 80 marks will be divided, where MCQs will be for 20 marks and remaining 60 marks will be for descriptive questions. Similarly, the exam paper pattern for architecture students will also change in order to incorporate descriptive and design based questions.As of now, the university has shared date of exam commencement for BE, B Pharm, B Arch, M Arch, Law (three years and five years) and MCA batches. While the exams for architecture batches will begin from October, BE and pharmacy batches will have exams in November and law exams have been scheduled to begin in December.“We will also share date of exam commencement for other courses soon,” said the MU official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mu-announces-winter-exam-schedule-101632762347964.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Kolhapur district collector withdraws order against BJP’s Kirit Somaiya, worry mounts for Hasan Mushrif||Pune Kolhapur district collector Rahul Rekhawar has withdrawn earlier order prohibiting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya from entering the Kolhapur district.After the fresh order issued on Monday Somaiya is likely to visit Kolhapur on Tuesday where he plans to make a fresh set of allegations and file complaint against Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP’s) Maharashtra rural development minister Hasan Mushrif.In his order issued under section 144 (5) of CrPC, Rekhawar said based on the report received from the Kagal police station, it has been clear that there will be no opposition to Somaiya during his visit to the district on Tuesday. At the same time, BJP office bearers have also assured of preventing any crowd, stated the order.“Given this, I am withdrawing my previous order,” Rekhawar stated in the notification.Earlier on September 20, Somaiya claimed he was stopped and detained by police at Karad in western Maharashtra while he was on his way to Kolhapur after the district authorities cited law and order as well as security concerns following his allegations of corruption against Mushrif.His detention preceded high drama in Mumbai where Somaiya was asked by police not to venture out of his residence citing the Kolhapur administration’s order.The Sena had distanced itself from the action saying directions were issued by the home department which is under NCP.After being stopped at Karad, Somaiya alleged that he was jostled by Mumbai police who tried to prevent him from boarding a Kolhapur-bound Mahalaxmi express. Somaiya planned to visit Kagal in Kolhapur, the assembly constituency represented by Mushrif, and file a police complaint against the minister over alleged irregularities committed by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kolhapur-district-collector-withdraws-order-against-bjp-s-kirit-somaiya-worry-mounts-for-hasan-mushrif-101632761927893.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||NISHAD party chief thanks BJP for MLC seat||Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (NISHAD) party president Sanjay Nishad, who had demanded deputy chief minister post but settled with his nomination as an MLC, thanked the BJP on Monday. “I am happy that I have been nominated to the Upper House of the state legislature. It’s a big thing. Issues which were not heeded to by the previous governments are being taken up by the BJP dispensation,” Nishad told PTI.Asked about his demand for deputy CM post, he said, “The BJP has made a tea-seller prime minister of the country. It has recognised works done by me to awaken the Nishad community. Earlier, we used to fight on roads, now I will raise it in the House.” Nishad had in July said his community wanted to see him as deputy chief minister and had accused BJP of not fulfilling its promise of providing reservation to the Nishad community.About his demand for reservation, Nishad said, “It is being seen. You can get a reaction from a government spokesperson.” The BJP had last week formally announced that it would contest the 2022 assembly elections in alliance with the Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (NISHAD) party. However, seat-sharing was not disclosed.The Nishad party emerged in the political scene of the state ahead of the 2017 polls. The next year, Sanjay Nishad’s son Praveen Kumar Nishad wrested the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat in a by-poll on a Samajwadi Party ticket. In the 2019 general elections, after announcing its alliance with Samajwadi Party, the Nishad party walked out of it and sided with the BJP and on whose ticket Praveen won the Sant Kabir Nagar seat.Sanjay Nishad, 56, began his political career by founding little known organisations like All India Backward and Minorities Welfare Mission and Shakti Murti Mahasangram and then formed Nishad Ekta Parishad. He founded NISHAD party in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nishad-party-chief-thanks-bjp-for-mlc-seat-101632761267982.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||HC frames guidelines for POSH hearings, media coverage||In the absence of any guidelines for conducting and covering proceedings of sexual harassment of women at workplace, the Bombay high court recently framed the same to ensure that the identities of the parties were not disclosed during such hearings. The guidelines apply not only to courts and its officers but also to the parties involved as well as the media. The single judge bench of justice Gautam Patel while hearing a suit related to workplace harassment filed on behalf of the plaintiff by advocate Abha Singh against the defendants represented by senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf, advocates Shweta Jaydev and Lancy D’Souza held that as the issue involved the Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (the POSH Act) and Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Rules, 2013 (the POSH Rules), the protection of the identities of the parties was imperative. With regards to disclosing personally identifiable information (PII), the guidelines forbid disclosure of the same in documents as well as orders and also directs the registry of the court not to retain any document that can identify the party. The orders also cannot be dictated in open court nor can be uploaded in public domain. The guidelines also restrains court officers, parties and witnesses to share any information of the proceedings or the parties to third party as the hearings would be held in-camera and in chambers thus disallowing any other person other than those involved in the case to know about the case. During hearings even court staff will not be permitted to remain present. The guidelines warns of contempt proceedings against errant parties who disclose details of the proceedings and states that the media has to strictly abide by the non-disclosure of identity rule. Any disclosure to media would require leave of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hcframes-guidelines-for-posh-hearings-media-coverage-101632760967980.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Mayor gives BMC 10-day deadline to fill potholes in Mumbai||Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Monday gave a deadline to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to fill up all potholes in the next 8-10 days. Pednekar was in the eastern suburbs to inaugurate the Jari Mari Marg in Kurla and Subhash Nagar Marg in Chembur. In a statement, the mayor was quoted saying, “It is understandable to have potholes on the roads during heavy rain. But after that it is the first duty of staffers to all up the potholes when the rains stop and there is a dry spell.” Pednekar added, “Even after appointing dedicated Road Engineers (REs) to fill the potholes, it is wrong if these engineers are given additional charge of other departments.” Pednekar also said she would order an inquiry to check if REs have been given additional work from other departments. The mayor also directed the deputy municipal commissioner and chief engineer (roads) to investigate and submit a report on the potholes on all these roads. Mumbai reported around 1,000 potholes have been reported between June 2021 and till date. The BMC has claimed to have filled over 30,000 potholes in the city from April 2021 to the first week of September 2021. Meanwhile, Pednekar also directed that the responsibility for filling the potholes should be assigned to the assistant engineer (roads) and the potholes should be filled immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mayor-gives-bmc-10-day-deadline-to-fill-potholes-in-mumbai-101632760727771.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka in Lucknow to review Cong’s preparedness for UP polls||LUCKNOW Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrived here on Monday on a five-day visit to review the party’s preparedness for the UP assembly elections early next year. She will discuss with workers and leaders preparations for rallies, setting up of war rooms in assembly constituencies and points that the party may incorporate in its manifesto for the polls. “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will review preparations for the party’s rallies and yatras. We have set up war rooms in 100 of the 403 assembly constituencies of UP. She will review progress of setting up of war rooms in the rest of the constituencies. A war room is already functioning at UPCC headquarters for the past six months,” said a leader. This was her second visit to Lucknow this month. Priyanka, who was scheduled to hold interactions with party leaders at the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters over the next five days, had reviewed Congress’ preparations for 2022 assembly elections in the state capital earlier this month. “The Congress general secretary is expected to discuss with party leaders the finer points about the party’s Pratigya Yatra scheduled to be launched soon. The yatra will cover a distance of about 12,000 km to connect with people in all the major cities and assembly constituencies of the state,” said another leader. Later this week, Priyanka was expected to discuss with party leaders some major points that the Congress proposes to incorporate in its election manifesto. Former union minister and senior party leader Salman Khurshid had been appointed chairman of the party’s manifesto committee. As Priyanka had her own priorities for the manifesto she was likely to hold discussions in this regard with the manifesto committee. Khurshid, who is likely to reach here on Thursday, was holding interactions at various levels to get feedback and give final shape to the party’s manifesto. He was scheduled to hold another interaction on the manifesto with people in Lucknow on Sunday. “We have had about 30 virtual interactions and also held interactions in Faizabad, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Aligarh, Bahraich and Jhansi to get feedback on the manifesto. The last such interaction will be held in Lucknow on Sunday,” said Khurshid. Various wings and departments of the state Congress were bringing out ‘Sankalp Patras’ to reach out to people of different sections of society. UPCC minority department had begun distribution of its 16-point ‘Sankalp Patra’ in front of various mosques to reach out to nearly 2.5 million people in the state. Priyanka, who visited Rae Bareli and Amethi Lok Sabha constituencies before winding up her previous visit on September 13, was scheduled to address rallies in major cities beginning in Meerut on September 29. “But her programme to address rallies has been rescheduled. New dates will be announced soon,” said another party leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-in-lucknow-to-review-cong-s-preparedness-for-up-polls-101632760247768.html
27-09-2021||Bhopal||20 police personnel deployed near Mihir Bhoj statute in Gwalior after clash||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh police on Monday provided security cover to the statue of 9th century Samrat Mihir Bhoj in Gwalior after some people tried to unveil the plague of the statue despite a high court stay, leading to a clash between two groups, police said.The Gwalior police also registered a case against 150 people for rioting, assaulting and using criminal force to deter public servants from discharging their duty and creating ruckus as a group tried to unveil the plaque, while another one opposed it.After the tension simmered between members of the Rajput and Gurjar communities for writing Gurjar on the plaques of Samrat Mihir Bhoj statue installed in Gwalior and Morena, a petition was filed at MP High Court, Gwalior bench for clarity on the historical facts. “The court formed a committee including a representative of both the communities, Inspector General of Police, Gwalior commissioner of police and experts on the subject. The court also ordered that the plaque be covered till the final judgement,” said, MPS Raghuvanshi, a lawyer representing the government in the case.Gwalior, superintendent of police, Amit Sanghi said, “More than 150 people of a community tried to unveil the plaque and created ruckus in front of the statute in Kampoo area on Saturday night. We have decided to enhance the security cover to avoid any untoward incident.”As many as 20 police personnel have been deployed around the statue with riot control vehicles. Police personnel will guard the statue 24x7, the Gwalior SP said, adding restrictions under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure has been imposed in Morena and Gwalior, and people told not to put out any provocative posts on social media. In Bhind, police organized meetings to inform people about the court’s interim decision to avoid any clash.Bhind superintendent of police Manoj Kumar Singh said, “We are holding panchayats to avoid any tension as happened in April 2017 which led to seven deaths in a clash between the two communities. In the panchayats, the villagers are being informed about the consequences of the clash and also about the controversy as many don’t know the actual reason behind the tension but they are attacking each other over social media.”A controversy also erupted 300 km away in Uttar Pradesh’s Dadri over a statue of the ninth-century ruler over the past week after some members of the Gurjar community complained that an earlier version of the statue’s plaque acknowledged that he was a Gurjar king and were offended that this reference was removed.The organisers explained that they removed the name of the caste from the plaque installed below the statue after they realised that including either of the castes, Gurjar or Rajput, would lead to protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/20-police-personnel-deployed-near-mihir-bhoj-statute-in-gwalior-after-clash-101632760187729.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra MCA aspirants complain about CET format||Days after master in business administration (MBA) aspirants complained about discrepancies in the exam paper pattern for the ongoing state common entrance test (MH-CET) exams, master of computer application (MCA) aspirants who appeared for the MAH-MCA CET are sharing similar concerns. Several students highlighted on social media that the exam paper pattern followed this year was different, and they were not notified about it. CET is the entrance test for admissions to professional undergraduate degree programmes, including engineering, management, architecture, hotel management, pharmacy, agriculture and allied courses, among others. After an initial delay due to the pandemic, these exams have been conducted in multiple sessions starting September 20 and will go on till October 10. As per the official CET website, MCA aspirants’ entrance exam has a total of 100 questions divided among four topics — mathematics and statistics (30 questions), logical/abstract reasoning (30 questions), English comprehension and verbal ability (20 questions) and computer concepts (20 questions). Each question carries two marks and candidates get 90 minutes to attempt. “The exam should have had questions under four topics but what we got was a jumbled question paper format. Students who usually attempt the sections they are comfortable or confident about were forced to solve questions at random, which is unfair,” said a student, requesting anonymity. This means, students did not have the choice to attempt all questions of a particular section and make up the marks, which is otherwise a common practice. While students have approached the state CET cell with these complaints, officials at the state CET cell said they haven’t received any complaints of this nature. “We will look into the matter when we receive any complaints,” said a senior official. Meanwhile, MBA aspirants have sought clarification from the MBA CET exam paper setters. An official from the state CET cell told HT. “Students, through a law firm, have sought a written clarification from the exam paper setters. We at the CET cell have no idea what the question paper includes and it is completely the decision of paper setters. So whatever queries have been raised by students, we have requested the paper setters to give clarification,” said a senior official from the state CET cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mca-aspirants-complain-about-cet-format-101632760007691.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body holds Covid vaccination drive for women only||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday held its second women-only Covid-19 vaccination drive at all public vaccination centres in the city. The first such drive was held on September 17, with a total of 127,000 women getting vaccinated at public and private centres through the day. The BMC decided to conduct a special women-only vaccination drive to reduce the gender disparity in vaccination.On Tuesday, the drive will be held exclusively for students and teachers during the first half of the day between 9am and 2pm, and for citizens due to get their second dose in the second half of the day between 3pm and 8pm. In the afternoon session, no one will be given a first dose at any public vaccination centres. Students and teachers are required to carry their identity cards along with a government-issued identity proof.According to information available on the CO-WIN portal, as of Monday morning, for every 13 men who have got vaccinated in Mumbai, 10 women have been vaccinated. While a total of 5,218,652 women have been vaccinated, 7,000,944 men have been vaccinated in the city so far; 2,900 other citizens have been vaccinated.Authorities have attributed the lower vaccination rate in women in Mumbai to women being more busy managing both work from home and household and partly to the government leaving out lactating mothers and pregnant women from the vaccination drive in the initial months of the drive. While vaccination began on January 16 for health care and frontline workers, and for citizens above the age of 18 from May 1, it was started for pregnant women and lactating mothers by the end of May.A senior civic officer from BMC’s public health department said, “That can be one of the reasons why more men are vaccinated in comparison to women in Mumbai. But the other reason is also that women, during the pandemic lockdown, are simply more busy. Stepping out for vaccination means they have to consider the travel time, the wait time at the vaccination centre for their turn, while managing work from home, and the household. That is why BMC held the special drive to encourage more women to come, with shorter wait time and no uncertainty of vaccine doses getting over mid-way.” BMC received 300,000 vaccine doses on Saturday.“In Mumbai, in some cases it also holds true that digital literacy and lack of public transport during lockdown affected women’s turnout for vaccination,” an educator in gender studies and health, from a reputed Mumbai based education institute said. She did not wish to be named.During Monday’s special drive, 113,935 women were vaccinated at public vaccination centres in the city, and a total of 126,419 women were vaccinated, including private centres’ vaccination figures. So far, 7,987,510 beneficiaries have received their first dose, and 3,898,711 beneficiaries have received their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-holds-covid-vaccination-drive-for-women-only-101632759895559.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Narendra Giri suicide probe: Court sends 3 accused to CBI custody||Anand Giri, Adya Prasad Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari, accused of allegedly abetting the suicide of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Narendra Giri were on Monday remanded in CBI custody for seven days by a court in Allahabad.Chief judicial magistrate Harendra Nath sent the three to CBI custody till October 4, prosecution counsel Gulab Chandra Agrahari said.The three accused joined the court proceeding from the Naini jail through video conferencing.The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Narendra Giri was found hanging from the ceiling of his room in Shri Baghambari Gaddi earlier this month. In his suicide note, he named the trio and accused them of mental harassment. The police lodged an FIR under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code on charges of abetting the suicide.Police arrested Anand Giri and Adya Tiwari on September 21, a day after the suicide, while Sandeep Tiwari was arrested on September 22. The three were sent to judicial custody after their arrests.The CBI took the probe into the case on the Uttar Pradesh government’s recommendation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/narendra-giri-suicide-probe-court-sends-3-accused-to-cbi-custody-101632758991781.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||BSP gen secy meets Akhilesh triggering speculations of crossover||LUCKNOW Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary RS Kushwaha met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday, triggering speculations of his shifting allegiance ahead of next year’s UP assembly elections.The SP shared the picture of Kushwaha’s meeting with Akhilesh Yadav on Twitter, terming it a “courtesy meeting.”Considered a backward face in the BSP, Kushwaha has influence over the Maurya-Kurmi-Kushwaha community in central UP. He secured victory from Nighasan assembly seat on BSP ticket in the 2002 assembly election and was minister in the BSP government (2007-12). Later, he became member of the legislative assembly. In the 2009 Lok Sabha election, Kushwaha contested on BSP ticket against Congress leader Sonia Gandhi on Rae Bareli seat.Though Kushwaha held the post of national general secretary, but was sidelined in the party after the 2019 LS election. Terming the meeting with SP chief a “courtesy meeting”, Kushwaha said talks were held on the coming assembly election and political scenario in the state. The dates of joining SP will be announced later, he said. Earlier on Friday, two expelled BSP leaders – Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar – met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, leading to speculation of the duo joining the Samajwadi Party. Verma and Rajbhar had stated that dates of their joining SP would be announced later.On June 3, BSP chief Mayawati had expelled Verma and Rajbhar on the charge of indulging in anti-party activities during the recently concluded panchayat elections. Verma held the post of the leader of the BSP legislature party in the legislative assembly while Rajbhar was the national general secretary of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-gen-secy-meets-akhilesh-triggering-speculations-of-crossover-101632759709626.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Thane pile-up brings traffic to a standstill||A pile-up on the busy Ghodbunder Road on Sunday night brought traffic in Thane to a standstill, with the snarls stretching out well into Monday morning and the queues running into kilometres. The accident took place at 11.10pm on Sunday, when a speeding oil tanker, which was travelling towards Thane, lost control and hit the divider. Police officials said the tanker did not stop even after hitting the divider. The momentum of the tanker caused its container to break off from the driver’s cabin and carried it over to the other side of the road, where it finally stopped. “A Hyundai i10, which was coming from the opposite lane, collided with the tanker’s container, and was in turn crushed after being hit from behind by a truck. Three occupants of the car were trapped inside. The tanker’s container also hit two more vehicles, a Baleno and an Ertiga, causing injuries to their drivers,” senior police inspector Kishore Khairnar, Kasarwadavli police station said. Personnel from the police station, Thane traffic police, Thane fire brigade and regional disaster management cell of Thane Municipal Corporation were rushed to the spot, along with ambulances, three hydra vehicles, a crane and a JCB demolition vehicle. The three occupants of the i10, identified as Vinod Kharat, 45, Srushti Patil, 18, and Pandurang Patil, 45, were rescued from inside the mangled remains of their car and admitted to Bhaktivedanta Hospital in Mira Road. “The spot where the accident took place is on an uphill slope and traffic is slow moving there. We first had to arrange for hydra vehicles so the container could be removed, which took several hours. Further, the oil spill on the road made it impossible to navigate safely and sand was poured on it,” deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Vinaykumar Rathod, Thane Police said. The container was straightened and lifted off the road around 6.30am, after which sand was poured on the spilled oil. This process got over around 8 am on Monday and traffic started moving slowly thereafter. However, the backlog took around two more hours to clear. The driver of the oil tanker is still at large, and the police are trying to identify and apprehend him. Based on the damage to his vehicle, the police suspect he might have been driving under the influence of alcohol or narcotics. The police have booked him for causing injury and endangering life due to rash and negligent driving under the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-pile-up-brings-traffic-to-a-standstill-101632759708248.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Consider pacemaker implant for Rakesh Wadawan in hospital, Bombay high court tells state||Taking note of the serious condition of Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) promoter Rakesh Wadhawan, who has been arrested on charges of money laundering in the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank fraud, the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday asked the prison authorities to inform it whether any government hospital in Mumbai has the facility to carry out pacemaker implantation on him. The court sought the information after noticing that the dean of KEM Hospital in his report has stated that Wadhawan had a fluctuating heart rate and was advised to go for dual chamber pacemaker implantation. The report also stated that the hospital did not have the facility after which the court suggested that if the same was not available in any government hospital then the authorities should consider permitting him to undergo the implant at a private hospital at his own cost. The single judge bench of justice Bharati Dangre while hearing the bail application of Wadhawan seeking release on health grounds on September 24 was informed by additional public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde that as per court directions a current clinical report on the condition of Wadhawan was being submitted. Apart from heart fluctuations the report also stated that Wadhawan was suffering from chronic kidney disease.Senior advocate Aabad Ponda representing Wadhawan also placed the report of a Consultant Cardiologist, who had examined Wadhawan following the September 17 permission granted by the HC. The consultant’s report concurred with the opinion of KEM Hospital and advised a multidisciplinary team approach for patient recovery. After perusing the medical reports, the bench noted in the order, “The medical reports of the patient reflect that he requires immediate medical treatment of acute nature... The question then arises is when and where it will have to be medically ascertained, whether the applicant is fit for this implantation or he will have to wait and another question that arises is where the procedure can be carried out.” In light of KEM Hospital stating that it did not have the facility to carry out pacemaker implant the court directed APP Shinde to take instructions on whether any government hospital in Mumbai had the facility. “If not, take instructions to offer an alternate solution as per prayer made by senior counsel Ponda that the procedure on the applicant can be carried out by Private Hospital of his own choice and at his expenses, while in custody,” noted justice Dangre in the order and posted hearing of the bail application on September 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/consider-pacemaker-implant-for-rakesh-wadawan-in-hospital-bombay-high-court-tells-state-101632759408233.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Build Mumbai-Nagpur bullet train along proposed expressway: Uddhav tells PM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi conveying the state government’s willingness to accommodate the proposed Mumbai-Nashik-Nagpur high-speed rail (HSR) corridor along the under-construction Nagpur-Mumbai Super Communication Expressway or the Samruddhi Mahamarg. The chief minister also proposed that the Centre should take up Mumbai-Hyderabad high-speed rail corridor via Jalna-Nanded using the proposed Jalna-Nanded expressway. The CM also requested that the railways should build a high-speed corridor between Pune-Aurangabad.The letter came over a week after Thackeray, at a public function, pledged support for the Mumbai-Nagpur high-speed rail project to the minister of state for railway Raosaheb Danve. “Yes, there are expectations from each other. Raosaheb, I give you my word in front of everyone here that if you are going to take initiative for a Mumbai-Nagpur bullet train [project], then this government will stand firmly by you in every step,” Thackeray had said. He added that a bullet train between Mumbai and Nagpur is “our wish, expectation, and dream.”According to the two-page letter, Thackeray said that if Centre and State governments can “collaborate”, the proposed bullet train project between Mumbai and its winter capital can be executed “at the earliest”. He wrote, “If the Government of India and the Government of Maharashtra collaborate along the Samruddhi Mahamarg the execution of the Mumbai-Nashik-Nagpur HSR can be started at the earliest. GoM further proposes that since Mumbai-Nagpur HSR will be within the Samruddhi Mahamarg right of way (RoW) up to Jalna the same may be extended to Hyderabad.” The state government has already planned an expressway between Nanded and Jalna.Thackeray further said that using the “logic” of incorporating high-speed rail with Expressways, a corridor between Hyderabad and Mumbai can also be built through Nanded. “If the same logic of accommodating the HSR within the RoW of an expressway, as is proposed by the NHSRC between Nagpur and Mumbai, the Mumbai-Hyderabad HSR can also be planned along Mumbai-Nanded Expressway via Jalna and further within the RoW of proposed expressway between Nanded and Hyderabad. It is also felt that an HSR route between Pune and Aurangabad also needs to be planned. It should be noted that Mumbai-Nagpur connects Mumbai-Nashik-Aurangabad,” the letter stated.The state government has planned a semi-high speed corridor between Pune and Nashik, and connectivity between Pune and Aurangabad will complete the -quadrilateral, which is the industrial belt of Pune-Nashik-Aurangabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/build-mumbai-nagpur-bullet-train-along-proposed-expressway-uddhav-tells-pm-101632759107725.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||ED searches office of Shiv Sena leader Anandrao Adsul||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday carried out searches on the office premises and visited Kandivli residence of former Shiv Sena member of Parlaiment (MP) Anandrao Adsul on Monday. The central agency, which had summoned him to appear before them, intended to bring him in for questioning over misappropriation of funds in City Co-operative Bank, which he headed. However, the Sena leader complained of chest pain and was rushed to a suburban hospital.ED suspects that Adsul has received some benefits from the misappropriation of funds in connection with the alleged fraud at City Co-operative Bank. And in connection with the same the central anti-money laundering agency wish to grill the Sena leader, who was the chairperson of the bank. ED’s Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case is based on the FIR registered by the Mumbai Police economic offences wing (EOW) last year. Interestingly, Adsul is the complainant in this case. The EOW had then booked several auditors, valuers and employees of the City Co-operative bank for allegedly causing a loss of ₹98 crore to the bank by granting loans in an unruly and illegal manner. The accused did not properly calculate the value of mortgaged property for loan, in a few cases, even nothing was mortgaged against the loan. There are 56 applicants who, had received loans but failed to repay it. One of the shareholders of this bank had earlier claimed that the amount of fraudulently sanctioned loan is over ₹2,500 crore, but police’s preliminary probe found that ₹98 crore worth loans were sanctioned illegally. The EOW still awaiting a report from the forensic auditor to present their findings. ED is trying to collect more evidence and documents to prove the allegations that Adsul benefitted from the said illegal loan.Adsul becomes the fourth Sena leader after Sena member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Pratap Sarnaik, transport minister Anil Parab, MP Bhavana Gawali to get ED notice or face action from the Central agency. Senior Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s wife too had got a notice from ED in the past.Shiv Sena, meanwhile, said that ED against Sena leaders has become a routine. Sena chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant said that the action from ED is not final, and the courts decide whether a person is guilty of any wrongdoing or not. Sawant while speaking to media persons, “Summons are a daily thing from ED. But those who are levelling allegations, are they saints?... Is Adsul the only person involved in the bank? This is nothing but defaming Shiv Sena and its leaders.” The south Mumbai MP further said, “ED is not the courts. There are courts still in this country by the grace of God. This has been happening only to gain power; defame the government to topple it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-searches-office-of-shiv-sena-leader-anandrao-adsul-101632758987586.html
27-09-2021||Other||Farmers stop train in Barnala, offer tea to passengers||Barnala Sangrur and Barnala districts observed a complete shutdown in response to farmers’ Bharat Bandh call on Monday. Protesting farmers, however, stopped a train going to Delhi from Bathinda at the Tapa railway station, 23km from district headquarters. They served tea to passengers, while also telling them that it was the Centre’s stand against farmers’ demands that had led them to give a call for Bharat Bandh. Usha, 60, a passenger, said that she had to visit Ambala from Bathinda and the train was scheduled to reach there at 9am, but it was stopped on the way. “I booked a ticket online, but the department didn’t inform us about the possibility that farmers could block tracks. Now, it is learnt that the train will return to Bathinda,” she added.“The government is responsible for this harassment; if it would have accepted the demands of farmers, we would not be in this situation,” said another passenger.A protester Sikander Singh said the Modi government had been cruel and insensitive towards farmers. “Farmers, women and children are staging an indefinite protest against the farm laws on the borders of Delhi. We have also stopped a train en route Delhi from Sri Ganganagar. Farmers will arrange food for passengers, but the government should have cancelled such trains to avoid harassment to passengers. The trains will not be allowed to move till 4pm,” he added.BKU (EKTA-UGRAHAN) CHIEF LASHES OUT AT CHANNIIn Sunam, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan lashed out at the new Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for his announcement that he would be visiting protesting farmers. Ugrahan claimed that the previous CM Capt Amarinder Singh had done nothing for farmers and Channi would face the anger of farmers. “Have we invited Channi? If people oppose him or any untoward incident happens, then what? The Congress had promised complete debt waiver; this was not done. Has drug menace been ended? The CM promised jobs, has he provided employment? Why will Channi visit there? What will he answer there? We have no hopes from Channi. I advise him to first save his home (the Congress party),” said Ugrahan, in response to a query from media persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-stop-train-in-barnala-offer-tea-to-passengers-101632758687686.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune district reports 431 fresh cases, 4 deaths||PUNE As per state health department authorities, Pune district reported 431 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Monday. Four infection-related deaths were also reported in the district in the last 24 hours. Out of these, two deaths were reported from Pune rural and two deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits.As per the state health department, the progressive count of PMC stands at 516,713 Covid-19 cases and 9,151 deaths till Monday. Pimpri-Chinchwad has reported 266,124 cases so far and a total of 3,495 deaths. While Pune rural has reported 357,633 cases and 6,772 deaths due to Covid.In the Pune district, there are a total of 1,140,470 lakh Covid cases. Out of this, 1,111,460 patients have recovered and there have been a total of 19,767 deaths and 9,243 are active cases.As per the state health department, 2,895 patients were discharged on Monday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,362,248. The recovery rate in the state is 97.26%.Across Maharashtra, 2,432 new cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed on Monday and 32 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.The state health department stated out of 58,286,036 laboratory samples, 6,541,762 have tested positive till Monday i.e 11.22 % of patients.Currently, 257,144 people are in home quarantine and 1,517 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-reports-431-fresh-cases-4-deaths-101632758327735.html
27-09-2021||Patna||Bihar drops demand for special status||In a sharp departure from its long-held stand, Bihar has dropped its demand for special status but will be seeking special packages for all sectors, planning minister Bijendra Yadav said on Monday, prompting the Opposition to accuse the Nitish Kumar government of “surrendering” before the Bhartiya Janata Party which is part of the ruling coalition in the state.Yadav, however, took strong objection to the Niti Aayog’s way of evaluating the ranking of the states based on the index of sustainable development goals (SDGs) and said the state needed special assistance from the Centre for accelerated and holistic development. “We have dropped the demand for special status as we are now tired of asking for it from the Centre. But we are now seeking special package for all sectors,” Yadav said in his remarks on the Niti Aayog’s report that ranked Bihar at the bottom of grown in the year 2020-21. Taking exception to the way of evaluation of progress of the state’s, Yadav said that the state government had sent a formal memorandum to the Niti Aayog, asking for change in the modalities. “The state registered remarkable growth in 10 out of 15 SDG index as compared to the last year. But, there are some areas, which the state can’t compete with other states owing to its natural limitations for which the state required special package,” said the minister. The minister said that Bihar stood among the front ranking states with respect to progress in health sector. “Bihar ranked the 5th in case of potable water and sanitation sector. In per capital development expenditure index, the state grew by 17.9% over the last year as compared to the national average of 11.6%. Total fertility rate has come down to 3 (2019-20) vis-à-vis 3.8 in 2011. Still, the state’s progress was adjudged at the bottom,” said Yadav, adding that life expectancy has also improved considerably in the state. The minister alleged that the Niti Aayog chose the unrealistic data to assess Bihar on the index based on percentage of population below poverty line. “The state can’t help improve on the index for quality employment and economic development based on the number of automated teller machines (ATMs) as it depended on the discretion of banks. Moreover, the index that assess the state based on the percentage of the forest cover to development was not justifiable. The state did well when assessed on the index of change in forest cover, which was done away with in the lasted assessment,” the minister pointed out. Through the memorandum, the minister also demanded that the index and objectives of development to assess the status of states by Niti Aayog should be finalised in consultation with the states. “Special assistance should be given to states which are backward but striving to grow faste,” the memorandum said. This is the second time in the recent past when the state government has put a dissenting note with the Central government. Taking exception to the Centre’s no to the caste-based census, the demand for which an all party delegation to the PM Narnedra Modi made on August 23, CM Nitish Kumar urged the Central government to rethink its decision. Kumar’s party Janata Dal (United) has been demanding special status for Bihar since 2012 and it was a main political agenda of the party for the state’s polls last year. The state legislature had passed resolutions, unanimously, asking for the special state’s status to Bihar in the past and submitted it to the Centre. However, the same was not considered by the Centre. “Even the special package promised by the PM Modi during 2019 election rallies was not considered,” said Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra. Meanwhile, Opposition RJD accused JD(U) of surrendering before the BJP. “The Nitish Kumar government has bowed down before the BJP. It has no concern for development of Bihar and prosperity of its people. They just love to stay in power and are not bothered for anything else,” said RJD chief spokesman and MLA Bhai Birendra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-drops-demand-for-special-status-101632758028765.html
27-09-2021||Patna||Bihar: Two, including ex-home guard jawan, killed in Khagaria village||Two persons, including a retired homeguard jawan, were killed while one was injured after a panchayat meeting between two groups convened to settle a personal dispute took a violent turn at a village in Khagaria district late on Sunday evening, said the police on Monday. One person was detained in this connection.Incidentally, the fifth phase of the ongoing Panchayat elections is scheduled to start in the district on Tuesday. Following the incident, heavy police forces have been deployed at Rohiyama village under Beldaur police station limits in view of prevailing tension and to maintain law and order situation, said the police. As per available information, some miscreants fired indiscriminately when arguments became heated during the panchayat meeting on Sunday evening. Three persons sustained bullet injuries. While one of them, identified as Krishnadeo Choudhary, died on the spot, retired homeguard jawan Haribol Yadav succumbed to his injury on way to the hospital. The third person was currently undergoing treatment, said the police.“Both the deceased have past criminal records. Police have detained a person identified as Pappu Paswan in connection to the firing. He is said to have planning to contest the panchayat election for the post of sarpanch,” said Khagaria superintendent of police Amitesh Kumar.Meanwhile, Choudhary’s wife alleged that her husband wanted to contest the panchayat election as a member from Dumri panchayat, but one Dholan Choudhary and his associates killed him during the meeting. The SP said that police were probing the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-two-including-ex-home-guard-jawan-killed-in-khagaria-village-101632758027506.html
27-09-2021||Patna||Bharat Bandh: Farmers largely absent, oppn parties hit streets in Bihar||Normal life came to a standstill in Bihar on Tuesday, as roads wore a deserted look in several parts due to Bharat Bandh called by opposition parties and many organizations to mark the first anniversary of three controversial farm laws. However, no farmers were seen taking part in the bandh.Besides, as many as 125 political leaders and workers were detained from Patna, Nalanda and Jamui for disrupting law and order, additional director general (headquarters) J S Gangwar said. He, however, asserted that the bandh was peaceful and no untoward incident was reported from any part of the state. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at borders of the national capital for the past 10 months, demanding that the farm laws, enacted by the central government in September last year, be scrapped.In Bihar, no major incident was reported during the bandh. Leaders and MLAs of opposition parties, including RJD, Left and Congress, came out on streets at many places and appealed to people to express solidarity with farmers.Tyres were burnt on National Highways, state highways, GT Road and other key roads to prevent movement of vehicles. Supporters of RJD and Left parties fanned out to various parts of state, including capital city Patna, forcing shopkeepers to down shutters, and deflating tyres of vehicles plying on roads. Hundreds of party supporters--among whom children could also be seen--stormed private vehicles and bus stands carrying sticks and party flags, but they were chased away by police personnel. Demonstrations were reported from Jehanabad, Darbhanga, Begusarai , Nawada, Saran, Sheikhpura, Lakhisarai, Bhagalpur and Khagaria, where protestors forcibly stooped train movement, while protestors squatted on railway tracks. “Movement of trains resumed after the GRP removed protestors from tracks,” said Patna Rail superintendent of police Bikash Burman. However, most private schools in Patna, Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gaya and other districts were closed, while normal business establishments, including eateries, functioned as usual. In Patna, student organizations of Patna University blocked Ashok Rajpath, burnt tyres and raised slogans in support of the bandh. At the Patna junction roundabout, supporters of the Communist party were seen attacking buses. In Bodh Gaya town, normal traffic was seen on the roads and markets remained open due to Pitra Paksha Mela. A large number of police personnel were deployed across the state to prevent any untoward incident. Despite this, protesters on major routes, including the Mahatma Gandhi Setu connecting North Bihar and the state capital, affected vehicular traffic leading to long queues of vehicles due to blockade by RJD supporters led by MLA Mukesh Roushan. The RJD leaders demanded withdrawal of the three farm bills Reports from BhojpurSupporters of Left parties led by MLA Sudama Prasad blocked Ara-Patna-Sasaram highways, held public meetings and raised anti-government slogans. The bandh evoked mixed response in Purnia and Kosi divisions, consisting of eight districts.Bandh supporters blocked NH-31 near RN Shaw roundabout in Purnia for two hours. Similarly, protesters blocked Katihar-Purnia road at Mirchairari in Katihar. In Araria, the protest witnessed almost no response. However, in Kishanganj, protesters blocked Kishanganj-Siliguri road for a few hours, affecting traffic movement.In Saharsa, Madhepura and Supaul, RJD leaders and their supporters took out the march, shouting slogans against both the state and the Union government. They later accompanied bandh supporters and blocked roads at various places. However, the blockade was lifted within two hours as leaders left the protest due to scorching heat.(With inputs from Prashant Ranjan, Aditya Nath Jha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bharat-bandh-farmers-largely-absent-oppn-parties-hit-streets-in-bihar-101632757969180.html
27-09-2021||Other||UPSC topper gets hero’s welcome at his village||Shubham Kumar, who topped the all-India civil services examination 2020, on Monday arrived in his native village of Kumhari in Bihar’s Katihar district to a rousing welcome on his first visit since the results were declared by the Union Public Service Commission a few days ago. “I am lucky I have been getting the support of my parents through thick and thin and they kept me inspiring,” Shubham said. Kumhari falls under Kadwa block of Katihar district, which is one of the worst flood affected blocks. Over 90% of residents are either migrant labourers or marginal farmers.Katihar MP Dulal Chandra Goswami visited Shubham’s house. Later, chief minister Nitish Kumar talked to Shubham and his parents on the phone of Katihar MP.“Yes, CM called us and we are really grateful to him for this,” Shubham’s parents Devanand Singh and Punam Devi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/upsc-topper-gets-hero-s-welcome-at-his-village-101632757909028.html
27-09-2021||Patna||Heavy losses force Bihar power firm to resort to stern measures||The South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited (SBPDCL), one of the two government-owned discoms in Bihar, supplying power to 17 of its 38 districts, including capital Patna, is billing consumers for around 65% of the electricity that goes into its distribution system, say officials. The remaining 35% is lost as aggregate transmission and commercial (AT&C) loss when the regulator approves of only 15%. Officials monitoring the loss have assessed that power pilferage by consumers, either with the connivance of discom staff or without them, contributes to the bulk of the AT&C loss. The SBPDCL has now stepped up the heat to curb its losses by launching a spirited anti-power theft drive before the regulator undertakes the true-up exercise (sort of reconciliation of accounts based on power purchased and power sold) to revise the state’s power tariff, due in April next year. As per data accessed by the Hindustan Times, ₹7.30 crore was realised in Patna by way of penalty from January this year till September 25, of which ₹5.29 crore was generated in August. This was after a record 1,036 FIRs were registered that month against errant consumers. That was followed up by another 460 FIRs, leading to the realisation of ₹2.52 crore in September (till September 25). “We decided to utilise our revenue engineers in special checking drive after our billing software reported a snag between July 29 and September 1,” said Sanjiwan Sinha, managing director, SBPDCL. “We found that despite billing almost 100% consumers, we were able to recover only around 65% of our input cost. This meant that many consumers were surreptitiously bypassing their energy meters and availing of our power to run air-conditioners and other heavy voltage items, adding to our losses. That is when we realised that the bulk of our AT&C loss was due to power pilferage by consumers,” said Sinha. “We then chalked out a plan and began anti-power theft drive in a concerted manner in August. Our team identified areas prone to power pilferage and began inspecting every household in the locality concerned, without any exception, leading to huge evasion of power charges,” he added. Dilip Kumar Singh, general manager, Patna Electricity Supply Undertaking (PESU) said, “On an average, 8% of the 1,000-odd houses our team inspects in a day are found to be pilfering power in Patna,” said Dilip Kumar Singh, general manager, Patna Electricity Supply Undertaking (PESU). In most cases, consumers were by-passing the energy meter, he added. To curb power theft, the discoms have also begun replacing old post-paid energy meters with smart pre-paid ones. Officials in the raiding team said resistance to the installation of smart pre-paid meters, which are sensitive, was more in areas where power theft was rampant. “In urban Patna, 1.09 lakh smart pre-paid energy meters have already been installed against its 6.07 lakh consumers,” said Singh. All post-paid electricity connections would be converted into smart pre-paid energy meters by 2023, said Sinha. “We want to get our AT&C losses down to the limit prescribed by the regulator. We have decided to keep up the tempo and continue with our anti-power theft drive,” said Sanjeev Hans, Bihar’s energy secretary-cum-chairman and managing director, Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/heavy-losses-force-bihar-power-firm-to-resort-to-stern-measures-101632757907683.html
27-09-2021||Patna||PU to begin new academic session from early Oct||Patna University (PU) is set to commence the new academic session for undergraduate courses in the first week of October, shared officials on Monday.PU’s vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Chaudhary said an induction programme will be organised before the commencement of offline classes to familiarise newly admitted students with the university’s rules and regulations.The university admitted more than 3300 students in various conventional and vocational undergraduate courses for the new academic session while the third counselling round is going on to fill around 1000 vacant seats.Anil Kumar, dean of students’ welfare, said, “Around 80% seats are already filled in two rounds of counselling while third counselling will conclude on September 28. We are hopeful to complete the admission process in September itself.”PU has also initiated the process for recruiting guest faculties as several professors retired in the 2020-2021 session.“Due to recent retirement of professors, several departments are facing difficulty in conducting classes owing to lack of teachers. As an alternative arrangement, the university has decided to recruit as many as 206 guest faculty members in various subjects to ensure the smooth conduct of classes. We have invited online application for the post of guest faculty till October 15,” added Kumar.Meanwhile, the Patna University is all set to celebrate its 105th Foundation Day on October 1. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary will be the chief of guest on the occasion. Altogether 41 students who graduated in 2020 will be awarded gold medal for their academic excellence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pu-to-begin-new-academic-session-from-early-oct-101632757850204.html
27-09-2021||Patna||Bihar: Missing MBA student found dead||An MBA student, who went missing on September 25, was found dead in a pond located near Railway Colony under the town police station in mysterious circumstances on Monday, police said. The victim, identified as 27-year-old Nitish Kumar, left home on September 25 around 8 pm to buy some articles but did not return. According to the police, the killers burnt his face with acid to hide his identity. A thorough investigation of the case is underway. The forensic experts of Bihar police said that they could not ascertain the exact cause of death due to the body’s decomposed condition. “We have sent viscera, hyoid bone, blood, hair and nail samples to FSL for analysis,” said SHO of the town police station Abhay Shankar. Begusarai range DIG Rajesh Kumar said that police summoned the family members of Nitish, who reached the spot and ascertained the identity with the help of the clothes he was wearing. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-missing-mba-student-found-dead-101632757848793.html
27-09-2021||Ranchi||Lukewarm response to Bharat Bandh in J’khand||The Bharat Bandh called to mark one year of the contentious farm laws on Monday got limited response in Jharkhand, with workers of opposition parties hitting the streets in morning hours and blocking traffic at major places in district towns and cities across the state. No incident of violence was reported from any part of the state. All major political parties, barring the BJP, extended support to the call. Workers of the JMM, Congress, RJD and Left hit the streets in state capital Ranchi, holding traffic for a while at the arterial Albert Ekka Chowk in the morning. CPI workers organised a march from their party headquarters till Daily market crossing through Albert Ekka Chowk. Shops in and around the chowk opened after 11am in anticipation of the bandh. The daily functioning, however, became normal across the state capital after 11am. Reacting to the bandh call, Jharkhand BJP president Deepak Prakash thanked people “for rejecting the bandh called by the opposition parties”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/lukewarm-response-to-bharat-bandh-in-jkhand-101632757847587.html
27-09-2021||Other||DS Kulkarni group investors want ED probe into alleged payments by firm to money lenders, brokers||PUNE Investors in the DS Kulkarni group of companies have demanded that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) investigate alleged payments made by DSK firms to various money lenders and brokers. A consortium comprising Ashdan Properties, Classic Promoters and Builders and Atul Builders will take over the debt-ridden group through the insolvency process.DS Kulkarni Developers Limited (DSKDL) owners are accused of cheating more than 30,000 investors of more than ₹2,000 crore. The case is being investigated by the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Pune police.DSK investor Sanjay Ashrit said, “All those who have invested in DSKDL properties stand to gain due to the latest development. However, other investors like us who invested in DSK shell companies will also get back their money provided the case is handed over to the Enforcement Directorate. We are very positive about the entire process and investors will get their money back.” Complainant Jitendra Mulekar, who had lodged an FIR against the DSK group, said, “Currently only DSKDL investors will get back their money while those investors who have invested in the shell companies will have to wait for a while. We want the refunds to be initiated at the earliest.” Investor Manjusha Kulkarni said, “We want the ED to probe the transfer of funds to brokers and money lenders from DSK. Through ED the money can be retrieved and the investors can be refunded in real time.” DSK’s lawyer advocate Ashish Patankar said, “The plan put forth by the consortium has been duly accepted and is awaiting NCALT approval subject to no objections raised either by the committee of creditors or by corporate debtors.” Manoj Kumar Agarwal, a resolution professional, on August 13 informed the listing compliance department of the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange about the approval of the resolution plan involving DS Kulkarni Developers.Agrawal in his letter stated: “The Committee of Creditors (CoC) has approved the resolution plan submitted by Ashdan Properties Pvt Ltd, Classic Promoters & Builders Pvt Ltd and Atul Builders, with a requisite majority of the voting share as per the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016. You are requested to take the above information on record.”There were three applications to acquire DS Kulkarni Developers through the insolvency process. Besides the Ashdan-Classic-Atul consortium, Mantra Properties and Developers and a trio of Hemendra Shah, Kanhaiyalal Matani and Ghyanshyam Sukhwani had also submitted a bid.In September 2019, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Mumbai bench, ordered the commencement of corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) related to the real estate group under the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, on an application filed by Bank of Maharashtra.One of the main accused, Hemanthi Kulkarni, the wife of DS Kulkarni, was granted bail by the court after over four years. DS Kulkarni, his son Shirish Kulkarni, and others are still in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ds-kulkarni-group-investors-want-ed-probe-into-alleged-payments-by-firm-to-money-lenders-brokers-101632757787484.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Remnants of cyclonic storm Gulab to bring heavy rain to Mumbai today||The city is likely to experience a final spell of heavy rain on Tuesday, before the end of the monsoon, experts and officials cautioned on Monday. This is due to the passage of the remnants of cyclonic storm Gulab, which made landfall over Andhra Pradhesh on Sunday. The weakened weather system has since been travelling westward, and is expected to bring thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds to parts of Madhya Maharashtra and Konkan as it crosses the region. Mumbai has been placed under an orange category weather alert for September 28, indicating chances of very heavy rain at isolated places, while Thane and Palghar districts have been placed under a red category weather alert, indicating chances of extremely heavy rain at isolated places. “Citizens should pay attention to these alerts and plan their activities accordingly, as there may be chances of waterlogging in some parts of the city,” said a meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. The IMD has also forecast that some affected districts may see strong winds between 30kmph and 40kmph, gusting at 50kmph in isolated places. In a statement to the press on Monday, the met department stated: “The Deep Depression over south Odisha and adjoining north Andhra Pradesh moved westwards with a speed of 08 kmph during last 06 hours, lay centered at 0830 hrs... over south Odisha and adjoining south Chhattisgarh and 65 km east – northeast of Malkangiri (Odisha). It is likely to move nearly westwards and weaken into a Depression during next 06 hours and into a well-marked low pressure area during subsequent 24 hours.” Should the weather system cross over into the Arabian Sea, it may pick up in intensity into a strong low-pressure system and lead to formation of another tropical cyclone, experts have warned. While Mumbai is expected to narrowly miss heavy rain, regions in north Konkan, such as Dahanu, Vasai-Virar, Thane, and Kalyan-Dombivli are expected to be affected to a larger degree. The most intense showers have been predicted between 5pm on Tuesday and 5pm on Wednesday. “As the weather system moves toward Arabian Sea and picks up moisture, the intensity of rainfall will increase over Konkan and central Maharashtra. There is already an active east-west monsoon trough running through the north Konkan region. Hence there is certainly going to be a spike in rainfall. There will be rough weather as much as 75km from the coast of Maharashtra and fishermen have also been warned from venturing out,” said the meteorologist with the IMD. With Mumbai receiving 39mm of rain during the day on Tuesday, the total rainfall for the entire season (from June 1) stands at 3,036mm, against the seasonal normal of 2,205mm. This is an excess of about 37%, and marks the third consecutive year that Mumbai has received seasonal rainfall in excess of 3,000mm. Counting rains brought by Cyclone Tauktae in May, the total rain for the entire year stands around 3,400mm. Between June and September last year, the city recorded a total 3,687mm of rain, stopping just 70mm short of 2020 being the wettest monsoon on record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/remnants-of-cyclonic-storm-gulab-to-bring-heavy-rain-to-mumbai-today-101632757067642.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||In pursuit of 100% vaccination against Covid with first jab, 40K doses allotted to 101 centres in Navi Mumbai||To achieve its goal of vaccinating 100% residents with at least the first dose, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation had, for the first time, allotted more than 40,000 vaccine doses at 101 centres for those above 18 years of age on Monday.At least 27,425 people got their first dose throughout the day during this drive. Till now, 10.39 lakh have received their first dose in Navi Mumbai . Of these, 4.93 lakh have received their second dose as well.For Tuesday, 14,800 Covishield doses and 4,000 Covaxin have been allotted for 18 years and above age group for the second dose at 43 centres. On September 25, the civic body had received 41,000 Covishield and 860 Covaxin doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-pursuit-of-100-vaccination-against-covid-with-first-jab-40k-doses-allotted-to-101-centres-in-navi-mumbai-101632755450716.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||ABA election: Elders’ Committee of HC to decide on president’s post||LUCKNOW Polling for the post of president of the Awadh Bar Association (ABA) of the Lucknow high court remained inconclusive as the runner-up candidate requested recounting of votes after losing by a margin of one vote. Returning officer of the election, senior advocate IB Singh, ruled out recounting of votes. Now, the Elders’ Committee of the high court will resolve the issue on Tuesday. Polling for several posts of the ABA was held on September 25 and counting of votes was carried out on Sunday. In the election, 2,367 lawyers exercised their right to vote for various posts of the bar association. After the counting, Rakesh Kumar Chaudhary was declared elected for the post of ABA president late on Sunday night. He defeated his nearest rival Anand Mani Tripathi by one vote. Chaudhary secured 855 votes while Tripathi bagged 854. “The election process was fair and smooth. Results for all posts have been declared except for the post of president. Recounting has been ruled out as the entire process of counting of votes was carried out in a fair manner,” said IB Singh, senior advocate, and returning officer, ABA election. “I will submit the report (election process and counting of votes) to the elders’ committee of the high court on Tuesday. The committee is likely to take a decision on Tuesday,” added Singh. Ashok Nigam, chairman, Elders’ Committee of the high court, will decide on the issue. Amrendra Nath Tripathi was declared winner for the post of general secretary. He secured 871 votes. Suresh Chandra Pandey, who bagged 478 votes, was declared elected for the post of treasurer and Krishna Mohan Srivastava was elected vice-president (junior) after securing 555 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aba-election-elders-committee-of-hc-to-decide-on-president-s-post-101632755447261.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai doctors see a spurt in chikungunya cases||City doctors are seeing a spurt in cases of chikungunya – a viral infection spread by an infected Aedes Aegypti mosquito, with people coming to the medical clinics with acute joint pain and other symptoms such as fever and rashes. “We have seen 20 confirmed cases of the infection in the past fortnight,” said Dr Shalini Suralkar, a consultant physician with Powai’s LH Hiranandani Hospital. “The patients are in the age group of 30-50. None of them required hospitalisation,” said Suralkar, citing a case of a 45-year-old woman who came in with a history of fever, rashes and joint pain. While her fever and rashes subsided, the pain in her foot, ankles and hands persisted. The patient has to be eventually put on a course of steroids.Chikungunya is caused by the chikungunya virus (CHIKV). In addition to excruciating joint pain, fever and rashes, the infection also causes joint swelling, headache, nausea and fatigue. Its pain-related symptoms are similar to rheumatoid arthritis. According to Suralkar, chikungunya arthritis can last up to three to six months. In such cases, patients are put on steroids and their doses are tapered gradually. If patients don’t get relief, they are prescribed immunomodulatory treatment in the form of hydroxychloroquine. “In chikungunya, patients generally do not require hospitalisation and mortality is very rare. But it can be a very morbid condition in which patients are unable to do their daily activities and are in extreme pain,” said Suralkar, adding that in mild cases, patients generally respond to anti-inflammatory medication, and sometimes with a short course of steroids. The clinical signs of chikungunya are similar to dengue, thus there is a chance of misdiagnosis if timely testing is not done. Doctors said patients are seeking medical help within one of two days of symptoms because of the fear of Covid-19, and this has helped in the early diagnosis of other diseases. “There is no direct treatment for chikungunya and all interventions are mostly for symptom relief,” said physician Dr Gautam Bhansali, who has been seeing two to three confirmed cases every day since the past two weeks. “It is a viral disease that leads to reduced platelet count and causes severe dehydration. We advise patients to increase their fluid intake if they are not hospitalised, and some other medications are given for fever and pain relief,” he said. Consultant internist Dr Samrat Shah from Bhatia Hospital has also been seeing two to three confirmed cases every day. “Only one or two patients in a week have required hospitalisation due to severe joint pain and high-grade fever,” said Shah, adding the treatment includes intravenous fluids, antipyretics, anti-inflammatory and disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctors-see-a-spurt-in-chikungunya-cases-101632754547226.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||NIA opposes Sachin Vaze’s plea for 3 months house arrest||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Monday asked Wockhardt Hospital at Mumbai Central to file a report on the health condition and discharge date of dismissed police inspector Sachin Vaze while hearing his plea to be kept under house arrest for three months for post-surgery recovery. The NIA has opposed his plea. Judge AT Wankhede asked the hospital to file a report on the health conditions of Vaze who has undergone coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). The court also directed the hospital to inform it 48 hours before Vaze’s discharge from the hospital. Vaze has filed a plea through counsel Sajal Yadav and Aarti Kalekar post bypass surgery that was conducted on September 13. In his plea he had argued that he will be discharged on September 28, and that he underwent a complex cardiac surgery with five grafts. In his petition he had claimed that it is a known medical fact that post-surgery there is a high likelihood to contract infection in a non-sterile environment. Jail has a higher rate of tuberculosis and skin infection due to unhygienic conditions and overcrowding, the plea stated.Vaze had also taken reference of the case of Telegu poet Varavara Rao arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case who was granted temporary bail for six months on medical grounds by the Bombay high court.Vaze’s plea seeks that he be allowed to be placed in house custody for three months with a permission to visit his doctors for routine medical check-ups.However, the NIA opposed the Vaze application and filed a reply opposing it. The NIA stated that the grounds stated by the under trial prisoner in the case of Dr P V Varavara Rao’s case are totally different to the facts as stated by the present applicant accused.It is further submitted that the judicial custody of the applicant accused under section 309 of CrPC cannot be converted into section 767 of CrPC as the investigation against him was already completed and charge-sheet filed. The grant of house arrest to the accused at this stage is totally against the settled position of law and justice. The hospitals attached to Taloja jail are modern and capable of handling such conditions. It is further submitted that great prejudice would be caused to the case of the prosecution at hand as there is every possibility that the applicant accused will abscond, if house arrest is granted to said accused. The jail authorities need to be heard on the issue, the NIA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-opposes-sachin-vaze-s-plea-for-3-months-house-arrest-101632754367162.html
27-09-2021||Pune||I-T raid on 4 steel mills in Maharashtra: Rs200 crore in unaccounted income||Pune The Income Tax department has detected unaccounted income of ₹200 crore following raids on a group of four major steel rolling mills based in Maharashtra, the CBDT claimed on Monday The Income Tax department carried out a search and seizure operation on Thursday (September 23) on the four mills based in Jalna, Maharashtra. These companies are engaged in the business of manufacturing steel TMT bars and billets, mostly using steel scrap as raw material.The operation was conducted in 32 premises spread across Jalna, Aurangabad, Pune, Mumbai and Kolkata.The I-T department alleged that during the course of the search and seizure, many incriminating documents and other digital evidence was seized. The evidence clearly indicates the involvement of the companies in large scale unaccounted financial transactions made outside the regular books of accounts, including inflation of purchases using entry providers, unaccounted cash expenses and investments.“The evidence found also indicates the laundering of a substantial amount of unaccounted income earned by the companies in the guise of share premiums and unsecured loans using shell companies,” the Press Information Bureau (PIB) said in a statement.“Evidence for unaccounted purchase in excess of ₹200 crore has been found. A huge quantity of unaccounted stock was also found in the factory premises of the companies,” read the statement.As many as 12 bank lockers were unearthed during the search operations, the statement claimed, adding, “Unaccounted cash worth ₹2.10 crore and jewellery amounting to ₹1.07 crore has been seized from different premises. Evidence detected so far, indicates that unaccounted income is likely to exceed ₹300 crore and the four companies have already disclosed additional income to the extent of ₹71 crore, consequent to the search.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/it-raid-on-4-steel-mills-in-maharashtra-rs200-crore-in-unaccounted-income-101632754307199.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Collision between oil tanker and container truck causes massive traffic jam at Thane’s Ghodbunder Road||An accident involving multiple vehicles on Thane’s busy Ghodbunder Road caused a massive traffic jam which began late on Sunday night and stretched out well into Monday morning, officials said.According to officials, a collision occurred between an oil tanker and a container truck near the Gaimukh Octroi checkpost on the Ghodbunder road at around 10.22 pm on Sunday. The impact of the collision caused the container truck to skid over to the opposite lane and turn over on its side, blocking most of the lane, while the oil tanker, too, careened out of control and spilt its cargo. Meanwhile, three cars were also hit, but their occupants were rescued safely and no fatalities were reported.“The spot where the accident occurred is on an uphill slope and traffic is anyway slow-moving there. The accident caused all the traffic to come to a standstill. We first had to arrange for a Hydra vehicle so that the container truck could be removed, which took several hours. Further, the oil spilt on the road made it impossible to navigate safely and mud was poured on it,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Vinaykumar Rathod, Thane Police said.He added that the process of pouring mud was completed around 8 am on Monday and traffic started moving slowly thereafter. However, the heavy backlog that has accumulated over the entire night will still take some more time to clear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/collision-between-oil-tanker-and-container-truck-causes-massive-traffic-jam-at-thane-s-ghodbunder-road-101632754189049.html
27-09-2021||Pune||2 coaches of Indore-Daund train derail at Lonavala; none injured||PUNE: Two general coaches of the Indore to Daund special train derailed near platform number 1 at Lonavala railway station on Monday. Around 80 passengers travelling in these two coaches were shifted to other coaches and the train continued its journey. No casualties were reported.Shivaji M Sutar, chief public relations officer, central railway, tweeted, “One trolley of the rear second and third coaches of the 02944 Indore-Daund special derailed at Lonavala station platform while entering the station at 7.50am. No casualty. No line movement is affected. Up and down line traffic is running. Re-railment work is in full swing. After detaching two derailed coaches on site, the front portion with all passengers left safely for destination. Time 9.27am.”As the train headed for Daund was moving at a very slow speed, there was no major accident.Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson of the Pune railway division, said, “There were no major repercussions due to the derailment and no train movements were affected from both sides (Mumbai and Pune). The lines were cleared in 15 to 20 minutes. Once the derailed coaches were detached, the train resumed its journey toward Daund. The train reached Pune at 10.25am. The derailed coaches were cleared from the track at 11.15am.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2-coaches-of-indore-daund-train-derail-at-lonavala-none-injured-101632754073210.html
27-09-2021||Patna||Why Bihar ranks bottom in Niti Aayog SDG index? Minister blames unrealistic data||PATNA: Bihar’s planning minister Bijendra Yadav on Monday objected to Niti Aayog’s way of ranking states on the index of sustainable development goals (SDGs), and said the eastern state needed special assistance from the Centre for faster development.“We have dropped the demand for the status of a special state (special category status), as we are now tired of asking for it from the Centre. But now we are seeking special packages for all sectors,” Yadav, an influential member of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s cabinet, said in his remarks on the government think tank’s 2020-21 report that ranked Bihar at the bottom of the table.Yadav said the state government has asked Niti Aayog to change the way it evaluates progress. “The state registered remarkable growth in 10 out of 15 SDG index as compared to last year. But there are some areas, which the state can’t compete with other states owing to its natural limitations, for which the state requires a special package,” the minister said.Buttressing his claim, Yadav said Bihar stands at the front on progress in health care.“Bihar ranked the 5th in case of potable water and sanitation sector. In the per capita development expenditure index, the state grew by 17.9% over the last year as compared to the national average of 11.6%. The total fertility rate has come down to 3 (2019-20) vis-à-vis 3.8 in 2011. Still, the state’s progress was adjudged to the bottom,” said Yadav, adding that life expectancy has also improved considerably in the province.Niti Aayog chose unrealistic data to assess Bihar on the index based on the percentage of population below the poverty line, Yadav alleged. “The state can’t help improve on the index for quality employment and economic development based on the number of automated teller machines (ATMs), as it depended on the discretion of banks. Moreover, the index that assesses the state based on the percentage of the forest cover to development was not justifiable. The state did well when assessed on the index of change in forest cover, which was done away within the latest assessment,” the minister pointed out.Through the memorandum, the minister demanded that the index and objectives of development to assess the status of states by Niti Aayog should be finalised in consultation with the states. “Special assistance shall be doled out to those states, which are backwards but striving to grow faster. The Niti Aayog shall frame short, medium and long-term strategies for different states depending on their limitations to achieve the SDGs for progress,” the memorandum said.This is the second time in the recent past when the state government has sounded a dissenting note with the central government. Taking exception to the Centre’s refusal to a caste-based census, the demand for which an all-party delegation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi made on August 23, chief minister Nitish Kumar urged the central government to rethink its decision.The ruling Janata Dal (United) has been demanding special status for Bihar since 2012. It was also the main political agenda of the party during the state’s assembly polls last year. The state legislature in the past passed unanimous resolutions, asking for the special status to Bihar.However, it was not considered by the Centre. “Even the special package promised by Prime Minister Modi during 2019 election rallies were not considered,” said Prem Chandra Mishra, a leader of the opposition Congress party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tired-of-asking-bihar-minister-explains-why-jdu-dropped-special-status-demand-101632754012399.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Wanted for cheating, Kharghar man held before fleeing to Dubai; Vashi police seize 23 cars||A Kharghar man has been arrested for cheating more than 50 people in the name of Royal Car Self Drive Company, promising rent for their four-wheelers.The accused, after paying rent for two months, mortgaged the vehicles and had prepared to flee to Dubai when he got arrested just before his flight.Around 23 cars worth ₹72 lakh have been seized by the Vashi police. “The accused, identified as Sandeep Raghu Shetty (35), had cheating cases against him in Vashi and Khandeshwar police stations. Drive Easy Company of Vashi, the complainant of the case, was cheated by the accused of 25 cars of which 23 have been seized from Bhiwandi, Jalgaon, Taloja, Hyderabad and Padgha after his arrest,” an officer said.After mortgaging all the cars, the accused had earned around ₹50 lakh and planned to flee to Dubai. He got arrested while he left his Kharghar home for the airport. Police said that Shetty’s wife is an IT Professional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wanted-for-cheating-kharghar-man-held-before-fleeing-to-dubai-vashi-police-seize-23-cars-101632753947113.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||UPCC to stage statewide protests today, seeking withdrawal of cases against party leaders||LUCKNOW The clash between Congress and BJP supporters during the Gareeb Kalyan Mela in Sangipur block of Pratapgarh district was snowballing into a major controversy with senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ questioning BJP MP Sangam Lal Gupta’s claim that he was assaulted during the melee on Saturday. “The BJP MP has not spoken the truth. We are giving a detailed account to bring the truth to fore. Authorities have acted unilaterally and all the FIRs have common names of Pramod Tiwari and CLP leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’. We have videos covering the MP’s visit, from his arrival at the venue to the time he left the place, showing there was no assault on the MP, as claimed,” said Tiwari and Mona while speaking to media persons here on Monday. Meanwhile, the UP Congress Committee announced statewide demonstrations on Tuesday to demand a judicial probe into the incident and withdrawal of cases against the Congress leaders. The state government had on Sunday placed circle officer Lalganj (Pratapgarh) Jagmohan Singh under suspension for failing to deploy adequate police force at Sangipur development block where leaders of the two political parties were scheduled to attend the event. Tiwari said the MP was scheduled to reach the venue around 12pm while Congress MLA Mishra had given a programme to reach there at 3pm. But the BJP MP reached late and entered the auditorium with 14 to 15 people. The MP was welcomed and the CLP leader vacated her chair for him. One of his supporters snatched the mike and slogans were raised in favour of the MP, said Tiwari.Mishra said this slogan shouting was countered by those sitting in the audience and the MP made no efforts to bring the situation under control. The BJP MP could not be reached for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upcc-to-stage-statewide-protests-today-seeking-withdrawal-of-cases-against-party-leaders-101632753287167.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Owaisi behind the scenes facilitator for BJP; starts religious polarisation in Uttar Pradesh: Sena slams AIMIM chief||Shiv Sena on Monday attacked All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi saying that he is acting as “behind the scenes facilitator” for the successful journey of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the country. An editorial in Saamana said that religious polarisation has begun in Uttar Pradesh ahead of next year’s Assembly polls.In an editorial in Sena mouthpiece, the party came down heavily on the “provocative speeches” by Owaisi in Prayagraj during his campaigning, where slogans of hailing Pakistan were given allegedly by his supporters. “With Assembly elections approaching in Uttar Pradesh, it looks like Owaisi, who has long been a facilitator for the BJP, has made all preparations to raise communal and religious tensions there... Can’t the BJP’s politics progress without using Pakistan’s name?” the editorial asked. The Sena mouthpiece raised questions over the timing of the slogans in Uttar Pradesh, saying that there were no such incidents before his visit. “How is it that when Owaisi comes to UP ahead of the polls, his supporters begin chanting provocative ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ slogans when there is no record of any such sloganeering before this,” it said.Attacking Owaisi, the editorial said that he would forever be regarded as the “undergarment” of the BJP unless he had the courage to tell the Muslim community to join the country’s mainstream and abide by the Constitution. “Till the time Owaisi cannot show the courage to say that Muslim society cannot be ignored in the politics of the country, and without Muslims coming into the mainstream of the nation, they will not get their rights, “Till the time Owaisi does not show the courage to say that Muslims are a part of this country and will have to pave their way as per the Constitution until then, he will not be regarded as a national leader. Otherwise, he will be an undergarment of a national party like BJP,” it said, adding that, “Till then Owaisi’s leadership would be seen as one of those who help their ‘suparibaaz’ parents by dividing votes.”It added that a similar trend of the religious divide was seen in the West Bengal and Bihar elections which helped the BJP. While it failed to work in Bengal where the Muslim community voted in large numbers to Mamata Banerjee. The editorial said that had Owaisi not used the divisive strategy in the Bihar election, Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav would have been the chief minister. “If Owaisi had not preached his politics of bigotry in Bihar, Tejashwi Yadav would have been holding the reins of power today,” the editorial remarked.Reacting to the criticism, AIMIM MP Imtiaz Jaleel from Aurangabad, Maharashtra said that his party has been accepted unlike Sena which has remain constrained in Maharashtra. Over the criticism that Owaisi is a behind the scene player for BJP, Jaleel said, “Let them say whatever they please. These remarks are made by political parties, not by the people. The people have accepted us in Bihar, in Maharashtra and we are not a party restricted to Hyderabad. Shiv Sena call themselves tigers but they are only limited to Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/owaisi-behind-the-scenes-facilitator-for-bjp-starts-religious-polarisation-in-uttar-pradesh-sena-slams-aimim-chief-101632753107311.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||NDPS court grants bail to Nawab Malik’s son-in-law, two others in drug cases||A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on Monday granted bail to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Shabbir Khan, British national Karan Sejnani and celebrity manager Rahila Furniturewala, all of whom were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in drugs cases. Additional sessions judge AA Joglekar granted them bail. The three were arrested in January 2021. Advocate Taraq Sayyed who appeared for the accused had argued the substances seized from Khan were only tobacco and herbal products and not covered under the NDPS Act. He had further stated that there is nothing to show that he had financed illicit trafficking of drugs to be charged under the provisions of the NDPS Act. Public prosecutor for NCB, Atul Sarpande had argued that around 200kg marijuana was seized from Sejnani’s residence in Khar in January. The material was sent to a forensic laboratory in Gujarat, of which 83kg had tested positive for narcotic drugs and psychedelic substances. Sejnani, in his statement to the agency, alleged that he had supplied marijuana to city’s famous paan vendor Muchhad Paanwala alias Ram Kumar Tiwari. The agency then conducted searches at Tiwari’s shop and warehouse in Kemps Corner in south Mumbai and recovered curated marijuana.During further probe, the agency found Sejnani’s connection with Khan and he was summoned for inquiry on January 13. After questioning for almost 10 hours, NCB arrested Khan in the case for allegedly financing the racket.The case was registered after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ndps-court-grants-bail-to-nawab-malik-s-son-in-law-two-others-in-drug-cases-101632752567314.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man kills wife, assaults mother-in-law over a dispute with neighbour||A Virar police have booked a 28-year-old resident of Gandhi Chowk, Virar (East) for allegedly killing his wife and assaulting his mother-in-law after a dispute with a neighbour over hanging wet clothes near the flat.According to police the accused Jagdish Gurav, who works as a freelance contract worker with Western Railway, had reached his home in Ramchandranagar when he saw the neighbour’s wet clothes hanging. During the argument, the neighbour slapped Gurav.After the dispute, Gurav called his wife Supriya, 28, for help. However, she was at her mother Sushma Shetty’s house at Gandhi chowk and was busy with chores. This enraged Gurav. He went to Sushma’s house and smashed her head against a wall and picked up a vegetable cutting knife, and stabbed Supriya four times and in front of their three kids.At the sight of blood, Gurav panicked and absconded. “The neighbours rushed the victims to the Siddhi Vinayak Hospital in Virar and later to Sanjeevani Hospital, where Supriya succumbed to her injuries,” said an officer.“We have registered cases under sections 307(attempt to murder), 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against Gurav and seized the knife. We are checking the CCTV footage, call data records (CDR) and other technical evidence. The post-mortem report of the victim is awaited,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-kills-wife-assaults-mother-in-law-over-a-dispute-with-neighbour-101632752327037.html
27-09-2021||Bangalore||Bharat Bandh needs ‘different ideological approach’: Karnataka CM appeals to protesters not to disrupt normal life||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday repeated his appeal to the protesting farmers to not “disturb” normal life as the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers is being observed in several states across the country on the day. He reiterated his previous comments saying that the ‘bandhs’ should not disturb the people who are trying to recover from the impact of Covid-19.“People are struggling to recover from the adverse impact of Covid-19 on economic activities. They should not be disturbed by such 'bandhs'. I appeal to protesters not to disturb normal life. 'Bharat Bandh' needs a different ideological approach,” news agency ANI quoted Bommai as saying on Monday.Click here to read our complete coverage of the Bharat BandhEarlier on Sunday, the Karnataka chief minister sought the cooperation of the farmers union in the state after they extended support for the Bharat Bandh. However, farmers unions in the state have said that every effort was taken to make the bandh a success and also said that around 8,000 people were expected to participate. The state’s minister for transport B Sriramulu said that the buses would continue to operate on Monday. “Under any circumstances there is no question of supporting the bandh. Our buses will ply without any problems and the public will not be inconvenienced,” Sriramulu said, according to a report in HT on Sunday.Meanwhile, the protesting farmer organisations have assured that arrangements have been made for emergency and essential services to be allowed during the strike. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which had called for the strike, said that while offices, educational institutions and commercial establishments would be closed during the bandh, emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies have been allowed.Also read | Bharat Bandh successful, says Tikait. Here's its impact in various statesBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait too tweeted earlier on Monday that “We apologise to people facing problems, but farmers have also been facing problems for the last 10 months. Farmers are making good arrangements to allow emergency vehicles to pass and also commuters are provided with refreshments such as water, tea and milk.”Notably, Bommai had earlier on September 20, said that the farmers’ protest at the borders of Delhi and other places was being sponsored by the Indian National Congress party or “foreign agents” in the country, to which the Congress had reacted saying that the remarks were an “insult to the farmers.” Congress’ Dinesh Gundu Rao had reacted to the statement saying that the government should arrest those who are sponsoring the protest if they have the proof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bharat-bandh-needs-different-ideological-approach-karnataka-cm-appeals-to-protesters-not-to-disrupt-normal-life-101632751599106.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Tiger kills man in Dudhwa buffer zone||A 45-year-old man was killed by a tigress near north Nighasan range of Dudhwa buffer zone on Sunday, an official said.The deceased, Sita Ram of Manjhra Purab village under Tikonia police limits, had gone there with some fellow villagers to graze his cattle.Dr Anil Kumar Patel, deputy director, Dudhwa buffer zone said: “Reports said while grazing the cattle, a tigress hiding in the forests came out and attacked Sita Ram. His fellow villagers raised an alarm but the big cat carried Sita Ram into the forests. When informed, other villagers and local forest staff rushed to the spot and recovered the mutilated body of the victim.” He said “Movement of a tigress has been reported in the area and the villagers have been frequently warned not to venture near the forest area.”He added that an immediate monetary relief of ₹10,000 was awarded to the kin of the deceased from the Dudhwa Tiger Conservation Foundation (DTCF) while proceedings for compensation due to man-animal conflict were in progress.The DTCF, in its governing body meeting in Lucknow on September 16, had empowered the field director and the deputy directors of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve to award immediate ex gratia monetary relief to the victims of man-animal conflict.
27-09-2021||Mumbai||23-year-old accused of rape escapes from police jeep in Kalamboli||The Kalamboli police are on the lookout for a 23-year-old rape and POCSO accused from Osmanabad who allegedly ran away from a police jeep near the steel market on September 23.Police said that the accused, Maruti Mane, was arrested by the Solapur police last week for allegedly kidnapping and raping a minor girl. He had allegedly brought the survivor to Bhiwandi on his bike and forced himself on her. As a part of the investigation, the Solapur police brought him to Bhiwandi that day.“As they were returning to Solapur in the evening, the police jeep was stuck in traffic near Kalamboli steel market. That was when the accused pushed one of the policemen and ran out of the jeep with the handcuff. He managed to run away taking advantage of heavy traffic on the road and darkness,” said an officer.“There were four policemen in the jeep including the driver. They chased him but were unable to nab him. Later, they approached us and registered a complaint under Section 224 of the Indian Penal Code. We are now looking for the accused,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/23yearold-accused-of-rape-escapes-from-police-jeep-in-kalamboli-101632751606869.html
27-09-2021||Dehradun||Almora police unearth Maoist hideout in cave inside forest||Almora police claimed to have unearthed a Maoist hideout located in a cave deep inside the forests of Buda Jageswhar area of Almora district in Uttarakhand. The hideout was revealed based on the interrogation of the “last wanted Maoist leader” of Uttarakhand, Bhaskar Pandey, by police, officials said.Thirty-six-year-old Pandey, who was wanted with a bounty of ₹20,000 in a case registered during the 2017 state assembly elections, was arrested in Almora on September 13 in a joint operation by the special task force (STF) of Uttarakhand police and the Almora district police.“Police found the hideout on Sunday from a cave located inside deep and dense forests of Buda Jageshwar area after Pandey revealed its location during his interrogation while in police remand. He used to often used the hideout to stay away from police,” said Pankaj Bhatt, senior superintendent of police, Almora.Bhatt informed, “After tracing the hideout, police found several items from there including some Maoist publicity material, survival kit, tents, sleeping bag and other items of daily need.”Bhatt said that Pandey was taken in police remand for two days on Friday for interrogation. “On Sunday, he revealed his hideout in Hariya top forests in Buda Jageshwar area.”Earlier, when he was arrested, police claimed that he was in touch with the members of the Politburo of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) (CPI(M)) to revive the Maoist movement in the Himalayan state. Pandey, who was in hiding since 2017 after being booked in three cases for trying to provoke the public against the government by putting anti-government posters and burning a government vehicle in an attempt to disrupt the 2017 state assembly polls, was nabbed on September 13 near Haridutt Pethshali Inter-college in Almora. Director general of police, Ashok Kumar, said, “During interrogation, Police came to know that he was in touch with the Politburo members of CPI(M) to revive the Maoist movement in Uttarakhand.”“After trying to disrupt the previous assembly elections, he had plans to do the same in the upcoming assembly polls in 2022 with unlawful activities under Maoist movement. But, before he could succeed, he was nabbed by the police which was planning the dragnet on him for the last few days after getting input about his presence in Almora,” said Kumar. The state top cop also claimed that Pandey had “taken arms training in the jungles of north Bihar in 2012.”“He was the right hand of senior Maoist leader Khin Singh Bora who was the Uttarakhand area commander for CPI(M) who is presently in jail after being arrested in Uttar Pradesh police STF. After his arrest, Pandey was in hiding and visited the state occasionally but was not completely off,” said Kumar, adding that he was also active during the recent farmers’ agitation. “However, he was not found trying to influence the farmers in the Maoist movement,” he added.Kumar also informed that Pandey had joined the banned Maoist organisation in 2006 and was active in the state along with two of his close aides Devendra Chamyal and Bhagwati Bhoj who were already arrested a few years ago from Haldwani. “The names of the Maoist leaders in Uttarakhand had come into light after police busted an arms training camp by the Maoist Communist Centre of India in 2004. Since then, 24 Maoist leaders from the state have been arrested including three in jail, one in police custody, four out on bail, 11 acquitted and four dead. Three of the state Maoist leaders were also arrested in other states including two in Maharashtra and one in UP,” said Kumar. After his arrest, the police recovered two pen drives, two voter IDs, a mobile phone, an Aadhaar card, two books and ₹32,265.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/almora-police-unearth-maoist-hideout-in-cave-inside-forest-101632751127760.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||13 dog bite cases in 3 hours in Mumbra; Thane civic body in search of dogs involved||Within three hours, 13 dog bite incidents occurred in Mumbra on Sunday evening. Seven victims were at Bilal Hospital in Mumbra for treatment on Sunday night. The Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) dog van is in search of the dog responsible for the bites.“We received complaints over the phone from residents. We immediately appointed a dog van to catch the dogs as complained by the residents. But the dog van is yet to spot the said dog. Officials have visited the spot and are enquiring if one or more dogs were involved in the incident,” Dr Kshama Shirodkar, veterinary officer, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/13-dog-bite-cases-in-3-hours-in-mumbra-thane-civic-body-in-search-of-dogs-involved-101632750650943.html
27-09-2021||Bhopal||14-yr-old MP girl gang-raped for 8 months, kills her newborn, arrested: Cops||BHOPAL: A 14-year-old girl arrested for killing her newborn in a Madhya Pradesh village 200 km from state capital Bhopal was raped on multiple occasions for eight months by five people, police said on Monday.The girl was arrested on Sunday on charges of throwing her one-day-old baby into the well. She told the police that her cousin, who first raped her in October last year before forcing her to have sex with his friends, helped her kill the baby. She was produced before the juvenile justice board and sent to a juvenile home.Her cousin and his four friends including two minors have been arrested for gang rape under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO).Raghuvansh Bhadoria, superintendent of police, Ashok Nagar, said the police learnt of her gang-rape only after her arrest for murder.“Two days ago, police recovered a body of a baby girl in a well. During the investigation, police found that a 14-year-old girl gave birth to her and threw her in a well. Police apprehended her under Section 302 (murder) of IPC,” said Raghuvansh Bhadoria.During her interrogation, the girl broke down and told the police that she was repeatedly raped by the five between October 2020 and May 2021.The girl’s mother died three years ago and her father is a migrant labourer.Bhadoria said the girl was mostly alone at her village house and her 21-year-old cousin was a frequent visitor. In October 2020, he raped her for the first time. “Later, the brother along with his four friends including two minors raped her many times and threatened her with dire consequences,” the senior police officer said, citing the rape survivor’s statement.One day when she suffered from abdominal pain, she told her cousin that she might be pregnant. He took her to a quack. “The quack confirmed the pregnancy and also gave pills to abort the baby…. She gave birth to a premature baby at home… Later, the main accused helped her in throwing the baby in the well,” the district SP said. Police are trying to verify if anyone helped her deliver the baby at home. Her medical report has indicated that she may have had medical assistance for the delivery. The cousin has also been charged with the infant’s murder and we are investigating the role of others who helped the girl to deliver the baby, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/14yrold-mp-girl-gang-raped-for-8-months-kills-her-newborn-arrested-101632750406757.html
27-09-2021||Kolkata||'Focussing on Uttarakhand': BJP MP junks TMC leader's ‘return’ greeting||Bharatiya Janata Party parliamentarian Locket Chatterjee retorted to Trinamool Congress leader Kunal Ghosh's Twitter post in reaction to her ‘refusal’ to campaign for assemby bypolls in Bhabanipur constituency.Trinamool Congress spokesperson Kunal Ghosh tweeted earlier in the day tagging Locket Chatterjee, and congratulating her for not campaigning for BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal ahead of the September 30 bypolls, where she faces West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Thanks and congrats 'star campaigner' @me_locket for not campaigning at Bhabanipur. Inspite of many requests from BJP U hvn't come. As a friend wish your success wherever u r. World is too small.Hope those days will return again when u started your political innings.Responding to Ghosh's tweet, the former actor-turned-BJP MP wrote, “You should focus on ensuring that Mamata Banerjee doesn’t lose from Bhabanipur.”Locket Chatterjee, who forayed into politics on Mamata Banerjee's invitation, left the Trinamool Congress to join the BJP in 2015.She said she was busy focussing on the upcoming assembly polls Uttarakhand as BJP's election in-charge. “There are star campaigners like Dilip Ghosh and Suvendu Adhikari for Bhabanipur bypolls. This election is doubtful for Mamata Banerjee. This is why this fake news is surfacing,” the BJP MP was quoted as saying by news agency.However, going step ahead in replying back to Locket Chatterjee on Twitter, Kunal Ghosh remarked that the BJP MP wishes for chief minister Mamata Banerjee to win the assembly seat with a huge margin.Ha Ha!Don't worry.Mamatadi will win with large margin. U want this also.I know that u hv to write in favour of yr party. But still I thank u that even in this reply also u didn't mention the name of the bjp candidate.कहि पे निगाहे, कहि पे निशाना।Well done. https://t.co/3ew8YnUfP4Chatterjee retorted to Ghosh's jibe by saying, “I think Kunal Ghosh isn't well. He must get well soon and then talk.”The bypoll in Bhabanipur assembly constituency was neccessiated after Trinamool Congress leader Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated it recently so that Mamata Banerjee, who became the chief minister despite not winning any seat in the latest assembly election, could contest. Banerjee lost to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari by a thin margin of 1,956 votes from Nandigram constituency. The ballots cast in the bypolls will be counted on October 3. As per the law, Mamata has to win on any seat in the state to have the chance of becoming a member of the state assembly, or retain the chief minister's post, before November 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/focussing-on-uttarakhand-bjp-mp-junks-tmc-leader-s-return-greeting-101632742502675.html
27-09-2021||Kolkata||BJP claims TMC not giving rivals 'level-playing field' for Bhabanipur bypolls||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari alleged the situation in Bhabanipur was critical on Monday after supporters from his party and Trinamool Congress (TMC) clashed with each other ahead of the assembly bypolls in the constituency.The legislator from Nandigram also claimed that the Election Commission did not take any action even after receiving complaints from the BJP. “The situation is very critical and the Election Commission is not doing anything. A team from our party met them in Delhi as well as in Kolkata. Our delegation met them several times but no action was taken,” Adhikari was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.However, the Election Commission sought a report later on Monday afternoon and the returning officer asked for video footage of the clashes, according to a report by HT.The BJP claimed its vice-president Dilip Ghosh, who is campaigning for Priyanka Tibrewal in Bhabanipur, ahead of the bypolls on September 30, was manhandled by TMC cadres.The TMC workers protested against Dilip Ghosh and shouted ‘go back’ slogans at him. A BJP worker was injured in the scuffle that ensued in Bhabanipur’s Jadu Babu Bazar area, the report by HT said. The TMC delegation was led by state minister Firhad Hakim.The BJP claims that the TMC is not allowing ‘level-playing field’ to its competitors. “The TMC is not allowing its rivals a level-playing field. Our leaders are not being allowed to even campaign as TMC goons are engaged in state-sponsored violence,” BJP Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni said. He also said if a senior leader faces such “attacks” then the “fate of the common man in West Bengal can be imagined”, news agency PTI reported.The bypoll is crucial for Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as she has to win it to remain as the chief minister of the state.(with inputs from Tanmay Chatterjee)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-claims-tmc-not-giving-rivals-level-playing-field-for-bhabanipur-bypolls-101632749043825.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal govt bans cheap sale of fossil souvenirs in Spiti valley||After years of destruction, Himachal Pradesh government has finally banned the cheap sale of marine fossils, dating back to hundreds of years, to tourists visiting the scenic Spiti valley. Marine fossils are found in the hills near Lalung, Mud, Komic, Hikkim and Langza villages of Spiti Valley and sold at rates as low as ₹50 to ₹5,000. The common fossils on sale include coral reefs of the Triassic period (250 to 199 million years old), and ammonoids of the Triassic-Jurassic period (199 to 145 million years old).“Rise in tourist footfall, including from foreign countries, has been leading to the destruction of geological artefacts. Many tourists visiting the valley are aware of the availability of fossils. Some of these are displayed for sale at various eateries and restaurants. Spiti fossil souvenirs are even promoted through blogs, travel sites and other internet platforms and there is a high demand for these,” said Lara Tsering, a travel operator and hotelier in Kaza.Tsering added, “A lot of fossils were also destroyed during the construction of roads and other buildings. State geologist Piyush Guleria said, “Majority of the fossils found in Spiti are marine ones. It’s very significant; it helps to provide details of ancient geography. Steps have to be taken to preserve them.” “The fossils are older than the Himalayas. A lot of studies have been conducted on these fossils. Geologists from the region have been studying the isolation of Indian plate, its collusion and evolution. This provides the geological history of the country,” he said.Spiti valley contains almost a continuous succession, ranging from the Cambrian (542 million to 488 million years old) to the Cretaceous (between 145 million and 65 million year old), making it a popular destination for paleontologists.“We have to stop the exploitation of fossils. Locals promote the sale of fossils. So we have passed an order to prevent the sale of fossils. These will be preserved in the museum; if someone wants to study it, we will allow them to take it on the condition that they return it,” said Mahender Pratap Singh Rana, Kaza sub-divisional magistrate. A museum construction is underway and will be completed by the next year, he added.Some locals too have been making efforts at the preservation of fossils. “We hold camps from time to time to spread awareness among locals about preserving the heritage,” said Rajinder Bodh, a hotelier from Spiti. How the fossils were destroyed over the yearsGiant scorpion trace fossils along with trilobite traces found in Parahio valley have been destroyed during the construction of a road to Pin valley. Giant scorpion traces are unique and found only in Antarctica, Australia and Spiti Valley.During the construction of a canal, the Middle Norian coral reef in Ratangnala, a tributary of the Spiti river, was mined to provide building materials. The excavated earth has covered what is left of the reef.Another geologically significant feature belonging to the era when continents first stabilised, a paleoproterozoic paleosol in Sutlej valley, was exposed during the construction of the Hindustan-Tibet Road in Himachal Pradesh. Walls have been constructed on either side and nothing can be observed now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-govt-bans-cheap-sale-of-fossil-souvenirs-in-spiti-valley-101632748666940.html
27-09-2021||Dehradun||Wadia institute to explore hydrocarbons, study seismic threats in Indian Himalayas||Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) is carrying a six-year project named Characterisation and Assessment of surface and sub-surface Processes in the Himalayas (CAP-Himalayas) to study the various aspects of the Himalayas including exploration of hydrocarbons and seismic threats. The project was started in 2020 and will conclude in 2025. It comprises all 55 scientists of the premier institute involved in various studies under the project in various groups depending on the “gravity” of the study they are involved in. Study of surface and sub-surface Himalayan areas Director, WIHG, Kalachand Sain, who is leading the project, informed that the project will help in a “comprehensive study of the surface and sub-surface areas of the Himalayas.”“The project will comprise the Indian Himalayas which covers Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Uttrakhand, Himachal Pradesh in the north-western Himalayas and Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh in the north-eastern Himalayas. It is not possible to cover complete areas of the Indian Himalayas, hence we would undertake the study through various stations set up in these states,” said Sain.Sain added, “The scientists will study the surface as well as sub-surface areas of the Himalayas under which the team of scientists will analyse the seismic activities underneath causing earthquakes. The scientists will also study other hazards like landslides and glacial lake outbursts on the surface areas which cause a significant amount of damage to life and property.”Analysing the “one big” possible earthquake in the HimalayasEmphasising the importance of the studies under the six-year project, Sain informed about the possible ‘one big’ earthquake in the Himalayas comprising both Garhwal and Kumaon regions.“In the sub-surface of the Himalayas, the tectonic plates are moving due to which huge amount of energy is being accumulated. However, this energy is unable to get released resulting in the locking of pressure. It is feared that this energy will one day fully get released causing a huge earthquake which has not happened in the last about 600 years in this region comprising Garhwal and Kumaon,” Sain said.“The study will help us understand whether the possible big earthquake will happen or not and what are the other geological processes going on in the sub-surface as the areas where the energy is getting accumulated is about 80-100km in Garhwal and Kumaon. The study will also help in analyse the situation wherein the locked energy is released and in what quantity will it be released and other factors related to it,” said Sain.Exploring hydrocarbons and mineralsThe senior scientist also informed that apart from the study to understand the seismic threats, the scientists will also conduct a study for the exploration of hydrocarbons and minerals in the Himalayas.“One of the major aspects of the project is the exploration of hydrocarbons, minerals or other important natural resources which will help in the country’s development. One group of scientists is involved for the same. They will not only tell whether there is any hydrocarbon available or not but will also inform about its amount. Based on that, other agencies involved in extraction will then work for it,” said Sain.Mitigation of hazards in Uttarakhand HimalayasOne of the important aspects of the undergoing project is to identify the regions vulnerable and susceptible to hazards in the Himalayas like earthquake, landslides and glacial lake outbursts.“This will help in mitigation of natural disasters and minimise the loss of life and property. When we will be aware of the most vulnerable areas to earthquakes or landslides, then we will be able to take the necessary steps to limit the damage. We would then also be able to suggest the building techniques needed to be implemented in those areas so that they could stand to a certain extent in case of an earthquake or landslide, giving time to people to reach a safe place,” said a senior scientist involved in the project.The senior scientist also informed that the extensive project will also cover the study of the biodiversity present millions of years ago in the Himalayas.“This would be done by analysing the sediments and fossils found on the surface of the Himalayas. This will also help in studying the climate and temperature during that period supporting the organisms living there,” said the scientist.Sain, while terming all the above-mentioned aspects as very important, said, “The ultimate goal of the project is to have secured living and meet the societal requirements of the population living in the Himalayas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/wadia-institute-to-explore-hydrocarbons-study-seismic-threats-in-indian-himalayas-101632747946688.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Woman detained at Lucknow airport with foreign currency worth ₹2.5 mn||LUCKNOW A woman passenger boarding a flight from the Lucknow airport was detained after the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) recovered illegal foreign currency worth ₹2.5 million from her on Monday. According to a press statement issued by DRI officials, the woman, an Indian citizen, was travelling to Dubai from Lucknow. Two bundles of the currency (Riyal and Dirham) were packed in brown paper and concealed in the base of her suitcase. The woman could neither explain why she was carrying so much money nor could tell about its origin. DRI officials seized the cash under the Customs Act and detained the woman. They, however, declined to reveal the identity of the woman at this point of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-detained-at-lucknow-airport-with-foreign-currency-worth-2-5-mn-101632747887166.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||A mother’s prayer of love, ray of hope in bleak times||When my daughter was born, I chose to name her Sehar, the Arabic word for morning. I was exhausted, in a lot of pain and sleep deprived but I did manage to whisper in her ears, “My dawn has arrived in the midst of a cold January night.” I could not sleep that night and for many more nights because raising a child is no child’s play. My groggy eyes and weary body spoke of an ordeal only new mothers can identify with. It was fun to watch her play and gurgle, but it was also challenging to contain her wailing. Sometimes, I was clueless and would look into her eyes for answers only to find none. Together, we would look out for cures and remedies. Thus, we sailed on together. Sehar is twelve and a half now. “A pre-teen!” she tells me with a glint of pride in her eyes. The Covid-19 pandemic brought a new passion in her life: Painting. She always loved to draw and colour but the forced break from school made her take it up in a determined way. She started experimenting with style and texture, improving with every step by watching tutorials on YouTube. Now she goes to school but makes sure that she continues to paint every day, so evenings are reserved for creativity. She is as tall as me and often stakes claim to the prettiest of my dresses, making me relinquish them with a smile. She gives me impromptu hugs on some days and admonishes me on others, particularly if I repeat an instruction. She reminds me of my mom, who is miles apart in Canada and whom I’ve not seen for two years because of the pandemic. I’m grateful for Sehar’s presence in my life. A senior colleague, who is a mother to two college-going daughters, is mindful of every moment she spends with them. “Soon, they will leave the nest to study and see the world. I’ll be left with memories,” she shared the other day. This painful realisation that my daughter will be out there to navigate her own course makes me hold on to her tighter. While I try to conquer my fears, Sehar is engrossed in her colourful world as she lifts the brush from the canvas to dab it in paint. A bright yellow sun, tall coconut trees standing like sentries watching dolphins frolic in the calm, iridescent sea. A morning scene as fresh as her name, coupled with imagination is being created on the canvas. I marvel at this magic of colours and whisper a silent prayer for her. No matter what life holds for her, for me, for us, she will always be my daughter. This thought comforts me and allays my fears. Though distances might separate us, challenges of life might become mammoth on some days, darkness might try to dim the brightness, but the dawn of her name will always shine like a beacon in the bleakest of times. The sound of her name whispered on my lips will be enough to brighten up my mornings. With this ray of hope, I’d like to carry on being a mother to my darling daughter and usher in every new day into our life with love and optimism. ranagill261212@gmail.com The writer is a Hoshiarpur-based veterinarian and author||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-mother-s-prayer-of-love-ray-of-hope-in-bleak-times-101632745186308.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Court seeks Centre’s stand on cancer patient’s plea to take Covaxin as 2nd dose||The Delhi high court on Monday asked for the Centre response to a plea filed by a cancer patient, seeking instructions to authorities to allow him to get inoculated with Covaxin as the second Covid-19 dose instead of Covishield – which was administered to him as the first one. Mix and match of vaccines against the Covid-19 has lately been a topic of discussion, but the Indian government hasn’t provided any official nod on the same.The petition has been filed by counsel Madhur Mittal – an Opdivo Nivolumab Cancer patient — who is currently undergoing immunotherapy. According to the plea, Mittal was inoculated with Covishield as the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in March – but developed a severe reaction soon after and was hospitalised for four days.The petitioner further stated that he wished to be fully vaccinated (with both doses of coronavirus vaccine), and owing to prior complications to Covishield administration and as per his doctor’s advice, he has been asked to be jabbed with Covaxin shot as the second dose. However, when Mittal tried to book a slot for the second dose as Covaxin on CoWin, he failed to do so as the web application only allows to book slots in the same Covid-19 vaccine category. This is the case with other coronavirus vaccines approved in India as well, including Covishield.Also Read | 'Mix and match' of Covid-19 vaccines generate robust immune response: Oxford studyThe petitioner mentioned in the plea that he wants to be fully-vaccinated as he wishes to fly to the US for the further treatment of cancer.Mittal was represented in court by lawyers Nitesh Jain, Sanjay S Chhabra and Deepak Agarwal. Delhi High Court Justice Rekha Palli has issued a notice to the Centre asking for its reply and listed the matter for October 28. India is yet to take any stand on the mixing of Covid-19 vaccines, with studies currently underway in Christian Medical College in Vellore, Tamil Nadu to evaluate the results of mixing one dose each of Covishield and Covaxin. Earlier this month, Renu Swaroop, secretary of the Centre's department of biotechnology, had said that more data is required to get a better clarity on the mixing of coronavirus vaccines. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had in August revealed that mix and match of Covishield and Covaxin can produce better results. However, the deduction was achieved after a study was conducted on 18 individuals of Uttar Pradesh, who by mistake got two different vaccines. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-seeks-centre-s-stand-on-cancer-patient-s-plea-to-take-covaxin-as-2nd-dose-101632742941368.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Countdown to PMC polls: Kothrud, microcosm of Pune’s macro civic issues||PUNE When Pune began to expand in the 1990s, as residents of the city’s peth areas relocated to Kothrud in search of the “urban upgrade”. A migration of predominantly Maharashtrian families followed, IT employees making up the bulk of the populace.Today, Kothrud, along with Karvenagar, Baner and Bavdhan, faces several issues that are, in a sense, a snapshot of the problems the mega-urban populace of Pune is dealing with.K for KothrudLocal residents say real estate prices have gone up manifold. The Kothrud assembly segment, which covers Karvengar-Warje-Kothrud and Aundh ward offices under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), is mainly dominated by the BJP, with 18 corporators in Kothrud from the BJP and six from other parties Tanmayee Joshi, a 21-year-old IT student and resident of Mahatma Society, says: “The traffic problem eased out in the past one year, but that was mainly due to Covid-19 when roads were mostly deserted. Besides traffic, there is a need for proper garbage disposal.” When residents here gave the decisive mandate to the BJP from these parts, the party wresting power from the NCP in 2017, they thought many of their problems will ease. However, problems like traffic and the slow pace of the multi-level flyover at Chandani chowk, are still worries. The Metro work on the Vanaz to Nal-stop route offers some hope in terms of the robust public transport infrastructure missing in Kothrud (also across the city). Although the Metro trials from Vanaz to Idea colony are currently underway, Maha-Metro officials say commercial operations on this stretch will take time to get going. “The Metro rail option is really good and we are all eagerly waiting for it to start operations,” said Joshi. For Vishal Shelke, an IT professional living near Gandhi Bhavan in Dahanukar Colony , the situation in his ward is more or less same as it used to be five years ago. “As a citizen, if I am paying taxes, I expect good roads, footpaths and cleanliness in my area. Sadly, it is all missing as roads are dug up all the time. Five years ago we hoped to see some transformation. What we have witnessed is more or less the same situation that unfolded between 2012-2017,” said Shelke.For many elected members the Metro in their area, built by state government with Centre and PMC contributing financially, is the future. The second major achievement highlighted by members is the under-construction multi-level flyover at Chandani chowk. It is being executed by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) after Union minister Nitin Gadkari pushed for it with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis also expediting approvals at the local levels. The project has been delayed as the PMC was not able to acquire the required land in time. The BJP leaders defended the work saying corporators have done a remarkable job in the past five years. Sandeep Khardekar, BJP spokesperson, said, “the situation in Kothrud has definitely improved in the past five years with major projects like Metro rail, flyovers at Chandani chowk and Nal stop coming up. It’s going to ease traffic on a large scale.” In parts of Baner, Balewadi and Aundh, PMC has carried out various projects to improve the localities, including smart footpaths, roads and beautification of public spots. These projects were carried out mostly under the Smart City mission. Citizens, however, are confused by roads and footpaths being dug up repeatedly, besides hawkers are seen encroaching on the roads. Citizens claim that the municipal corporation not carrying out any action against the hawkers. Dinesh Kelkar, a resident of Mayur colony area said, “I work with a multinational company and travel abroad frequently. However, I have seen repeated road digging work. Even in Mumbai there is less road and footpath digging.” Another problem faced by citizens is encroachments and illegal constructions. A senior citizens retired from government service, asking that his name be withheld, said, “The PMC is doing an injustice to the middle class, which voted for it. If you roam around, in many areas, illegal construction activity exists.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/countdown-to-pmc-polls-kothrud-microcosm-of-pune-s-macro-civic-issues-101632743508316.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Residents of Maharashtra’s Badlapur wake up to strong smell of chemicals||Residents of Badlapur in Maharashtra’s Thane district woke up once again to the foul stench of chemicals which was being released in several parts of the city since Sunday night. Officials are yet to identify the cause of the smell. Residents of areas like Katrap, Manjarli, Belavli complained of a strong smell of chemicals in the area leading to suffocation throughout the night, officials said. Followed by several complaints, a fire brigade team of Kulgaon Badlapur Municipal Council (KBMC) examined the industrial area and other regions. “We did not find any discharge into the waterbody or emission of gas from any company but there was a strong smell in the air. Our team kept checking all the areas till late night,” said Bhagwat Sonone, fire officer, Badlapur. Sharda Narekar, 24, a resident of Patil Nagar, Majarli (West) said, “The smell was very strong from 9 to 12 pm and it was very suffocating. These incidents are repeated often in Badlapur and we have complained about it several times in the past.” “We are checking the cause of the smell and are yet to come to a conclusion. If there is any violation, action will be taken,” said an officer of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Kalyan division. Earlier in June, followed by a gas leak in Badlapur, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) Kalyan division sent closure directions to a private company. The sudden gas leak spread across three kilometres and caused panic among the residents of Shirgaon Badlapur MIDC area. The gas leak led to suffocation and eye irritation among many residents following which they moved out of their houses and complained of suffocation, coughing, and eye irritation. The gas leak was caused by overheating of sulphuric acid and benzene acid which led to a chemical reaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/residents-of-maharashtra-s-badlapur-wake-up-to-strong-smell-of-chemicals-101632741887525.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Farmers hold peaceful protest in Haryana||The 10-hour Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to mark one year of the Centre’s farm laws passed off peacefully in Haryana and evoked a total response in Rohtak, Hisar, Bhiwani and Jind districts. Most traders kept their business establishments closed in solidarity. Also read: Bharat Bandh in photos: Massive traffic jams, train services hitSecurity was beefed up at Singhu and Tikri borders where farmers have been camping for almost a year. Entry and exit gates of metro stations from Tikri to Bahadurgarh were closed, inconveniencing commuters headed for Delhi. Farmers assembled at Rohad toll plaza and blocked the Rohtak-Delhi highway with trucks and tractors, while other groups blocked the Rohtak-Chandigarh highway near Makrauli village. The Hisar-Chandigarh highway was blocked near Kandela village in Jind and the Hisar-Rohtak highway was blocked near Madina toll plaza in Meham. The protesters sat on rail tracks in Jhajjar, Bahadurgarh, Fatehgarh in Dadri and at Ramayana toll plaza in Hisar. Bus stands of Hisar, Rohtak, Jind and Sonepat wore a deserted look, and many buses were seen parked at the bus terminus itself. Commuters used village link roads to reach their destinations. SKM leader Inderjit Singh said, “Shopkeepers and small factory owners also shut their establishments in support of farmers till 4pm. We occupied highways and rail tracks to raise our voice though medical staff and ambulances were allowed passage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-farmers-hold-peaceful-protest-in-haryana-101632741706078.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||World Tourism Day: Knocking at Delhi’s gateway to history||The Delhi government’s plan to beautify entry points of the Capital, in order to make the city more aesthetically appealing, is finally set to take off. As part of this, five entry points will be beautified, and sculptures as well as large LCD screens will be placed on 200 metre stretches here. These points will include the borders at Gurugram, Tikri Kalan, Ghazipur, Apsara, and Anand Vihar near Kaushambi. But when has Delhi ever been a stranger to entry point/gates (darwaza)? An integral part of the city’s history and architecture, its gates have often piqued the interest of denizens as well as tourists. Back in 1911, when the British Empire shifted the Capital from then Calcutta (now Kolkata) to Delhi, it’s recorded that the city was surrounded by 14 gates! Out of these, only four have survived the test of time. These are namely — Kashmere Gate, Delhi Gate, Ajmeri Gate and Turkman Gate.“A European merchant from 17th century, William Finch described Delhi as the city of 7 cities and 52 gates,” exclaims Eshan Sharma, founder of a student led heritage exploration initiative named Karwaan. He adds, “The walled city of Shahjahanabad had, for example, 14 gates! One would leave from the Delhi Darwaza to reach straight to the original Delhi, which was Mehrauli. Similarly, Lahori Gate (Darwaza) led to Lahore. Such was the orientation of these two gates of Red Fort.”All these gates have their own narratives seeped in history, which comes together to shape what’s today known as Delhi’s rich cultural heritage. The 19th and 20th century historians refer to Shahjahanabad as modern or New Delhi. Author and historian Rana Safvi has explored the historicity of Delhi’s gates in her book Where Stones Speak: Historical Trails in Mehrauli, the First City of Delhi. She says, “When Shah Jahan built Shahjahanabad, he built the city’s gates and named them after the areas they led to — Lahori Gate, Kashmiri Gate, Ajmeri Gate, Kabuli Gate. In fact, there still is one gate, that is Delhi Gate, which was the odd one out, and that’s when you realise that the Delhi here refers to the old city of Mehrauli, and not Shahjahanabad!” Similarly, the Turkman Gate also has a rather interesting anecdote behind its name. “Turkman Darwaza was the only one of the 13 gates that gave access into the walled city of Shahjahanabad, which was named after a saint and not the city that the road led to,” informs Safvi, adding, “Shah Turkman Bayabani, also known as Dada Pir, was a very famous saint who died in 1240. As his name indicates, he lived in the then unin (bayaban) habited part of the city, which we know now as Delhi and thus the term. Today, that area is densely populated and his dargah is lost somewhere inside an area called Mohalla Qabristan. A smaller dargah adjacent to the Chandni Mahal police chowki is wrongfully attributed to him. People flock it thinking it’s the shrine of the famous 13th century saint. The Dada Pir meanwhile sleeps a little further ahead and deep inside the residential area. Gone is his bayaban!” These gates of Delhi have been such an intriguing subject for not just Delhiites but also tourists. And that has inspired some special heritage walks which talk about the history of multiple gates during their course. Ramit Mitra from DelhiByFoot, who conducts one such walk, shares, “There’s a nearly four hours walk where we talk about gates of Delhi and their structures. We start at Ajmeri Gate and make the participants touch three gates during the walk. After Ajmeri Gate, we go along the walls and enter the city for a brief while. Then, we go to the Turkman Gate, and later we again go into the city for a bit, and finally we exit towards Delhi Gate.... Participants of this walk often get to know the now forgotten or lesser known lifestyle and culture of Delhi.” The Four Gates of Delhi, today!Kashmere Gate: This gate was attacked when the British conquered Delhi again, during the Indian Uprising of 1857. The British stormed Kashmere Gate and entered the city of Delhi. Delhi Gate: It’ believed that two criminals were killed, and their bodies were buried in the foundation of the Delhi Gate. This is one of 14 gates that was originally built by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan.Ajmeri Gate: This gate was named Ajmeri Gate because of the road from it that led straight to Ajmer in Rajasthan. Ajmer was renowned for being a Sufi pilgrimage town, back in those days. Turkman Gate: This gate was named after Sufi saint Hazrat Shah Turkman Bayabani. And it’s this historical place that played a major role during the emergency of 1975. A massive demolition drive took place here.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/world-tourism-day-knocking-at-delhi-s-gateway-to-history-101632740543849.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: A hill replaced by a garden or park is lost for ever||PUNE Around 10 years ago, when the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and forest department put up a proposal to construct an open air amphitheatre and bird watching post near the quarry at Vetal Tekdi, it met with a stiff resistance. Those opposing the proposal were citizens from Deccan and nearby areas, and regular tekdi goers. The proposal could not move forward. Since then many such proposals were moved to artificially develop Pune’s hills, with some of them getting cleared, and the others bringing locals at loggerheads with the civic administration. The latest getting the attention – and opposition – is the Development Plan for Taljai hills. Located in the southern part of Pune, Taljai hill has a rich biodiversity, wildlife and is one of the biggest that the city has. The proposed development plan that involves beautification of the hill has attracted opposition from residents who say the move has posed a great danger to the ecology of the hill, located in Sahakarnagar, and visited by morning and evening-goers in large numbers. The hills in Pune - be it Taljai, Chaturshrungi hill, Vetal tekdi or Hanuman tekdi, - should be retained as hills are an extended part of forests. Turning them into gardens may make them aesthetically beautiful, but it will take away their soul and ecological sanctity.Already the PMC has constructed a stadium on five acres of Taljai hill. The project worth ₹120 crore also includes seven theme-based gardens such as Nakshatra, bamboo, local species (Ran Mewa), another cricket stadium for women, gymnasium, study room and solar panel covered parking lot on 120 acres of area. The project was originally proposed around two years ago when locals along with some politicos opposed it. The issue has resurfaced now as a detailed project report has been submitted to PMC standing committee, whose nod will facilitate work at the hill. To oppose the project, locals carried out signature campaign. The signature campaign carried out by locals under the banner of Taljai Bachav Abhiyan received a good response on Sunday, an indication that a large number of people, for whom PMC is claiming to be developing the hill, are not happy with the proposal. The locals want the hill to be retained as a hill, as an additional development work will further increase human activity and would frighten the birds. The project will no doubt attract more crowd, noise and litter in the area, that has already seen large number of vehicles every day. Besides crowding, the project threatens soil erosion too. Already, the PMC and state administration has failed to save hills surrounding Pune, which is surrounded by the Katraj ghats on the southern side and Dive ghat on its east. Most areas on hills at Katraj are dotted with unauthorised construction of hutments. The PMC, forest department or district administration neither have the machinery nor the funds to stop the mushrooming of illegal constructions. The 978 hectares of land on the hills around Pune which constitute the biodiversity park (BDP) zone of Pune, is considered to serve as the lungs for the city. The state government has entrusted PMC to retain the greenery on these hills by implementing a Bio-Diversity Park (BDP), even as the civic body is finding it difficult. The city has already lost hill after hill in the construction boom over the last few decades. Pune’s topography stands defined by the majesty of the Sahyadri hills around it. The politicians and bureaucrats along with people have taken them granted as they witness various activities. If we do not protect whatever is left, the future generations won’t forgive us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-a-hill-replaced-by-a-garden-or-park-is-lost-for-ever-101632740086461.html
27-09-2021||Jaipur||REET scandal: Accused tried selling Bluetooth slipper at ₹5-6 Lakh, say police||A day after the Rajasthan Police busted a cheating scandal on Sunday just before the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET), the police said that the accused attempted to cheat in the exam by activating a SIM card in his slippers to communicate with another person with a separate SIM.On Sunday, the police arrested members of a gang for allegedly selling Bluetooth device fitted slippers to candidates appearing in the exam held to select government school teachers in Rajasthan.Speaking to news agency ANI, Shalendra Singh Indoliya, ASP (city), Bikaner, said, “We received info on suspicious persons in Gangashahar on September 26 (on REET exams). Five people were arrested. A slipper with a Bluetooth device was found. Names of others came up during interrogation and checking. Cash, IDs and SIM cards found.”Indoliya added that the accused brought the slippers for ₹20,000-30,000 and was trying to sell them to students for ₹500,000-600,000.Sunday's incident came into light when Ganesh Ram Dhaka, who had arrived at the Acharya Shri Dharam Sagar Digambar Jain Secondary Medium School Centre in Ajmer for the exam, was found with the Bluetooth slipper.Officials at the examination centre found Dhaka with a wireless earphone and upon questioning, he confessed about the device and said that he purchased it from Tuljaram Jat in Bikaner for ₹250,000.The five members arrested by the Bikaner police are — Madanlal, Trilokchand, Omprakash, Gopal Krishna, and Kiran. While Dhaka was arrested, police have still not been able to nab Tuljaram Jat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/reet-scandal-accused-tried-selling-bluetooth-slipper-at-rs-5-6-lakh-say-police-101632732847383.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Blockades at 500 sites bring life to halt in Punjab||Protesters laid siege to nearly 500 locations across Punjab, blocking inter-state highways and key rail routes, in response to the Samyukt Kisan Union’s Bharat Bandh call on Monday. Also read: Bharat Bandh: Farmers block rail tracks, roads in Punjab’s Barnala districtSchools, colleges and universities and government offices reported thin attendance, while villagers blocked entry points in solidarity with the farmers. Long traffic jams were reported from different districts, while ambulances were allowed to ply. No untoward incident was reported as the bandh called to protest the Centre’s farm laws started at 6am and gets over at 4pm. Punjab CM Channi seeks repeal In a message on Twitter, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi appealed to the Centre to repeal the three farm laws. “Our farmers have been struggling for their rights for more than a year and it is high time that their voice is heard,” he tweeted, requesting farmers to maintaining peace. Ferozepur rail division cancels 14 trains Fourteen trains were cancelled in the Ferozepur rail division, while eight were rescheduled and two short terminated. Under the neighbouring Ambala division, 19 trains were cancelled and 15 rescheduled. Train services on the Delhi-Amritsar route via Ambala, Ferozepur-Delhi route, connecting stations in Rajasthan, Delhi-Ambala-Jammu and Una-Delhi routes were suspended due to the blockades. Railway authorities said that a decision on starting rail services will be taken after assessing the situation at 4pm when the strike ends. Overwhelming response: Rajewal “It is a near total bandh in Punjab. The response is overwhelming. We are thankful to social organisations and farmer groups who have come out in support. Lawyers and bar associations are also supporting us,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, the president of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), a constituent of the SKM. He appealed to protesters to remain peaceful. Rajewal, who is sitting on protest at the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway near Delhi, said that other than the north-eastern states, there are reports of support to the bandh from the country. Consensus eludes Centre, farmers Seeking withdrawal of the laws, farmer unions have been protesting since September last year and on November 26, they moved to the Tikri and Singhu borders of the national capital to build pressure on the Centre. Subsequently, 32 farmer outfits formed the SKM that is now driving the protest. Several rounds of talks between Union ministers and the SKM have failed to reach a consensus over the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-blockades-at-500-sites-bring-life-to-halt-in-punjab-101632733125358.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Bharat Bandh: No impact in Mumbai, extra force not deployed, say police||The Mumbai Police said that Monday's Bharat Bandh showed no significant impact in the city, with shops, commercial establishments and local transport operating as usual. The police also said that they did not deploy an extra security force at key junctions and roads.The 10-hour Bharat Bandh has been called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of 40 farmer unions, to mark the first anniversary of the passage of three farm laws by Parliament. The farmers have been protesting near national capital Delhi since November last year, demanding that the three laws be scrapped.They have tried to intensify the agitation by undertaking different exercises, like Republic Day rally etc. Bharat Bandh is the latest attempt by the protesters to push their demand of the withdrawal of the three central laws.A few Congress workers, holding placards, assembled at some places like Andheri and Jogeshwari and shouted slogans against the farm bills, but other than that there was no impact of the bandh in the city so far, news agency PTI reported quoting a Mumbai Police official."Till now, no extra force has been been deployed, but it may be placed as per local requirement," the official said.The Centre and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. But the impasse is still continuing with the farmers refusing to end their protest.The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 - came into existence as laws after President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent on September 27 last year.Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP (minimum support price) procurement systems and leave cultivators at the mercy of big corporates. The government, however, has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bharat-bandh-no-impact-in-mumbai-extra-force-not-deployed-say-police-101632731816169.html
27-09-2021||Gurugram||Bharat Bandh: Barricading eased, traffic normal at Gurugram border, say police||The Delhi Police on Monday afternoon said that situation at Gurugram border is normal as the barricades they put to check inflow of traffic during Bharat Bandh have been removed.Track Live Updates Here"In view of Bharath Bandh, we barricaded the Rajokri border (Delhi-Gurugram) which resulted in a traffic jam at this section. Now, the situation is normal and traffic is smooth as we loosened the barricades," news agency ANI quoted DCP South West Ingit Pratap Singh as saying.The touch security measures put in place resulted in long queues of vehicles which were headed towards Delhi. The vehicles were being checked by the officials of Delhi Police as well as jawans of the paramilitary forces.Traffic jams were reported from Ghazipur border too as the Delhi Traffic Police closed both carriageways of the highway connecting the two states. The Delhi Noida Direct (DND) flyway also witnessed massive traffic congestion.Traffic movement was also closed on the Dhansa Border for both carriageways.Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a coalition of farmers' unions, has called for a nationwide Bharat Bandh today to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws. The bandh, which started at 6am, will continue till 4pm.The protesters claimed that bandh has received support from more than 500 farmer organizations and 15 trade unions. Some political parties and people from various sections of the society are also supporting the pan-India shutdown.Farmers have been protesting at different sites since November 26 last year against the three enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmer leaders and the Centre have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bharat-bandh-barricading-eased-traffic-normal-at-gurugram-border-say-police-101632727028709.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Chandigarh-Delhi Shatabdi among 19 trains cancelled in Ambala division||In view of the rail blockade following the Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Union against the farm laws on Monday, Northern Railway cancelled 19 trains in Ambala railway division. The railways decided to partially cancel 15 other trains waiting at different locations under the division. Also read: Bharat Bandh: Farmers block Delhi-Chandigarh highway, rail tracks in HaryanaAccording to official communications, the trains include the Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi (02046), Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi (02006) that was short terminated at Chandigarh station and Una Himachal-New Delhi (02058) that was short terminated at Morinda in Punjab. Change in plan on blockade in Ambala Farmers in Ambala decided not to block the track at Shahapur level crossing on Monday. Gulab Singh, the district vice-president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), had on Sunday said that the Delhi-Ambala rail line would be blocked between Kurukshetra and Ambala cantonment. Sukhwinder Singh, the Ambala City block president of the union, however, clarified: “It was decided that we won’t block the tracks in Ambala as activists have already done that in south Haryana and Punjab. Blocking the same track at another location is waste. Rather, we will focus on the highway blockade at Shambhu toll plaza and ensure the closure of markets.” Chaos at Ambala-Patiala border Chaos prevailed at the Ambala-Patiala toll barrier on Monday morning as commuters tried to cross the barrier on national highway number 44, where the farmers are protesting. Only vehicles on emergency duty, those going to airports or students taking exams were allowed. RAF deployed at protest sites Tight security arrangements were in place in different districts, including Ambala. Companies of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) were also deployed at the local protest site. Farmers were seen urging shopkeepers to close their shops in a show of solidarity. Protesters gathered at New Grain Market on Hisar road in Ambala and headed for different markets to ensure a shutdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-chandigarh-delhi-shatabdi-among-19-trains-cancelled-in-ambala-division-101632727185192.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||ED questions SP leader Azam Khan in money laundering case||Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering case at Sitapur Jail in Uttar Pradesh where he is lodged, said ED officials.The SP leader was grilled by ED officials after the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court authorised ED to question him.On September 20, ED officials said the investigating agency received permission from the court to question UP leaders Azam Khan and Mukhtar Ansari, Atiq Ahmad in connection with an alleged money laundering case.All three politicians are currently lodged in different jails in Uttar Pradesh.Azam Khan is currently lodged in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur jail and is facing trial in several cases. Ansari is lodged in the Banda district jail while Atiq is in Sabarmati jail in Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ed-questions-sp-leader-azam-khan-in-money-laundering-case-101632724839322.html
27-09-2021||Other||Bharat Bandh: Life at standstill in Punjab’s Bathinda, Faridkot and Moga districts||Normal life was hit in south Punjab as traffic on highways and rail tracks was blocked on Monday morning in response to the Bharat Bandh call the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to protest the Centre’s three farm laws. Members of state government employee unions joined the protesters in Bathinda, Mansa and Fazilka districts to express solidarity against the farm laws. Also watch: Bharat Bandh: Farmers block rail tracks, roads in Punjab’s Barnala districtThe protesters blocked the key Bhai Ghanaiyya Chowk, a national highway junction connecting Bathinda with Patiala, Chandigarh, Ferozepur, Amritsar and Jalandhar besides places in Rajasthan since 6am. Long queues of trucks transporting goods were spotted around the chowk. Activists of the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) blocked traffic at 15 places in Bathinda district. In Faridkot, protesters blocked traffic on the Bathinda-Amritsar national highway number 54 at Tehna village. In Moga, a large number of farmers assembled at 23 spots and ensured all markets were shut. Milk supply suspended for the day The supply of milk, fruit and vegetables was hit by the daylong protest. Milk unions in different districts have already announced that they are suspending supply on Monday. Farmers disrupted rail services by squatting on tracks as a mark of protest. District administrations in south Malwa have deployed a large number of police personnel to handle any untoward incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bharat-bandh-life-at-standstill-in-punjab-s-bathinda-faridkot-and-moga-districts-101632724724498.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi stops to wish newly-married couple in Bathinda. Watch||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday stopped to wish a newly-married couple in a small village in the state’s Bathinda district. “During his visit to Bathinda today, Chief Minister @CHARANJITCHANNI spotted a newly married couple at village Mandi Kalan and suddenly stopped his vehicle to convey his best wishes,” the Punjab government tweeted and posted a video of Channi meeting the couple.The 26-second clip shows the chief minister, who was on a tour of the cotton belt in the Bathinda district, hugging the man and also giving 'shagun' to his wife. Channi, who is seen surrounded by several police personnel and other people, is also seen tasting some sweets offered to him by the family. Channi is heard asking when did the couple get married to which a woman from the family replies that the wedding took place on Saturday. The Punjab CM is also seen conveying his best wishes to the newly-wed with folded hands.During his visit to Bathinda today, Chief Minister @CHARANJITCHANNI spotted a newly married couple at village Mandi Kalan and suddenly stopped his vehicle to convey his best wishes. pic.twitter.com/kws6XBAZGfAlso read | Charanjit Channi-led new Punjab cabinet bears Rahul Gandhi’s stampLast week, Channi was spotted performing Punjab's folk dance, bhangra, with university students at an event in Kapurthala. Wearing a white kurta-pyjama and a yellow turban, Channi danced along with students of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University. The video of Channi dancing to the song, "Nachde Punjabi Kinne Sohne Lagde" later went viral on social media. After the performance, the chief minister hugged the students, who touched his feet.Also read | New Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi breaks into a 'bhangra'Channi was visiting Katar Singhwala and Nabispura villages, located on Bathinda’s outskirts, along with deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to meet farmers and assess the loss because of pink bollworm pest. He assured the farmers that the state government will provide pesticides to them for free to control an outbreak of pink bollworm in the cotton-growing belt of Punjab.Also read | Bollworm attack: Punjab CM orders free supply of pesticides to farmersLater in the day, Channi also expanded his cabinet and inducted 15 ministers amid an outpouring of dissent against some of those selected for ministerial berths. Channi inducted six new ministers in his cabinet and retained eight from the Captain Amarinder Singh-led setup. He also brought back former minister Rana Gurjit Singh, whose inclusion triggered protests by some party leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-stops-to-wish-newly-married-couple-in-bathinda-village-watch-101632723052294.html
27-09-2021||Noida||Bharat Bandh: Key UP-Delhi road closed, traffic crawls on DND and Chilla routes||The closure of a key border stretch connecting Delhi with Uttar Pradesh due to Bharat Bandh led to increased traffic flow on other roads connecting the two states on Monday morning.Track Live Updates HereA traffic police official in Noida told news agency PTI that traffic movement on Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) and Chilla roads has slowed down as the national highway that connects neighbouring Ghaziabad and Nizamuddin in Delhi has been closed. “Routes between Noida and Delhi via Chilla and DND flyway are open. But there was an increased traffic on these routes during the peak office hours. The traffic movement had slowed down a bit because of the pressure,” the official said.Also Read: Gurugram border choked due to Bharat BandhThe expressways, including the Yamuna Expressway, which connect Greater Noida to the interior districts of Uttar Pradesh like Mathura, Agra, Aligarh, Lucknow, are open and traffic is moving without any hindrance, the official added. But, due to increased pressure on other roads, the vehicle movement is affected as soon as people exit the expressway and head towards Delhi.The Noida traffic police has cautioned commuters against taking the routes passing through Ghazipur in adjoining Ghaziabad for travelling to or from Delhi.Also Read: Auto, taxis operate normally in DelhiAt the UP Gate, which is also the protest site of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) since November last year, police have put up barricades on the highway to check vehicles.“Nobody is allowed to travel from this route between Delhi and Ghaziabad due to the Bharat Bandh call,” Superintendent of police (second) Gyanendra Singh said.Apart from UP Gate at Ghazipur border, all three borders between Delhi and Ghaziabad - Anand Vihar, Dilshad Garden-Apsara Cinema, and Tulsi Niketan - are open, the SP said.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmers' unions leading the 10-month-old agitation for withdrawal of three contentious farm laws, has called for the Bharat Bandh on Monday.The Bandh began at 6am and will continue till 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bharat-bandh-key-up-delhi-road-closed-traffic-crawls-on-dnd-and-chilla-routes-101632723160429.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Auto, taxis operate normally in Delhi; shops open||Autorickshaws and taxis plied normally and shops were open in the national capital on Monday, with their unions and associations extending only "in-principle support" to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers but deciding not to join the strike.The auto, taxi unions and traders bodies said their livelihood has already been hit hard due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown so they were not joining any strike.The Bandh has been called by farmers against the Centre's three agri laws."Previously also we had supported Bharat Bandh by the farmers but continued to ply our autos and taxis. This time also we are in support of genuine farmers but not on strike because our members are in deep distress due to shrinking earnings in pandemic times," said Rajender Soni, general secretary of the Delhi Auto Taxi Union.The Sarvoday Driver Association of Delhi, representing many drivers of cab aggregator platforms, also supported the farmers but did not join the strike."We are in support of the farmers but our work was affected due to the pandemic and we cannot afford to go in their support by striking," said Kamaljeet Gill, president of the Association.Other auto and taxi unions expressed the same sentiment."We fully support the farmers. But in view of the financial crisis faced by us due to Covid, we are extending our moral and in-principle support to them and their demand while working normally," said Anuj Rathor, secretary of the Rashtriya Rajdhani Kshetra Auto Drivers Association.Markets and shops in the city were open as farmers have not contacted our associations for any strike, said Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industry(CTI)."Also, the festival season is approaching and its time for traders to recover some of the losses they faced due to the pandemic and lockdown. Although we support the farmers and urge the government to meet their demand," he said.The traders support farmers and their demands but they were not in a position to close down shops because they were already in trouble due to the adverse impact of the pandemic on their trade and businesses, he added.The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26.The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year.Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-auto-taxis-operate-normally-in-delhi-shops-open-101632721924349.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block Delhi-Chandigarh highway, rail tracks in Haryana||Daily commuters and commercial vehicles were the worst hit as most highways and rail tracks in northern Haryana were blocked from 6am to 4pm on Monday in response to the Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to protest one year of the implementation of the Centre’s three farm laws. Also read: Bharat Bandh LIVE: Train ops affected in Delhi, Ambala, Firozpur divisionsFarmers blocked the Delhi-Ambala-Chandigarh highway, Chandigarh-Kaithal-Jind-Hisar highway, Panipat-Rohtak highway, Kurukshetra-Kaithal highway, Kurukshetra-Yamunangar highway, Karnal-Jind highway and Karnal-Yamunanagar highway. Protesters allowed the movement of vehicles on emergency duty such as ambulances. Markets, factories wear deserted look Markets, educational institutions, private business establishments, grain markets and factories wore a deserted look, while attendance in government offices was thin. Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said that most market associations have assured the farmers of their support. “A team of farmers will keep visiting markets and request them to shut shop during the bandh duration,” Bains said. Asked about people stuck in traffic jams, he said: “Farmers had announced the blockade in advance and commuters should have avoided travelling on Monday. But farmers will make arrangements of food and water for them.” Security up in markets to avoid faceoff Police have been deployed in markets to avoid any confrontation between farmers and shopkeepers if the farmers forcibly try to shut shops. The movement of traffic was seen in cities in the morning, but farmers took out protest marches and urged traders to shut shops till 4pm. Farmers blocked rail tracks at Yamunanagar and trains coming from Ambala were stopped. The trains were parked on the Delhi-Ambala tracks at different locations.Sanju Gundiana, the district president of BKU (Charuni), said that two freight trains were unable to cross after they began the protest. “Train drivers and police tried to force us to vacate the track, but we said no passage would be allowed till 4pm,” he said. With inputs from Bhavey Nagpal in Ambala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-delhi-chandigarh-highway-rail-tracks-in-haryana-101632722144012.html
27-09-2021||Gurugram||Bharat Bandh impact: Gurugram border choked, traffic stopped at other points too||The 10-hour Bharat Bandh called by farmers protesting against the Centre's farm laws has led to massive traffic jam on the Delhi-Gurugram border. The farmers have given the call for pan-India shutdown to mark the one year of the passage of farm laws.Track Live Updates HereThe traffic jam at Gurugram border is due to the barricades put up by the Delhi Police and ongoing intensive checking of the vehicles entering the national capital.Watch: Farmers’ Bharat Bandh begins; roads, rail tracks blockedMonday being a working day, long queues of vehicles are seen at the border areas. The Delhi Police has strengthened security at the border area and deployed hundreds of additional policemen for Bharat Bandh.The Delhi Traffic Police is constantly giving updates about the diversions put in place to allow inter-state movement of vehicles. The Traffic Police said on Monday morning that vehicular movement has been closed from Uttar Pradesh towards Ghazipur.Not just border area, Delhi-Amritsar national highway has been blocked at Shahabad in Haryana's Kurukshetra. National highway-44 in Haryana has also been blocked.While farmers are protesting at one border point in Uttar Pradesh - at Ghazipur - Haryana has two such protest sites - at Singhu and Tikri.The bandh has been organised by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions. It started at 6am and is scheduled to end at 4pm.Rakesh Tikait,the spokesperson of one of the participating farmer body Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), has urged people to come out of their houses after lunchtime and appealed to the shopkeepers to open their shops after 4pm.The farmers have claimed that all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments as well as public events and functions are closed throughout the country.They, however, added that all emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies won't be stopped.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bharat-bandh-impact-gurugram-border-choked-traffic-stopped-at-other-points-too-101632721188682.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||‘UP govt trying to mobilise votes on basis of caste’: Mayawati on cabinet expansion||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Uttar Pradesh over the induction of new ministers in the cabinet ahead of the assembly elections in the state next year. Taking to Twitter, Mayawati said that the state government is trying to woo voters on the basis of caste by bringing new ministers into the cabinet. "Whoever has been made a minister by BJP yesterday to mobilise votes on the basis of caste in UP, it would have been better if they did not accept it. Because by the time they will understand their respective ministry and want to do something, the code of conduct for election will be implemented here," Mayawati's tweet, roughly translated in Hindi read.Also Read| Ahead of polls, UP adds 7 new ministers to cabinetChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday inducted seven new ministers in his council, including former Congress leader Jitin Prasada, who jumped ship to the BJP in June this year. Paltu Ram, Chhatrapal Singh Gangwar, Sangeeta Balwant, Dharamveer Singh, Sanjeev Kumar and Dinesh Khatik were also inducted in the UP cabinet.2. जबकि इनके समाज के विकास व उत्थान के लिए अभी तक वर्तमान भाजपा सरकार ने कोई भी ठोस कदम नहीं उठाये हैं बल्कि इनके हितों में बीएसपी की रही सरकार ने जो भी कार्य शुरू किये थे, उन्हें भी अधिकांश बन्द कर दिया गया है। इनके इस दोहरे चाल-चरित्र से इन वर्गाें को सावधान रहने की सलाह।With the inclusion of new ministers, the constitutional limit of having a maximum of 60 ministers in the state has been reached. This is the second-ever expansion of the council of ministers in Uttar Pradesh after 2019.Advising voters to be wary of the Yogi Adityanath government's double character, Mayawati also said that the UP chief minister has not taken any steps for the development and upliftment of society, adding, most of the works started by the BSP in this regard have been stopped by the government.Also Read| UP Cabinet: Ex-Congress leader Jitin Prasada now a minister of Yogi govtAmong the seven new ministers, only Jitin Prasada belongs to the Brahmin community. Experts have said that Prasada's inclusion as the latest Brahmin minister in the cabinet is a part of the BJP's attempts to woo the community in the state. The current cabinet has several Brahmin leaders including the likes of deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, Shrikant Sharma, Ram Naresh Agnihotri, Satish Chandra among others.MoS Sanjeev Kumar is the only Scheduled Tribe (ST) MLA in Uttar Pradesh who represents the Obra assembly constituency from the Sonbhadra district. Chhatrapal Singh Gangwar (Kurmi), Sangeeta Balwant (Bind) and Dharamveer Singh (Prajapati) are from backward castes. Ministers Paltu Ram and Dinesh Khatik belong to the Scheduled Castes (SCs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/a-day-after-up-cabinet-expansion-mayawati-s-caste-jibe-at-yogi-govt-101632716335683.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Traffic movement towards Delhi severely hit. Check list of affected routes here||With the 10-hour-long Bharat Bandh, which began at 6am on Monday, currently underway, the Delhi Traffic Police has put out on its Twitter account a list of routes within and leading to the national capital on which traffic movement has been disrupted. Farmers protesting against the three central agricultural laws are observing this pan-India blockade today to mark the first anniversary of the passage of these laws.Follow all live updates on Bharat Bandh hereHere's a list of affected routes and alternate roads, as shared by the traffic police:(1.) Delhi-Uttar Pradesh Ghazipur border closed due to farmers' protest at National Highways 9 and 24. Commuters who intend to commute to and from Uttar Pradesh can use DND, Vikas Marg, Signature Bridge and Wazirabad Road. Also Read | Bharat Bandh: Traffic movement towards Delhi from UP, Punjab affected(2.) Vehicles going coming from Sarai Kale Khan can use DND for entering Noida and Vikas Marg to reach Noida.(2.) Traffic from NHs 9 and 24 diverted on Road number 56 towards Maharajpur border, Apsara and Bhopura borders for Uttar Pradesh.
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block rail tracks, roads in Punjab's Barnala district||The Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) from 6am to 4pm to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws by the Narendra Modi-led BJP government evoked a total response in Barnala district of Punjab on Monday.Also read: Bharat Bandh: Traffic movement from UP towards Ghazipur border stoppedProtesters blocked the rail track in Barnala since 6am besides the roads leading to the town, while the markets were closed. Balwant Singh Uppli, the press secretary of Bharti Kisan Union, Dakaunda, said: “We have blocked 10 roads in the district. We are opposing the black laws.”Can continue fight for 10 years: TikaitAddressing a kisan mahapanchayat in Panipat on Sunday, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said that farmers can continue their fight for 10 years or until the government repeals the three laws.Issuing a traffic advisory, a Haryana Police spokesperson said: “The national and state highways in the state may see traffic disruptions for several hours. Citizens are advised to plan and modify their journey accordingly to avoid any inconvenience.”Elaborate arrangements have been put in place by the civil and police administration to prevent violence and ensure order to facilitate the functioning of traffic and public transport systems across the state.Traders, students, lawyers back bandh callTraders, student unions and lawyers have extended support to the nationwide shutdown call. Trader unions across Punjab will shut their establishments to support farmers, who have laid siege to Delhi borders for the past 10 months. The Punjab Arhtiyas Association has directed commission agents across the state to shut their businesses for a day.The student unions in Punjabi University, Patiala, have also come in support of farmers and have decided to shut the campus and its affiliated colleges. Similarly, Bar associations of district courts and other judicial complexes will suspend work on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-rail-tracks-roads-in-punjab-101632711463267.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Traffic movement towards Delhi from UP, Punjab affected||Traffic movement towards Delhi from Uttar Pradesh and Punjab was severely affected on Monday as farmers, protesting against the three central agricultural laws, blocked key routes towards the national capital as part of Bharat Bandh that commenced at 6am today.Also Read | Bharat Bandh today to mark a year of farm laws, police step up security“Traffic alert! Traffic movement has been closed from UP towards Ghazipur due to protest,” the Delhi Traffic Police informed in an early morning tweet. Traffic AlertTraffic movement has been closed from UP towards Ghazipur due to protest.Ghazipur border is among three places in Delhi where farmers have camped since November last year in protest against the agricultural laws. The city's borders with Haryana at Singhu and Tikri are the other two protest sites.
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Spotlight on poorly parked vehicles in Ludhiana after repeated mishaps||With poorly parked vehicles claiming multiple lives in the city, the Ludhiana police on Saturday came down heavily on negligent drivers and registered five FIRs. While three cases were lodged in the Focal Point area against drivers who had parked their vehicles on the roadside to answer a phone call, a trucker was booked at Balmiki Ghati Mohalla for blocking the road and a pick-up auto driver in Basti Jodhewal for not parking properly. The cases were registered under Sections 283 (obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused.Those booked include Srikant Kumar of Transport Nagar, Ashok Yadav of Jivan Nagar,Kulwinder Singh of Latala village, and truck driver Balwinder Singh of Jind and pick-up auto driver Deepak of New Puneet Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/spotlight-on-poorly-parked-vehicles-in-ludhiana-after-repeated-mishaps-101632692262638.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sarpanch’s husband assaulted over gas cylinder forms in Ludhiana||twelve people assaulted the husband of a sarpanch at Humayunpura village following a verbal spat over filling forms to avail a gas cylinder on Saturday. Three of the accused’s sons and eight accomplices are on the run. As per the complainant Kuldeep Singh, 56, whose wife Charanjit Kaur is the sarpanch, the accused trespassed on his property and also stole ₹35,000 cash after vandalising his office.The complainant said, “We were filling forms for getting cylinders for blue card holders, when the accused, who already has a gas cylinder, forced me to fill his form also. When I objected, the accused called his three sons and accomplices and thrashed me. Later, they barged into his office and stole the cash.A case has been registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code and a hunt is on for the arrest of the rest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sarpanchs-husband-assaulted-over-gas-cylinder-forms-in-ludhiana-101632692021463.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||100ft Ravana effigy being prepared for mega Dussehra carnival at Ludhiana||With the pandemic stealing colour from Dussehra celebrations last year, this time residents are planning to go all out to make the carnival a memorable one, with a 100-ft Ravana effigy being the showstopper at the Daresi fete — one of the oldest and biggest fairs in the region. This year, the Dussehra festival, which commemorates the defeat of the demon king Ravana and symbolises the triumph of goodness, falls on October 15 and preparations for the same are already in the works. Artisans have started preparing effigies of Ravana, Meghnath, Kumbhakaran and Khar-Dushan and swings are being installed on the ground after the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ Sunday. Ramlila artistes have also started rehearsal. The dramatic folk re-enactment of the life of Lord Rama will be staged from October 7 and the traditional ‘Singhasan Yatra’ will also be carried out through different parts of the Old City areas. Happy to be over slump: Effigy makers Agra-based effigy maker Asgar Ali, who has been in the business for 15 years are glad that the Covid-induced slump is over. “Last year, we struggled to meet the cost of the few orders we got. Every year, we get around 15 orders from Ludhiana, but the number reduced last year as did the requested height. This year, people are holding mega celebrations across the city so I have had to hire more workmen.” Covid norms will be followed: CommitteeShri Ram Lila Committee members Dinesh Marwaha and Kamal Bassi said the Daresi fair is being held for over a century. “Last year, the celebrations remained low-key due to the pandemic and only a 30-feet effigy was burnt to continue with the tradition of Ravan Dehan in presence of a limited gathering. However, a mega fair will be held this year. All Covid norms will be followed,” said Bassi. “This time the celebrations will last 10 days instead of 20 as the pandemic is not over. A 100ft Ravana is being prepared for the first time, we have never gone above 95ft before,” said Marwaha, adding that the celebrations were being held after consulting the administration as Covid cases are at an all-time low. Preparations are also underway at Upkar Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, and Dugri among other areas. Upkar Nagar Dussehra committee president Channi Gill they were still awaiting permission from the administration. “Ravana Dehan will be performed, but the gathering limits will be fixed as per the directions received from the administration,” he said. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said a 50% gathering is allowed in open places as per government guidelines. As of now, no specific directions have been received from the state government regarding Dussehra and celebrations will be allowed as per the state government’s directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/100ft-ravana-effigy-being-prepared-for-mega-dussehra-carnival-at-ludhiana-101632691604394.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Police deployment to increase to tackle traffic snarls||With farmer unions calling for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ in protest of the three farm laws, traffic snarls can be expected across the city on Monday. All major chowks and national highways in and around the city will remain blocked from 6am to 4pm to commemorate the anniversary of the passage of the farm bills. In Ludhiana (urban), protests are expected to erupt at the Laddowal Toll Plaza, near Dhandai Bridge, Jalandhar Bypass, Kohara Chowk, Ferozepur Road near MBD Mall, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Samrala Chowk, Hambran, Dehlon Main Chowk among other points, while in Ludhiana (rural) commuters will do well to avoid Hari Singh Nalwa Chowk in Raikot, Barnala Chowk in Raikot, Ludhiana- Moga GT Road near Jagraon, Kishanpur Chowk in the Sidhwan bet, the toll plaza near Hissowal village, Jodhan Market, and the toll plaza near Gureh village in Dakha.The farmer unions have also appealed market associations, and petrol pump owners to extend support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call and keep the units closed.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Kadian) president Harmeet Kadian said,”We do not want to harass the public but we are forced to raise agitations as the government is not repealing the farm laws, which will destroy the farming sector. We appeal all the sectors except the medical and health sector, to keep their units shut in support of the farmers.” Transporters back farmers Different transporters’ unions have also extended support to the farmers and as such trucks will remain off the road during the ‘Bharat Bandh’ protest.Ludhiana Goods Transport Association press secretary Jagdish Jassowal said trucks across the state will remain off the road, our offices will remain closed and goods will neither be loaded or unloaded. No change in railway schedule Despite farmers planning to block rail tracks in different parts of the state, railway authorities said no trains had been cancelled or diverted.Public relations inspector, Firozpur Division, Vikrant Kumar, said, “ Trains will ply on different routes as per routine. Appropriate action will be taken according to the situation on Monday,” said Kumar1,500 police personnel to be deployed Joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchezhian said traffic plans had been chalked out keeping in mind the protest sites .” Around 1,500 police personnel, and senior officials will also remain on the field and regular patrolling will be conducted in the market areas to maintain law and order.”Markets to remain shutA few main markets of the city including the Model Town market and the Sarabha Nagar market are also expected to remain shut during the protest. Model Town market president Amarjit Singh said,”We have appealed to shopkeepers to keep the markets shut during the protest to avoid any law and order situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-police-deployment-to-increase-to-tackle-traffic-snarls-across-ludhiana-101632690161315.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Charanjit Channi-led new Punjab cabinet bears Rahul Gandhi’s stamp||When the Congress high command effected a change of guard to give Punjab its first Scheduled Caste chief minister in Charanjit Singh Channi, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s stamp was unmistakable. The cabinet expansion undertaken by the new chief minister is no different. Rahul’s signature is instantly recognisable in the induction of the six new faces into the council of ministers even though it comes with just six months to go for the state elections. The induction of Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Randeep Singh Nabha, Pargat Singh and Raj Kumar Verka in Channi’s team with Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state Congress president is being seen as a move towards generational shift in the party - the former Congress chief’s favourite mantra. The names of the six new entrants – four of whom have direct access to Rahul – after Channi’s flying visits to Delhi for back-to-back meetings with the former Congress chief, general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other central leaders. All of them, except Gilzian, are below 60 and their entry is expected to bring fresh energy into the party left divided by a bitter tussle between Capt Amarinder and Sidhu. “He (Rahul) likes to make his moves and backed Sunil Jakhar for the chief minister’s post. When his bold move faced opposition from a section of the party, he pushed Channi. The induction is his way of bringing change,” says a Rahul admirer. However, several party leaders also see Sidhu’s hand behind these changes as he was pushing four of the six fresh inductees were critics of his bête noire Capt Amarinder Singh. Besides Pargat who is his close confidant, Warring, Gilzian and Kotli had sided with him. “Sidhu has had his say, but not much as he would have liked. The high command has done some tightrope walking and retained several ministers who were close to Amarinder in an attempt to keep its flock together,” said a senior party leader who did not want to be named. The caste and regional were other factors at play in the induction of new ministers. Of the six fresh faces, four – Warring, Nabha, Pargat and Kotli are Jat Sikhs whereas Verka is a Valmiki and Gilzian is from the other backward classes (OBCs). There was no OBC minister in the Amarinder Singh cabinet and Gilzian’s induction has filled the gap. The new cabinet has 9 ministers are from Malwa, six from Majha and three from Doaba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charanjit-channi-led-new-punjab-cabinet-bears-rahul-gandhi-s-stamp-101632690101408.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||The six new faces in Punjab cabinet and the comeback man||SANGAT SINGH GILZIAN (68) Constituency: UrmarThe three-time legislator from the Urmar assembly segment in the Doaba region has had quite a long political journey, rising from a sarpanch to minister. Gilzian, who belongs to the Lubana community, was the first to publicly oppose then chief minister Capt Amarinder by quitting all party posts over lack of representation to other backward classes (OBCs) in the sate cabinet and remained one of his most vocal critics throughout. Gilzian was appointed Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) working president two months ago. He had met Rahul and requested for his induction in the cabinet. PARGAT SINGH (57) Constituency: Jalandhar CanttThe two-time MLA from Jalandhar Cantt and former India hockey captain is general secretary (organisation) of the Punjab Congress. A confidant of former cricketer and state party president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Pargat kept attacking the erstwhile chief minister Amarinder Singh over alleged gaps in governance. Pargat was director, sports, when he was persuaded by Akalis to take the political plunge. He won the election on Shiromani Akali Dal ticket but joined the Congress before the 2017 assembly elections. The biggest strength of Pargat, seen as the “voice of reason” in Sidhu’s team, is his levelheadedness. RANA GURJIT SINGH (69) Constituency: Kapurthala The businessman-turned-politician represents the Kapurthala assembly segment. The three-time MLA was power and irrigation minister in the Amarinder Singh-led government for 10 months but was forced to resign after his name figured in a sand mine auction controversy. Rana was considered close to former chief minister Amarinder Singh and has had access to several central leaders of the Congress all along. He was the richest candidate in the 2017 state assembly elections. The Kapurthala MLA has also represented the Jalandhar Lok Sabha constituency from 2004 to 2009.AMRINDER SINGH RAJA WARRING (43) Constituency: Gidderbaha Known for being vocal on different issues, the two-time MLA was initially handpicked by senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Warring, who has remained national president of the Youth Congress, won for two consecutive terms in 2012 and 2017 from Gidderbaha, earlier an Akali stronghold that was represented by former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal for five terms and Manpreet Singh Badal four times. In 2012, he defeated Manpreet, then a Peoples Party of Punjab (PPP) candidate. Warring unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Bathinda against Harsimrat Kaur Badal. He has questioned Manpreet’s functioning as finance minister and is considered close to state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. RAJ KUMAR VERKA (58) Constituency: Amritsar West (reserved)The three-time MLA has been representing the Amritsar West (reserved) constituency since 2012. Verka, who was a strong contender for a ministerial berth when the Congress led by Capt Amarinder Singh came to power in 2017, was made chairman of the Punjab State Warehousing Corporation in 2019 with a cabinet rank. Also, he remained vice-chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes from 2010 to 2016. He started his political career in 2002 when he won from the Verka assembly constituency. He, however, lost in the 2007 assembly polls and shifted to the Amritsar West segment in 2012. GURKIRAT SINGH KOTLI (47) Constituency: KhannaHailing from a staunch Congress family, Gurkirat Singh Kotli is grandson of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh. His father Tej Parkash Singh remained transport minister in the Congress government in the state from 2002 to 2007. Kotli is two-time MLA from the Khanna constituency and heads the Vidhan Sabha’s petitions committee. A loyalist of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Kotli shifted towards Navjot Singh Sidhu when the high command appointed the latter as the state Congress president. In 2019, he opposed the Centre’s move to commute death sentence of his grandfather’s assassin Balwant Singh Rajoana. RANDEEP SINGH NABHA (54) Constituency: Amloh Nabha, who has been a legislator for four consecutive terms, represents the Amloh constituency since 2012. He won from the Nabha constituency, where he hails from, in 2002 and 2007. He shifted to the Amloh segment after Nabha was declared a reserved seat due to delimitation. Son of former revenue minister Gurdarshan Singh, Randeep is a keen golfer and was in race for cabinet berth since the Congress formed government in 2017. Even as he has had good terms with Lok Sabha MP and former Union minister Preneet Kaur, Randeep could not get into the good books of former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/the-six-new-faces-in-punjab-cabinet-and-the-comeback-man-101632689621453.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Congress govt in Punjab delivered on most poll promises: Deputy CM Soni||Newly appointed Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni on Sunday said the Congress government in the state has delivered on most of the promises made in the run-up to the 2017 assembly elections. Addressing traders in Amritsar, Soni, who held the medical education and research portfolio in the erstwhile Captain Amarinder Singh cabinet, said, “We will deliver on the remaining promises in the coming months. We will form government in 2022 again and work for the welfare of the people of Punjab.” Now, the industrialists and traders don’t need to stage protests as the government will fix their problems within stipulated time, he added. The Amritsar Distributors’ Association apprised the deputy CM of various problems the traders were facing. On this, Soni said, “All kind of facilities will be provided to the traders under one roof and they don’t need to make rounds of government offices.” The last one-and-a-half years, he said, have been challenging for all sections of society, but the state government extended all possible help to people during this period. “The role of the industrialists and traders has been praiseworthy as they helped people when needed. Also, they make a major contribution to the taxes collected by the government which is duty-bound not to let them face any problem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-govt-in-punjab-delivered-on-most-poll-promises-deputy-cm-soni-101632689503568.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||6 Punjab Congress MLAs oppose tainted MLA Rana Gurjit Singh’s comeback as minister||Hours before the swearing-in of the new Punjab cabinet, six MLAs from Doaba on Sunday shot off a letter to state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, demanding that Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh be dropped from the list of ministers over his alleged involvement in corruption. A copy of the letter was also marked to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, it is learnt. The ruling party legislators said the cabinet berth instead should be given to a Dalit leader from the region. The party, however, went ahead with Rana Gurjit’s swearing-in as minister. The six MLAs are Navtej Singh Cheema (Sultanpur Lodhi), Sukhpal Singh Khaira (Bholath), Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal (Phagwara), Bawa Henry (Jalandhar North) and Pawan Adiya (Sham Chaurasi). Though they claimed that former Punjab Congress unit chief Mohinder Singh Kaypee was also part of the dissenting group, the latter said he had not signed the letter. An MLA, who didn’t wish to be named, said the group also met Sidhu over the issue in Patiala on Sunday afternoon.In 2018, Rana Gurjit, who then held power and irrigation portfolios in the Amarinder Singh cabinet, was dropped as minister amid a controversy over sand mining auction. In the letter, the MLAs said he was dropped due to a mining scandal involving him, his family and his companies. “The Punjab government had forfeited ₹25 crore deposited by his front company Rajbir Enterprises for the auction of 3 sand-mining sites in Punjab. The Justice Narang commission brought out a startling fact that Rajbir Enterprises had received ₹5 crore gratification for the said mining auction from Gurinder Singh, who was charged by the vigilance bureau in an alleged irrigation scam,” the letter read. “It is amusing that the three ministers proposed to be included in the cabinet from Doaba were Jat Sikhs and an OBC (Other Backward Caste) Sikh, whereas there is approximately 38% Dalit population in the belt. We all request you to immediately drop Rana Gurjit’s name and instead include a clean Dalit face in view of the upcoming elections,” the letter concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6-punjab-congress-mlas-oppose-tainted-mla-rana-gurjit-singh-s-comeback-as-minister-101632689381903.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Team Channi: 15 take oath in Punjab cabinet rejig, Rana Gurjit in despite protest||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi inducted 15 ministers on Sunday to expand his cabinet amid an outpouring of dissent against some of those selected for ministerial berths. Channi, who took charge along with two deputies in a sudden change of guard a week ago, inducted six new faces in his cabinet and retained eight, mostly senior ones, from the Capt Amarinder Singh-led setup, besides bringing back former minister Rana Gurjit Singh whose inclusion triggered protests by some party leaders. The new entrants have come in place of five ministers who were embroiled in controversies during the previous administration and have been dropped. The ministers, all in the cabinet rank – were administered the oath of office and secrecy by governor Banwarilal Purohit in the presence of the chief minister and his two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni at a ceremony held at Raj Bhavan here. Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu were also present whereas former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh stayed away. The shake-up, carried out after several rounds of discussions, is being seen as a step towards a generational shift under former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who approved the new team, and Navjot Singh Sidhu with several relatively young legislators making it to the new cabinet sworn in less than five months before the state assembly polls. The new faces inducted into the cabinet include Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli. Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat said this exercise has been done to bring in young faces and strike a social and regional balance. However, there was drama till the eleventh hour and the party high command made a last-minute change among the new faces approved a day earlier after Randeep Singh Nabha, a four-time MLA, lodged a strong protest against his non-inclusion, citing his seniority. The Amloh MLA was added to the list in place of Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra, a two-time MLA from Fatehgarh Sahib. “I have decided not to be part of the cabinet, as I had earlier submitted my resignation on farmer’s issue. I stand with farmers’ agitation,” Kujit Nagra tweeted after his name was dropped.There were also vociferous protests by some party MLAs and other leaders against Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit’s inclusion before the oath-taking ceremony. Six legislators from Doaba, the region to which he belongs, shot off a letter to Sidhu, demanding that he should not be sworn in due to his alleged involvement in corruption. His proposed cabinet slot should go to a Dalit leader from the region instead, the protesting MLAs said, claiming his inclusion would give a wrong message. They also met Sidhu at his Patiala residence. Ferozepur City MLA Parminder Singh Pinky also opposed the induction of those facing allegations and holding posting in the party. However, the Congress leadership went ahead with his induction to complete the new chief minister’s team. In the 18-member state cabinet, 9 ministers are from Malwa, six from Majha and three from Doaba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/team-channi-15-take-oath-in-punjab-cabinet-rejig-rana-gurjit-in-despite-protest-101632687401304.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Five new cases surface in Chandigarh tricity||Five fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the tricity on Sunday, a slight dip from six cases on Saturday.Three people tested positive in Mohali, while one case each was reported from Chandigarh and Panchkula.No fresh casualty was reported, but the Mohali health department added a backlog Covid related fatality to its list. Mohali epidemiologist Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar, nodal officer for Covid-19, said a 55-year-old man from Zirakpur had died in May this year, but it has been reported now.In Chandigarh, a man from Palsora tested positve. In Mohali, two cases were reported from Mohali city, while one surfaced in Dera Bassi. In Panchkula, a 65-year-old woman from Sector 20 tested positive. The active cases in the tricity currently stand at 89, with 41 in Chandigarh, 28 in Mohali and 20 in Panchkula. Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,210, including 64,350 recoveries and 819 deaths. As many as 68,717 people have been found infected in Mohali so far. Among them, 67,625 have recovered and 1,064 have died.In Panchkula, of the 30,730 total cases, 30,333 patients have been cured and 377 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-five-new-cases-surface-in-chandigarh-tricity-101632686622851.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Elderly flour mill owner assaulted, robbed of ₹1.6 lakh in Ludhiana||In a third robbery in as many days, three bike-borne men assaulted an elderly flour-mill owner and decamped with ₹1.6 lakh in Subhash Nagar, Tibba Road, on Saturday night. The 65-year-old victim, Suresh Kumar of Subhash Nagar, was on his way home after finishing up at the flour mill when three bike-borne men blocked his way and attempted to snatch his bag, containing cash from his mill. When he resisted, the men assaulted him with a sharp-edged weapon and fled with the bag. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, east) Davinder Chaudhary said the robbers had been captured in the CCTVs and would be identified soon. Same modus operandi used in four ATM robberiesPolice suspect involvement of the same gang that had struck ATMs at Ludhiana, Khanna and Jagraon, behind the ATM robbery at Bhutta village on Saturday. Several suspects have been rounded up and questioned. In all three incidents a gas cutter was used to cut open the ATMs. The gang is targeting the ATMs which are far from the city and near the main road, as it would help them in flee.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, rural) Sachin Gupta, said that the police are studying the pattern of the robberies and have rounded up some of the suspects and are questioning them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/elderly-flour-mill-owner-assaulted-robbed-of-1-6-lakh-in-ludhiana-101632686621705.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Telephone cables worth ₹1.5 lakh stolen||Telephone cables worth ₹1.5 lakh were reported stolen from the main duct near the Sector 34/44 road in Chandigarh on Saturday. As per police, BSNL had been getting complaints from customers, after which officials visited the spot and found the cables missing. A case of theft has been registered. In April, police had busted a gang after 16 quintals of cables were stolen from Sectors 4 and 10.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSChandigarh MC to focus on rainwater harvesting Under the cental government’s initiative, the municipal corporation will install rainwater harvesting systems at the community centres in Sectors 8 and 118. The finance and contract committee (F&CC) will take up the ₹30 lakh project for approval in its Monday meeting. The system will be set up on the lines of Centre’s theme “catch the rain where it falls and when it falls.” Sidhu inaugurates devp works in MohaliFormer health minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu inaugurated several development works and issued grants worth around ₹18 lakh in different areas of the city on Sunday. Open air gyms have been set up in Joginder Vihar Society in Phase 2, Housefed Society in Phase 10 and another society in Sector 67. The work of premix and paving blocks on roads was also inaugurated by Sidhu in different areas.Mohali Industries body holds conclaveThe Mohali Industries Association in collaboration with the Punjab department of industries and commerce held an exhibition-cum-conclave at the MIA Bhawan in Phase 7, Industrial Area, on Sunday. Additional deputy commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal inaugurated the conclave and visited the stalls at the exhibition and took note of products on display. The ADC said that the district administration will provide all possible help to industries, so that Mohali is promoted as an export hub in Punjab. Talent show, quiz contest mark World Tourism Day  A function was organised at the Allied College of Hospitality Culinary Arts and Management, Mohali, on Sunday to mark World Tourism Day. A quiz competition and talent show were organised. Students showcased the culture of different countries. Polio drive: 66,834 kids immunised in Mohali A total of 66,834 children were immunised on the first day of three-day sub-national immunisation day (SNID) pulse polio vaccination drive in Mohali district on Sunday. The target is to administer drops to 1,58,242 children in the age group of 0-5 years. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said that on the first day, around 42% of the target has been achieved. As many as 1,252 teams, including 1,110 house-to-house teams, were constituted. Shooting: Unish, Babu emerge winnersUnish Holinder scored 555 out of 600 points to secure top position in the men’s 25 metre standard pistol ISSF category during the 46th Chandigarh State Shooting Championship at Patiala-ki-Rao Shooting Ranges in Sector 25. In the men’s 10m pistol ISSF category, Babu Ram scored 575 out of 600 points to emerge champion while Mahit Sandhu was winner in the women’s 50m rifle prone NR category.Cricket: Patiala to face Amritsar in finalsPatiala will lock horns with Amritsar in the finals of the Punjab State Inter-District Cricket Tournament for seniors to be played on October 7 at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali. Playing in the first semi-final at the Dhruv Pandove Cricket Stadium in Patiala, the hosts beat Nawanshahr by eight wickets. In the second semi-final at Gandhi Grounds, Amritsar, the hosts beat Mohali by nine wickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhtelephone-cables-worth-1-5-lakh-stolen-101632686201051.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||GBP row: We are abroad to seek investments, say promoters||Two days after a fresh FIR was registered against Gupta Builders and Promoters (GBP) Group, which is in the thick of controversy for the past one week for not giving possession to 2,500 investors, its promoters have confirmed that they are presently abroad to seek investments and attributed the delay in completing projects to the pandemic.Meanwhile, the firm’s office at Athens, one of its projects on Airport Road in Mohali, was ransacked on Saturday evening. According to police, some people broke into the office and took away air conditioners, almirahs and other material. A few suspects have been rounded up for questioning. In an open letter to the investors, the GBP management stated that due to the pandemic outbreak and countrywide lockdown, they were forced to abandon the projects. “There is a temporary liquidity crunch in the company, mostly due to the onslaught of Covid,” the letter reads.Admitting that they are out of the country to meet probable investors and seek investments, the management stated that the operations will be back on track soon and they are fully committed to fulfil promises made to the investors.The realty firm has several ongoing projects in Mohali. Among them, Camelia, offering both residential and commercial units, in Kharar, and GBP Centrum (commercial) in Zirakpur have been under construction since 2016.At two other projects – Athens (residential and commercial) and Aeroze (residential) – both on the Airport Road, construction has not progressed for years, and at a residential colony in New Chandigarh, where plots have been sold, construction has not even begun.Last week, Global conglomerate SRAM & MRAM Group pulled out its ₹700-crore investment committed to the GBP Group. As a result, nearly ₹1,500 crore, invested by over 2,500 people from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pardesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and several NRIs, are hanging in balance. On September 24, a cheating case was registered against the GBP management at the Zirkapur police station for not giving possession to allottees. Raj Sharma, a former GBP staffer, said even the employees have not paid their salaries for the past eight months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gbp-row-we-are-abroad-to-seek-investments-say-promoters-101632685841044.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to set to shift milch animals out of city limits||In a major relief, the Mohali municipal corporation is all set to shift milch animals out of the city limits, by developing a cattle dairy shed. It will come up on 3.5 acres of MC land at Industrial Area in Phase-8-B. The agenda will be tabled for approval at the General House meeting on September 28. Deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said that this step in being taken as the mayor had promised a stray cattle free city. He added that it has been observed that local dairy owners let their cattle stray out on roads for grazing after milking them, which inconveniences the public. “We have earmarked 3.5 acres of land to set up the shed, where local dairy owners will be given space to tie their cattle and milk them. Space will be allotted as per the number of cattle owned by them. They won’t be allowed to let the cattle out in the open ,” he added. Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said, “We have pledged to make Mohali roads free of stray cattle, because of which we have expedited the cattle catching activity and imposed penalty to the tune of ₹10,000 on repeat offenders. The penalty will be imposed as per the Model Punjab Municipal (Registration, proper Control of Stray Animals and compensation to the Victim of Animal Attack) Bye-Laws, 2020.” In 2016, the then mayors of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula had met and set up a co-ordination committee to work out cross border problems, especially relating to stray dogs. But, it failed to take a shape and since then, many announcements have been made to constitute a tricity co-ordination committees. But, the idea never materialised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-to-set-to-shift-milch-animals-out-of-the-city-limits-101632685784536.html
27-09-2021||Other||Lucknow: Speed up Covid vaccination, contact people due to take second dose, says Yogi||LUCKNOW Chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed health officials to speed up Covid-19 vaccination and contact those who have their second dose due. Chairing the Covid-19 review meeting, the CM Yogi directed officials to launch a special infectious disease control campaign from October 17 to November 16 across the state. Officials were also asked to prepare a plan, including interdepartmental coordination for the same, and ensure people are made aware regarding prevention against the infectious diseases. The CM asked officials to be in touch with the union health ministry officials for smooth supply of Covid-19 vaccine doses for the state. With continuous efforts of the state government, during the second wave of Covid-19, positive cases have been brought down and so far, in 32 districts of the state there were no Covid cases. These districts include Aligarh, Amethi, Amroha, Orraiya, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Badaun, Baghpat, Balia, Banda, Bahraich, Bijnor, Farukhabad, Ghazipur, Gonda, Hamirpur, Hapur, Hardoi, Hathras, Kanpur Dehat, Kasganj, Mahoba, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Mujaffarnagar, Pilibhit, Rampur, Sant Kabirnagar, Shamli, Shrawasti, Sitapur and Sonebhadra. “The positivity rate in Uttar Pradesh is below 0.01% while recovery rate is 98.8%. In the past 24 hours, 2.17 lakh tests were conducted and no fresh cases were reported in 67 districts while in eight districts fresh cases were reported in single digit,” he said. The number of active cases in the state at present is 167, including the 11 fresh cases reported during the past 24-hours. Meanwhile, situation of dengue is under control in Firozabad, Agra and Mathura, and the number of new patients is going down, he added. ‘Hold spl meetings on Gandhi Jayanti’ The CM asked officials to conduct special meetings at the gram panchayats on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on October 2, and Swachh Bharat Mission and Jal Jivan Mission should also be discussed. “The concept of Gram Swaraj by Mahatma Gandhi is now bearing fruits. On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, discussions should also be held on how to make village self-reliant. These meetings should have participation of maximum villagers,” he said. The CM further directed officials to make assessment of the damage caused to crops due to excess rains, and said compensation should be paid as per the rules. This should get top priority, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-speed-up-covid-vaccination-contact-people-due-to-take-second-dose-says-yogi-101632685666649.html
27-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Dismissed constable, aide held for vehicle lifting, snatching||After being dismissed from the police department, a constable resorted to vehicle lifting and snatching to fund his drug habit. He was arrested along with an aide on Saturday. Five mobile phones and three motorcycles were recovered from him. The arrested accused have been identified as Gurbir Singh, 31, and Rahul Kumar, 25, both residents of New Maya Nagar. Gurbir Singh was dismissed by former commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal for remaining absent from duty without informing the department in December 2020.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Civil Lines) Harish Behal said Pradeep Kumar, who works at a juice shop, had said that unidentified bike borne miscreants had snatched his mobile phone on September 5. The police have lodged an FIR and initiated an investigation. The accused was booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianadismissed-constable-aide-held-for-vehicle-lifting-snatching-101632685540872.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC: Centralised call centre for grievances by December||A centralised call centre to listen to public grievances related to various services being offered by the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) will become operational by December. This was announced by MC commissioner Anindita Mitra during an interaction with members of the Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) on Sunday.Many residents complained that they feel harassed on trying to lodge a complaint, as they are referred to other departments or are told the issue comes under the UT administration’s jurisdiction. Some also alleged that their complaints are closed without being resolved.Mitra said a centralised call centre will make it easier for residents to register their complaints through just one number. “The authorities will also follow up on the complainants and not close them till resolution,” she said, while asking RWAs to even add the area SDOs and JEs to their WhatsApp groups for raising issues.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, who conceived the idea, said the call centre will also be connected with around 1,100 high-resolution cameras, which have been recently installed to issue e-challans for traffic violations.CRAWFED chairman Hitesh Puri submitted a memorandum with the residents’ complaints and urged the MC to give more funds to RWAs to maintain parks. Issues pertaining to street vendors, apni mandis, stray dogs, recarpeting of roads and garbage were also taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-centralised-call-centre-for-grievances-by-december-101632685480907.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula residents decry water shortage||The Citizens’ Welfare Association of Panchkula has once again highlighted the problem of water shortage in various sectors. The association stated that the water-supply-system in Panchkula has been worsening, either because of power failure or leakage. It stated that even two decades ago, water supply hours were 4am to 9am and 4pm to 9pm and around two hours in the afternoon. However, for the last five years, it has been reduced to 5am to 9am and 5pm to 9pm, without any supply in the afternoon. The pressure is so low that water hardly reaches ground floor, it stated. SK Nayar, president of the association, said, “Areas receiving water from Industrial Area Phase 1 water works (Sector 12A and parts of Sectors 14 15 and 19; Phases 1 and 2) are becoming difficult for residents to live in.” He said that there has been no water supply to first and second floors of houses and shops for the last decade. Nayar said that they have made requests to officials like chief administrator, chief engineer and superintending engineer of HSVP and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta to get the issues resolved, but there has been no improvement. However, Gupta has denied any such problem of water shortage. He said, “Since the time we have started getting water supply from Kajauli water works, there has been no shortage of water in the district. Rather, we have ample supply. Only those residents are complaining of low pressure at third floor, who have motors in their houses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-residents-decry-water-shortage-101632685428640.html
27-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Convicts go missing after getting parole||The City Raikot police booked two convicts, who had been granted parole in different jails but are yet to show up even after the parole period is over.The cases were lodged following the complaints filed by the jail officials. Accused, Hardeep Singh of Raikot, was a convict in a murder case lodged in 1993. The court had pronounced life imprisonment to the culprit. He was released on eight-week parole on February 7, 2020. Later, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, his parole period was extended. He was asked to report to Faridkot Jail on September 19, but he failed to turn up.In another case, Sandeep Singh of Dashmesh Nagar, who is a convict in a kidnapping case, also failed to report back to the jail after the completion of his parole period. A case was lodged against him on June 27, 2011, under Sections 382, 364, and 34 of the IPC. The court had pronounced 12-year imprisonment to the accused on August 16, 2012.He was released on six weeks of parole on April 17, 2020, and the period was extended till September 19, 2021.Both the accused have been booked under Section 9 of the Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Act.ASI Lakhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a hunt to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-convicts-go-missing-after-getting-parole-101632685242333.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Monsoon retreat expected in first week of October||Monsoon withdrawal from Chandigarh is likely to begin in the first week of October and heavy showers, like those seen in the past few days, will remain unlikely, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The normal date for monsoon’s retreat from the city is September 23, but over the past few years, it has been getting delayed frequently.Last year, it was announced on September 30. “This time around, monsoon may vacate the region only in the first week of October. The delay is due to the recent formation of the low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and a cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan, which brought rains over the entire region,” said Manmohan Singh, director, IMD, Chandigarh.According to the IMD, monsoon withdrawal is announced when no rain is recorded in the whole region for four to five days in a row and an anticyclonic movement starts to form over the region. In the past decade, it was most delayed in 2013 when it was declared on October 17. According to Singh, chances of light rain up to 20mm can continue till the end of September, but the intensity will be low. The maximum temperature will hover between 33°C and 34°C, and the minimum temperature will remain around 25-26°C. Since the onset of monsoon in June, the city has recorded around 600mm rain, which is about 30% deficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-monsoon-retreat-expected-in-first-week-of-october-101632685240914.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Loan fraud: Chandigarh man duped of ₹65,000||A man was duped of ₹65,500 over repayment of a loan. The victim, Dharambir Singh, stated in his complaint that he had taken a loan of ₹15,62,107 from Aadhar Housing Finance Limited in Zirakpur. He had paid ₹65,500 in total over several EMI payments and had even been issued fake receipts for the same. However, he later found out that the amount had not been deposited towards repaying his loan and he informed the police. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/loan-fraud-chandigarh-man-duped-of-65000-101632685120798.html
27-09-2021||Other||Weekly data: Only 8.2% of students show up for NAS classes, tests in Ludhiana||Despite the state government leaving no stone unturned, only 8.2% students from Classes 6 to 10 participated in classes and tests held last week to prepare them for the National Achievement Survey (NAS).Aiming to bag the top spot in the NAS test, the state education department is monitoring the students’ participation on a weekly-basis and releasing the data.From Ludhiana, of 1, 18,275 enrolled students, only 9,426 participated last week, as per the figures released on Saturday. From Punjab, of 11,38,155 enrolled students, only 98,176 participated. From Ludhiana, the least participation came from the Sudhar block, where out of 4,462 students, only 150 took the classes and tests.Ludhiana district education officer (DEO) Lakhvir Singh Samra on Saturday held a video conference with the senior education officials of the district, including the principal of district institute of education and training (DIET); deputy DEO, secondary; block nodal officers (BNO); school principals and school heads, regarding preparation for NAS in the district schools.Apart from ensuring participation in the NAS classes and tests, the schools are also making efforts to enrol more students.Samra said, “We are continuously making efforts to enrol more students but, a few parents are still reluctant to send their children to the school. We have arranged a parents-teachers meet this week where we’ll motivate them to send their children to school.”Special teams formed for field visitsThe state education department has formed special teams for field visits to the schools to check the ongoing preparations for the exam.According to the latest field visit report, the teachers have been asked to make students learn the use of optical mark reader (OMR) sheets as a few students, during the inspection, were found marking two options instead of just one.Moreover, the department has directed the schools’ heads or principals to take weekly NAS-related meetings with the teachers. The teachers were also asked to make students go through the 2017 NAS test question papers.The field report also highlighted the excitement of students for the NAS exam. Teachers were also appreciated for checking the NAS copies of the students regularly. According to the findings of the field team, there is an increase in attendance in the schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weekly-data-only-8-2-of-students-show-up-for-nas-classes-tests-in-ludhiana-101632684940930.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||7 months on, ₹100-crore solar power project for EWS households in Bathinda fails to take off||Seven months after finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal announced to equip economically weaker section (EWS) households in Bathinda city with solar power generation infrastructure for free, the ₹100-crore ambitious project has failed to make any progress.According to the proposal, the Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA), state’s nodal agency for promotion and development of renewable energy programmes, will execute the project on a pilot basis for 13,000 households.In the run up to local body elections in February this year, Manpreet had first stated that the initiative will relieve the underprivileged families of his assembly segment from paying electricity bills. It was seen as a major initiative to bring people closer to renewable energy resources.Officials said since March this year, PEDA invited bidders at least twice for solar photovoltaic (SPV) power plant in Bathinda, but there has been no progress. Chief executive officer of PEDA NPS Wadhwa and additional director, off-grid rooftop solar power scheme, Jaspal Singh declined to comment.Manpreet’s media coordinator Harjot Sidhu said he is unaware of the development in the mega project.Bathinda municipal commissioner Bikram Shergill said last year, the local body did a survey of urban slums for the installation of rooftop solar panels. “But neither the Bathinda district administration nor the corporation has made any list of the proposed beneficiaries under the project that was conceptualised by the finance minister,” said Shergill.Officials said at the time of preparing a blueprint, it was planned that the state government will provide ₹60 crore and the remaining ₹40 crore will be demanded from the Centre to boost the alternative source of energy.Requesting anonymity, a senior functionary of PEDA said the proposal is “too political to implement”.“Depending upon the power consumption requirement and space available for the installation of panels, PEDA will provide the infrastructure to households. Identifying beneficiaries in a transparent manner will be important as assembly elections are around the corner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-months-on-rs-100-crore-solar-power-project-for-ews-households-in-bathinda-fails-to-take-off-101632684760714.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Chandigarh police issue traffic advisory||The Chandigarh traffic police have issued an advisory in view of the Bharat Bandh call given by farm unions for Monday. As a road blockade is expected at the Mullanpur barrier and Hallomajra light point, people have been asked to adopt alternative routes.Diversions will be put in place at six points leading towards the Mullanpur barrier, including the 66KV light point, Khuda Lahora bridge, Dhanas bridge, tubewell turn in Sector 25, T-point near Dhanas Lake and PGIMER Chowk.Traffic moving towards the Hallomajra light point will be diverted towards the Kalibari light point from Tribune Chowk. Traffic coming from the Industrial Area, Phases 1 and 2, at Poultry Farm Chowk will be diverted towards Tribune Chowk.Traffic coming from Panchkula towards the Hallomajra light point will be diverted towards Baltana village near Raipur Kalan barrier and towards the airport light point at the Makhan Majra turn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-chandigarh-police-issue-traffic-advisory-101632684706812.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Mohali traders extend support to farmers||Members of the Mohali Beopar Mandal have decided to support the Bharat Bandh called by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on Monday against the three contentious agriculture laws. The decision was taken after the members held a meeting with various farmers’ unions. Vineet Verma, president of the beopar mandal, said all shops, except medical stores, will remain closed from 6am to 4pm. During the meeting, members of the beopar mandal urged leaders of farmers’ associations not to stop people going for urgent work during the bandh, to which they agreed. Verma said the business community was with the farmers. He added that the Union government should immediately withdraw the three farm laws, so that the farmers who have been protesting at the Delhi border for the past year can return to their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-mohali-traders-extend-support-to-farmers-101632684705535.html
27-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: SPS hospital organises marathon to mark World Heart Day||Satguru Partap Singh Hospital organised the seventh heart marathon at Guru Nanak Stadium on Sunday to mark World Heart Day, which is annually observed on September 29 around the globe.Participants from various states ran the marathon.Pooran bagged the top spot in the 10km men race while Ravi secured second place. Neeraj was declared the second runner-up.Meanwhile, Bharti won the 5 km women’s marathon. Sanju bagged the second spot, and Ujalwa stood third in the race.In the children’s category, Rahul stood first. All winners were awarded cash prizes. Managing director Jai Singh Sandhu awarded ₹1 lakh each to Olympian Kamalpreet Kaur and Para Olympians, Harvinder Singh and Nishad Kumar.He also declared free lifelong treatment for the trio and their family at the said hospital.Assistant deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar, who was the chief guest for the day, congratulated the officials of the SPS hospital for motivating the youth towards sports.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association, and medical superintendent Dr Rajiv Dhaliwal were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianasps-hospital-organises-marathon-to-mark-world-heart-day-101632684587054.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU: Former prof’s decomposing body found at house in campus||The decomposing body of a former assistant professor at Panjab University was found at his residence on the campus on Sunday morning.The deceased has been identified as Komal Singh of the public administration department. His services had been terminated over a sexual harassment allegation in 2018. However, he had moved court, and got a stay that allowed him to keep possession of his official residence on the PU campus, where his body was found.The neighbours alerted police after foul smell started emanating from the house. Police broke into the house, which was locked from inside, and found the body. A number of empty liquor bottles were also recovered from the spot. Singh had been living in Ludhiana with his parents and two children, and had come to Chandigarh around five days back, said police. Although the postmortem is yet to be conducted, police said he died two to three days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/puformer-prof-s-decomposing-body-found-at-house-in-campus-101632684520902.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir accuses Cong of appointing ‘tainted’ legislators as minsters||Terming the current situation in the Congress “self-destructive”, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday accused the ruling party of appointing “tainted” ministers in the state cabinet. Sukhbir, who addressed party functions across three assembly constituencies in Ludhiana, said if voted to power, the SAD-BSP will review all decisions taken by the Congress government in the next three months “as every step taken in the current scenario is questionable”. “We will establish a special commission to look into their misdeeds. King of sand mafia Rana Gurjeet Singh has been made a minister in the state cabinet. Similarly, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring courted controversy when his brother-in-law was booked for abetment to suicide. Former Punjab CM Beant Singh’s grandson Gurkirat Singh Kotli was involved in molesting a French tourist, Katia,” said Sukhbir. He added that the reason behind the Congress appointing tainted ministers is very clear as they are in a hurry to grab and loot money from the people in three months before the assembly elections. Earlier, Sukhbir visited Jain School at the Daresi ground and the Shanglawala Shivala Mandir and the Gyan Sthal Mandir in Ludhiana (Central) constituency. He also visited various localities in the Ludhiana West constituency, besides attending an interaction with industrialists and doctors in Model town. He also met residents in Atam Nagar. Answering a query, the SAD president said the party had welcomed the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM. “But it is painful to see that the new CM is being overshadowed by state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu as well as deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. It is also unfortunate that Channi does not have any say in the governance. All decisions – be it choosing the cabinet or the chief secretary, State police chief and the advocate general, are being taken by others. Files are only put before Channi for his signatures. This is not befitting the dignity of the high office. The Congress should respect the office of the chief minister by allowing Channi take his own decisions and not treat him as a rubber stamp.” “Bharat Bhushan Ashu was known to be the most corrupt food and civil supplies minister in the history of the state. Besides indulging in corruption involving government purchase of wheat from outside the state, the minister has presided over the disappearance of stored food grain. In Ludhiana city also, Ashu is known to have taken over all government tenders,” Sukhbir alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-accuses-cong-of-appointing-tainted-legislators-as-minsters-101632684222737.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Turf war with Channi cost Balbir Sidhu his cabinet berth, say party insiders||Former health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who failed to find a place in the new Punjab cabinet on Sunday, paid the price for his closeness to former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and strained relations with the incumbent, Charanjit Singh Channi, according to party insiders.Channi and Sidhu have been engaged in a turf war for two decades, which first surfaced when the former was the Kharar MC president and latter had contested the assembly elections from Kharar in 2002. The rift only widened with time, say sources within the party. Since 2007, Sidhu has won the Mohali seat three times in a row, and after the Congress formed the government in 2017, he was awarded with a cabinet berth. His clout kept increasing under Amarinder’s tutelage, and even his brother Amarjit Singh Sidhu managed to get elected as the Mohali mayor this year.However, the municipal polls again pitted Sidhu against Channi, who too had fielded his brother Sukhwant Singh Sukha from Kharar. After Sukha’s loss, Channi apparently blamed Sidhu, said a senior Congress leader, who did not wish to be named. “Why will Channi now make two power centres in Mohali by inducting Sidhu in the cabinet,” said the party leader.‘Paid price for closeness to Capt’Former Congress district president Rajinder Singh Rana said: “Sidhu’s closeness to Capt Amarinder cost him the cabinet berth. But, the high command should consider seniority and not personal grudges.”Deepinder Singh Dhillon, president, district Congress committee, Mohali, said Sidhu led from the front as the health minister, and looking at his seniority, he should have been included in the cabinet.Mohali deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said: “How can the high command ignore a senior person, who has done exemplary work as a minister and played an important role in Mohali’s development. His exclusion is Mohali’s loss.”Addressing the media on Sunday, Sidhu too got emotional and said: “What was my fault? I have worked hard as a minister during Covid-19.” He said he may not be a minister anymore, but the people of Mohali will remain his strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/turf-war-with-channi-cost-balbir-sidhu-his-cabinet-berth-say-party-insiders-101632684220645.html
27-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: KL Memorial Club wins boys’ district basketball championship||KL Memorial Club won the boys under-19 district basketball championship after beating Guru Nanak Club in the finals by 60-43 at Guru Nanak Stadium on Sunday.BIS Club bagged the third spot.Meanwhile, in the girls’ U-19 category, Guru Nanak Club beat Khalsa Club by 57-39 in the finals.Jai Singh Sandhu, managing director of SPS Hospital, Ludhiana, was the chief guest. He congratulated the winning teams and motivated them to stay fit.Teja Singh, Dhaliwal, general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association; Brij Bhushan Goyal, treasurer, District Basketball Association; JP Singh, president, DBA; Vijay Chopra, vice president, along with coaches Davinder Dhindsa, Rajinder Singh, and Saloni were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-kl-memorial-club-wins-boys-district-basketball-championship-101632684160856.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cop, kin booked for wife’s murder in Ambala||A police constable working in the state crime investigation department was booked on Sunday along with his mother and sister for murder, a day after his wife was found dead with a bullet injury at their house in Panjori village near Naraingarh in Ambala.The suspects have been identified as constable Harjeet Singh, his mother Kulwant Kaur and sister Baby. All were named in the FIR lodged on the complaint of the victim’s mother, Amarjeet Kaur, at the Naraingarh police station.Amarjeet said her daughter Surjeet Kaur got married to Harjeet in 2001, and the couple also has a 16-year-old daughter.“On Saturday, we were informed around 2:30 pm that my daughter had been hit by a bullet. All family members reached Panjori village, where the neighbours told us that Harjeet had used his licensed gun to kill my daughter,” alleged Amarjeet. The mother said Surjeet had arguments with her husband and in-laws earlier too, and the two families had to meet to resolve the issues. “They had even threatened to kill Surjeet,” she alleged.Harjeet was not at home when the body was recovered from a room. Police had taken the body to hospital. Initially, it was suspected to be a suicide case.“We have lodged a murder case on the statement of the victim’s family. The investigation will determine further facts and action will be taken accordingly,” said sub-inspector Dhoom Singh of the Naraingarh police station. The case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 120 (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, a woman and her four family members have been booked for abetting her husband’s suicide.The case was registered in Ambala Cantt police station, after a daily-wage labourer ended his life at Deha Colony on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cop-kin-booked-for-wife-s-murder-in-ambala-101632683980786.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 33 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Sunday reported 33 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,01,500, according to a medical bulletin. With no Covid-related fatality reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll stood at 16,506. One death case was added to the toll after reconciliation of data, the bulletin said. Gurdaspur reported seven cases, the highest in the state, followed by five in Jalandhar and three in Mohali. Faridkot, Ludhiana, Pathankot, Patiala, Rupnagar and Tarn Taran districts reported two fresh cases each, the bulletin said. Thirty-one people recovered from the infection, pushing the number of those recovered to 5,84,712, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-33-fresh-covid-cases-101632683920769.html
27-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Cycle body’s rival factions at loggerheads over appointment of chairman||After the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association’s (UCPMA) elections, the two factions of the executive committee are again at loggerheads over the appointment of Joginder Kumar as chairman.The tussle between president DS Chawla-led group and the group headed by general secretary Majinder Sachdeva has been going on for around a year.The announcement regarding the appointment was made during the first meeting of the managing committee held post elections on Saturday evening. Also, around 50 new members of the managing committee were welcomed, and discussions regarding the future projects/working of the association were held during the meeting. After president DS Chawla announced the appointment of the chairman, six executive members of the Sachdeva-led group opposed it, stating it as unconstitutional. An argument regarding the same was also held between both groups. As per information, the rift started after Chawla allegedly ignored the six executive members of the Sachdeva group while forming the sub-committees of the association for resolving the disputes of the members a few days back. No member of the Sachdeva group was given a place in the sub-committees. Satnam Makkar, vice-president of the association, said that forming sub-committees comes under the jurisdiction of the president but he should have consulted the other executive members before finalising the list.“We can work for the betterment of the association and its members only if we stand united but, the president seems to be ignoring some members,” he said.Sachdeva said,“In the previous tenures, the chairman was appointed unanimously but it wasn’t so this time. As per the constitution of the association, the chairman cannot be appointed without unanimous voting. If the president remains adamant, we will move the Company Law Board against the appointment.”Despite attempts made to reach Chawla, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cycle-body-s-rival-factions-at-loggerheads-over-appointment-of-chairman-101632683861101.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Complacency can lead to third wave after Diwali: Chandigarh DHS||Any complacency in following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, especially in view of the festive season, can lead to another surge in Chandigarh, Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, said on Sunday.“Immunity against the virus starts ebbing after six months. The second wave in Chandigarh was recorded in April and May, and the immunity of those infected will now start decreasing with each passing week. At this time, if people stop following Covid-19 guidelines, especially wearing of face masks, the cases will start increasing again,” said Dr Kang, who is set to retire on September 30.Dr Kang said the third wave could be witnessed after Diwali as people start moving out in crowded places and markets in the festival season.“The variants of coronavirus are also believed to be more transmittable. The only way to boost our immunity is to get vaccinated at the earliest. As more and more people are getting fully vaccinated in Chandigarh, the infection is spreading at a slower rate among the community,” she said.Amid the possibility of another surge, the UT health department is ramping up medical facilities and infrastructure in government hospitals.“The department is already installing oxygen generation plants at government hospitals, and private hospitals are also following suit. The number of ICU beds and ventilators has also been increased. Essential drugs and equipment are being procured in advance. The health staff is being trained to handle the situation,” said Dr Kang, who joined the post on October 1, 2020, and handled the second wave of pandemic in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/complacency-can-lead-to-third-wave-after-diwali-chandigarh-dhs-101632683740610.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Trucker gets 10-yr jail for smuggling poppy husk||A Mohali court has sentenced a trucker to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment on charges of smuggling one quintal of poppy Husk into the district. The court also fined the convict, identified as Balbir Singh, ₹1 lakh. In case he defaults on the payment, he will have to undergo one more year of imprisonment, according to the order pronounced by the court of district and sessions judge Hareet Kaur Kaleke. The special task force (STF), Mohali, had arrested Balbir Singh near Radha Soami Satsang crossing after the contraband was recovered from his truck. Upon investigation, the STF found he was not just the driver but also owned the truck and used it frequently to smuggle drugs. He used to load material to be transported to Madhya Pradesh from Mohali, and brought back drugs from there to be sold to suppliers and customers in Mohali, stated the chargesheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-trucker-gets-10-yr-jail-for-smuggling-poppy-husk-101632683683976.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bollworm attack: Punjab CM orders free supply of pesticides to farmers||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday said the state government will provide pesticides to farmers for free to control an outbreak of pink bollworm in the cotton-growing belt of Punjab.Accompanied by deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Channi visited Katar Singhwala and Nabispura villages, located on Bathinda’s outskirts, to meet the affected farmers.Channi said the state government was sensitive to the challenges that emerged due to the pest infestation and cotton growers will be compensated fairly.“Girdawari has been ordered and each farmer will be compensated after the crop loss assessment. The government is fully prepared to handle the serious situation. The agriculture department has been asked to ensure ample supply of pesticides to farmers,” he told reporters.Pink bollworm has mainly affected the cotton-growing districts of Bathinda and Mansa, while a few parts of Sangrur are also infested with the pest attack.State agriculture department said there has been no report of infestation on 96,000 hectares in Fazilka while limited pest attack was spotted in 3-4 fields in a couple of Muktsar villages. During field inspection, Channi asked the state agriculture director to establish laboratories at the block-level to ensure the quality and effectiveness of pesticides provided to farmers.Officials informed the CM that the demand for 1 lakh litres of insecticides prescribed for pink bollworm has already been placed and Bathinda district got a supply of 500 litres to cater to 5,000 hectares. Briefing the CM, agriculture officials said the crop in three blocks has suffered 50-60% damage. Jobs letters given to kin of farmers killed during stirDuring his maiden visit to Bathinda, the CM on Sunday handed over job letters to two families whose members died during the ongoing farmer agitation on Delhi border.Channi and Randhawa visited the aggrieved families with the appointment letters.Natha Singh of Mandi Kalan and Gurmail Chauke village were given jobs in the state agriculture department as Class IV employees.Natha’s younger brother Sukhpal Singh fell sick during a dharna at Tikri border and underwent treatment at the PGIMER, where he died on March 31. Gurmail’s 18-year-old son had passed away at Tikri border on January 2.Channi said the Congress government stands firmly with the farmers to oppose the contentious farm laws passed by the Centre government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bollworm-attack-punjab-cm-orders-free-supply-of-pesticides-to-farmers-101632683682785.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A jeweller’s pride||Jeweller Meharchand’s shop is in the Millennium City of Gurugram. But the vibes of this small cozy establishment in the town’s Sadar Bazar goes far beyond this millennium. Here’s the glass counter, this afternoon, filled with boxes containing gold rings and gold necklaces. And behind is Meharchand, dresssed in a safari suit. He is sitting cross-legged, a light smile is playing about his lips. “I opened Vinay Jewellers in 1985.” It’s named after his son, who isn’t here at the moment.Despite the distraction of the gold, a visitor’s attention is more likely to be claimed by the tijori, the mobile metal closet in the corner. The shop’s most stately object, it is a thing rare to spot these days. In old Hindi movies one would see a family matriarch keeping the money in such a tijori. “These days you don’t need a tijori to keep your cash, there’s the ATM,” Meharchand remarks. Gesturing towards the gold things in the counter, he explains he keeps them in the tijori while closing the shop at night.Possessively touching the front face of the metal chest, the way a book collector holds a prized edition, Meharchand recalls that this iron heavyweight symbolises the many struggles his family has overcome. His father too was a sunar, his grandfather and great-grandfather were also sunar. But there was a break in the continuity due to the partition in 1947. If the forces of history hadn’t uprooted its victims so abruptly, Meharchand might still had the tijori that his family owned in their original hometown in Dera Ghazi Khan (in present-day Pakistan). “We had to leave everything behind.” Meharchand is talking of the partition as if it were something he personally experienced. He is in fact 65, and his account comprises of the stories told to him by the family elders.“This tijori is newer but continues our family traditions.” Painted in grey, its doors are in pale green. “We got it from (Old Delhi’s) Chandni Chowk for 6,000 rupees… there are no shops in Gurgaon that sell these.” The tijori is sacrosanct to the jeweller. A niche on the wall, just above the locker, is filled with idols of gods and goddesses, including a copy of the Hanuman Chalisa. “Every morning and evening I ignite a dhoop batti on the top of the tijori, I also ignite the Bhagwan Jyot, and then I pray.”Again placing his hand on the locker, respectfully, Meharchand says, “Tijori sunar ki shobha hoti hain (it is sunar’s pride).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-jeweller-s-pride-101632683411310.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Haryana police issue travel advisory||In view of the nationwide call for Bharat Bandh, given by various farmers’ organisations, the Haryana Police have issued a travel advisory for Monday. “It is expected that agitating groups may hold sit-in protests on various roads and highways, and block them for some time. The national and state highways in the state may see some traffic disruptions for several hours,” the police spokesperson said, advising citizens to plan and modify their journey accordingly to avoid any inconvenience. The farmer organisations have given the call to block state and national highways between 6am and 4pm on September 27. Elaborate arrangements have been put in place by the civil and police administration as per the directions of the state government. Police said the primary objective of these arrangements is to maintain public peace and order, prevent any kind of violence and to facilitate the functioning of traffic and public transport systems across the state.Police appealed to the farmers to raise their issues peacefully without disturbing law and order situation. “Stern action as per the law will be taken against the elements trying to disturb public order under the guise of bandh call,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-haryana-police-issue-travel-advisory-101632683565875.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Farmers to block Delhi-Ambala railway line, NH-44 today||Farmers under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) will block the busy Delhi-Ambala railway section as part of the nationwide Bharat Bandh agitation from 6am to 4pm on Monday.Apart from the Delhi-Ambala line, which connects the national capital with the northern states, farmers will also lay siege to the Ambala-Saharanpur railway line near Phoosgarh village in Yamunanagar, hampering train movement.However, the Northern Railway has not issued any notice about cancellation or diversion of trains, as confirmed by GM Singh, divisional railway manager, Ambala railway division.The SKM will also stage a sit-in on National Highway-44, parallel to the Shahpur fatak, that will be a major protest site in the Ambala district, apart from two other locations. Yamunanagar farmers will gather at Gadhola toll plaza on Jagadhri Road, along with six other locations in the district.The protesters have also appealed to locals to shut their businesses in support of the bandh call. Separate lanes will be made available for smooth movement of emergency vehicles at the protest sites, farmer leaders have said. Traders in Jind have pledged solidarity with the farmers. “Farmers and traders have a long association, and we have decided to support their call to shut down all establishments on Monday. The Union government should solve their grievances and end this deadlock,” said Raj Kumar Goyal, spokesman of Vyapar Mandal Haryana.The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) has also decided to support the shutdown. Party’s general secretary Abhay Chautala said workers of his party will take part in the Bharat Bandh, and his party had full solidarity with farmers.Rohtak deputy commissioner Manoj Sheoran said he had appointed duty magistrates to ensure the law and order situation on Monday.Meanwhile, home minister Anil Vij appealed that the bandh should not affect the daily movement of locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-farmers-to-block-delhi-ambala-railway-line-nh-44-today-101632683564566.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ready to continue fight for 10 years, says Rakesh Tikait||A day before Bharat Bandh against the three agriculture laws, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said farmers will continue this fight for even 10 years until the government accepted their demands.Addressing a “Kisan Mahapanchayat” on the completion of 10 months of the farmers’ agitation in the country, Tikait said repealing the laws was the only solution to end this agitation: “I want to make it clear that the government will have to repeal these laws as we will not allow their implementation at any cost.” “Had the government read farmers’ history, it would not have brought these laws. We are sons of the soil and can force the government’s face into it to compel it to meet our demands,” he added.Tikait also accused the government of spreading misinformation about farmers through its IT cell, by giving religious and caste colours to the agitation. “We are strong enough to fight them if they fight from the front. But they are attacking from the back with the help of their IT cell to spread propaganda against farmer leaders,” he said, urging young farmers of the country to join this fight and counter these tactics. “This is a fight between the poor and the rich, the villages and Delhi. We need support from the youth to counter their false information on social media platforms,” he stressed. Warns BJP in poll-bound statesThe farmer leader from Uttar Pradesh also warned the ruling BJP that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) will go to all poll-bound states and launch a campaign against the party if the laws were not repealed.“We again request them to repeal these laws at the earliest, otherwise the SKM leaders will visit every poll-bound state, including Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, to oppose your candidates in the coming elections,” he said, adding that the BJP had lost its ground. ‘Talk to Centre to open roads’Reacting over Haryana government’s panel, formed to open roads blocked on the Delhi-Haryana borders, Tikait said, “There was no need to form a committee to talk with farmers, as these roads were blocked by the Union government.”The Haryana government should instead talk to the Centre, as the roads were blocked by the Delhi police to stop farmers from going to the Parliament for protest, he said.‘Tractors ready to reach Delhi anytime’Hinting at another tractor march in Delhi, Tikait urged farmers to keep their tractors ready as they may get a call for another tractor march from the SKM. He also thanked farmers from Uttar Pradesh for not attending a “parallel rally” in Muzaffarnagar and coming to Panipat.Another farmer leader from Haryana Gurnam Singh Charuni threatened to start a protest at the Prime Minister’s residence if the demands were not met soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ready-to-continue-fight-for-10-years-says-rakesh-tikait-101632683563302.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana chief minister reviews developmental works at Karnal||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday took stock of developmental works of his constituency and directed the officials to complete the works as per schedule.Accompanied by Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and other local leaders, the chief minister reached the under construction amusement park between Kachhwa Bridge and Kaithal Road Bridge. The park, being built at an estimated cost of ₹6.5 crore, will be dedicated to the public soon. Spread over a 2km stretch, the amusement park will comprise a cycle track, walk-way, seating areas and a playground. The chief minister also launched the sub-national pulse polio campaign at Karnal by administering anti-polio drops to children. He said the programme will be carried out in 13 districts of Haryana from September 26 to 28. “Haryana has reported no case of polio since January 2010 and no polio case has been found in India since January 2011. Therefore, India was declared polio-free on February 11, 2014,” the CM said.Earlier, he also held a meeting with BJP workers and had breakfast at the residence of former senior deputy mayor Krishan Garg. Reacting to the Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha on September 27, Khattar said in a democracy, everybody had the right to protest, but no one should be forced for the bandh. He said elaborate arrangements had been made by the government to deal with any law and order situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-chief-minister-reviews-developmental-works-at-karnal-101632683560731.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali medical college to begin admissions this year||With the National Medical Commission (NMC) issuing a letter of intent for 100 MBBS seats to Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences in Phase 6, Mohali, the admission will begin from this academic session. The college is affiliated to Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. Two weeks back, the NMC had inspected the college, following which the letter of intent has been issued. Now, the college has been asked to submit an undertaking within two weeks, stating it will comply with all instructions and guidelines of the NMC. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said that it is a red-letter day in the history of Punjab as with operationalisation of this institute, medical education in the state will get a major push and people will get quality health facilities. He also expressed gratitude to the NMC for granting the letter of intent. Channi asked the officials concerned to complete the necessary formalities at the earliest for starting the academic session in the institute at the earliest. The institute being set up under the aegis of an autonomous society — Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences Society — is the fourth government medical college in Punjab, and the first to come up in 48 years. The other colleges are in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot.At present, there are 1,400 MBBS seats across private and government medical colleges in Punjab, which will go up to 1,500 with 100 more seats at the medical college in Mohali.In the letter of intent, it has been stated that the NMC’s medical assessment and rating board examined the assessor’s report and remarks of expert groups on the college infrastructure and staff, following which 100 MBBS seats have been approved. However, there is 8% shortage in faculty, which has to be recruited, the letter said. Dr Bhavneet Bharti, director principal of the medical college, said: “We have received the letter of Intent and will giving an undertaking to the NMC. Our admission process will begin this academic year, probably in October after the result of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test that was held on September 12.” Though the state government was planning to start the academic session last year, the NMC had denied permission, citing certain shortcomings. The ₹300-crore project was sanctioned during the Akali Dal regime in 2012 under the central-state partnership with funding in the ratio of 60:40. The Punjab government had finalised the site of the existing civil hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, to set up the institute, which will be eventually upgraded to 220 seats. The state government had also announced funding of ₹157 crore for the construction of the college in its 2020-21 financial budget.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-medical-college-to-begin-admissions-this-year-101632683500788.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man succumbs to bull attack injuries||A 45-year-old man from Daria village in Chandigarh succumbed to his injuries on Sunday, two days after being attacked by a raging bull at the main market in Zirakpur’s Baltana. Identified as Azad Hussain, he was undergoing treatment at the PGIMER. The incident occurred on Friday evening, when Hussain was visiting the Baltana market. A bull first hit his motorcycle and then hit him in the stomach with its horns before stomping over him, leaving him fatally injured. Hussain was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, from where he was referred to the PGIMER.The victim was working as a carpenter and is survived by his wife and two minor sons.Two years ago, a six-month-old girl was crushed to death by a bull in the same area. Locals say the Zirakpur municipal council has completely failed to address the issue despite several representations.Even Aam Aadmi Party workers in Zirakpur have been on a chain hunger strike for the past 11 days over the stray animal problem. AAP leader Navjot Singh Saini said it is sad that both the SAD and Congress have failed to solve the problem. “We will continue our protest until this problem is resolved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-succumbs-to-bull-attack-injuries-101632683440705.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Forex dealer robbed of ₹16 lakh at gunpoint in Amritsar||AMRITSARSix unidentified armed men robbed a foreign exchange outlet owner of around ₹16 lakh in Indian and foreign currency at gunpoint in Amritsar on Sunday. The outlet is barely 100 metres from the police station at Sultanwind Chowk. The incident took place at 10am when the shop owner, Ranjit Singh, along with his son and nephew was dealing with two customers. Four of the six robbers entered the shop and started enquiring about the exchange rates while the other two waited on a motorcycle outside the shop. The forex business was being run from a clothes shop. “Two customers visited us and asked to exchange ₹1 lakh in Indian currency into pounds. In the meantime, four men entered the shop and three of them pointed pistols at us. The accused, who had covered their faces, asked us to hand over the cash,” said Ranjit.He further said: “The accused snatched some foreign currency from me, which is around ₹5 to 6 lakh. After this, they took out ₹10 lakh from the safe. They also snatched ₹1 lakh from the two customers. Before leaving, the accused snatched my nephew’s gold chain.”Ranjit’s son Davinder Singh said they have been dealing in foreign exchange for the last 10 years. “The police station is just opposite our shop, but there is no fear of law among criminals,” he added. From whom the accused snatched ₹1 lakh has been identified as Simranpreet Singh of Meeran Kot. Simran said: “My brother lives in England and we had to send pounds to him, for which I had visited the outlet.” Station house officer (SHO) of the B-division police station Sarwanpal Singh said: “According to the victim’s statement, ₹8 lakh in Indian currency was robbed from the shop, besides ₹1 lakh from a customer. However, we don’t have clear information about pounds and dirhams the accused took away.”A case under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act has been registered against six unidentified persons at the B-division police station. Police are examining the CCTV footage of the shop to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forex-dealer-robbed-of-rs-16-lakh-at-gunpoint-in-amritsar-101632683320730.html
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate: 14.7% votes cast in first phase of polling for graduate constituency||The first phase of polling for the registered graduate constituency of the Panjab University (PU) senate was held on Sunday, where 42,228 (14.7%) out of 2,87,997 eligible members case their vote.As per PU officials, maximum voting among the 37 districts where booths were set up was at Muktsar, where 5,577 (25.6%) out of 21,782 members cast their vote. Meanwhile, voting was lowest in Delhi ,where only 77 cast their vote out of 4,565 members. In Chandigarh 4,114 (8.7%) of 47,548 cast their vote.The voting percentage is lower than other constituencies. A former senator said that voting remains low for this is because many people change their address or shift elsewhere and don’t end up voting. Around 50,000 votes were cast in this constituency last time, and with 61 booths yet to hold elections, a similar number is expected this time.Of the eight constituencies of PU senate, the registered graduate constituency is the largest, with 3,61,869 voters, who elect 15 members to the senate. There are 41 candidates in the frayThe elections were earlier delayed due to non-availability of required polling booths in Punjab and Haryana. The matter had also been taken up at the Punjab and Haryana high court. The PU authorities are yet to announce the date for the second phase of polling at 61 booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-14-7-votes-cast-in-first-phase-of-polling-for-graduate-constituency-101632683201416.html
27-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 12,000 candidates appear for Punjab Police constable recruitment exam on Day 2||Over 12,000 candidates from various districts appeared for the Punjab Police constable recruitment exam on the second day here on Sunday.According to the joint commissioner of police (JCP - Rural) Sachin Gupta, who is the nodal officer, the exam was conducted at 22 centres in the city. Apart from deploying force inside as well as outside the campus, the cops had also installed mobile jammers and CCTV cameras on the premises, he said.He added that the police had made all arrangements keeping in view the Covid-19 protocol. The cops on duty ensured social distancing among aspirants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-12-000-candidates-appear-for-punjab-police-constable-recruitment-exam-on-day-2-101632683020755.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Pune: Private players ready to run Sarasbaug biogas plant with new technology||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has got four private players ready to convert decommissioned biogas plants into new technology to process wet garbage. The PMC has selected two plants in the first phase on an experimental basis. A private company has already chosen the Wadgaon budruk (Sinhagad road) biogas plant to use new technology to process 40 tonne of wet garbage per day without charging any tipping fee. And now, the PMC has received response from four private players for the Sarasbaug biogas plant.Sanket Jadhav, junior engineer of the solid waste department, said, “Earlier, we were using small composting, bio-CNG plants to process garbage. But in the current scenario, these technologies have become outdated. We have to now use new technology to process garbage. We have selected two old biogas plants on an experimental basis to be handed over to private players to run on new technology. The Wadgaon (Sinhagad road) plant has already started running on new technology that will process wet garbage and convert into biomass briquettes.”“In the second plant of Sarasbaug, we have received response from four private players that are ready to run it with new technology. In the coming three to four days, the companies will present to the PMC. Thereafter, we will discuss and take the final decision,” Jadhav said.Of the total 25 biogas plants, the Wadgaon plant is spread across 10,000 square feet of land. The plant was processing 10 tonne per day of wet garbage however it stopped working in September 2019 after suffering damage due to heavy rain. The PMC tried to repair it but it was unable to process an adequate amount of garbage. Also, the plant was about to become non-viable in June 2020.Meanwhile, Pune city-based garbage processing company, Mithras Green Technologies, approached the solid waste department and evinced interest in running the plant with new technology without taking any tipping fee from the PMC. The corporation signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) and handed over the plant to the company which agreed to set up the infrastructure and run the plant on its own.Meanwhile, PMC has decided to decommission 12 out of the total 25 biogas plants in a phased manner in the coming days. The PMC wants to hand over the biogas plants to private players on a design-build-finance-operate and transfer (DBFOT) basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-private-players-ready-to-run-sarasbaug-biogas-plant-with-new-technology-101632682780500.html
27-09-2021||Other||Lucknow aims for a new high in Covid vaccination||LUCKNOW: Aiming for a new high in Covid vaccination, the health department has arranged over 2.48 lakh doses of vaccine for the mega vaccination drive on Monday. The maximum number of vaccine doses administered in Lucknow on a single day till now was 105981 on September 6. According to the data shared by the Lucknow’s district administration, there will be 991 booths at 433 vaccination session sites in the state capitall n Monday. The target is to administer over 1.5 lakh doses in one day. “The state capital will make a new record in vaccination. Each vaccination session site will administer 573 doses on an average,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. The minimum doses at one vaccination centre are 500 while the maximum is 2000. Over 200 workplace Covid vaccination centres will also be made in Lucknow. This will be apart from the over 90 government and around 100 private centres that run vaccination facility every day. At work place Covid vaccination centres, on-the-spot registration will also be available, apart from the online slot booking. Earlier, a target of over 1.5 lakh doses was set by the officials but now the figure is expected to go beyond it. “Lucknow is leading among all districts in the state with 35.52 lakh doses administered till now. Over 30% of Lucknowites are fully vaccinated and with the mega vaccination drive, the state capital can further push the tally,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In all, 217700 doses of Covishield and 31100 doses of Covaxin have been arranged at the cold chain points, according to the health department. Apart from basic amenities, each centre will have a coordinator who will solve issues for spot registration of a beneficiary or any other problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-aims-for-a-new-high-in-covid-vaccination-101632682721083.html
27-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana NGO initiates ‘Grahak Bolega’ drive to spread consumer awareness||Consumer Rights Organisation (CRO), an NGO that works towards creating consumer awareness initiated the ‘Grahak Bolega’ drive, under which it held a seminar in Sarabha Nagar on Sunday. Naveen Sharma, the national president of CRO, made the attendees aware of their rights. He said the consumers should know about their rights to protect themselves from exploitation in malls, shops, and eateries.Balwinder Singh Sandhu, chairman, Permanent Lok Adalat, stated that the customers should demand a bill for everything they have purchased. Later, in the case of a dispute, the bill can be produced as proof, he added.Rajshri Gandhi, secretary of CRO, shared how women can check if the material they have bought is spurious.Pankaj Sood, state president of CRO; Sunil Dutt, secretary, Punjab Congress; Leena Taparia, district Mahila Congress president and Sanjay Jalota, president, trade wing Ludhiana, were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-ngo-initiates-grahak-bolega-drive-to-spread-consumer-awareness-101632682660611.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Man in police custody for setting sister on fire in Aundh||PUNE A man has been remanded to custody of the Pune police for setting his 48-year-old sister on fire, over a money, in a society in Aundh on Friday afternoon.The woman sustained burns on her face and torso. The injured woman was identified as Rajashri Patange (48), a resident of Anusuya Apartments in Aundh where the incident happened. The arrested man was identified as Shyam Patange (45), who also lives in the area. He was remanded to police custody until Monday.The man has a Master’s in Art degree and works at a pesticide factory, while the woman is a home maker, according to police.The woman was sitting on a chair in the kitchen of her house when the man arrived. He was drunk when he came to the complainant’s house and started arguing about property their parents had left to them. During the fight, the man picked a match and threw it on her person, starting the fire.“Their parents are no more and they have left a flat and a shop for them. But there is no will as far as we know and the two are fighting over the possession. After the fire, he brought her to the hospital and when the hospital informed us, we went to take her statement. He was not present at the time. So we took her statement and arrested him from his house the next day,” said assistant police inspector Sandeep Pawar of Chaturshrungi police station who is investigating the case.A case was registered under Section 307 (attempted murder) of Indian Penal Code at Chaturshringi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-in-police-custody-for-setting-sister-on-fire-in-aundh-101632682601012.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Ram temple in Ayodhya: Bricks donated in 1980s likely to be preserved, displayed||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust is likely to preserve and display shilas (bricks) donated during the Ram Mandir movement by devotees for the construction of the Ram temple at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya. Around two lakh bricks are lying underneath a tin shed at Ramghat workshop in Ayodhya. These bricks were collected by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) during its Ram Mandir movement, including shiladan, between 1987 and 1989. Around 3.5 lakh bricks were collected in this movement. Some bricks were used in the shila pujan in Ayodhya carried out after the nationwide shila pujan campaign in 1989. Around 50,000 bricks were used to construct a scaffold in 1992 near the then disputed site at Ram Janmabhoomi. Now, around two lakh bricks are left.The Supreme Court had ruled in favour of Ram temple on November 9, 2019, ending the decades old Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title dispute. According to Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust, optimum use of these bricks will be made. However, it is not clear how this will be done.The Trust has already made it clear that bricks will not be used in construction of the Ram temple as they are not durable and their longevity cannot be guaranteed.According to a member of the Trust, these bricks will be preserved and displayed at the Ram Janmabhoomi after the construction of Ram Mandir is over. “Bricks will not be used in construction of Ram Mandir as they are not durable. But the shilas (bricks) donated by devotees during the Ram Mandir movement are of immense importance for us. They are likely to be preserved and displayed at Ram Janmabhoomi,” said the Trust member. The shila pujan was carried out not only in villages across India, but also in about 55 countries from where the shilas were sent to Ayodhya. These countries include Suriname, Nepal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, the United States, Bangladesh, Canada, Myanmar and Germany, among other nations.These bricks have the words “Sri Ram” inscribed on them in the languages of their respective countries. The Ram temple’s foundation work has been completed in Ayodhya and the next phase of the construction work will start soon. Larsen and Toubro is carrying out the construction and Tata Consulting Engineers is the project management consultant. Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, 2020. Apart from the temple, a total of 124 projects worth ₹20,107 crore are underway for the development of Ayodhya and 79 of them will be completed by December 15 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-temple-in-ayodhya-bricks-donated-in-1980s-likely-to-be-preserved-displayed-101632682480559.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Delay in construction of safety wall along Ambil odha in Pune has residents worried||PUNE This year the residents near the Ambil odha (stream), have not had to deal with any floods, not least like the devastating flash floods which occurred on September 25, 2019. The floods claimed the lives of 26 people and damaged ₹200 crore worth of goods and property.However, even after two years, residents are still waiting for the financial aid from promised by the state government and also for redevelopment of the area by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to be completed.The state government had committed ₹15,000 to residents of the area whose houses were damaged in the floods in 2019. Residents claim they have not received any financial aid yet.Work on safety walls and the culvert is still on going.“The two Covid waves delayed the issuing of the tender (for constructing safety walls). This is the reason for work slowing down in the safety walls along the Ambil stream. All these works will be completed soon,” said mayor Murlidhar Mohol.Encroachment and illegal constructions over the stream is one factor which caused the flooding. The PMC had conducted an anti-encroachment drive on June 25, 2021, which drew protests from residents in the area. The PMC court stayed the action.As per the law, nine metres of land on both sides of the stream are considered a green zone, and no development activities are permitted in this area. Widening the stream from eight metres to 24 metres is a must to avert flash floods however residents who have their houses in the green zone are still opposing the PMC.“There are many illegal shops over the nullah in Gururaj society, Padmavati, on which action is yet to be taken by the PMC. They (PMC) have built the wall, but these shops need to be removed for the safe passage of water,” said Yogesh Gulhane, a resident of Gururajnagar.The PMC had appointed a private agency PriMove which identified 77 illegal constructions along the Ambil odha, which caused the flash floods.The firm was given the task to carry out the survey of Ambil Odha and the reports were submitted to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) The PMC later issued notices to all the owners of these encroachments. According to PMC officials, PriMove has considered 20 metres as the width of the stream while conducting the survey.“PMC needs to speed up the work. At many places the safety wall is not completed. Civic body should also find a solution to the land encroached on by residents living illegally,” said Nitin Kadam, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and president of the Parvati constituency.The safety wall will run along the Ambil odha protecting Katraj crematorium, Katraj-Kondhwa road, Rajas society, Balajinagar, Bramhachaitnya Ashram, Arnaywshwar temple, Tangewala chowk, Tawre colony, Bagul garden, Ramabai-Ambedkar colony, and Sane guruji colony||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/delay-in-construction-of-safety-wall-along-ambil-odha-in-pune-has-residents-worried-101632682361023.html
27-09-2021||Other||Kerala government launches welfare fund and pension for techies||The Kerala government has launched a welfare fund and pension for employees in the field of IT and information technology-enabled services (ITeS) in the State.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said women workers would be given a financial aid of ₹15,000 during pregnancy and ₹10,000 at the time of their marriage. He said over 1.5 lakh employees would benefit from this assistance.“Started welfare fund for IT & ITeS workers that ensures a pension of ₹3,000. Women workers will be given a financial aid of ₹15,000 during pregnancy and ₹10,000 for marriages. Beneficiaries will get ₹15,000 for medical treatment. Over 1.5 lakh employees will be benefited,” Vijayan tweeted today.Speaking to reporters on Saturday, he said an employee who pays dividend for 10 consecutive years would get the pension after the age of 60.“Those unable to work for two years due to any physical disability are also eligible for the pension. The pension is ₹3,000. It will be increased by ₹50 every year,” he said.Vijayan said the government aims to increase IT hardware production in the State to ₹10,000 crore from the present ₹2,500 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-government-launches-welfare-fund-and-pension-for-techies-101632682301944.html
27-09-2021||Bangalore||Ahead of Bharat Bandh, Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai urges farmers to ‘cooperate’||The Karnataka government on Sunday appealed to the farming community to “cooperate” after union leaders supported the call for a Bharat Bandh on Monday. Appealing to farmer organizations to cooperate, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said, “Due to Covid (lockdowns), business and economic activities have just restarted after struggling for 1.5 years. In such times, I would request the farmers organizations to cooperate,” he said on Sunday. The statements come a day ahead of the proposed Bharat Bandh for which farmers unions in Karnataka have extended support. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka said that there would be no stoppage of any services. “Under any circumstances there is no question of supporting the bandh. Our buses will ply without any problems and the public will not be inconvenienced,” B Sriramulu, Karnataka’s minister for transport and scheduled tribes welfare said on Sunday. He added that it was the Congress party that was misleading farmers for its own benefit over the contentious farm laws. Kodihalli Chandrashekar, the president of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) on Sunday said that the farmer organisations are doing everything possible to make the bandh a success.He said that there would be several people participating in the bandh who would come in from different directions into Bengaluru and end the rally in Mysuru bank circle near the central business district. Chandrashekar even estimated that around 8,000-10,000 people would participate in the Bandh. Several other farmer organisations and activist groups have also made plans to join the bandh. The Karnataka government on Friday had decided to relax some restrictions and said that it would allow for 100% occupancy in cinema halls from October 1 in places where the Covid positivity rate is lower than 1%. The Basavaraj Bommai government has said that in places where the positivity rate is higher than 1%, cinema halls would have only 50% occupancy permission and closure if it is higher than 2%. The same rules will apply to pubs from October 3. The government has also allowed five days of school for students of classes 6 to 12 with 100% occupancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ahead-of-bharat-bandh-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-urges-farmers-to-cooperate-101632682062043.html
27-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana district health department launches pulse polio drive||The district health department commenced a five-day door-to-door pulse polio drive for immunisation of the children of migrant population up to the age of five years in the district on Sunday. Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia launched the drive at the civil hospital, and it will continue till September 30.The officials stated that the drive will be carried out in urban and sub-urban for five days while it will be taken up in rural areas for three days from September 26 to 28.Earlier, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma stated as many as 35,6918 children will be covered in Ludhiana under the five-day-long sub-national immunisation round of pulse polio drive starting from September 26.Around 1,667 teams will administer the polio vaccine drops to children in 8,60,274 houses in the district. The teams include 1,492 house-to-house, 57 transit, and 118 mobile teams. During these five days, permanent camps will be set up at the railway station and bus stand to cover maximum beneficiaries, said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-district-health-department-launches-pulse-polio-drive-101632682001899.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: AAP releases second list of 70 probable candidates||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday released its second list of 70 probable candidates for 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election. The party had released its first list of 100 probable candidates earlier this month.“Names of 70 Vidhan Sabha in charges have been announced. If their work is according to party’s satisfaction, they will be made candidates for assembly polls from their respective constituencies,” Sabhajeet Singh, state president of the party, told media persons. The second list has 29 probable candidates from the backward community, 19 Brahmins, 13 Dalits and five Muslims among others. Lalit Valmik will be the probable candidate from Malihabad assembly seat and Pankaj Yadav from Bakshi Ka Talab in Lucknow district. Besides, party’s probable candidates will be Nadeem Ashraf Jaisi from Lucknow Central, Amit Srivastava from North, Rajiv Bakshi from West, Durgesh Singh from Cantonment, Rohit Srivastava from Sarojini Nagar, Baliram Varma from Bakshi Ka Talab and Suraj Kumar from Mohanlalganj. These names were announced in the first list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-aap-releases-second-list-of-70-probable-candidates-101632682000546.html
27-09-2021||Other||Flight lieutenant held for raping colleague at institute in Coimbatore||A Flight Lieutenant at a training institute in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore district was arrested for allegedly raping his colleague, police said. According to police, a 27-year-old woman officer from Delhi had reportedly raised the issue of sexual assault with authorities at the institute around the first week of September when the alleged incident took place. Since no action was taken, she met Coimbatore’s commissioner of police, Deepak M Damor, on September 20. “The institute had initiated inquiry proceedings but she was probably not happy about it which is why she came to the police,” said a senior police officer in Coimbatore. Based on her complaint, the All Women’s Police Station in Gandhipuram carried out preliminary enquiries, registered a case against the accused and arrested him on Saturday, said the official. Police have also informed authorities in Delhi about the incident. Around the first week of September, the woman officer sustained a leg injury while undergoing sports training on campus. She took medication for the injury before going to sleep. On the night of September 10, the accused allegedly came into her hostel room and committed the crime, police said. The accused has been booked under IPC section 376 (rape). He was remanded in judicial custody and sent to the Udumalpet sub jail in Tirupur district on Sunday, police said. Reacting to the developments, a spokesperson of the institute said, “We are cooperating with the police investigation and are also conducting an (internal) inquiry to ascertain the facts.” About 30 personnel from across India have been undergoing training at the institute since August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flight-lieutenant-held-for-raping-colleague-at-institute-in-coimbatore-101632681940796.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Andhra seeks better roads, telecom network meeting with Shah on Maoist insurgency||Stating that the Maoist problem has been diminishing in Andhra Pradesh owing to development, the state’s home minister Mekathoti Sucharita on Sunday demanded that the Centre further improve road connectivity and telecommunication network and set up more Eklavya schools and post offices in the Maoist-affected areas.Sucharita, who attended a high-level meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah with 10 Maoist-hit states, said chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy could not attend the meeting due to medical reasons.Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Sucharita said, “The number of districts affected by Maoist activities has reduced from five to two in the state. Maoists are now confined to only two districts -- Visakhapatnam and East Godavari.”Many Maoists are leaving their ranks in the state. Their number has come down from earlier 150 to 50 now, she said, adding that the reduction in Maoist activities was the result of several development activities being undertaken in the state.To ensure development projects reach remote parts of the Maoist-hit areas, Sucharita said, “We have asked the central government to improve road connection and remove hurdles like forest clearance for developing roads, among others.”The state government has also demanded increase in the number of Ekalavya schools and improved mobile and internet network with 4G coverage, besides setting up post offices.The minister said the state’s Nadu-Nedu and Amma Vodi schemes to provide education, medical facilities and empower women are being implemented through village-level committees successfully.“The improvement in basic facilities with successful implementation of various schemes is yielding results even in Maoist-hit areas,” she said, adding that the schemes are helping in providing economic stability and reducing poverty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/andhra-seeks-better-roads-telecom-network-meeting-with-shah-on-maoist-insurgency-101632681881876.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Covid: Five wards with most number of active cases in Pune||PUNE Although the number of Covid-19 cases in the city is dropping, the five most-affected wards are Aundh-Baner, Hadapsar-Mundhwa, Kothrud-Bavdhan, and Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri. In the last week, Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar ward was added to wards with the most active Covid-19 cases and wards reporting most new cases. As of now, the city’s positivity rate is 1.5% but these wards report close to a 2% positivity rate. The ward with the highest positivity as of last week is Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar.In the week between September 16 and September 22, these wards reported the highest active Covid-19 cases with Aundh Baner reporting 205 cases, Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri reporting 201 cases, Hadapsar-Mundhwa reporting 196 cases and Kothrud-Bavdhan reporting 178 active cases. Active cases in Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar ward are at 133. The ward of Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar was newly added to the list last week, replacing the Sinhgad road ward.The overall city’s positivity rate has fallen down from 3% and the case fatality rate stood at 1.9% between September 9 and September 15. This fell to 2.9% between September 16 and September 22, but the case fatality rate went up to 2.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-five-wards-with-most-number-of-active-cases-in-pune-101632681880535.html
27-09-2021||Other||Caste-based census should be conducted, PMK chief Ramadoss tells Centre||A nationwide, caste-wise enumeration, as part of the Census, is an unavoidable necessity and hence should be carried out by the central government, Pattali Makkal Katchi founder leader S Ramadoss said on Sunday.Pointing to the union government’s contention in the Supreme Court of a policy decision since 1951 against caste-wise enumeration, the PMK leader said taking such a stand is not in sync with the present times. It is a fact that it has been the Centre’s policy for decades, but this is “not correct,” he said in a statement.The reasons listed by the central government for carrying out a count of Scheduled Castes and Tribes in the Census applied equally for Other Backward Classes and such data is sought by several high courts and the Supreme Court, he said. If caste-wise data is not collected, there is a “danger” of reservation for OBCs “disappearing” over the next few years and hence, caste-wise enumeration in Census is necessary and cannot be avoided.The Centre’s contention that “while working towards a casteless society, a caste-wise enumeration is not needed” only showed that it has not understood the subject.Only an egalitarian society could help create a casteless society and to make sure that it happened, all castes should witness development. For that, reservation is the foundation and to ensure it, caste-wise enumeration in Census is necessary and the Union government should realise this, Ramadoss said. On Union government’s claims on practical difficulties, he said the Britishers had carried out the exercise during an era -- between 1881 and 1931-- when there were no developments in science and technology as seen today and the enumeration had a “99 per cent accuracy,” and only based on such data, reservation for OBCs is provided. “It is to be pointed out that Karnataka had undertaken a caste wise enumeration four years ago.” The Centre also pointed that its list of OBCs differed from that of states, Ramadoss said adding it is not a problem. Even if a headcount was done based on Centre’s OBC list, it could be used in accordance with the requirements of state governments. “Necessity is the mother of invention. In India, there is an unavoidable necessity for a caste wise enumeration in Census. Considering it, if a decision is taken to carry it out, all practical problems can be addressed.” The central government should hence, carry out the 2021 Census by including caste wise enumeration, he said. Days ago, the Centre had told the Supreme Court that caste Census of Backward Classes is administratively difficult and cumbersome” and excluding such information from the purview of Census is a “conscious policy decision”. PMK is part of the National Democratic Alliance in Tamil Nadu. The PMK’s cadre base is predominantly, Vanniya Kula Kshatriyas, falling under the Most Backward Classes (MBC) category in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/castebased-census-should-be-conducted-pmk-chief-ramadoss-tells-centre-101632681822377.html
27-09-2021||Noida||GB Nagar residents disappointed as none of its MLAs find place in UP cabinet expansion||As seven new ministers took oath in Lucknow in the expanded Uttar Pradesh government of chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday, residents in Gautam Budh Nagar, comprising Noida and Greater Noida, were left disappointed as no MLA from the district could make it to the state cabinet. Gautam Budh Nagar has three assembly constituencies -- Noida, Dadri and Jewar, all represented by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. Residents were hoping that at least one MLA from the district may be inducted into the cabinet. The MLA from Noida is Pankaj Singh, son of defence minister Rajnath Singh; Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar is a teacher by profession and Jewar MLA is Dhirendra Singh, who played a key role in convincing farmers to give their land for the construction of the Noida international airport at Jewar.“Noida remained a strong bastion of the BJP since 2012, when this constituency was created and won over by the saffron party. It was the first time in 2017 that all the three seats in the district were won by the BJP. Noida is a well-planned world-class city, the economic powerhouse of Uttar Pradesh. If an MLA was inducted into the state cabinet, it would have greatly benefited not only the party, but also residents,” said R Sahay, general secretary of Noida federation of apartment owners association (NFAOA), an umbrella body of apartment owners association in Noida.Just a day before cabinet expansion, rumours were rife that Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar may be inducted into the cabinet so that the party can influence the disgruntled Gurjar community in the upcoming 2022 polls.“It was surprising for me that in this reshuffle, no one from GB Nagar could make it to the cabinet. This district is an urban region. A minister from this place would have acted as a bridge between people and the state government. The move is disappointing for us as we were hoping to see at least one MLA from Gautam Budh Nagar in the cabinet,” said Deepika Chauhan, a resident of Noida’s Sector 135.Dr Mahesh Sharma, GB Nagar MP and former Union minister, was not available for comments on the reshuffle despite repeated attempts.Vijay Bhati, BJP’s president for Gautam Budh Nagar district, said, “It is the party that takes a call on these issues. Our job is to work on the ground and not to think of reshuffle. We are here to obey commands and not demand berths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gbnagar-residents-disappointed-as-none-of-its-mlas-find-place-in-up-cabinet-expansion-101632681702137.html
27-09-2021||Other||Bharat bandh: Farmers form teams to block traffic movement on highways||MEERUT Farmers’ organisations have formed teams to block movement of traffic on highways at district level across the state to ensure success of ‘ Bharat Bandh’ on Monday. The farmer leaders claimed that traders, students, lawyers, opposition parties and other sections of the society had responded well to their appeal to support their call of ‘ Bharat Bandh’ to push their demands for repealing the three contentious farm laws and guarantee to purchase crops at minimum support price. Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) member and president of BKU (Asli) Harpal Singh Bilari claimed that the bandh call was eliciting good response from farmers, lawyers, traders and other sections of society. “We had approached people in the past few months to share that this was not the battle of farmers alone. These draconian laws will adversely affect lives of people,” said Bilari and claimed that amid soaring inflation, people understood this and made up their minds to support the ‘ Bharat Bandh’ in their respective areas. Bilari claimed that all national highways would be blocked during the bandh to ensure the success of the call given by SKM. Bharatiya Kisan Union’s media in charge Dharmendra Malik said that teams had been formed in all districts across the state which would block movement of traffic on national highways at designated locations. He said the national highways would be blocked at 14 places in Bijnor, 8 places in Meerut, three places in Ghaziabad, 10 places in Muzaffarnagar and also other districts across the state. He said that appeals had been made to traders, students, labour organisations, lawyers and other social organisations to extend support to the bandh.” We have received affirmative response from various organizations,” said Malik and shared that almost all opposition parties had extended their support to the bandh and its impact would be visible on roads and markets on Monday. Meanwhile, the Meerut Bar Association passed a resolution that lawyers would abstain from work in courts on Monday to support the SKM bandh call. The resolution said that farmers were protesting against the farm laws for over 10 months and the government should resolve the issue through dialogue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bharat-bandh-farmers-form-teams-to-block-traffic-movement-on-highways-101632681700659.html
27-09-2021||Other||Covid curbs eased: Unauthorised weekly vegetable markets back in business in Pune||PUNE Unauthorised weekly vegetable markets have once again resumed in the Pune corporation limits after the easing of Covid curbs. During the second Covid wave, PMC put a stop to these weekly vegetable markets. All these markets are operating without PMC permission along road sides and on footpaths.Weekly markets are operating in Yerwada, Ahmednagar road, Viman nagar, Wadgaonsheri, Dhanori-Kalas, Baner, Balewadi, Bavdhan, Kothrud, Karvenagar, Mundhwa, and Keshav nagar.Madhav Jagtap, head of the anti-encroachment department of PMC said, “All weekly markets are unauthorised. I have given instruction to all ward-level officials and concerned anti-encroachment officials to take action. The concept was unique, but it was corrupted. We have received complaints from local residents that most weekly markets are unauthorised and organised on footpaths.”Shivaji Langhe, a senior official of the anti-encroachment department said, “The corporation is taking action on unauthorised weekly vegetable markets. It was stopped during the second Covid wave due to strict restrictions. However, it has resumed.”He further said, “State government has shown interest to provide funds to set up weekly markets in Pune and give financial assistance to build infrastructure. However, because of the Covid situation this is on hold.”World Bank ready to fund weekly marketsAshish Agrawal, another senior official of PMC said, “The World Bank is ready to provide funds to the state government. It is a pilot project. Corporation will have to identify 10 to 11 spots and send the list to the Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB) which runs the Agriculture Produce Market Committee in different cities including Pune.” The PMC had allotted land to start the markets. The first market was started in Model Colony in 2017.As per the government order, the State Agriculture Marketing Board, Agriculture Products Marketing Committee (APMC) and PMC should provide permission to start the markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-curbs-eased-unauthorised-weekly-vegetable-markets-back-in-business-in-pune-101632681582924.html
27-09-2021||Other||IAF’s spectacular air show leaves thousands awestruck in Srinagar||It was a stunning display of skill and daredevilry. Thousands of eyes were glued towards the sky over Dal Lake in Srinagar on Sunday morning as Indian Air Force (IAF) pilots and their fighter jets, helicopters and para-motors mesmerised people with their aerobatics and formation flying. Organised by the Air Force Station in Srinagar in collaboration with the Jammu and Kashmir government as part of the “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”, the air show was witnessed from the Sher-e-Kashmir International Conference Centre.It commenced with the para-motor and hang-glider displays, followed by the MiG 21 Bisons flying in a triangular formation.IAF’s skydiving team Akashganga enthralled the audience by jumping from a Mil Mi-17 helicopter over the lake, while the Sukhoi Su-30MKI showcased its maneuverability with a low-level aerobatic display.The star attraction of the event was IAF’s Surya Kiran aerobatics team that performed a syncronised aerial ballet with nine highly versatile Hawk Mk132s.The manoeuvres by the Boeing Chinook heavy-lift helicopter created waves over the otherwise serene Dal Lake, much to the delight of the audience. A symphony orchestra of the IAF added glitter to the event.Coined “Give Wings to Your Dreams”, the event was also IAF’s effort to inspire the youth to join the forces.“Such a show was organised in Srinagar after 14 years. The air display was especially tailored for the younger audience,” said Col Emron Musavi, public relations officer, defence, Srinagar.He said thousands of people witnessed the event, including students from local schools.“I have seen such displays on TV, but I am watching it in real life for the first time,” said 20-year-old Adil Ahmad, a college student from Srinagar.J&K lieutenant-governor Manoj Sinha was the chief guest and Air Marshal BR Krishna, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Air Command, was the chief host.“For a moment it appeared that we were transposed to New Delhi’s Rajpath on Republic Day. I am happy to have witnessed this event, which will motivate the younger generation to join the air force in greater numbers,” said Sinha.He also made a case for environment conservation, stating that it was as much the people’s responsibility as the administration’s or government’s.Mehbooba terms it GOI’s normalcy acrobaticsCriticising the central government, People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti termed the air show “PR antics” to showcase normalcy when the economy had suffered heavy losses in Jammu and Kashmir. “Amused that GOI continues its normalcy acrobatics in J&K. Back to back ministerial visits followed by PR antics such as the Air Show in Srinagar to showcase normalcy when J&Ks shattered economy has suffered losses worth 40,000 crores since 2019,” she said in a tweet, while sharing a news report on the unemployment in the union territory.She claimed that the administration in J&K had become a propaganda machine. “At a time when youth are committing suicide & unemployment rate is 17.8% the local admin has become a PR & propaganda machinery instead of alleviating people’s misery. Governance has been reduced to PR exercises & covering up the truth. No concern whatsoever for the people of J&K,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iafs-spectacular-air-show-leaves-thousands-awestruck-in-srinagar-101632681524205.html
27-09-2021||Noida||Noida residents write to fire department over safety lapses||A residents’ group in Noida has shot a letter to the city’s fire department, pointing out the lapses in fire control measures in several group housing societies and high-rises in the city and emphasising on the need to take a follow-up on the previous audits of the housing complexes. Officials, however, said they are already conducting a drive to inspect the fire safety measures in high-rises since the past three months. “There are several lapses when it comes to fire safety measures in the city’s high rises, especially the 7X sectors where there are over 50,000 flats. While many builders obtain no objection certificate (NOC) despite fire safety lapses, such as defunct sprinklers in certain towers, etc., even the fire department doesn’t do much on the follow ups. Last year, there was a meeting between the fire department and residents, after which audits were done and lapses were found as mentioned in the audit reports. Yet not much has been done to work on the lapses,” said Amit Gupta, a member of Progressive community foundation, a residents’ group, who undersigned the letter. A few pointed out that the audits in their high rises were done “silently and without talking to the residents”. “In our high rise, the internal towers are not connected through 6m roads as proposed in the plan. The 6m road is essential for the movement of fire tenders. A team from the fire department came to our high rise last month but left without taking audit or talking to the residents,” said Ranjan Samant Ray, a resident of Antriksh Golf View 2 in Sector 78.“There are many lapses on the builder’s part as well. For instance, if proper fire safety devices cost around ₹50 lakh, the builders will put in places devices worth ₹25 lakh and somehow obtain the NOC. The responsibility of getting the remaining work done falls on the residents. Almost every high rise in the city has some kind of lapses in fire safety and needs follow ups from the department ,” said Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA).In their letter to the fire department, residents also urged the fire department to set up a fire station in 7X and make arrangements for a fire tender, which can reach the higher floors. “Currently, the tenders based in the city can only reach upto 14 floors,” said Gupta.Meanwhile, officials said that the auditing drive is already under process and lapses have been identified in the housing complexes. “ We have been inspecting several high-rises since past three months in Noida alone. Since there are so many high-rises, the process is taking some time. Lapses in fire safety measures were found in many societies, and action was taken against them. We have also sent the report of around 11 or 12 high-rises to the chief judicial magistrate office,” said Arun Kumar, chief fire officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.“We urge residents to tell us directly if there are issues related to fire safety in any high rise or housing society, if become very difficult if just a general complaint is raised. We are also working on getting a 72m high fire tender, that can reach up to 24 floors. Currently, the maximum height a fire tender can reach in Noida is up to 42 metres,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-residents-write-to-fire-department-over-safety-lapses-101632681343505.html
27-09-2021||Other||Anurag Thakur lays foundation stone of ZPEO, playfield, inaugurates PMGSY road||Union minister for information and broadcasting, youth affairs, and sports, Anurag Thakur laid foundation stone of zonal physical education office (ZPEO) and zonal playfield and inaugurated PMGSY road at Kichpora Kangan on Sunday.The minister visited Kichpora Kangan where he laid foundation stone of ZPEO and development of zonal level playfield approved at ₹1.14 crore.Addressing the gathering, Thakur said there is no dearth of talent in the UT but the need is to channelise that talent. The youth of J&K need facilities and the central government will ensure all facilities making sure that talent flourishes in the region, he added.He said the Union government is committed to further strengthen the existing sports infrastructure and facilities for the UT so that more and more youth join sports and represent J&K at various levels.The central government has earmarked ₹200 crore under the PM Development Plan for development of playfields and indoor stadiums, he said. He added that ₹33 crore more was approved for preparing synthetic turfs, hockey and football grounds in J&K.He urged the gathering to join the countrywide month-long ‘Clean India Mission’ starting on October 1. Welcoming the minister, advisor to the lieutenant governor, Farooq Ahmad Khan lauded the efforts of the Union government for organising the mega outreach programme.Ganderbal deputy commissioner Krittika Jyotsna, director youth services and sports, Ganderbal SSP and other officials of the department were also present. Later, the minister distributed certificates, mementos and sports kits among students during a function at Kichpora Kangan.The minister also visited Kangan and inaugurated the 1.5km PMGSY road constructed at the cost of ₹136.67 lakh at Bonibagh Kangan connecting Bonibagh Bala habitation to the highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anurag-thakur-lays-foundation-stone-of-zpeo-playfield-inaugurates-pmgsy-road-101632681162632.html
27-09-2021||Other||127 fresh Covid cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 127 fresh coronavirus cases and one death in the Kashmir division on Sunday.Of all cases, 104 were reported in Kashmir and 23 in the Jammu division. Srinagar recorded the highest of 56 cases.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 175 with active positive cases reaching 1,514.Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 703, followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 177 and 145 active cases, respectively.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,23,072, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.19%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,29,008 and the death toll stands at 4,422.Officials said 50,881 tests were conducted in the UT in the past 24 hours.Last week’s Covid measures continueAfter a review of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday continued with the containment measures which were taken last week.Last week, the administration had increased the cap on gatherings at banquet halls to 50 for vaccinated persons and reduced night curfew by three hours in districts with low weekly cases and positivity rate.Review of the Covid situation was conducted under the chairmanship of chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta along with other officials on Saturday and an order on Covid containment measures was issued on Sunday.The order reiterated that there is need to continue with the existing Covid containment measures in all districts “in view of the uneven trend observed in daily Covid cases”.“The maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering will be strictly restricted to 25. However, in banquet halls in districts with positivity rate below 0.2% and weekly caseload below 250, gathering will be permitted up to enhanced limit of 50 for vaccinated persons,” it said.Just as the previous week, there will be no weekend curfew in any district and the night curfew will continue to remain in force from 8pm to 7am.“But for districts with a positivity rate below 0.2% and weekly caseload below 250, it will be from 10pm to 6am,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/127-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-jk-101632681043285.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Gogi shootout: 2 arrested, Delhi Police chief Rakesh Asthana visits Rohini court||The Delhi Police on Sunday arrested two suspects in the murder of gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi inside Rohini district court even as police commissioner Rakesh Asthana visited the crime scene where the dramatic shoot-out took place, leaving three dead. Officials said Asthana visited the court and the crime scene but did not give any further details. The special cell on Sunday arrested Umang Yadav and Vinay Mota who were earlier detained for questioning. Officers privy to the development said a car which was reportedly used to transport the two attackers who gunned down Gogi on Friday inside a courtroom in Rohini courts complex, and were then shot dead by the police, has also been seized. Investigators also said that the attackers planned to surrender before the judge after killing Gogi, but before they could move towards the judge’s seat, the security personnel who accompanied Gogi to the court killed them, apprehending they might harm the judge, and others present inside the courtroom. They added that they were yet to ascertain this and other details that were emerging during the investigation.“We did not get their custody so far, and will be interrogating them at length once we do,” said Alok Kumar, Joint Commissioner (Crime). A senior special cell official said the handover formalities regarding one of the accused, Umang Yadav were not ready. Uman and Mota were picked up by the special cell from a house in Haiderpur, based on the CCTV footage from the court complex that showed them moving about in an “unusual” manner. The house belongs to Umang, said a special cell officer.The police suspect that gangster Tillu Tajpuriya, the main rival of Gogi, hatched the plan to eliminate him. Tillu is currently lodged in the Mandoli jai. The missing ‘third attacker’Investigators have an alleged member of Tillu’s gang, Naresh Kumar alias Sonu, was a part of the shoot-out plan. It was Sonu who roped in Umang and told him to bring the two attackers -- Rahul Tyagi and Jagdeep Jagga -- to the court. During questioning, Umang told the police Tyagi and Jagga were in touch with him. He mentioned that though he was asked to wait outside in a car, three people -- Tyagi, Jagga and unidentified person -- were to go inside the court and kill Gogi. However, he said, that since they could not arrange a lawyer’s attire for the third person, only Tyagi and Jagga went inside the court room, where they shot Gogi dead, an investigator said. “They reached the court around 10.15 am on Friday. All four of them then went inside the court to show the attackers the courtroom, after which Umang and another person came out and waited in their car. However, as soon as they realised that Tyagi and Jagga have been killed in the retaliatory fire by the police, they fled,” the investigator said. Police said that they were establishing the identity of the person, who waited outside in the car with Umang. Mota and Umang have also told the police that Tyagi and Jagga came to Delhi on September 20, and the next day they bought white trousers and black jackets that are worn by lawyers. Probable inter-gang plotThe police suspect that more than one gang could be involved in the killing since one of the attackers, Tyagi was a member of Sunil Rathi gang while Jagga belonged to Tillu’s gang. The possible third attacker, who waited outside with Uman, is suspected to be a member of Naveen Bali gang, investigators said. Since Tillu is also considered close to gang leaders Neeraj Bawana, Sunil Rathi, Naveen Bali and Kaushal, all of whom are also under the police radar for any possible involvement in Gogi’s murder.All of the alleged conspirators are currently lodged in jails in the national capital and neighbouring states. Officials said they may also be taken into custody for questioning. Post-mortem examinationOn Sunday, a board of doctors conducted a post-mortem examination of Gogi’s body at Maulana Azad Medical college. The procedure was recorded on video, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gogi-shootout-two-arrested-delhi-police-commissioner-rakesh-asthana-visits-rohini-court-and-crime-scene-101632680023249.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Civic bodies aim to mechanise waste collection points before polls||The project of mechanising garbage collection points (dhalao) in the city has now entered its final leg with civic officials setting March 2022 as the deadline for phasing out all the remaining operational dhalaos and trying to complete the project before the municipal elections scheduled to be held next year.The mechanization project was started in October 2016 with the inauguration of five fixed compactor transfer stations (FCTS) by L G Najeeb Jung. Delhi has over 1,209 primary garbage receptacle points with 550 such points under the jurisdiction of North MCD (municipal corporation of Delhi), 350 points with the South municipal body and 309 receptacles in the East Delhi Municipal CorporationTraditionally a three walled open structure, an open dhalao is used as a primary municipal waste collection for a colony or a locality. A fixed garbage compactor station works on a hydraulically operated garbage compression system, which reduces the volume of garbage and turns it into highly compressed cakes of mixed waste. It usually comprises a garbage input bin, tipcart, loading shovel bucket, compressor and a hook loader.
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Dombivli rape case: Two more arrested, tally now 31||The police on Sunday arrested two more accused in the Dombivli gang rape case. The police have arrested 31 people in connection with the case and sent two minors to a juvenile remand home in Bhiwandi. The survivor had approached the police on September 22 and accused 33 men of intimidation, blackmail and prolonged sexual abuse between January and September.According to the survivor, one of the accused posted a compromising video of her on a WhatsApp group, when she refused to meet him in May. “Ever since they got access to the video recorded in January, in which the main accused was sexually assaulting the victim, the accused had repeatedly been calling the victim. They would ask her to come to various locations, where several of them would force themselves on her,” the Manpada police officer said.The survivor has alleged that the main accused, with whom she was in a relationship, allegedly took ₹500 from each of his friends for committing the crime. “The victim has claimed that she saw the main accused taking ₹500 in cash from the men assaulting her,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dombivli-rape-case-two-more-arrested-tally-now-31-101632680020557.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man strangles wife to death in Model Town||Police have arrested a 45-year-old man on Saturday for allegedly strangulating his wife, a yoga trainer, whom he suspected was in a relationship with another man. Police said the woman, identified as Ravneet Kaur (40), a resident of Model Town 3, was rushed to a private hospital by her daughter and parents-in-law around 5.30am on Tuesday, where she was declared brought dead. The post-mortem report, which arrived on Saturday, confirmed she was strangulated and that there were no external injury marks. Police said since Kaur was a yoga trainer and used to go to the gym twice a day, her husband Paramjeet Singh suspected her of having an affair with someone at the gym. He had been keeping a watch on her for quite a few days. On Tuesday, Kaur, who was on a call with someone, did not respond to Singh when he was talking to her. In a fit of rage, Singh strangulated her till she died. Police said the couple was married for over 20 years. While their elder daughter was in Pune, their younger daughter and Singh’s parents were at home but in different rooms when the incident took place. Singh runs a car accessories shop in Kashmiri Gate, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-strangles-wife-to-death-in-model-town-101632679780206.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Godown owners in agri lands want DDA to relax rules||Despite an amendment in the Master Plan of Delhi (MPD)-2021 three years ago to regularise godowns in non-conforming areas, its owners are struggling to get their properties legalised and have demanded further relaxation in the norms set by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021 to protect existing structures from sealing.According to the amended MPD-2021 norms, a 30m RoW -- the minimum width of the road leading to the property -- is mandatory for regularisation but traders claim that most godowns in non-conforming areas (agricultural land and villages) have a road width of only around 10-15m.Sumit Agarwal, general secretary, Marble Dealers Association South Delhi, who has a godown in Chattarpur, said, “There is a need to reduce the RoW requirement to 15m or less to make regularisation of godowns possible.”Godowns were initially banned in non-conforming areas but with many such facilities mushrooming across villages, especially in north Delhi, over the years, the DDA amended MPD-2021 in June 2018 to regularise all existing godowns in such areas in order to protect them from sealing. The amendment however makes it clear that no new godowns are allowed in non-conforming areas. The deadline for regularisation, which was supposed to end in December, has now been extended to December 31, 2023.In the Capital, godowns are located in north Delhi’s Alipur and Narela, Najafgarh in southwest Delhi, and Chhatarpur in south Delhi, among other areas.Naresh Gupta, president of Delhi Grain Merchants’ Association, said, “For the past three years, the policy is just on paper. No effort has been made by government agencies to expedite the implementation of the policy. We have godowns in 10-12 villages near GT Karnal road, but plans of not a single godown have been passed by the civic agency.”A senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation official, who is aware of the issue, said, “There are around 7,000 godowns in our jurisdiction. But we have not been able to regularise any so far due to the stringent norms. The right of way, parking and other clauses on the norms are difficult to meet, as these godowns have come up haphazardly. There is a need to relax the norms.”Similarly, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation has not been able to process many applications. “We have got very few applications as, in most cases, they are unable to meet the criteria. We have regularised only one godown so far,” said an official, requesting anonymity.The official said that the North corporation has submitted its recommendation to the DDA regarding the need to relax development control norms for regularisation of godowns in non-conforming areas.A senior DDA official said, “We are examining the recommendations submitted by the North corporation. As of now no decision has been taken.”Meanwhile, the traders have also raised other demands, including allowing new godowns in non-conforming areas and urbanised villages, and reduction in external development charges (which traders will have to pay for developing the area).Agarwal further said that there is a need to clarify that sale and purchase of marble is permitted in godowns. “Marble traders, especially in Chhatarpur, are having difficulty in getting their properties de-sealed (which were shut for alleged misuse during the 2017 sealing drive in non-conforming areas). We want the DDA to clarify in the norms that sale and dispatch of marble be considered as permissible and valid under the godown policy,” said Agarwal, who is also the national secretary of Confederation of All India Traders.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-godown-owners-in-agri-lands-want-dda-to-relax-rules-101632679720482.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: DDA to start e-auction of 474 commercial and residential sites||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will start e-auction of 474 commercial and residential sites from Monday. The list of plots includes 25 sites for organising functions and seven group housing plots.The agency has also postponed till October 10, the auction of seven sites for CNG fuel stations.In 2020, DDA approved two proposals to put on sale sites for functions and group housing plots.DDA officials said that the idea behind the decision to auction group housing plots was to gradually allow private developers or group housing societies to develop housing in the city. Currently, the housing plots are allotted to cooperative group housing societies.The seven group housing plots that have been put on sale are located in Rohini, Dwarka and Vishwas Nagar measuring 7,000-40,000 sq.m. DDA officials said that these plots will be given on a freehold basis.Similarly, the 25 function sites will be given for a period of 10 months. These sites are located in Pitampura, Rohini, Shahdara, Vikaspuri etc. DDA officials said that the decision to auction function sites was taken in order to protect them from encroachment. While these 25 sites will be auctioned, the booking of other sites will continue as per the current process—sites are booked for each function.Apart from this, DDA has put on auction 76 institutional plots, 25 mobile towers, 150 shops, 36 residential plots, 56 kiosks and restaurant units etc. While the shops and residential plots are on freehold basis, institutional plots, mobile towers and kiosks/restaurants are on leasehold and licence fee basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dda-to-start-e-auction-of-474-commercial-and-residential-sites-101632679360224.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||386 waterlogging spots, 291 landslide-prone spots in Mumbai, finds BMC mapping||A total of 386 waterlogging spots, 74 vulnerable settlements and 291 landslide-prone areas have been identified in the city, as part of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) project to map natural disaster-prone zones. As the ward-wise mapping for each of the 24 administrative wards is now complete, the civic body has integrated this data with its annual Flood Preparedness Guidelines 2021 and started to act upon them. Mapped as part of this initiative are vulnerable settlements due to their proximity to the sea, to a landslide-prone area, to a high-tension wire, those settled along the creeks in Mumbai, or at foothills of hillocks, and those with proximity to BMC reservoirs; flooding-prone spots in each ward, including chronic flooding-prone spots, localised flooding-prone spots, temporary ones due to ongoing metro construction or other development works. Of the 386 waterlogging spots, 178 have already been tackled by the civic body and 164 have work going on to mitigate flooding, as per its survey. Eleven spots have not been tackled by the civic body, stated the survey. While landslide-prone areas have been categorised into high-, medium- and low-risk spots, with estimates of the affected population in each area, flooding-prone spots have been categorised on the basis of spots which have already been tackled, spots where work is presently going on, and those that are under Railways’, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s or Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd’s (MMRCL) jurisdiction. The BMC has also identified emergency assembly points in each ward such as municipal school buildings, along with how many people can be accommodated in each building. There are a total of 130 emergency assembly points across 24 wards. These have been identified keeping in mind the affected population in case of the above-mentioned emergencies. The maximum number of landslide-prone spots – 152 – is in the S ward corresponding to Bhandup; the area has 10 emergency assembly points. It is followed by N ward in Ghatkopar, which has 32 spots and 8 emergency assembly points. L ward, corresponding to Kurla, has 11 emergency assembly spots, due to proximity to settlements to Mithi River, which swells almost every monsoon, prompting the BMC ward authorities to arrange for temporary evacuation of 400-600 residents. The information has been uploaded on the BMC’s website and is accessible to citizens. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner who is in charge of the civic disaster management department, said, “It is the need of the hour to mitigate casualty and property damage due to natural disasters. Creating awareness among residents is the most impactful way to do this. The BMC began ward-wise mapping of disaster-prone areas in the city. The crucial phase of the project is education of citizens, sharing knowledge with elected representatives and then giving them tools to deal with such disasters in an emergency. That is why this information is online.” The BMC has already begun workshops with citizens, local leaders and elected representatives at its Parel-based City Disaster Management Institute. However, these were halted due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, Kakani said. For over a decade, the BMC has been preparing Flood Preparedness Guidelines every year. It is a handbook of ward-wise details of disasters, with standard operating procedure outlining the roles and responsibilities of each of the first responding agencies in case of disasters. A senior civic official said, “We update the Flood Preparedness Guidelines handbook every year, adding components to it, elaborating roles of first responders as our SOP gets finetuned.” In a mid-monsoon review meeting in July, the BMC also decided to appoint a consultant to survey landslide-prone sites and suggest corrective measures. Kakani said, “As per an earlier survey conducted by the Geographical Survey of India (GSI), landslide-prone spots across Mumbai have been categorised into light, moderate and critical. There are 20 such critical spots that BMC has decided to focus on for immediate corrective measures. These spots are mostly in the eastern suburbs, in S (Bhandup) and L (Kurla) wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/386-waterlogging-spots-291-landslide-prone-spots-in-mumbai-finds-bmcmapping-101632679300170.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro earns ₹19.5 crore by selling 3.55 million carbon credits||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has earned ₹19.5 crore from the sale of the 3.55 million carbon credits that it collected over a period of six years (2012-18) by investing in clean development mechanism projects.Delhi Metro has registered four of its projects with United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC). The projects are: regenerative braking, Modal Shift, MRTS Program of Activities and solar project.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC said, “All these projects are first of their kind in the world. Delhi Metro is the first Metro or railway project in the world to be registered by the United Nations under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) to claim carbon credits for its Regenerative Braking Project in 2007.”The CDM is a project-based Green House Gas (GHG) offset mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol, allowing the public and private sector in high-income nations the opportunity to purchase carbon credits from greenhouse gas emissions-reducing projects in low or middle-income nations as part of their efforts to meet international emissions targets under the Kyoto protocol.The DMRC earned ₹9.55 crore from the sale of carbon credits it generated from the regenerative braking project—DMRC’s first CDM project. In the regenerative braking project, whenever trains on the Metro network apply brakes, three phase - traction motors installed on these trains act as generators to produce electrical energy which goes back into the Over Head Electricity (OHE) lines. The regenerated electrical energy that is supplied back to the OHE is used by other accelerating trains in the same service line, thus saving overall energy in the system as about 30% of electricity requirement is reduced.The second important CDM project is about modal shift in Delhi ever since DMRC started its operations. Dayal said, “The essence of this project is that the carbon footprint of people travelling by metro is much lesser than that of the same journeys performed by other modes of transport.”Then there is a solar project and Program of Activities. Under PoA, DMRC has been providing CDM consultancy service to other Metro systems in India since 2015. “DMRC is enabling them to earn carbon credits from their project. Already Gujarat Metro, Mumbai Metro and Chennai Metro etc. have registered their projects under the Delhi Metro’s Program of Activities (PoA) project,” said Dayal.In 2014, Delhi Metro registered with the prestigious ‘Gold Standard Foundation’, Switzerland, which is also a globally accepted certification standard for carbon mitigation projects. The Metro has registered four projects with the Gold Standard Foundation.Dayal said, “Total revenue generation from CDM and Gold Standard projects since inception has been ₹29.05 crore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-earns-19-5-crore-by-selling-3-55-million-carbon-credits-101632679060521.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Plan to flatten landfills in Delhi may be delayed after record monsoon||The heavy monsoon in the national capital this year may interfere with the Delhi municipal corporations’ target of flattening their three major garbage dumps by September 24, officials of the civic bodies said.According to reports submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the three corporations expect to clear one landfill each over the next three years.A senior official overseeing the sanitation department in the South Delhi Municipal Corporation said trommel and bio-mining work has been halted for the past two months due to the rain.“Waste cannot be sieved when wet. So, various components of waste cannot be separated using trommels,” the official explained.
27-09-2021||Delhi||Record rains in Delhi help raise groundwater along Yamuna floodplains by 2.5m||Devices installed by the Delhi government to measure groundwater level in a four-square kilometre area around a reservoir created along the Yamuna floodplains near Palla neighbourhood, located in the northern peripheries of the city, recorded a rise of 2.5 metres this year, the highest in three years with the Capital witnessing record rainfall this monsoon.With the project completing three monsoons since its pilot run in 2019, the government will now start drafting a report from October 1, which is supposed to be submitted to a committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), said a senior government official. “The government is supposed to take a call on further continuation of the project, expansion of the 26-acre reservoir and acquisition of more farmlands for that in the time to come, only after getting the tribunal’s nod,” said the official. In July 2019, the Delhi government launched a water conservation project along the Yamuna river, which, the official said, aimed at recharging the depleting groundwater levels in the national capital. The project involved creating a reservoir to collect excess water from the Yamuna as it floods during the monsoon and giving it adequate time to recharge groundwater levels. The government was supposed to record developments of the project for three monsoons and prepare a report, that is to be shared with the NGT-appointed panel, for taking further call. The government acquired 40 acres of land along the Yamuna floodplains near Palla – not very far from the Delhi-Haryana border in Singhu village – in 2019 for the project. Of the 40 acres, 10 belonged to gram sabhas in the area and 30 acres were acquired from farmers on three-year lease agreements. The government then created a reservoir of 17.6 acres.The next year, the size of the reservoir was increased to 26 acres. In a four square metre area around the reservoir, which includes Palla, Bakhtawarpur, Tigipur, Sungarpur, Bakner, Mamorpur and a few other villages with vast stretches of paddy fields, the government set up a network of 33 piezometers — devices that can measure the depth of groundwater.“In 2019, the devices showed that the groundwater levels have risen upto 1.3 metres, and last year, the maximum rise recorded was 2 metres. This year, the devices recorded a maximum rise of 2.5 metres,” said the senior government official, who did not wish to be identified.The reservoir is estimated to have contributed 4,350 million litres to the groundwater aquifer collectively in 2019 and 2020. “Assessment for 2021 is yet to be done. It will be incorporated in the final report. The government plans to submit the report to the NGT-appointed committee in another two months,” said the official. The government has plans to expand the project to a 1,000-acre area stretching till Wazirabad, said a second official in the government’s irrigation and flood control department “To understand why the project is evidently bearing fruit, one has to look at rainfall data, because rain plays the primary role here,” said the official. According to the data of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi usually receives 653.6mm of rainfall during the monsoon season. In 2020, the city recorded 648.9mm of precipitation and 404mm rain in 2019. This monsoon, Delhi has received 1,169.7mm rainfall till 8pm on Sunday, the highest since 1964 (1,190.9 mm).“The idea of the reservoir sounds feasible considering the soil type in Delhi, which allows quick percolation of water. If the government does not take measures to recharge groundwater levels now, things can get worse. Chennai has a severe groundwater depletion problem. Delhi should not become another Chennai,” said Sanjay Singh, national coordinator of Jan Jal Jodo Abhiyan, an advocacy group that works on access to water, conservation of water bodies, groundwater recharge and water security through community participation.Farmers in the area, however, highlighted some concerns. “There are issues pertaining to payment of rent in accordance with the lease. Those have to be resolved. The farmers who have given their lands have no other source of income,” said Ritesh Rana, a farmer and a resident of Bakhtawarpur village.When HT visited the villages close to the reservoir this week, several farmers stressed on why they were unsure about the efficacy of the project.“Most farmers have water pumps and pipes that go 40 feet down. During monsoon, they face no problem anyway. We are not very sure about the changes in the groundwater level. We learn about the changes through data that is occasionally shared by government teams visiting the site,” said Pappan Singh Gahlot, a farmer and resident of Tigipur village.There are also a lot of uncertainties. “What happens if the government plans to drop the project next year? The whole area has been dug up and farmers cannot cultivate this land without help from the government. Also, if they plan to expand it, they should inform farmers before the sowing season. Last time, they had to cut half-grown paddy to make space for the reservoir. Farmers in the area still feel that they have not been compensated adequately for the crop loss,” said Rai Singh Tanwar, a farmer from Sungarpur.Office of Delhi’s water minister Satyendar Jain said: “The impact assessment of the project is being done by the Joint Committee appointed by NGT. All the data pertaining to ground water levels, amount of water being recharged and rainfall in the local area is being shared with the Joint Committee. The study of water table is being done with piezometers network in the alignment of pond area and non- pond area and the requisite information will be available... It is expected that the Joint Committee shall submit its report to the NGT by the end of this year.”On land lease amount concerns worrying farmers, Jain’s office said, “The lease rent of land owners are being paid timely... according to the lease agreement by l&FC department for development of pilot project at village Sungerpur. The lease rent upto 2nd year has already been paid through online payment and 3rd year 1st quarter payment is under process . However. there was an issue with some farmers due to merger of banks and change in IFSC details , which has been sort out with concern land owners.”On what will happen to the land if the project is dropped and other uncertainties, an officer in Jain’s office, who is also in charge of the irrigation and flood department, said: “As per the terms and conditions of the lease agreement, if the project is not continued then the land of the farmers shall be returned to them by filling the land with the excavated earth and bringing it to the same elevation as the soil near the reservoir site. The lease is being paid to the farmers from the day their land was taken for the project. This means that the crop of the first year is also compensated. The lease was fixed by a multi department committee of the Delhi Government and has taken into account all the contingencies as far as possible. Otherwise on the success of project, the lease period will be increased accordingly or as directed by the Delhi government.”Manoj Misra of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan, a civil society consortium working for the Yamuna’s protection, however, flagged some concerns largely regarding challenges to fair assessment of the project.“The project has been created in a floodplain. Floodplains have an organic relationship with rivers. During the monsoons, the rivers feeds on the floodplains. The water percolates and recharges aquifers, which can stretch for kilometres. During dry months, the aquifers feed the rivers and help them maintain a base flow. Being a perennial river, Yamuna is one such case. So, a large part of the water recharging process is automatic here,” said Mishra. “Secondly, in the absence of wells in the area and residents always getting access to water with the help of water pumps during monsoon, they would find it difficult to see any changes in the groundwater levels and the assessment would become completely dependent on government readings taken to piezometers. Also, 40 acres of land is too less an area for executing such a project and recording visible changes in water levels,” said Misra.He further said, “For fair and more efficient assessment, the government should consider creating a reservoir in the passive floodplains, ideally on the other side of the river embankment, instead of the active floodplains. This process will not work with the natural overflow of the river and will feed the reservoir automatically during monsoons and would require the government to set up arrangements to fill it up. It can give better results in terms of assessment of such a project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/record-rains-in-delhi-help-raise-groundwater-along-yamuna-floodplains-by-25m-101632678580199.html
27-09-2021||Delhi||Ramlila a non-starter in the land of Ravana worshippers||Like last year, this year too Ramlilas are either being cancelled or are likely to be low-key events due to the continuing restrictions on large gatherings. It may have disappointed millions across the country, but for residents of Bisrakh it would not mean so much since no Ramlilas means no burning of the effigy of the Ravana, who they believe is the son of the soil.“ Ravana was born here in our village. Nothing has been more painful for us than see effigies of Ravana burn every year. We do not hold any Ramlila in our village, ” says Manchand Bhati, 71, sitting at his shop in Bisrakh village.Indeed, Bisrakh—a village in Gautam Budh Nagar, about 30 km from Connaught Place, does not organise Ramlila or celebrate Dussehra, which is in fact the day of mourning for villagers.Local legend has it that Bisrakh is the birthplace of Ravana, the demon king and the ruler of Lanka. The village derives its name from sage Vishrava, Ravana’s father, who is believed to have built a temple here to house a Shiva Lingam that he came across in a forest grove. It was this temple where, the villagers will tell you, as a child, Ravana used to offer prayers to Lord Shiva along with his father.Mange Ram Bhati, another villager, says the village has never celebrated Ramlila, except once about 50 years ago when a group of few young men broke the age-old village tradition by organising it.The consequences, Mange Ram says, turned out to be frightful.A few days after Ramlila was held, Bhati says, two of the youngsters who participated in it as actors passed away. “ We believe that Ravana unleashed his wrath on the village. The was the last time anyone ever tried to hold a Ramlila here,” says Mange Ram. “Everyone believes that if we ever tried to celebrate Ramlila again, a bigger calamity may befall the village,” he says. “We are determined to not repeat that mistake of 50 years ago and so far we have done fine.”In the past decade, Bisrakh, which today has a population of about 10,000, has been transformed into an urban village with palatial houses boasting gleaming SUVs. In the late 2000s, most of the village land was acquired by Greater Noida Authority to develop what is today known as Greater Noida West.What has not changed is the villagers’ reverence for Ravana. Many elderly refer to him as ‘Maha Brahman’ and every Dussehra gather at the local Shiva temple to observe a day of mourning. “ Many houses do not cook on the day and gather here to mourn his demise,” says Mahant Ramdas, the priest of the Shiva temple that is believed to have been built by Vishrava, Ravan’s father. “This is the Shiva Lingam that they both worshipped”.The mahant, who came to the village 40 years ago, says that people from all over the country and, at times even foreigners, visit the temple. “In the four decades, I have not seen the villagers celebrating Ramlia, and their regard for the Ravana has only increased,” says the mahant, giving us a guided tour of the temple, which has the idols of Vishrava, the Ravan’s father and Kubera, his brother. The temple gate, built about a decade back, has the carved image of the Ravana.Villagers say that a few people in the village wanted to build a Ravana temple, but faced opposition from people outside of their village. In August 2016, Ashokanand, a self-styled yoga guru, installed an idol of Ravana inside his yoga ashram in the village, which he seeks to promote as Bisrakh Dham. There are a few large billboards around the village announcing it as Bisrakh Dham, the birthplace of the Ravana to visitors. But the idol was vandalised, which Ashoknand blames on the supporters of the priest of a temple in Ghaziabad.“Another idol is ready, which I am determined to install soon, no matter what. I want to promote a better understanding of Ravana. He was the biggest devotee of Lord Shiva and the greatest scholar. Perhaps his life needs to be seen in totality. He had many more positive than negative qualities, ” says Ashokanand.He says that he is now working to set up a museum celebrating the life and times of Ravana in the village. “I have done a lot of research on Ravana and even travelled to Sri Lanka. A few people from the island country who worship Ravana also visited our village after I told them that our village is the birthplace of Ravana”.Mange Ram Bhati says some young parents, under pressure from their children, would sneak into other places to enjoy Ramlila, but last year they were saved this trouble as Ramilias were cancelled everywhere. “Perhaps this year too, thankfully there would be no Ramlila and they would not have to take the risk of visiting a Ramlila elsewhere, ” says Bhati. A risk? “Though some of them concede to the wishes of their children to see Ramlila, they fear that Ravana might become angry again and punish them for their secret trip to a Ramlila.”Shyam Lal, 73, is a rare voice who is sceptical about his village’s relationship with Ravana. “It is a myth more than anything else, but I do not mind people propagating it as long as it is keeping our village in the limelight, and attracting visitors, ” he says cryptically, not wanting to field any more questions on the subject.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/residents-of-bisrakh-who-revere-ravana-say-they-will-not-miss-ramlila-amid-covid-restrictions-101632678280682.html
27-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath announces hike in sugarcane price||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced ₹25 per quintal hike in the sugarcane purchase price in Uttar Pradesh about five months ahead of the state assembly election due in early 2022.Yogi Adityanath made the announcement about the sugarcane price at a meeting of farmers (Kisan Sammelan) convened by party’s farmers’ cell in Lucknow on the eve of the Bharat Bandh called by such farmers’ organisations which are demanding withdrawal of the Centre’s three new farm laws. “We have decided that the price of the sugarcane variety for which ₹325 per quintal was paid to farmers would be increased to ₹350,” Adityanath said amid applause from farmers who, UP BJP farmers’ wing chief Kameshwar Singh, said had come from all across the state. “My government has also decided to increase the price of ordinary sugarcane variety to ₹340 (per quintal),” Adityanath said. Previously, farmers were paid ₹315 per quintal for this variety of sugarcane. “The government has also decided to hike the value of the less yielding variety of sugarcane by ₹25 per quintal,” he added. The chief minister said these decisions would help the sugarcane farmers to increase their income by 8 per cent. “Effectively, it will transform the lives of 45 lakh farmers,” chief minister said. He also said 119 sugar mills will be operated and they will be linked with ethanol. He attacked the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party governments (BSP) for the closure and sale of sugar mills. The BJP has already concluded farmers’ meetings at 298 places in 95 assembly constituencies with a sizeable presence of sugarcane farmers. “We selected those assembly segments which had a substantial presence of sugarcane farmers. In these meetings, we interacted with nearly 60,000 farmers,” the UP BJP farmers’ wing chief said. He said nearly 20000 farmers were present at the farmers’ meet. The farmers’ wing had felicitated 71 farmers at each district centre on September 17, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, party’s national farmers’ wing chief Rajkumar Chachar, party’s UP in-charge and national vice president of BJP Radha Mohan Singh, UP agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi were among those leaders present on the occasion. The ruling BJP has sought to distinguish between the “real farmers and the ones agitating for political reasons.” “Theirs is not a farmers’ agitation, it’s a political agitation,” said the state’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya while referring to the ongoing agitation demanding rollback of the Centre’s three farm reform laws. “We have so many achievements to talk about. As many as 2.50 crore farmers in UP are benefitting through the Kisan Samman Nidhi, soil health cards, crop insurance, kisan credit card, 50 per cent discount on farm equipment. These are some of the many achievements that we will talk about,” the farmers’ wing chief said. In a major pro-farmer outreach initiative in August, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced cases against farmers for burning crop residue would be withdrawn and a decision would be taken to reimburse monetary penalties levied on such farmers. Also, orders were issued to not disconnect the power connections of farmers due to pending bills. However, these announcements failed to impress Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait who cited his list of demands, primary of them being the withdrawal of farm laws. “Scams have been conducted in the name of MSP (minimum support price) and there are districts where procurement has been done in the name of fake farmers. The BJP government had promised that farmers’ income would be doubled. Well, the government should ideally have declared sugarcane MSP at ₹650 per quintal, paddy at ₹3700 per quintal and wheat at ₹4100 per quintal,” Rakesh Tikait said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-announces-hike-in-sugarcane-price-101632676480103.html
27-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Climate Adaptation Plan: Designing the city for water||Mumbai’s climate has changed. The cyclones, cloud bursts and very heavy rain days of this past monsoon season have made clear that human-caused climate change is not just something to anticipate in the future, but is already part of our everyday environment. Amidst this emergency, the city has begun drafting Mumbai’s Climate Adaptation Plan (MCAP). Much will depend on how the plan is able to fundamentally reimagine and reorganize the city’s relationship with water. On August 27, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched its Climate Adaptation Planning process in a widely publicised event. The administrative and political leadership present was unequivocal about the urgency of climate change planning for the city. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal spoke of multiple severe flooding events this past year. Maharashtra’s environment minister Aaditya Thackeray insisted that the planning exercise cannot remain an environmental wishlist on paper. “We don’t have time,” he said. The BMC, working with not-for-profit environmental groups, World Resources Institute (WRI) India and Waatavaran solicited inputs from experts on key aspects of urban development: waste, energy and buildings, urban flooding and water, air pollution and urban greening. With these inputs, and in consultation with the C40 network of sustainable cities, the city has charged WRI to help it draft a climate action plan. The draft of the plan should be ready in a month, for another round of public feedback. The plan’s success will depend not only on its expansive vision but also on how well it would serve as an instrument of coordination across different urban bureaucracies and sectors. The process will also need to be broad-based and consultative to ensure the plan will address vulnerabilities of the marginalized. And if it seeks to reduce flooding, it requires nothing less than a complete reimagination of the relation between land and water in the city. Not an island but an estuary In their pioneering work from 2009, Soak: Rethinking Mumbai in an Estuary, Anuradha Mathur and Dilip Da Cunha have identified the city’s hostile relationship to its different waters as a prime reason for much of the flooding in the city. They call for the city to move from urban planning projects that exacerbate the city’s adversarial relationship with its rains and sea, towards practices that recognise and accommodate water. The city, they remind us, is not built on seven islands. The city is placed in an estuary. For the last 300 years, the city has been made solid and dry through relentless projects of land filling. The floods that have regularly visited the city from its earliest days are a direct consequence of this land-making. Rain and tidal waters simply return every year to occupy the same grounds that were once khadi (wetlands), creek, or talab (pond). As a result, the city’s residents have long been accustomed to living with regular floods. With the intensification of the rains, the increase of cyclones and the rise in sea levels however, flooding is now more severe, more frequent and more widespread. It now occurs in parts of the city that never used to flood. The city’s near future depends on how it plans for and adapts to the persistent and increasing presence of water in the city. Inhabited Sea is a transdisciplinary, collaborative research project that I was involved with, sought to produce new imaginations of how we may live in cities with water. Started in 2019, the project brought together natural and social science researchers, architects, designers and artists in the United States and in India, to study what it might mean to design Mumbai amidst two gradients of wetness, the sea and the monsoon. From this research, we find that if Mumbai’s Climate Action Plan proceeds as planning traditionally has in the city, the floods will only get worse. This is because of important blind spots in traditional urban planning processes. Cities Partitioned and Dried First, urban plans are siloed and solid. They are narrow, top-down initiatives that divide up urban life into discrete parts of urban space, each addressed in different sections of the plan and in city bureaucracies. In Mumbai, for instance, storm water drains, sewage and roads are all managed by different departments in the city. Yet, Rhea Shah in her Inhabited Sea project, Drawing on Wetness, found, waters are always mixing: nalas hold sewage, rivers hold storm waters, the sea enters rivers and wetlands, and leaking pipes recharge aquifers. While conventional planning and even Mumbai’s climate planning process treats these as distinct, they need to recognise that different waters (drinking, rain, sewage and sea) are part of a single interconnected urban waterscape. Accordingly, planning processes like the MCAP need to integrate landscape architecture perspectives that consider the relations of different waters, air and land use systemically, and not as different sectors. Second, urban planning assumes that the city can be dried. Yet Mumbai is always wet — with the tides, wetlands, humidity, creeks, wells and rain. Rather than dealing with the impossibility of dewatering the city, planners need to see and support existing infrastructures that effectively hold water for some part of every day, month or year. Fortunately, the city still has a wealth of natural infrastructures — creeks, wetlands, nalas, and talabs — which provide considerable service to the city. Even at the MCAP climate consultations, the WRI quantified the significant economic benefit of mangroves that reduce the risks and costs of flooding, hold excess water during rain events, and also pull carbon out of the atmosphere. They are a mitigation as well as an adaptation infrastructure for the city. Yet, because the value of natural infrastructures is neither recognised nor calculated in urban planning or development processes, their loss is assumed to not cost the city. Thus, large infrastructure projects, like the coastal road or metros are proposed and constructed without studying how much the loss of trees or permeable ground will cost the city in future flooding. As Thackeray said at the launch, there has to be a climate lens for every infrastructural development. A road that floods the city cannot be called development. Valuing natural infrastructure Natural infrastructures need to be more accurately valued when making development decisions. To some extent, this is happening with mangroves. But the rate fixed by the Ministry of Environment and Forests in 2009 is a gross underestimate of the ecosystem services provided by mangroves. The value assigned, at approximately ₹10 lakh per hectare, does not even cover the cost of land in Mumbai! The compensation for natural infrastructure loss, like mangrove habitat loss, needs to incorporate both the costs of land and the environmental services provided. Similarly rates, possibly payable to the city environment department, should be fixed for other natural infrastructures such as wetlands, intertidal regions and creeks and river floodplains, whose benefits — carbon sequestration, recreational spaces, flood adaptation and infrastructure — make the city a suitable place to live. Natural infrastructures are generally more cost effective (they are free) and can better complement costly engineering solutions such as storm water drains and water retention tanks. Natural infrastructures are also more spatially efficient. They are often valuable commons that are used by many of the city’s more marginalized populations for work. As such, the Mumbai adaptation plan needs to recognise and support multiply-used urban commons that serve as recreation areas, permeable water holding infrastructures and carbon mitigation spaces at different times of year. This is especially critical for a congested city like Mumbai. Maintaining water infrastructure Since the 1920s, when the city constructed the massive Tansa dam, it has been found that adding new supply does not solve Mumbai’s water problems. Instead, new source development constructs new problems. New dams caused deforestation and the displacement of adivasis in Thane district, Bharat Kaushal Punjabi pointed out in his 2015 thesis on the politics of water contestation in Mumbai-Thane region. New desalination plants consume lots of energy, raise sea temperatures and pollute water, causing harm to marine biodiversity. Neither deforestation and displacement, nor pollution and energy use are in line with Mumbai’s mitigation and adaptation goals. The city also has underground water sources it is not adequately using. For a long time, we have heard that Mumbai’s ground water is contaminated and cannot be used. Yet, many residents of the city are already using well water, obtained through its private water tanker network. Can these resources be made available for the public? Following a year of low rainfall in 2009, the BMC found, renovated, and used water from 12,531 wells in the city in one month alone. With adequate maintenance, Mumbai’s wells can continue to hydrate the city. Necessary policy changes can make everyday water insecurity and vulnerability, particularly for Mumbai’s informal residents, a thing of the past. The MCAP assessment on flooding and water resources points to the need to augment water sources in the city through desalination plants. This activity is fraught for all sorts of reasons, not least because new sources are totally unnecessary. As I show in my book, Hydraulic City: Water and the Infrastructures of Politics in Mumbai (2017), there is no water scarcity in city. All of the data points to the fact that the city receives enough water from its sources. The problem has to do with the significant inefficiencies of water distribution and leakages. According to one BMC report in 2009, these account for approximately 30% of water “lost” in the city. A new paradigm Following the catastrophic floods of July 26, 2005 the Chitale Committee Report pointed out that the rain event was an exceedingly rare, one-in-a-hundred-year event and that expanding the city’s existing storm water infrastructure was necessary. Together with other interventions in the city, these would ensure that the network would work during normal times. But normal times are a thing of the past now. The extremely heavy rainfall of July 2005 has happened several times since, including this year. Rainfall intensity no longer meets our historical expectations. The city of Houston, for example experienced three one-in-500 year flood events in the span of just two years! As such fforts to manage the city’s rains in the present and future, based on 100-year-old technologies will always come up short, and more so because we are living in climate changed times. Storm water engineers working at MCGM confess that the storm water improvements made in the last 10 years are already insufficient for the new normal. City officials cannot expect to drain the seas, intense rains and storms of the present and near future through conventional technologies. With new water and landscape approaches, however, they can find ways for all the city’s residents to live better with water. Nikhil Anand is associate professor of Anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania. He is the co-principal investigator of Inhabited Sea ( inhabitedsea.org). This piece is based on his testimony at the sixth BMC Stakeholder Consultations of the Mumbai Climate Action Plan on Urban Flooding & Water Resource Management held on September 10||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-climate-adaptation-plan-city-and-living-with-wetness-101632673719885.html
27-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 706 new Covid cases, 2 deaths; 56, 998 people vaccinated on Sunday||PUNE On Sunday, the Pune district has reported 706 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection, according to the state health department. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million out of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,763 deaths reported and 9,386 are active cases or patients who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.The Pune district also saw 56, 998 vaccinations on Sunday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 446 new Covid-19 cases, which took the progressive count to 357,388, and the death toll stood at 6,770 as two more deaths were reported.Pune city reported 141 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 516,596, and the death toll stood at 9,149.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 119 new Covid-19 cases, and the progressive count went up to 266,055, and the toll stood at 3,495.Pune also saw 56, 998 vaccinations on Sunday as per the Co-Win dashboard.Till September 26, at least 1,02,20,464 beneficiaries have been vaccinated, out of which 70,15, 876 are first doses, and 32,04,588 are second doses. A total of 205 sites saw vaccination, out of which 29 were government centres, and 176 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-706-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-56-998-people-vaccinated-on-sunday-101632672699025.html
