28-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s south corporation makes life certificates mandatory for pensions||The Lokayukta has opened an inquiry into the disbursal of pensions by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), under the discretionary quota of councillors, allegedly after instances of discrepancy were found in West and Najafgarh zones, municipal commissioner Gyanesh Bharti informed a standing committee meeting on Tuesday. The SDMC commissioner also advised the municipal councillors to obtain life certificates -- to attest that the pension beneficiary is alive and well -- before adding new pensioners under the scheme.Explaining the issue, a senior municipal official said the municipal body has a provision of issuing pension assistance of ₹1,000 per month to 400 pensioners in each of the 104 municipal wards. “After adding the pensions allocated from the discretionary quotas of senior functionaries such as the mayor, a total of 45,000 pensions can be disbursed by the corporation,” the official said, asking not to be named. Due to shortage of funds, the civic body was unable to disburse these pensions since the past two years, the official said. “The last pensions were issued in September 2019. Commissioner has ordered that life certificates must be obtained from all beneficiaries before releasing any new pension amount. These certificates will be vetted and attested by the respective municipal councillor,” the official further said.Officials said life certificates will help weed out dead beneficiaries, especially those who died since 2020 from the Covid-19 pandemic. Standing committee chairman, Col (retd) BK Oberoi said there are 16 types of pensions in Delhi and most of the categories have been transferred to the Delhi government. “Categories such as senior citizen pensions and disable persons pensions have been taken over by the Delhi government. We are currently allowed to issue pensions only to five categories of people -- widows, transgenders, divorcees, people are ill /bedridden and children whose parents have died,” he said. Oberoi said he was not aware about the number of cases in which discrepancies were found. “This is an administrative matter. During the committee meeting, the commissioner informed us that in some cases, pension were found issued to persons who are not alive. These must be cases not more than two years old and a probe is being carried out,” he said.Bharti said no pension will be released without the production of a life certificate for a beneficiary concerned and said a similar attestation is made once a year by retired government officials as well. He did not provide specific number of cases in which the Lokayukta is carrying out the inquiry. In the past, several pension related irregularities have been found in the north corporation as well as the erstwhile unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD). In 2010, the MCD had deleted the names of 3,583 beneficiaries from its pension scheme after finding out that they were availing of benefits from both the civic body and the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-corporation-makes-life-certificates-mandatory-for-pensions-101632853741341.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Amid opposition, Mohali MC House approves cattle dairy shed in Industrial Area||Heated arguments ensued during the question hour of the House meeting of the municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday when Congress councillors started replying to questions asked by the Azad group even though they were asked to the mayor.The Azad group councillors again took up the issue of construction of the cattle shed on 3.5 acres of land in Industrial Area, Phase 8, alleging that Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had leased the land to MC and it couldn’t be subleased further.The agenda, which was tabled in the House, was to shift milch animals out of city limits by developing a cattle dairy shed, to be carved out of 13.6 acres of MC land in Industrial Area, Phase 8B. The agenda was approved amid the ruckus.The Azad group alleged that Congress councillors came prepared to counter their allegations on the issue of allotting land to dairy owners for shifting of cattle to a designated place on the lines of Milk Colony in Chandigarh.Congress councillors were carrying full-size photographs of stray cattle seen on roads, which they flaunted as soon as the Opposition started questioning the agenda point.Opposed to charging rent from dairy farmers: OppositionOpposition councillors Gurmeet Kaur flanked by Aruna Sharma, Ramanpreet Kaur from Kumbran and Harjinder Kaur from Sohana raised objections over the agenda point to rent out sheds to dairy owners to set up cattle rearing units. Ramanpreet Kaur said, “We are not opposing the agenda for shifting of the cattle out of the city but the charging of rent from dairy owners.”“Small-time dairy owners will not be able to pay the rent to the tune of ₹10,000 to ₹15,000 per month as they might not earn that much after selling the milk,” she added.While clarifying the issue, city mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said, “We gave time to the Opposition, but they raised an unnecessary issue.”“It has been observed that local dairy owners let their cattle stray out on roads for grazing after milking them which causes much inconvenience to the commuters,” he added.Deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said, “We have earmarked 3.5 acres of land for setting up a shed where local dairy owners will be given space to tie their cattle and milk them. The space will be given as per the number of cattle owned by the dairy owners. The cattle will not be allowed to let out in the open.”Apart from this another agenda item regarding developing a children’s park under Amrut Mission and developing a park in Industrial Area, Phase 9, were also passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-opposition-mohali-mc-house-approves-cattle-dairy-shed-in-industrial-area-101632853740197.html
28-09-2021||Other||Odisha to issue SOP on Covid-19 death compensation||The government of Odisha would soon issue an SOP to compensate the next of kin of those who died by suicide or by accident within 30 days of testing positive for Covid-19, officials said today.While interacting with media persons in Bhubaneshwar, Director of Medical Education and Training, CBK Mohanty, said as per the Supreme Court order, an SOP will soon be presented by the state government to include kin of those who died by suicide or by accident within 30 days of testing positive for the virus. They will be provided with ₹50,000 as compensation.Earlier, the Centre, in an affidavit filed before with the Supreme Court, said the compensation will be paid by the state governments from their respective disaster response funds and will be channelised through the District Disaster Management Authority or the district administrations.The families will have to submit their claims through a form issued by the state authorities along with specified documents, including those certifying the cause of death.As per the official records, 8187 people in the state have so far succumbed to Covid-19. However, NGOs working in the health sector believe otherwise as Odisha registered around 20,000-odd excess deaths in 2020 as compared to 2019 which they allege may possibly have been caused due to Covid-19. The NGO leaders say there may have been more deaths this year as the second wave of Covid-19 was more fatal as compared to last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-to-issue-sop-on-covid-19-death-compensation-101632852841654.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai hospitals witness 50% rise in emergency footfall of patients with heart attacks||Hospitals across the city are witnessing an almost 50% rise in emergency footfall of patients with heart attacks compared to the peak pandemic period in the second wave. This is attributed to sedentary lifestyle during the pandemic and disruption of treatment for patients with cardiac ailments in the lockdown.Data from the state health department shows there has been a 27% drop in cases of hypertension and diabetes—which are considered as contributing factors to heart attack amid the pandemic compared to 2019-20. Doctors also believe Covid-19, which increases the chances of heart-related diseases, can also be a contributing factor. They lay emphasis on conducting more studies to conclude on the correlation.Heart attack is the biggest killer in Mumbai. On an average, every day around 90 people die because of it, as per the data of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). When the pandemic started in March 2020, both private and civic-run hospitals witnessed a drastic drop in cases of heart attack. But as the daily Covid-19 cases dip, there has been a sudden surge in cases of heart attack in the past 2-3 months.Dr Akshay Deodhar, in-charge of accident and emergency department at Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital, that he has witnessed almost 50% rise in heart attack cases in the past few months. Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road has recorded 8,451 cases of heart attacks since the start of the pandemic.Pandemic fearWhen the pandemic started, people refused to visit hospitals to avoid contracting Covid-19. Thus a large number of patients with diabetes and hypertension remained undetected or lagged behind in medication.Data provided by the state health department shows that in 2019-20, a total of 173,678 patients were diagnosed with diabetes in Maharashtra, which dropped to 127,320 in 2020-21 amid the pandemic. Similarly, detection of patients with hypertension dropped from 230,476 to 166,968 in the time period in the state.Dr Anup Taksande, consultant interventional cardiologist, Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road, said, “Since Covid-19 cases started swelling up in the country, not many people were diagnosed with cardiovascular diseases as they failed to opt for cardiac screenings and seek timely intervention due to the fear of getting infected with the virus. Due to the lack of proper diagnosis, delayed treatment and complicated recovery, and ignorance, many suffered in silence. Still, many cases are going unreported. People have avoided treatment even after getting a heart attack.”Dr Mohit Garg, consultant and head of accident and emergency at Global Hospital, Parel, stated that with the starting of the pandemic, all emergency visits and admissions across hospitals for heart related ailments had declined drastically by 40-50% compared with pre-pandemic data.“Researchers concluded that people were more than twice as likely to die from a heart attack when compared with pre-pandemic times, probably because they were less likely to be hospitalized,” he said.Covid-19 a cause?Studies across the globe have stated that Covid-19 recovered patients are vulnerable to developing heart attacks within two-three weeks of recovery. A study—Incidence and clinical profile of acute coronary syndromes (heart attacks) in recovered cases of Covid infection – by doctors from Sri Jayadevai Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Bangalore in June found that 26 patients who recovered from Covid-19 had suffered a heart attack within seven to eight weeks of post recovery.“There is a widespread swelling (inflammation) as the body’s immune system fights the infection. The inflammation not only affects the lungs, but also the heart, brain, kidneys and other systems of the body. We also know that the Delta variant can have more effects. Many patients have been experiencing cardiac symptoms during the pandemic,” said Dr Ruchit Shah, interventional cardiologist, Masina Hospital.A study published in the Lancet which was conducted among 86,742 people found that the risk of heart attacks and strokes is three times higher in the first two weeks of Covid-19 infection.Dr Garg also shared the same opinion. “In various studies over the past few months, it has been found that Covid-19 evolved as a major risk factor for heart attacks and strokes. It is fatally affecting a large number of young people with no pre-existing heart ailments or any traditional risk factors such as diabetes, hypertension or high cholesterol,” he said.Doctors are getting several patients with complaints of chest pain who upon diagnosis are identified as Covid-19 positive. “As per our safety protocol, every patient strictly undergoes a Rapid Antigen test (RAT), followed by an RT-PCR test. We diagnosed active Covid-19 infection in less than 4% to 5% of patients, who rushed to the casualty ward,” said Deodhar.Many young people between the age of 20 and 35 years are getting diagnosed with heart attacks.Dr Taksande said he is witnessing a large number of patients in emergency between the age of 20 to 35 years suffering a massive heart attack and succumbing to it.Doctors have recommended social distancing, avoiding crowded places, double masks covering nose and mouth, sanitization and complete vaccination as must for all. Dr Shah further recommended avoiding heavy strenuous activity for six to eight weeks after Covid-19 infection.Case studyTushar Rane and Sanchita Gamre, a ward boy and technician from Nanavati Max Hospital, gave a new lease of life to a 55-year-old heart attack patient by providing him Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in an autorickshaw while ferrying him to the hospital.CPR is a lifesaving technique that involves chest compressions in an effort to manually help in breathing of a person who is in cardiac arrest.On September 20, when the two staff visited a nationalised insurance company for personal work, they witnessed the man collapse. “I had barely climbed the stairs when I heard my colleague Sanchita calling out my name loudly,” said Rane. “He was breathless and had no pulse. I immediately started CPR,” said Gamre who works as a senior technician in the 2D Echo unit.The patient’s angiography revealed a 100% blockage in the patient’s left anterior descending artery (LAD)—the largest and most important of the three main coronary arteries. Cardiologists from the hospital immediately performed an angioplasty to relieve the block and restored the heart’s blood flow. The patient was discharged within 48 hours of observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hospitals-witness-50-rise-in-emergency-footfall-of-patients-with-heart-attacks-101632852542639.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Two held for sedating passengers, robbing them after offering auto rides in outer Delhi||New Delhi: Two men, who allegedly sedated passengers and robbed them after offering them rides in an autorickshaw, were arrested by police in outer Delhi. Investigators said they are a part of the Jahar Khurani gang which runs a similar operation.DCP (outer) Parvinder Singh said that the gang usually operates in groups of two-three people -- one of them drives the autorickshaw, the others pose as passengers.“Together, they would look for unsuspecting victims, travelling alone. When they find one looking to hitch a ride, the co-accused sitting as passengers initiates small talk. After befriending them, they offer sedated drinks,” said the DCP.When the victim become unconscious, the gang take away his valuables and flees after leaving the passenger unattended at a secluded spot.Police said they were put on the trail of the two accused -- Madan Lal (35) and Ravi (26) -- after they received a complaint from a man identified as Sanjay, who claimed he was robbed of  ₹XXXX on September 13 and dropped off at Timarpur.Police said they filed an FIR under sections 379 (theft), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and teams were formed to nab the accused.Police said they scanned over 100 CCTV cameras along the stretch from Peeragarhi to Timarpur in north Delhi, the route allegedly taken by the two accused.Police said the two men been arrested for the same crime in the past as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-sedating-passengers-robbing-them-after-offering-auto-rides-in-outer-delhi-101632852539861.html
28-09-2021||Other||Cyber cops recover funds siphoned off from victims’ bank accounts in Prayagraj||: Four victims of online fraud got their money back with the help of Cyber Cell police of Prayagraj on Tuesday. The Cyber Cell team ensured the return of the whole amount that was siphoned off from their bank accounts. In total, over 2.30 lakh were recovered and returned to the four online fraud victims, officials said.SP crime Ashutosh Mishra said Sangeeta Dwivedi of Khuldabad lost ₹99,000 through Phone Pe app installed on her mobile, while Rahul Bind of Sarai Inayat lost ₹63,000 through same means. In another fraud ₹38,380 was siphoned off through AnyDesk app from Subhash Chandra Dubey while Ram Murti Mishra of Georgetown also lost cash ₹30,000 after he shared an OTP send to his mobile which the fraudsters used to withdraw cash through ATM machine.Soon after receiving complaints,the cyber cell police contacted bank officials and authorities of the concerned payment apps and gateways. The transfer of cash was stalled after the relevant process and the siphoned off cash was returned to the accounts of the victims, SP crime added.SP crime further said online frauds should immediately be reported on Cyber Cell complaint number 9454405263. Bank customers should remain alert and stay away from any online allurement regarding lottery, bank detail update etc. People should themselves go to bank for updating their details and report to Bank authorities and police if they find any anomalies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyber-cops-recover-funds-siphoned-off-from-victims-bank-accounts-in-prayagraj-101632852300028.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||CBI probe now focuses on recovery of Mahant’s ‘morphed obscene video’||PRAYAGRAJ: Having secured seven-day custody of Swami Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and Sandeep Tiwari, the three accused whose names figure in the purported suicide note of Mahant Narendra Giri as those who were harassing him, the CBI is now expected to focus on securing the morphed video clip which also finds mention in the suicide note and due to which Narendra Giri was under pressure and tense right till his death. CBI officials reached Naini Central Jail on Tuesday morning and took custody of Anand Giri and others. They were taken to the Reserve Police Lines for questioning under tight security. While Special Investigation Team (SIT) members earlier accompanied CBI officials during investigations at Baghambari Gaddi Math and Bade Hanuman Temple, they were kept away while Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep were questioned at police lines. As per police officials, Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep were questioned separately by different teams of CBI officials. All other investigations and recreation of the alleged suicide has already been carried out by CBI and the prime objective behind taking remand of Anand Giri now is to question him regarding his relations with Mahant Narendra Giri and recover his laptop, mobile and documents relevant to the case. In their remand application to the court, CBI officials have mentioned that they wanted 10- day remand of Anand Giri to recover his laptop, mobile etc from Haridwar besides questioning him in connection with the death of Mahant Narendra Giri. Anand Giri was taken into custody at Haridwar but his laptop and mobile etc are yet to be recovered. To recall, in his purported suicide note, Mahant Narendra Giri had alleged that Anand Giri was threatening to release a video showing him in a compromising position with a woman. The Mahant had claimed that Anand Giri has used a computer to create a doctored photograph and video of him with a woman which he was going to release in a day or two. However, Narendra Giri did not mention the name of the person in Haridwar who gave him this information. “One of our prime objectives now is to recover the morphed video and photographs about which Mahant Narendra Giri has mentioned in his purported suicide note found in the room where his body was found hanging,” informed a police official privy to the information. Moreover, CBI officials will also identify the person in Haridwar who was in contact with Mahant Narendra Giri and had informed him about Anand Giri’s plans of releasing a doctored video. The CBI’s interrogation of the accused continued till evening in different phases during which they were asked about their whereabouts at the time when Narendra Giri’s body was found hanging at Baghambari Gaddi Math and the sequence of events that day. The CBI investigations are based on a case of abetment to suicide lodged against Anand Giri at Georgetown police station. Later, the names of Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep were also added on the basis of their names mentioned by Mahant Narendra Giri in the purported suicide note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cbi-probe-now-focuses-on-recovery-of-mahant-s-morphed-obscene-video-101632852061328.html
28-09-2021||Other||Gang involved in tampering with electricity meters busted in Prayagraj, one arrested||: Police arrested a person and later claimed a gang of those allegedly involved in tampering of electricity meters by wiping the readings on them had been busted on Tuesday. A team from vigilance department also recovered 347 stolen electricity meters, wires, cables and leads along with equipment used for tampering with them. Officials said acting on a tip off a vigilance team carried out a raid and arrested Rahul Gupta aka Vipin Gupta of Muthiganj area and recovered 347 electricity meters, large quantity of wires, cables, lead from him. The team also recovered a high frequency machine which is used for clearing the readings of electricity meters. A case has been lodged at Muthiganj police station under fraud and other relevant sections of IPC on the complaint of Vigilance officials, police said. “The accused Rahul Gupta used to change the circuit plate of meters and would even remove their display to wipe off stored reading and bills in them. The accused was causing revenue loss to the power department,” officials said. “The accused was being interrogated further to identify persons who got their electricity meters tampered with and changed through him,” officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-involved-in-tampering-with-electricity-meters-busted-in-prayagraj-one-arrested-101632851640044.html
28-09-2021||Other||Bengal man sentenced for life by POCSO court for raping minor daughter||A court in north Bengal on Tuesday ordered life imprisonment for a 45-year-old man who was found guilty of repeatedly raping his minor daughter. The order was passed by a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) court in Kalimpong district. The guilty was also fined ₹1 lakh. The man, who has three children, was arrested in September 2017 after a first information report (FIR) was filed by police. Nisha Rai, public prosecutor of the POCSO Court, said, “The crime took place after the girl’s mother left home to marry another man. The guilty repeatedly raped his daughter and threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone. It was only after the girl got pregnant that members of the family came to know about the crime.”“The man was arrested after an uncle of the girl lodged a complaint. The girl was only 14,” said the public prosecutor.The survivor, who is now an adult, lives in a safe home. She had to leave school as her pregnancy could not be terminated. The boy she gave birth to has been adopted by a couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bengal-man-sentenced-for-life-by-pocso-court-for-raping-minor-daughter-101632851340908.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||30-yr-old woman goes missing from Delhi, found in Surat||New Delhi: A 30-year-old woman, who left behind her family in Delhi after a fight with her husband, was finally found in Surat after her husband registered a missing complaint here in Delhi.Police said the woman, who was trying to conceal her identity, started working as a tutor to earn money. She chose to settle in Surat as she had lived there before, during her father’s posting as a serviceman before his retirement. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj said the woman went missing from Delhi since August 17. Her husband, who lodged a complaint, told police that she went to get medicines from a market near their house, leaving behind her two daughters aged six and four. “On September 3, the anti-human trafficking unit of Delhi Police received a request to find the woman, soon after which a team was constituted to trace her,” said Bhardwaj. “The team collected relevant details. People connected to her had no clue about her whereabouts. Her call detail records were also procured but there was no activity on her phone number.” “Several numbers were tracked and one of them led to her location in Gujarat’s Surat. The person in whose name the number was registered, identified as Manish Jha, was contacted. He refused to have known the woman. The team pursued this contact further and made local enquiries from his family members. Finally, his two daughters identified the woman and said she was their tuition teacher. Manish revealed the woman was living at an apartment in Sapna Nagar in Surat,” said Bhardwaj.According to police, the woman said that due to some family dispute, she decided to leave her two daughters with her husband and live elsewhere. She first went to Rewari from where she boarded a bus for Jaipur and thereafter, took a Volvo bus for Mumbai in search of a job. However, when the bus reached the industrial area of Surat, she sensed good job opportunities there. Moreover, since her father was a former serviceman, she had lived there with him during one of his postings, said police. Police said the woman started giving tuitions to students of primary classes and also worked at a small beauty parlour to make ends meet. She has been handed over to local police for further proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/30yrold-woman-goes-missing-from-delhi-found-in-surat-101632851219834.html
28-09-2021||Gurugram||Ellenabad polls will be referendum on farm laws, says Abhay Chautala of INLD||Ahead of the bypolls in Ellenabad constituency of Haryana on October 30, senior Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala said that the election would prove to be a referendum on three farm laws passed by the Central government in September 2020. Speaking at a press conference in Gurugram on Tuesday, Chautala said that the candidate of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) coalition would not be elected to the assembly as a majority of farmers are opposed to the government. Chautala was the MLA of Ellenabad constituency in Sirsa district; he resigned on January 27 in a protest against the farm laws. He was the only INLD member in the state assembly.“This byelection will signify whether people support the three farm laws or if they are against these black laws. I had asked my voters whether I should follow the footsteps of Chaudhary Devi Lal and resign as an MLA; they supported the decision at that time,” Chautala said.The INLD leader also said that decision about the party candidate for the polls would be taken on October 3. “I can assure you that candidate from ruling BJP-JJP will face strong opposition and protests from the voters as most of them are farmers, who oppose the farm laws,” Chautala said.The INLD leader said that if the Congress MLAs had also resigned on the farm laws issue, then the government would have fallen.Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson, said that resignation by INLD was nothing but a political gimmick to win public sympathy. “The three farm laws are still there and these have not been repealed. So, why is Chautala or his party keen on fighting the election? The reason for resignation is still there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ellenabad-polls-will-be-referendum-on-farm-laws-says-abhay-chautala-of-inld-101632851106091.html
28-09-2021||Gurugram||HSVP clears encroachments for main road between sectors 37D, 9B||An enforcement team of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), in an anti-encroachment drive on Tuesday, demolished 10 illegal structures falling in the alignment of an under-construction main sector-dividing road of sectors 37D and 9B. HSVP officials said that with the removal of encroachments on this land, the construction of a 60-metre road can be completed without further issues. The drive was undertaken in the presence of the Gurugram police, officials said. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, said that these structures posed a hindrance in the construction of the sector road and notices had been issued to the owners about a fortnight ago. “The removal of these encroachments was needed to complete the road. A number of residential areas would benefit once this road is constructed,” he said.Officials said that the boundary wall of a health centre and a warehouse, which were encroaching on its land, were also demolished as they were falling in the alignment of the road. The enforcement team used earthmoving machines to demolish this structure and there was no resistance from the locals as they had been given notice in advance. The HSVP has been directed to conduct demolition drives on its land and remove encroachments, particularly in developing sectors of the city, where roads have remained stuck for a long period. In this regard, the authority demarcated two large sections of roads in sectors 81 and 83. Officials said that illegal constructions on these roads would also be removed soon. Last week, the authority had cleared encroachments from a two-acre plot in Sector 5, where five permanent houses, a service station and several hutments were constructed illegally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-clears-encroachments-for-main-road-between-sectors-37d-9b-101632851104879.html
28-09-2021||Gurugram||Developer booked for non-delivery of flat in Sector 71 CHD Vann project||A case of cheating and fraud was registered against a real estate developer for allegedly failing to deliver a flat in a Sector 71 project despite collecting over ₹50 lakh from a homebuyer. The action comes after the homebuyer, Pawan Kumar Jain, approached a local court alleging a lack of action on multiple complaints filed with the authorities. The case was registered against the managing director and three directors of CHD Developers under sections 120B, 420, 406 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code at the Badshahpur police station, the police said on Tuesday. In his complaint to the police, Jain said that he had booked the flat around six years ago in CHD Vann, a project launched by the CHD Developers in Sector 71, and paid ₹50.5 lakh, the total flat cost, to the developer after repeated demands were raised. He said that, however, the flat is yet to be delivered even after seven years and that no construction was being carried out at the site. The project was launched in 2014, with flats to be delivered by 2018. It is a group housing project, comprising 569 flats and 101 units for the economically weaker sections.A spokesperson for CHD Developers said that they have been facing a cash crunch due to the Covid-19 pandemic and work was stopped on projects due to lockdowns. “We want to assure the buyers that the company is working hard to resolve the financial issues with investors and banks; within next six weeks, the situation will turn around. Our projects are cash positive and there is no intention to dupe anyone,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/developer-booked-for-non-delivery-of-flat-in-sector-71-chd-vann-project-101632851102704.html
28-09-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram crime: Trio booked for robbing shopkeepers of ₹1.22 lakh at gunpoint||Three unidentified persons were booked for robbing shopkeepers near a construction site in Maidawas village in Sector 64 on Sunday, the police said.According to the complainants, the trio was armed with weapons and robbed three shopkeepers of ₹1.22 lakh in total. The police have registered a case under sections 379A and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act at the Sector 65 police station. Mahabir Prasad Sharma, one of the shopkeepers, stated in his complaint that the incident took place around 8pm and that the trio threatened to kill him with a firearm. They took ₹30,000 from the cash box in his shop, following which they robbed Sharma’s brother ₹45,000 and snatched ₹47,000 from another shopkeeper.The police, meanwhile, said that a case has been registered against the accused and the matter is under probe. “The police is looking into the matter,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-crime-trio-booked-for-robbing-shopkeepers-of-1-22-lakh-at-gunpoint-101632851101207.html
28-09-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar reports 45 new cases of malaria in Sept, tally reaches 68||Cases of mosquito-borne diseases in Gautam Budh Nagar are on the rise with the district reporting 45 fresh cases of malaria in September, taking the cumulative tally to 68, and experts anticipating a further rise in vector-borne diseases in the coming months. According to official data available with the district health department, 45 of the 6,989 samples collected in September so far have tested positive for malaria. Since January, 41,449 samples have been tested for malaria. While 13 cases have been reported in August, eight cases have come to the fore in July and two in June, said officials. Last year, 12 cases of malaria were reported in September and total 17 cases were reported between January and September. Total 51,350 samples were tested for malaria in 2020, of which 27 samples tested positive.  Data shows that in 2018, GB Nagar tested 63,419 samples and reported 427 malaria cases for the whole year. In 2019, total 73,568 samples were tested for malaria, of which 424 tested positive for the disease. Officials said the transmission period of diseases caused by mosquitoes, such as dengue and malaria, is between July and November.“This season provides a conducive atmosphere, with the average temperature hovering around 25°C and the humidity above 60%, for the mosquitoes to breed, which in turn facilitates the transmission of dengue and malaria. The cases reported so far this year are not confined to one particular area and is spread across the district,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, GB Nagar.According to doctors, symptoms of malaria include fever with chills and discomfort, general discomfort, abdominal pain, cough and in severe cases, may lead to nausea, vomiting and headache.“The preventive measures to keep one safe from malaria are to keep the body covered and use mosquito repellents and not let stagnant water accumulate near residential areas. The incubation period of malaria is 1-2 weeks, after one is bitten by the female Anopheles mosquito, that causes the disease,” said Dr N K Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (Noida). Meanwhile, two new dengue cases were reported in GB Nagar between September 24 and 26. “There have been 39 dengue cases in the district so far. In last two years, there has been substantial decrease in number of dengue cases. In 2018, 145 dengue cases were reported followed by 82 in 2019 and 35 last year,” said Sharma. Medical experts said chances of increase in vector-borne diseases in the coming months are high.“As seasons are changing, mosquitoes will breed more and cases of malaria and dengue may rise. People should consult a doctor as soon as they get symptoms and get tested and treated,” said Dr N K Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-reports-45-new-cases-of-malaria-in-sept-tally-reaches-68-101632850559937.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||At 59, Chandigarh’s dengue case count in September highest in 4 years||The Chandigarh health department has registered 59 confirmed cases of dengue in September, highest in four years.The cases of dengue, a mosquito-borne viral disease, started spiralling in the city after spells of rain.Last year, only 19 cases were reported during the corresponding period. The health department had confirmed 30 cases in September 2019 and 56 a year before.However, September of 2017 had witnessed 662 cases while the year’s total caseload stood at 1,951.So far in 2021, 78 cases of dengue have been reported in Chandigarh, with the health department claiming zero fatality due to the disease.Health experts fear that the combination of dengue and Covid infections can intensify the severity of both the diseases as there is no specific antiviral drug for both and the treatment mostly depends on clinical conditions and symptoms.“Since Covid and dengue have common symptoms, people must get tested for both the diseases as early detection can help them recover better. Covid is not over yet and people must follow appropriate behaviour,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, health services, Chandigarh, adding that no case of co-infection has so far been seen in UT.The health department has also logged six confirmed cases of malaria this year against last year’s seven. No chikungunya case has been reported in Chandigarh in the last three years.“With the onset of dengue season, the department has ramped up field activities to prevent and control the spread of the disease. Medical teams have been formed to check the breeding of dengue larvae while door-to-door inspection is also on. This month, more than 300 challans have been issued to erring residents and 285 show-cause notices have been served on government offices, colleges and schools, where larvae were found,” said Dr Nagpal.While the health department is strengthening the infrastructure for a possible third wave of Covid, authorities are also gearing up to control the dengue outbreak, the doctor said, adding that fogging is conducted regularly throughout the year, especially before and during the monsoon season.“Cases can further shoot up from next month. We have enough platelets in the blood bank at Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 and dengue testing has also been scaled up at government centres. Also, awareness camps are being set up at schools and public places to educate people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-59-chandigarh-s-dengue-case-count-in-september-highest-in-3-years-101632850199810.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Cong holds protests, demands JP into Pratapgarh clash||Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) on Tuesday held statewide protests demanding a judicial probe (JP) into the September 25 Sangipur block incident of Pratapgarh.Five FIRs have been registered against senior party leader Pramod Tiwari and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ following alleged clash between the Congress and the BJP workers there on Saturday. BJP MP Sangam Lal Gupta alleged that he was assaulted during the incident.UPCC has demanded withdrawal of cases and accused the state government of unilateral action against Congress leaders. “Yes, Congress workers held statewide protests and submitted a memorandum addressed to the governor through local administration in all 75 districts,” said UPCC media department convenor Ashok Singh in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-holds-protests-demands-jp-into-pratapgarh-clash-101632850140061.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||BJP top brass goes into huddle to shortlist candidates for bypolls in Himachal||Soon after the Election Commission (EC) announced the schedule for bypolls to the three assemblies and one parliamentary segment in Himachal, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s top brass went into a huddle in the state capital to give the final shape to its poll strategy. Those who attended the meeting included the party’s national vice-president Saudan Singh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, state president Suresh Kashyap and co-in-charge Sanjay Tandon and party’s general secretary organisation Pawan Rana. The party also deliberated on the prospective candidates for the seats. The party leaders also discussed in detail the prospects of two cabinet ministers -- Jalshakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur and education minister Govind Singh Thakur -- from Mandi Lok Sabha seat even as the party’s vice-president Ajay Rana and Kargil war hero Brigadier Kushal Thakur too are vying for a ticket here. The party will draw a panel of candidates for the elections and forward it to the high command by October 2. The party has already approved Ram Rattan Pal Singh from Arki and former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta’s elder son Chetan Bragta. Congress is most likely to pit former chief parliamentary secretary and grandson of former chief minister Ram Thakur against him. Thakur is a two-time legislator from Jubbal and Kotkhai assembly segment. While Ram Rattan Pal Singh had contested against six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh who died on July 8 this year. Speaking on the occasion, BJP general secretary Trilok Jamwal said, “BJP is fully prepared for these elections.” He said the BJP will fight elections on the issue of development. “Under the strong leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, national BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and state president Suresh Kashyap, BJP will win the byelections of Mandi Lok Sabha, Jubbal Kotkhai, Fatehpur and Arki,” he said. BJP state president Suresh Kashyap said the party will announce the candidates for the four seats soon. “The candidates will be announced by the Parliamentary Board will after the election committee meeting,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-top-brass-goes-into-huddle-to-shortlist-candidates-for-bypolls-in-himachal-101632849839906.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 170 Covid cases, 3 deaths||Himachal Pradesh logged 170 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,18,693 while the death toll mounted to 3,656 after three more patients died of the contagion. Among the fresh cases, 44 were reported from Kangra, 35 from Mandi, 27 from Hamirpur, 24 from Bilaspur, 12 from Una, eight from Shimla, five from Solan, three each from Chamba, Kinnaur and Kullu and one from Lahaul-Spiti. The active cases have come down to 1,683 while recoveries reached 2,13,338 after 214 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,879 cases reported till date, followed by 30,903 cases in Mandi and 27,177 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-170-covid-cases-3-deaths-101632849479787.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Thane man mistakenly jabbed for rabies instead of Covid-19; doctor, nurse suspended||A resident of Kalwa in Maharashtra’s Thane city was mistakenly administered an anti-rabies vaccine (ARV) instead of a Covid-19 jab, officials said. The man had gone to get the Covid-19 vaccine at a healthcare centre in centre Kalwa east. Rajkumar Yadav, 45, said that he recently underwent surgery on his lower back and therefore he went to the centre to inquire if he can get the Covid-19 vaccine. He claimed he was jabbed on both the arms. “I have weakness and pain in my arm now. I recently underwent surgery for my back and went to the centre to inquire about the dose. The doctor said I can take the vaccine and gave me the case papers. As I was unable to stand due to the operation, one person from the hospital told me to go and take a seat in one of the rooms.” The nurse, he claimed, jabbed him in both the arms which made him suspicious so he asked her what dose was he injected with. “She did not ask me to show any papers or asked what dose I was there for. I was shocked to hear that they gave me the anti-rabies vaccine. I went to the local corporator and narrated my ordeal.” Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has acknowledged the goof up and suspended the doctor and nurse at the centre. The corporation informed that the said person who was administered the anti-rabies vaccine is stable. Sandeep Malvi, additional municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “The concerned patient, Rajkumar Yadav, had gone to inquire about Covishield vaccine at Atkoneshwar Nagar primary health care centre in Kalwa east. The medical officer in charge of the centre, Dr Rakhi Tawade, gave him case papers for Covishield vaccine and asked him to wait in the queue.” The primary healthcare centre caters to all other healthcare ailments of Atkoneshwar and nearby slums. Apart from Covid, it also administers other vaccines. Malvi added, “Yadav mistakenly went and sat in a queue meant for ARV. When his turn came to get the shot, the concerned nurse, Kirti Rayat, did not check his case papers or inform him about the vaccine dose administered. She assumed he was there for an ARV shot and gave him the jab. The nurse and the medical officer should have informed the patient about the vaccine being administered and should have checked the case papers before giving any vaccine.” Malvi informed that such negligence in any of its healthcare centres will not be tolerated. “We have suspended both of them. Yadav’s condition is stable and we have been monitoring his health.” A person familiar with the matter at TMC said, “After taking the vaccine, Yadav went and inquired with the nurse about the vaccine. The nurse told him it was an anti-rabies vaccine following which he panicked and said he was supposed to get the Covishield vaccine. He demanded an explanation following which an inquiry was held.” Thane Mayor Naresh Mhaske added that the centre is in a slum where most beneficiaries are uneducated and it was the duty of the medical staff to guide them. Mhaske said, “I came to know about the incident and immediately gave directives to inquire and take action against the staff responsible. We agree that the person sat in the wrong queue, however, the staff should have informed every person about the vaccine that was being administered.” TMC is not new to such goof-ups, in August, several vaccine doses went missing from one of its vaccine centres in Kausa, Mumbra and were found at a hair transplant clinic. In May, few celebrities were jabbed out of turn while incidents of a woman being jabbed thrice on the same day and a senior citizen being given a certificate without being jabbed also surfaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-man-mistakenly-jabbed-for-rabies-instead-of-covid-19-doctor-nurse-suspended-101632849304128.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Khamenger glacier: Day after 2 deaths, 14 members of climbing expedition found safe||Rescuers have found fourteen members of a climbing expedition, stranded at Khamenger glacier in Pin valley of Lahaul-Spiti district, safe at Dhar Chanko on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the climbers descended the perilous glacier on their own. Two members of the expedition had died at the glacier. A team from Areat Mountaineering Club, Kolkata, was on a trekking expedition to the glacier, which is the main source of Rongtong River. They had left from Batal to Kaza via Khamenger glacier, but got stuck due to heavy snowfall. The glacier is 5,884 metres above the sea level. One of the trekkers, Abhijit Banik, and one porter had reached Kaza on Monday morning and informed the authorities about the casualties. The entire group comprises 18 members, including 10 porters and one sherpa. Kumar said that a 32-member rescue team, comprising 16 ITBP jawans including a doctor, six Dogra scouts and 10 porters, was dispatched from the base camp at Kah village to the glacier early morning.“They found 14 members of the expedition safe at Dhar Chanko. Rescuers are bringing them to Kah base camp and are expected to reach by late evening. They will be brought to Kaza community health centre for medical checkup,” he said. Half of the team will start an operation to retrieve the bodies of the two dead climbers on Wednesday. He said that the rescue team is equipped with GPS system and have adequate supplies with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khamenger-glacier-day-after-2-deaths-14-members-of-climbing-expedition-found-safe-101632849300996.html
28-09-2021||Noida||UP govt to soon take a decision on leasehold properties in Noida||The Uttar Pradesh government will soon take a decision on residents’ demands of converting leasehold properties into freehold following a directive from the Allahabad high court. In response to a Noida resident’s petition filed in July this year, the Allahabad high court directed the UP government on September 9 to decide the matter within one month’s time.This is the first time that the court has directed the state government to decide the issue in a month--residents have been demanding freehold status of their properties for several years.Under the freehold system, an allottee has outright ownership of property, thereby making its transfer and sale easier. Under the leasehold system, the government has control over the sale or transfer of a property. Moreover, as per the leasehold system, the owner has the right to call the property his or hers for only 90 years — and not forever.During the hearing on September 9, the state counsel submitted before the court that the matter raised by the petitioner is under “active consideration with the state government and being a policy decision, some reasonable time may be given to finalise the decision which is required to be approved by the cabinet”.“As prayed by the learned standing counsel a month’s time is given to the respondents for taking final decision on the matter. Let writ petition is listed again in October 2021, enabling the respondents (UP gov) to take a final decision of the subject matter. It is however made clear that further delay in the matter would not be accepted thus, the respondents would take a final decision in this matter before the next date of hearing,” said the order passed by acting chief justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and justice Anil Kumar Ojha.The Uttar Pradesh government has sought details again from the Noida authority to make a decision before the next court hearing scheduled in October.“We have provided the state government with all facts and figures about leasehold properties and how the freehold status will impact the development and maintenance of civic infrastructure,” said a Noida authority official, requesting anonymity. Chairman of the Noida authority Sanjiv Mittal and CEO Ritu Maheshwari were not available for comments despite repeated attempts.In November 2018, during its board meeting, the Noida authority approved a proposal to convert all leasehold properties into freehold.Petitioner PS Jain, president of the confederation of Delhi-NCR residents’ welfare association (CONRWA), an umbrella body of RWAs, filed this plea in July this year to question why the state had not taken a decision three years after the Noida authority board approved this proposal.“We submitted before the court that when leasehold property has been converted to freehold in all cities of the country, then why not in Noida? A committee formed by the authority also recommended that freehold status should be awarded to leasehold properties. The Noida authority itself recommended it. Then why the delay in decision making?” said Jain, who is hopeful that leasehold property will be deemed freehold in Noida next month.The authority, in 2017, conducted a survey on the impact of changing the status of certain properties to freehold from leasehold. Ernst & Young, an agency surveyed and studied revenue pattern and profit from this move, and submitted a report in October 2018 on the pros and cons of conversion from leasehold to freehold. Later the same year, an internal committee of the authority also deliberated on the survey report and recommended that freehold status should be awarded to leasehold properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-govt-to-soon-take-a-decision-on-leasehold-properties-in-noida-101632849299882.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Camps organised to spread rabies awareness||To spread awareness on the disease, the district health department observed World Rabies Day on Tuesday under the theme “facts, not fear”. Awareness camps were organised at civil hospitals, community health centres and the government school on Cemetery road.During the camps, health department officials led by district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Kumar apprised the participants that a person can be infected with rabies disease if they are bitten by any animal including cat, dog, bat, mouse and rabbit.Dr Kumar said if bitten, the wound should be cleaned with clean running water and soap for 15 minutes. Further, it should be cleaned with alcohol. The wound should not be touched with naked hands and the residents should not put leaves, oil or lemon on the wound.Further, they should immediately go for anti-rabies vaccination, which is administered for free at civil hospitals, community health centres and other government facilities. The residents who had consumed milk of rabid cow are also advised to go for vaccine and anti-rabies vaccination should be administered to pet animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianacamps-organised-to-spread-rabies-awareness-101632849240026.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Ram Mandir: Trust sets Dec 2023 deadline for enthroning Ram Lalla||The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust has set a deadline to enthrone Ram Lalla (infant Lord Ram) in the sanctum sanctorum of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya by December 2023 to allow devotees to worship the deity and start placement work of stones for this work by January next year.After completing foundation work of the temple, the Trust has started the second phase of construction. In this phase, the plinth of the temple will be constructed. According to the Trust, above the foundation, a one-and- a-half-metre thick raft is being placed. Above this raft, the plinth will be constructed in which Mirzapur stone granite will be used. Following it, placement work of stones for sanctum sanctorum of the Ram Mandir will start. “Placement work of stones will start from January next (2022),” said a member of the Trust. “The Trust has set a target of enthroning Ram Lalla in sanctum sanctorum of Ram Mandir by December 2023,” he added. Chiselling of around 60 percent of the stones to be used in the sanctum sanctorum of the temple has been completed. The remaining stones are being chiselled. Around 12 artisans from Rajasthan have reached Ayodhya for this work. The Trust will soon increase the number of artisans to expedite the process of chiselling of stones. According to a study carried out by the Trust, the number of devotees is expected to increase fivefold after Ram Mandir comes up in Ayodhya. To face this situation, the Trust is developing infrastructure in the temple town. A new road up to Ram Mandir has been proposed starting from Birla Dharamshala and passing from behind Sugreev Quila. Larsen and Toubro is carrying out construction work of the Ram Mandir. The Tata Consulting Engineers is working as project management consultant and is assisting Larsen and Toubro in the construction work. Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over “Bhoomi Pujan” of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya on August 5 last year. Apart from Ram Mandir, a total of 124 projects worth ₹20,107 crore are also under way for the development of Ayodhya and 79 of them will be completed by December 15 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-mandir-trust-sets-dec-2023-deadline-for-enthroning-ram-lalla-101632849179890.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: AAP slams Punjab govt for failure to eradicate drug menace||To commemorate the 114th birth anniversary of the revolutionary Bhagat Singh, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) organised a protest-cum-awareness march against the drug menace in the state at Railway Station Road (old GT Road) on Tuesday. The march commenced from Mata Rani Chowk and ended at Jagraon bridge, where the leaders paid tribute to Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev at their statues.AAP leaders slammed the ruling congress government for its failure to eradicate the drug menace and accused Congress leaders of being hand-in-glove with drug smugglers.Aman Mohie, AAP Lok Sabha constituency in-charge, said that former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh made promised to eradicate the menace in four months, but the government has failed to take any steps even after over four and a half years have elapsed.District president (rural) Harbhupinder Singh Dharor said that newly-appointed CM Charanjit Channi also seems to have joined hands with the smugglers, due to which the menace is still taking toll on the youth of the state. The AAP leaders stated that their party will eradicate the menace, if they are voted into power in the 2022 assembly elections. YAD demands martyr statusCommemorating the birth anniversary of Bhagat Singh by paying tributes at his statue at Jagraon bridge, Youth Akali Dal (SAD) sought martyr status for Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev. District presidents Gurdeep Gosha (urban) and Prabhjot Dhaliwal (rural) slammed the Union government for delaying the process to declare the freedom fighters as martyrs at national level. Further, they demanded that the state government should approve a resolution regarding the same and the matter should be taken up with the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-aap-slams-punjab-govt-for-failure-to-eradicate-drug-menace-101632849060010.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Inflation, unemployment, apple crisis to be main bypoll issues in Himachal: Congress||Claiming to be confident of winning all four seats in Himachal that are to go to the polls, the Congress claimed on Tuesday that inflation, unemployment and apple crisis will be the main issues this time.State Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore said that the Bharatiya Janata Party doesn’t have any development works to boast of either. He said the agrarian crisis, especially its impact on the apple market, will be a major poll issue, especially since two of the seats that are going to the polls are in apple-producing areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inflation-unemployment-apple-crisis-to-be-main-bypoll-issues-in-himachal-congress-101632848822050.html
28-09-2021||Other||Twelve years since launch, Bhagat Singh memorial hangs fire||Jalandhar As the country and Punjab marks the 114th birth anniversary of the revolutionary freedom fighter Shaheed Bhagat Singh, a museum dedicated to him remains unfinished for over 12 years, with two phases still incomplete in his native Khatkar Kalan of SBS Nagar district. The memorial-cum-museum is a centrally-funded ₹26-crore project with former Union home minister P Chidambaram laying the foundation stone on February 23, 2009. The government had acquired 85-kanal for its expansion. A Khatkar Kalan panchayat member said the Punjab government had sanctioned ₹6 crore to complete the Shaheed Bhagat Singh museum in the village, but work had not begun. A tourism department official added that work on the project was pending, with the department also planning to replace some display galleries in the museum. Besides, a new parking lot has been constructed, with a portion of interlocking tiles also being fixed. Tourism director Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar said the project will be completed as soon as they received sufficient funds. When queried on the delay, she said, “We have hired a consultant for the project and want to it with the latest developments in architecture.” Former Khatkar Kalan sarpanch Sukhdev Singh raised the demand for a separate playground in the village, as the youngsters had been forced to play in the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/twelve-years-since-launch-bhagat-singh-memorial-hangs-fire-101632848819758.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Garbage collectors block road for an hour during protest||Even as the civic body is making tall claims about streamlining door-to-door collection of waste in the city, around 50 waste collectors protested against municipal corporation (MC) officials and Congress leader Gurpreet Gopi on Tuesday after being stopped from dumping garbage at the Dugri static compactor site.They blocked Dugri canal bridge with their carts for around an hour and threatened to dump the waste in between the chowk, if the issue wasn’t resolved.As per information, the garbage collectors collect waste from houses in Dugri, Dhandra Road and adjoining areas. Earlier, they used to dump the waste at a secondary dump site in Dugri, which was removed after residents raised objections against it. The collectors were then asked to dump the garbage at the static compactor site.After the quantity of garbage at the compactor site increased and started to spill on the roadsides, Gopi, who is the son of deceased area councillor (ward number 49) Rajinder Kaur, stopped them from dumping the garbage there and directed them to dump it at secondary dump site in Model Town near scooter market. The garbage collectors said it is difficult for them to pull the cart full of garbage to that site. When authorities failed to act on their complaint, they staged a protest on Tuesday. Police also reached at the spot and the protest was lifted after they received assurance from the Congress in-charge of Atam nagar constituency, Kamaljit Singh Karwal.Karwal told them that the MC will re-establish the dump site in Dugri in a week or so and till then, the garbage can be dumped at the compactor site near Dugri canal bridge. Karwal said, “Gopi had stopped the collectors from dumping the waste at the compactor site as garbage is spilling onto the roadside, resulting in nuisance and foul smell. I will take up the matter with MC officials and a secondary dump site will be established in the Dugri area again.”Despite attempts to reach MC health officer Vipal Malhotra, he was not available for comments.Meanwhile, the commuters were left a harried lot. Sukhdeep Singh said that on Monday, farmers blocked the road and now it is the garbage collectors. “It is the public which faces harassment. The administration and police should not allow anyone to block the roads during protest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-garbage-collectors-block-road-for-an-hour-during-protest-101632848760964.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Let’s make action plan to combat climate crisis: Aaditya Thackeray to 27 environment ministers||Maharashtra cabinet minister for environment and climate change, Aaditya Thackeray, has written letters to his counterparts in 26 states and one union territory — Delhi —seeking “coordination on a common action plan for climate change mitigation and adaption”. A copy of Thackeray’s letter, dated September 14, was obtained by Hindustan Times this week.Although Thackeray’s letter does not delve into the specifics of how states are proposed to coordinate on the matter, the minister wrote that “it would be in the best interest of us all, nationally to convene digital meets and share our work and ideate on a common agenda that we can assist each other on”.According to officials in the minister’s office, the move is the first step in Maharashtra’s plans to host a convention of India’s environment ministers after the upcoming 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 26) in Glasgow in November, where Thackeray will present a draft version of the Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP), which is being drafted pursuant to the BMC’s agreement with the C40 Cities climate leadership group in December 2020.Speaking to HT about the same, Thackeray commented, “Regional leadership is key to climate action. As sub-national governments, we ought to come together and exchange our learnings to ensure that we are aligned nationally for an ambitious pathway for reducing our emissions.”Under the aegis of the C40 group, Aaditya Thackeray will also be participating on Wednesday in a 45-minute closed-door meeting with his counterparts from Delhi (Gopal Rai), Karnataka (Anand Singh) and Tamil Nadu (Siva.V. Meyyanathan) where each minister will be presenting an overview of the climate action taken in their respective states. A spokesperson for Thackeray described the online gathering as an “exploratory meeting” that will be followed up with similar conferences with environment departments of other states.This development comes amid a major push from Maharashtra to align itself with movements and organisations working toward climate crisis action. Last week, the minister had announced that 43 Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) cities and urban clusters from Maharashtra will join the global Race to Zero campaign. Cities joining this campaign have pledged to reach net zero carbon emissions in the 2040s or sooner.Earlier this month, the state Cabinet had also given a nod to setting up the country’s first state council on climate, which is expected to be formed in coming months, and will hold weekly meetings to set and review the implementation of climate change targets. In addition to this, the Maharashtra government’s proposed electric vehicle policy 2021 and its move to bring 9,800 hectares of mangroves under protection of the Indian Forest Act (1972) have been publicly hailed by Thackeray as evidence of the state’s climate-forward agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lets-make-action-plan-to-combat-climate-crisis-aaditya-thackeray-to-27-environment-ministers-101632848759749.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||At least 17 killed in Maharashtra due to heavy rain in two days||The remnants of cyclone Gulab resulted in torrential downpour in the whole of central Maharashtra and parts of Vidarbha, Konkan and other regions over the past two days. The havoc led to the deaths of at least 17 people, most being in central Maharashtra, while hundreds of villagers have been relocated to safer places.Two teams of NDRF and a chopper-bound rescue team from the Air Force rescued more than 50 people stranded in parts of Latur and Osmanabad in central Maharashtra as discharge from the dams led to the submergence of the villages. Ten people in central Maharashtra (Marathwada), six in Vidarbha, one in Nashik have been reported dead due to rain-related incidents in past two days. In Umarkhed in Yavatmal in Vidarbha, a state transport bus fell in a rivulet, while crossing a bridge over it. Four passengers were killed and two others were rescued by the villagers. All the eight districts of Marathwada received heavy rain in the past two days. 17 people were stranded in village near Manjara dam in Beed after the district administration started discharge from the dam. 17 people in Isthal village in Osmanabad and 19 in Ambejogai tehsil were rescued by NDRF and the local administration. Out of 445 revenue circles in eight districts of central Maharashtra, 182 circles have reported more than 65mm rainfall, which is a parameter of heavy rainfall.More than 250 cattle have been reported dead and hundreds are feared to have drowned in the affected districts.SP Savargaonkar, assistant commissioner, Aurangabad division, said 10 people have been reported dead in eight districts of central Maharashtra. “Eight districts have received 996mm rain this season, against its average of 679 mm. Nanded, Jalna, Parbhani have reported much more their average rainfall this year. Total of 69 people died this year in monsoon-related incidents, 10 of them are in the past two days. We have two teams of NDRF deployed in Osmanabad and Latur each. The teams have rescued more than 50 people stranded in submerged areas of Beed, Latur and Osmanabad,” he said. District administration deployed two teams of NDRF in Latur and Osmanabad on Tuesday night. An air force chopper too was brought in for the rescue operation. “Our focus was on the rescue operation in the flood affected districts. The rescue team was deployed well in time and it helped us rescue people. The rainfall has started subsiding in most parts of the state and there is no prediction of heavy rain tomorrow,” said an official from the disaster management cell of the state government.Hundreds of people in the villages near the dams in Latur, Osmanabad have been shifted to the safer places after the water level started surging because of the discharge from the dams. According to the statement issued by the disaster management cell of the state government, 317 people were evacuated to safer places and eight districts were affected in the downpour in the past two days. “447 human lives have been lost since onset of monsoon on June 1 in the state. Ten people have gone missing, while 140 were injured in rain-related incidents,” the statement reads.Dhananjay Munde, social justice minister and guardian minister of Beed, announced to compensate farmers indiscriminately for their losses of crops. Munde said that he has spoken to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar over it and farmers will be given relief package. “The discharge from the Manjara dam late last night led to the flooding in the villages in the area. Most of the 51 people stranded due to the flooding have been rescued. Quick response from the administration has helped in rescuing people in time,” he said.The heavy rainfall in last two days has resulted significant rise in the water level in many dams even in the drought prone central Maharashtra. The water stock in 3,267 reservoirs across the state has reached 80.69% on Wednesday, though it was 83.95% last year till this day. Almost all the large dams which supply drinking water to respective areas are more than 90% full and many of them have already overflown.Barring western and north Maharashtra, rest of the state has received its more than normal rainfall of the season between June and September. The state has reported 1,168.9 mm rainfall this season, against its normal average of 992.2mm. Drought-prone central Maharashtra has received 149% rainfall, while Vidarbha has reported 113% of its averge rainfall. Konkan has reported 122.5%, while western and north Maharashtra have received 89.8% and 91.3% rainfall of their seasonal average.This has resulted in rise in the area under cultivation of agricultural crops. Against the average of 14.2 million hectares of the land used for the cultivation of various crops (excluding sugarcane), the sowing has been done on more than 14.30mn hectares this year. This is expected to help Maharashtra in taking record agricultural crops this kharip, according to the officials from the agriculture department.Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Yavatmal in Vidarbha, Nanded, Latur, Hingoli, Osmanabad in central Maharashtra have been badly hit due to the Gulab cyclone. “The standing crops have sustained tremendous damage in central Maharashtra and parts of Vidarbha. Crops on more than 2million hectares has damaged in central Maharashtra alone. Crops of Soyabean and Tur have been badly hit. We have asked district administrations to conduct spot assessment at the earliest so that the relief is offered immediately. We expect Centre to help us compensating the farmers,” he said.The state cabinet discussed huge losses to the crops due to the incessant rainfall and have decided to begin the spot assessment immediately. A few ministers also demanded to announce the wet drought in affected districts so that farmers get more compensation. The decision over compensation to the affected people is expected to be taken in next cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-least-17-killed-in-maharashtra-due-to-heavy-rain-in-two-days-101632848701961.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two men involved in 50 cases of snatching land in Chandigarh Police net||Chandigarh Police’s operations cell has caught two Uttar Pradesh men for their involvement in at least 50 cases of snatching and burglaries in the tricity, with most incidents taking place in Mohali. The accused are Mohan Giri, 23, who had been living in Mohali’s Abhipur, and Nekpal, 32, from whom two stolen gold chains and 34 mobile phones have been recovered. They were arrested from a naka installed in Manimajra on Tuesday. Suja of Chandigarh’s Sector 47 had on August 5 complained that she was targeted by two men when she had gone for a morning walk. They came on a bike and took away my gold chain, she had told the police. The police have recovered a gold chain broken in two parts from them, besides another chain believed to be stolen from Saroj. A native of Himachal Pradesh, Saroj was attacked when she was returning home from a park in Sector 34 recently. Mohan was also arrested in June 2013 for two cases of theft registered at the Kharar City police station. He was declared a proclaimed offender in July 2017 after he stopped appearing in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-men-involved-in-50-cases-of-snatching-land-in-chandigarh-police-net-101632848519803.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Thane resident mistakenly given anti-rabies vaccine||In yet another bizarre incident related to Covid-19 vaccination in Thane city, a Kalwa resident, who went to get the vaccine at a healthcare centre, was mistakenly administered an anti-rabies vaccine (ARV) instead. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) suspended the doctor and nurse of that centre. The corporation informed that the said person who was administered anti-rabies vaccine is stable. Sandeep Malvi, additional municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “The concerned patient Rajkumar Yadav, had gone to enquire about Covishield vaccine at the Atkoneshwar Nagar primary health care centre in Kalwa East. The medical officer in-charge of the centre, Dr Rakhi Tawade, gave him case papers for Covishield vaccine and asked him to wait in the queue.” The primary healthcare centre caters to all other healthcare ailments of the Atkoneshwar and nearby slums. Apart from Covid, it also administers other vaccines. Malvi added, “Yadav mistakenly went and sat in a queue meant for ARV. When his turn came to get the shot, the concerned nurse Kirti Rayat, did not check his case papers or inform him about the vaccine dose administered. She assumed he was there for ARV and gave jabbed him with the same. It was the responsibility of the nurse and the medical officer to inform the patient about the vaccine being administered and to check the case papers before giving any vaccine.” Malvi informed that such negligence in any of its healthcare centre will not be tolerated. “We have suspended both Rayat who did not check the case papers and Tawade under whom monitoring and supervision of the said incident took place, for endangering the life of a patient. Yadav’s condition is stable and we have being monitoring his health.” A source from TMC said, “After taking the vaccine, Yadav went and inquire with the nurse which vaccine was he administered after getting jabbed. The nurse told him it was anti-rabies vaccine, following which he panicked and said he was supposed to get Covishield vaccine. He demanded an explanation, following which an inquiry was held.” Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske added that the centre is in a slum where most beneficiaries are uneducated and it was duty of the medical staff to guide them. Mhaske said, “I came to know about the incident and immediately gave directives to inquire and take action against the staff responsible. We agree that the person sat in wrong queue, however, the staff should inform each and every person what vaccine is being administered before the jab.” TMC is not new to such goof ups, as in the month of August several vaccine doses went missing from one of its vaccine centres in Kausa, Mumbra and were found at a hair transplant clinic. In May few celebrities were jabbed out of turn while incidents of a woman being jabbed thrice on the same day and a senior citizen being given a certificate without being jabbed had taken place. Rajkumar Yadav, 45, said that he had recently undergone a surgery on his lower back and so had gone to inquire if he can get the Covid vaccine. He claimed he was jabbed on both the arms. He said, “I have weakness and pain in my arm now. I recently underwent a surgery for my back and went to the centre to enquire about the dose. The doctor said I can take the vaccine and gave me the case papers. As I was unable to stand due to the operation, one person from the hospital told me to go and take a seat in one of the rooms.” The nurse, he claimed, jabbed him in both the arms, which made him suspicious so he asked her what dose was he injected. “She did not ask me to show any papers or asked what dose I was there for. I was shocked to hear that they gave me anti-rabies vaccine when I was not bitten by a dog. I went to local corporator and narrated my ordeal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-resident-mistakenly-given-anti-rabies-vaccine-101632848400923.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Seven juveniles among 14 arrested for snatchings, vehicle lifting||Division Number 2 and 3 police have arrested at least 14 people, including seven juveniles, in a special drive over the last five days and solved at least 35 cases of snatching and vehicle lifting. As many as 20 mobile phones and 17 two-wheelers have been recovered from the accused. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 1) Pragya Jain said that police have initiated the drive to arrest those involved in snatchings and vehicle lifting.Division Number 2 police arrested Taranjit Singh of MIG Flats, Dugri; Rajesh Kumar of Humbran and Jasvir Singh of Lohara on September 23. They recovered 12 stolen vehicles and two mobile phones from them. On September 27, they nabbed Sonu Ansari of Kailash Nagar and Gurjant Singh of Malak village, Jagraon, and recovered two stolen motorcycles from them.On September 24, Division Number 3 police arrested Shiva of Guru Arjun Dev Nagar, Mohammad Mahmood Mulla of Ganesh Nagar and their seven accomplices, who are juveniles. They recovered 18 mobile phones and three vehicles from them. The ADCP added that the accused were active in areas like civil hospital, court complex, Rakh Bagh, Neela Jhanda Road, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Gaushala Road and Shingar Cinema Road. The minors who were apprehended have been sent to a juvenile home.Jain said that the police had initiated the drive 10 days ago. Till now, they have recovered 45 mobile phones, 20 vehicles, two laptops, one LED and ₹11,500 with the arrest of 21 people in Zone-1. As many as 50 cases have been solved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-seven-juveniles-among-14-arrested-for-snatchings-vehicle-lifting-101632848342964.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy procurement in Mohali: Farmers should not be inconvenienced, directs DC||To ensure that every single grain of paddy is lifted from the market, deputy commissioner Isha Kalia on Tuesday directed the heads of procurement agencies in the district to ensure the process goes smoothly and hassle-free.Reviewing the arrangements of paddy procurement for the Kharif season, the DC directed all district heads of the state procurement agencies to personally supervise paddy procurement operations across the district beginning from October 1, so as to ensure prompt lifting of paddy as per the allotted share of procurement.Kalia said that farmers in the district should not be put to any inconvenience for the sale of their produce in the mandis.The DC further said that the sub-divisional magistrates would be held accountable for the smooth paddy procurement operations in grain markets under their jurisdiction so that farmers do not face any sort of problem in selling their harvest. Kalia asked Punjab Mandi Board officials to make sure the arrangements in mandis including availability of face masks, hand sanitizers, foot operated taps, etc.Likewise, the DC issued instructions to make requisite arrangement of power, sheds for the farmers, potable water supply and equipment to monitor the quality of paddy in each entry of every procurement centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-procurement-in-mohali-farmers-should-not-be-inconvenienced-directs-dc-101632848339865.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 14 new cases reported in tricity area||The tricity area reported 14 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, an uptick from the 10 reported on September 27.The fresh infection tally is fluctuating daily after a hike was witnessed on September 21 with 17 cases. Of the total cases, eight surfaced in Mohali, four in Panchkula while two were reported in Chandigarh. However, no fresh casualty was reported in the tricity area on Tuesday.In Chandigarh, the infected patients are residents of Sectors 21 and 31. In Mohali, three cases were reported from Mohali and Dhakoli and two cases surfaced in Kharar. In Panchkula, three were reported from Sector 16 and one from Pinjore.The active cases in the tricity area also climbed to 94 on Tuesday, against the 89 cases on Monday: Chandigarh has 42 positive patients, Mohali 34 and Panchkula 18.Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,219 besides 64,358 recoveries and 819 deaths. As many as 68,727 people have been found infected in Mohali so far. Among them, 67,629 have recovered and 1,064 have died.In Panchkula, of the 30,735 total cases, 30,340 patients have been cured and 377 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-14-new-cases-reported-in-tricity-area-101632848219881.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Students of Islamic University of Science and Technology decry offline exams||The decision of Islamic University of Science and Technology (IUST) to conduct final-semester B.Tech exams offline has not gone down well with some students.The students have demanded that their examinations be conducted online, the way they were taught online. Many students have alleged that the university has woken up to rush through the exams after the students wrote to lieutenant governor about delay in finishing their B.Tech degrees. “Our degrees are already late as we have been insisting on our exams for the past more than a month. There are placement drives already going on. Now they have come up with a decision to conduct an offline exam within a couple of weeks. We wanted an online exam but they are pressuring us for offline exams. We have studied keeping in mind online exams,” said a student of B.Tech Computer Science.“Let them take our exams keeping in mind what the teachers have taught us online,” she said.Another student said the university has informed them that their ‘minors’ will be from Wednesday to Friday online and then after two days they will conduct ‘majors’ offline without any gap.“For four days our four papers will be examined. They are giving us four days’ time. How can we get ready? Four subjects with 20 units and then project presentation and project report. How come it is possible that we will be able to do justice and our final year is totally dependent on project work? ,” he said.“We want that either the exams should be conducted online or if they want offline exams then we should be given enough time for the preparations,” he said.Another student said, “Our majors should also be online as marking papers offline takes time. There should be some relaxation at least.” The university’s vice-chancellor Prof Shakil Ahmad Romshoo said they have decided to conduct all exams offline to maintain the sanctity of the exams.“This is unfortunate that some students try to make a mockery of this system. Most of the students are ready for the exams. If people have studied online, their exams will be taken keeping that in mind and it is not necessary that it has to be online. They will be examined on the topics they have been taught,” he said.He said the university is attempting to declare the results before October 30 to allow students to complete their masters admissions in NIT. “There are students who want to go for masters and have also qualified GATE; they want to apply for admissions at NIT whose last date is October 30. That is why we decided to declare the result a few days before the date,” he said.“Still if some students have some issues they can talk to dean and we can see how much concession we can give to students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/students-of-islamic-university-of-science-and-technology-decry-offline-exams-101632847981319.html
28-09-2021||Patna||Patna doc assaulted: IMA writes to DGP, seeks arrest of culprits||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Bihar chapter, has demanded the immediate arrest of culprits involved in the physical assault on a private doctor and damage to his clinic by alleged attendants of a patient late Monday evening in Patna. The IMA sought the intervention of Bihar’s director-general of police (DGP) in arresting the culprits on a priority basis and said that more such incidents had taken place in the state of late. In a joint letter to the DGP on Tuesday, shared with the media, the national IMA president-elect Dr Sahajanand Prasad Singh, IMA-Bihar president Dr Ajay Kumar and its secretary Dr Sunil Kumar condemned the police for not visiting the place of occurrence to either inquire or to arrest the accused even 15 hours after the incident. Copies of the letter were marked to the Bihar chief minister, the health minister, the chief secretary, additional chief secretaries of the health and the home departments as well as the officer-in-charge of the Kadamkuan police station. The IMA regretted that the police were delaying in taking action against the accused despite the Bihar Clinical Establishment and Personal Safety Act, 2011, and the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, for the protection of medical professionals and their clinical establishments. The IMA had enclosed a copy of the FIR filed by Dr Amit Kumar of the Kalyani orthopaedics and gynaecological centre and termed such acts as reprehensible, which dented the confidence of the medical professionals and tarnished the image of the state’s healthcare system. In his FIR, Dr Kumar alleged that relatives of a local patient, who came to his clinic in labour pain on September 27, had refused to make advance part-payment for the delivery while also refusing to sign the risk bond before any procedure. When the doctor requested the patient’s husband to sign the risk bond, his relatives, some of whom were allegedly in an inebriated condition roughed him up and also damaged his clinic..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-doc-assaulted-ima-writes-to-dgp-seeks-arrest-of-culprits-101632847979806.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC can now be reached on social media||To expedite grievance redressal and make residents aware of development projects, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) is now on social media platforms like Twitter (@MCLudhiana), Instagram and Facebook.Apart from keeping a check on development works, residents can now submit complaints through the social networking platforms. Authorities said these grievances will be resolved within 24 hours.The initiative was also discussed during a meeting conducted by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu to review road construction works on Tuesday at the Zone D office. It was decided that two MC officials will be deputed to deal with complaints received on social media. Ashu also directed MC officials to post- before and after pictures on the social networks after resolving the problems. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “This move aims to bring transparency in the workings of MC and increase public participation. Also, the civic body will become easily reachable. A team of officials will be deputed to keep a check on the complaints and suggestions posted by residents and it will be ensured that their grievances are redressed at the earliest. The civic body will post updates regarding development projects being taken up in the city.”The system to submit an online complaint with the MC is already in place through platforms like the civic body’s official website (mcludhiana.gov.in), mSeva app of local bodies department and Swachh Bharat Mission mobile app. However, the complaints remain pending for months.  However, Jaskirat Singh, a resident of Model Town, said that the online grievance redressal system of MC is currently not successful as even after months elapse, officials fail to resolve problems including non-functional street lights and potholed roads. “Sometimes, a message is sent that the complaint has been resolved, even when nothing has been done at ground level. The MC should ensure proper follow-up and action should be taken against the officials for delaying resolution of complaints,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-can-now-be-reached-on-social-media-101632847925333.html
28-09-2021||Other||SAD to protest outside Punjab CM residence today||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) plans to march to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s Chandigarh residence on Wednesday to protest against what they claimed was injustice to farmers whose land was being acquired for road construction. Party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said, “We want to highlight the injustice being perpetrated on 2 lakh farmers across 19 districts of Punjab, as their agriculture land is being acquired for road projects under the Bharat Mala scheme at low rates.” He added that party workers would march from Mohali to the CM’s residence. He also asked farmers whose land was being acquired at low rates by the Congress government to support the party’s protest march. SAD has also held a meeting with representatives of the Punjab Pradesh Road Kisan Sangharsh Committee, seeking fair compensation. “It is unfortunate that the committee had been agitating for one year, but the Congress government has refused to announce any revision in rates,” Cheema claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-to-protest-outside-punjab-cm-residence-today-101632847679703.html
28-09-2021||Patna||JD(U) announces new national team||A month after taking over as the JD(U) national president, Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh on Tuesday announced his new national team. Barring some old hands, there are many new faces in the new team of office-bearers. KC Tyagi has once again been made the principal general secretary of the party while Upendra Kushwaha will continue to be the chairman of the parliamentary board. Gopalganj MP Dr Alok Kumar Suman has been made the national treasurer.Apart from this, MP Ramnath Thakur, Mohammad Ali Ashraf Fatmi, Ramsewak Singh, Bihar government minister Sanjay Jha, MLC Ghulam Rasool Baliavi, Afaq Alam Khan and Praveen Singh have been made national general secretaries. In all, there would be nine general secretaries. MLC Qamre Alam, who left the RJD, has also been made one of the national general secretaries.Out of nine general secretaries, four are minorities. Singh also announced the names of five secretaries. These include MP RP Mandal, former MLA Vidyasagar Nishad, Ravindra Prasad Singh, Raj Singh Mann and Rajiv Ranjan Prasad..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-announces-new-national-team-101632847439750.html
28-09-2021||Patna||ED attaches jailed rly engineer’s properties worth ₹3.40 crore||The Patna zonal office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday provisionally attached immovable and movable properties worth ₹3.44 crore belonging to a jailed senior section engineer (SSE) of Jamalpur Railway Workshop and his family members under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a Disproportionate Assets Case. The accused SSE, Chandeshwar Prasad Yadav, is currently lodged in jail for alleged involvement in misappropriation of 100 condemned wagons and thousands of wheels sets, apart from other excluded fittings of Eastern Railway’s Jamalpur Railway Workshop, estimated to be worth ₹34 crore. The attached properties include five immovable properties worth ₹1.19 crore, ₹35.85 lakh investment in seven mutual funds, four insurance policies worth ₹7.97 lakh, and 29 fixed deposits worth ₹1.64 crore. The ED also attached ₹17.25 lakh cash deposits in various bank accounts on the name of his wife and their two sons. The ED, during investigation found that Yadav, while posted and functioning as SSE during the period of January 1, 2013 and December 31, 2017, acquired huge assets, both movable and immovable, either in his name or in the name of his family members, is disproportionate to all his known sources of income to the extent of ₹3 crore, and which he could not satisfactorily account for. The investigation also revealed that the SSE’s salary of ₹38 lakh, received by him during the aforementioned period, he acquired cash to the tune of ₹2.37 crore from unexplained sources. During interrogation last month, Yadav confessed that he, along with one Devesh Kumar, proprietor of Shri Maharani Steels, Patna, embezzled the condemned wagons and scrap of other excluded fittings, for which he received money from Devesh. The ED had started probing the case following an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on February 9, 2018, following a complaint by senior deputy general manager (DGM) and vigilance officer of the Eastern Railway against Patna-based Shree Maharani Steels, unknown railway officials posted at Jamalpur and unknown private persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ed-attaches-jailed-rly-engineer-s-properties-worth-3-40-crore-101632847263397.html
28-09-2021||Ranchi||Deputy commandant killed in encounter in Latehar||A deputy commandant rank officer died after he was injured in an encounter with suspected members of JJMP, a splinter group of CPI (Maoists), in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on Tuesday. One member of JJMP was also killed in the exchange of fire, officials said. Deceased Rajesh Kumar, the deputy commandant with Border Security Force, was injured in an exchange of fire with the outlawed ultras in Salaiya area under Sadar police station in Latehar district, sources said. “The officer was airlifted from the encounter site and taken to a private hospital in Ranchi where he was declared brought dead,” a senior official said. Kumar hails from Bihar. Officials said he was leading the team when they came across the group of ultras. Seeing the security forces, the ultras opened fire. One was killed while others managed to escape, a source said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/deputy-commandant-killed-in-encounter-in-latehar-101632847261860.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Family rivalry behind acid attack on Khanna woman||Two days after a 29-year-old beautician fell victim to an acid attack in Khanna, the police on Tuesday learnt that there was bad blood between the families of the accused and the victim over disposal of waste water. The police have sent the victim’s scarf to the Forensic Science Laboratory to identify the chemical that was used to carry out the attack, and from where it had been procured. They also took the victim to Madiya Road where the acid attack took place to learn the sequence of events. They have also scanned CCTV footage from the area. The accused, Sandeep Singh of Chhota Khanna Road, is still on the run with his family. Special teams have been formed to look for him. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Khanna) Rajan Parminder Singh said things would get clear after the arrest of the accused. The accused had been stalking the victim and had also assaulted her with a brick three months ago, after which the accused had lodged a complaint with the police. However, the police did not take any action against the accused. A case has been registered under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint) , 326-A (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/family-rivalry-behind-acid-attack-on-khanna-woman-101632847260639.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi orders ‘complete ban’ on sale, bursting of firecrackers till January 1||In a bid to curb high air pollution, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Tuesday banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital till January 1, 2022. Citing the directive from the National Green Tribunal, DPCC said it is planning a comprehensive program for the prevention, control and abatement of air pollution."There will be a 'Complete Ban' on bursting and sale of all kinds of firecrackers up to 01.01.2022 in the territory of NCT of Delhi," the order reads.Delhi government had already announced a ban on the sale, use and storage of firecrackers in the national capital this Diwali. In a series of tweets, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the ban was announced in view of deteriorating air quality over the past three years.“Last year, the complete ban was imposed late, after looking at the rising pollution levels in the city. Because of this traders had already bought stock and they had to face losses. This time, traders are requested not to stock up on crackers,” he had tweeted.Delhi’s air quality takes a major dip during the winter season when the particulate matter concentration, PM2.5 and PM10, goes much beyond the prescribed standards. Pollutants from stubble burning in adjoining states, vehicular pollution, particulate matter from construction work majorly contribute to the decline in air quality which is further exacerbated by firecrackers during Diwali and New Year celebrations.DPCC said that large scale celebrations by the bursting of firecrackers will result in violation of social distancing norms, which could lead to another Covid-19 surge. It further noted that the firecrackers would result in a high level of air pollution leading to serious health issues in Delhi, “which under the prevalent pandemic crisis situation is not favourable for the cause of larger community health.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-orders-complete-ban-on-sale-bursting-of-firecrackers-till-january-1-101632846807519.html
28-09-2021||Other||IPL: Madhubani barber wins ₹1 crore in fantasy contest||A barber from Madhubani has won the prize money of ₹1 crore in a virtual game called Dream11 during an IPL match held on Sunday. Contestants of Dream11 need to create a virtual team of 11 players from the two teams that would face each other in the live match of the Indian Premier League (IPL). Depending on the runs scored, boundaries hit and wickets taken by the players during that particular match, the virtual team owner gets points.Winner Ashok Thakur runs a salon at Nanaur Chouk under the Andhratharhi block of Madhubani district. During the Kolkata Knight Riders-Chennai Super Kings match on Sunday, Ashok formed a Dream11 team by investing ₹49. His team got the highest points at the end of the match. He was able to surpass over million contestants to emerge as the winner of the contest. This is the highest prize money that a contestant can win in Dream11. “I got a message and phone call about my win from authorities soon after the match between KKR and CSK got over on Sunday. I never thought I would be lucky enough to win the mega prize,” said Thakur.After seeing promotional videos on television about winning prizes in IPL tournaments by creating a Dream11 team on the mobile app, Ashok had earlier made many futile attempts to win prizes at the fantasy sports platform.Nanaur panchayat mukhiya’s husband Baidyanath Ram said, “The news has spread across the area. Though I have not met him since he won the prize, many people showed me information about his success on their mobile phones,” he added.Ashok wants to first repay the debt and then build a house for the family from the money he has won. According to him, the money would be credited into his account in the next two days. After the tax deductions, Ashok will get ₹70 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ipl-madhubani-barber-wins-1-crore-in-fantasy-contest-101632846901362.html
28-09-2021||Patna||Panchayat polls: Not many takers for ‘panch’ post as over 800 elected unopposed in 1st phase||Even as the panchayat polls in the state are underway, over 800 candidates have so far won uncontested for the post of panch in gram kutcheries, indicating how the number of nominations for the post is far less than other posts in the three-tier rural local bodies.The gram kutcheries, having quasi-judicial powers, are mandated to settle petty disputes at the gram panchayat level, which is the bottom tier of rural local bodies. The panch members act as the jury, having the powers to give their opinion in settling small disputes at the village level through the help of legal counsellors appointed to give legal advice to the representatives of the gram kutcheries.As per the State Election Commission (SEC) data, 858 candidates for different posts have so far been elected uncontested in the first phase of polls held in 12 blocks spread over 10 districts. Of this figure, 830 candidates were elected unopposed to the post of panch, while 26 candidates were elected uncontested to the post of ward member in gram panchayats. On the other hand, the posts of Mukhiya and Sarpanch witnessed competition.Besides, in the election’s second phase that is to begin September 29, as many as 3,402 candidates will be declared to have won uncontested out of the total 21,131 posts.Officials are attributing the reason for candidates being elected unopposed for the post of panch in gram kutcheries to “less number of perks”. “The fact that a large number of candidates are getting elected unopposed for the post of panch is because there are not many takers for the post in gram kutcheries, as the incumbents enjoy fewer powers and perks. It is the sarpanch who wields power and prestige, just like mukhiyas,” said an SEC official handling the panchayat polls.According to Rupesh Kumar, a social activist working to strengthen the panchayati raj system, the panch has considerable power to give his or her opinion on settling small disputes, but hardly any financial powers as like their counterparts, be it ward members or mukhiya in gram panchayats. “The lack of any financial power is a major factor as to why the post attracts less aspiring representatives of panchayat bodies,” Kumar said.However, panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary said the gram kutcheries have been delegated considerable legal powers to discharge their role in arbitration of small civil disputes and petty disputes at the village level in the last few years. “But, there is a general perception among those vying to contest panchayat polls that panch members have fewer powers and it’s not an important post. This is entirely wrong. We are trying to change this mindset,” he said.Referring to powers to gram kutcheries, the minister said the quasi-judicial bodies have the powers to interfere in disputes on small civil matters related to land and can even enforce the prohibition on an assemblage of four or more persons at a disputed site for 30 days.Choudhary said the state government is looking into the aspect of strengthening the kutcheries more and mulling over giving the panch members more powers so that the post holds importance in the local self-governance. “We are working on the proposal of strengthening gram kutcheries and also delegating more powers to panch members as we gave to the ward members in gram panchayat. The devolution of powers to ward members is one reason why there has been a rapid rise in nominations for the post in the ongoing panchayat polls,” the minister said.In the second phase of polls that will cover 48 blocks in 34 districts, there are a total of 71,467 candidates contesting for 21,131 posts. Altogether, 40,903 candidates are in the fray for the post of ward member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/panchayat-polls-not-many-takers-for-panch-post-as-over-800-elected-unopposed-in-1st-phase-101632846899960.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||95 fresh Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 95 fresh Covid-19 infections on Tuesday. Of the total, 67 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while Jammu division saw 28 infections. The number of patients who were cured in Jammu and Kashmir was 188 with active positive cases reaching 1,420.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 609 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 164 and 145 active cases respectively.Officials said with 36 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 13 cases in Baramulla district. As many as 16 other districts had no or single-digit cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,23,378, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.22%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,29,220 and the death-toll stands at 4,422.Officials said that 45,713 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.Jammu district has the highest number of 1,144 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 839 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/95-fresh-covid-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101632846479588.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||BHU scientists develop high yielding wheat variety||A high yielding wheat variety -- Malviya 838-- developed by the scientists of Institute of Agricultural Science-BHU-- was dedicated to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, Banaras Hindu University said in a press statement.On the occasion, the Prime Minister also dedicated 34 other crop varieties that were climate-resilient and had high nutrition content to the nation from New Delhi. He also spoke to some farmers via video conferencing. The communique by the BHU said professor Vinod Kumar Mishra, professor Hemant Kumar Jaiswal and Dr Sandeep Sharma from the department of genetics and plant breeding, professor Ramesh Kumar Singh from department of agronomy, professor Ramesh Chand and professor Shyam Sharan Vaish from department of plant pathology worked for six years to achieve this result.“This is a biofortified wheat variety and gives relatively higher output. It is rich in zinc and iron,” professor Vinod Kumar Mishra said. The biofortified varieties are 1.5 to 3.0 times more nutritious than the traditional varieties.The communique further said: “Wheat production in neighbouring Bangladesh has been adversely affected by a fungal disease Wheat Blast. Being a neighboring country, there is a possibility of this disease coming to our country as it spreads through air. However, there is no effect of this disease on Malaviya 838. It is completely resistant variety. Therefore, if this variety is grown in the states of India adjacent to Bangladesh, then we can stop this disease from coming to India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bhu-scientists-develop-high-yielding-wheat-variety-101632846419725.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||MBA aspirants file PIL in Bombay HC against Maharashtra CET cell, demand re-exam||Days after Master in Business Administration (MBA) aspirants raised queries about discrepancies in the currently ongoing common entrance test exams, a group of students has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) against the state CET cell. In their petition, the students have highlighted how despite clearly mentioning a set paper pattern for the entrance test, the exams did not follow the said pattern, which students have called unfair. Students, through this PIL, have requested that the CET results be stayed for the timebeing unless their queries are heard. They have further demanded a re-examination. CET is an entrance test for admissions to professional undergraduate degree programs, including engineering, management, architecture, hotel management, pharmacy, agriculture and allied courses, among others. After an initial delay due to the pandemic, the exam is being conducted in multiple sessions starting September 20 and will go on till October 10. Nearly 1.3 lakh students appeared for the MH-MBA/MMS CET in the state this year. “Students tried on several occasions to bring this issue to the notice of the CET officials, but all in vain. We have also approached state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant to look into the matter. We now hope the judiciary will give us justice,” said Vaibhav Edke, petitioner, and president, Maharashtra Students Welfare Association (MSWA). As per the official CET website, MBA aspirants’ entrance exam has a total of 200 questions divided between four topics—Logical Reasoning (LR), Abstract Reasoning (AR), Quantitative Aptitude (Quant) and Verbal Ability (VA). “The paper pattern mentioned in the official examination brochure states that LR will have 75 questions, AR will have 25 questions and the remaining two topics will have 50 questions each. What did happen, however, is that some students got 90 questions in LR instead of 75 and others got 30 questions in the same topic. Similarly, some students got 70 questions in Quantitative Aptitude while others got 50. This means the exam was not held on a common platform,” said one of the students who appeared for the entrance exam this year. “Some of us who had jobs have already quit because we had all our hopes on the entrance exam going well and scoring well too. But with the discrepancies in the manner in which the exam was conducted, we are worried about scoring well,” said a student from Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mba-aspirants-file-pil-in-bombay-hc-against-maharashtra-cet-cell-demand-reexam-101632846299748.html
28-09-2021||Other||Congress, corruption two sides of the same coin, AAP’s Chadha||Jalandhar Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab affairs co-incharge and Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha has accused chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of forgetting his claim on corruption by the induction of tainted ministers in his cabinet. Channi had said ‘either I (Channi) will remain or corruption will be there’. Chadha, however, claimed that the inclusion of tainted minister in the state cabinet meant that the Congress cannot change its character, and that corruption and Channi will go hand in hand. “The Congress and corruption are two sides of the same coin,” Chadha alleged, during a press conference at the Jalandhar Press Club on Tuesday. He added that by the presence of Rana Gurjit Singh, who had serious allegations of illegal sand mining etc against him, into his ministry, Channi has proved that appearances are deceptive.“Another Punjab minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu is accused of causing loss of thousands of crores of rupees to Punjab with his links to the mandi mafia; Gurkirat Singh Kotli is accusing of sexually assaulting a French national, but yet all these ministers are in Channi’s cabinet. It is clear that the Congress wants to loot Punjab,” Chadha alleged.He demanded that chief minister Channi should award a compensation of ₹75,000 per acre to every cotton farmer, who had lost his crop due to the pink bollworm disease, with farm labourers provided relief of ₹25,000 each. “Channi need learn from the Kejriwal government in Delhi,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-corruption-two-sides-of-the-same-coin-aap-s-chadha-101632845939778.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi to be UP CM face in 2022 assembly poll: State BJP chief||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Swatantra Dev Singh on Tuesday said Yogi Adityanath will be the CM face in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. “In 2022 assembly election once again Yogi will be the face of CM in UP. We want development and crime and gunda free state. UP is treading on the path of development with a target of becoming Uttam Pradesh,” said Singh in Gorakhpur. Speaking to media after BJP’s outreach programme, he said the party was going to the people with the work done by the Yogi Adityanath government in the past 4.5 years .Singh later went to Kali Mandir at Gita Press road and also started a door-to- door public contact programme.The senior BJP leader also reacted sharply to Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar who called Gorakhpur, the home town of chief minister, as training center of bhikmangas (training center for beggars). “Yes we are bhikmangas. The father of nation Mahatma Gandhi appealed people to leave foreign clothes and people obeyed it. Lal Bahadur Shastri appealed people to leave anna (food) and people obeyed it. And when PM Modi appealed people to leave subsidy, the nation obeyed it, fetching ₹400 crore that was used to build toilets for poor. This was not the money of government but society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-to-be-up-cm-face-in-2022-assembly-poll-state-bjp-chief-101632845760738.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Potholes on highways: Maharashtra cabinet discusses issue; CM may direct officials to fill potholes by Oct 15||As the state faced criticism over pothole-riddled roads and highways, the state cabinet on Tuesday discussed the issue and decided to fill up the potholes in a time-bound manner. Following a discussion during the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray convened a meeting with senior officials on Wednesday evening. Officials said that all agencies will be asked to fill potholes by October 15.The state has been receiving flak for the poor condition of the highways including in Mumbai, Thane, Nagpur, Nashik among other cities. Last week, the Bombay high court had pulled up the government over potholes on the Mumbai-Nashik highway. The court also directed the Centre and state governments to address the issue of potholes on highways.State public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan said, “There has been a lot of rainfall, especially over the past few days, therefore the condition of roads has suffered. The chief minister will chair a meeting tomorrow [Wednesday] on the situation of all highways in the state — both national and state.” Senior state government officials said that the condition of the roads has been severely damaged due to heavy rainfall over the past few weeks in parts of the state. The official added that directions have been issued to devise a master plan to take immediate action in the case of damage to the highways. A cabinet minister, who spoke requesting anonymity said that most ministers expressed the need for fixing responsibility on the engineers on the condition of the roads and must immediately fill up the potholes on major highways. “Several highways have developed potholes on patches stretching kilometres. This leads to traffic snarls on the highway. Each year, such situation arise and therefore responsibility must be fixed on agencies and engineers,” the minister said.Another cabinet minister said that the issue of multiple agencies handling the maintenance of highways is also an issue. “There are many bodies like National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), PWD, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation that construct and maintain highways across the state. Possibly poor quality of material coupled with heavy rains has caused potholes. The potholes have to be fixed by mid-October,” he said requesting anonymity. Ministers also said that the state is also being wrongly blamed for the bad condition of highways that are not under the state government for maintenance, such as the Mumbai-Goa highway, which is handled by NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/potholes-on-highways-maharashtra-cabinet-discusses-issue-cm-may-direct-officials-to-fill-potholes-by-oct-15-101632845640461.html
28-09-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh roadways bus stolen from Bewar bus stand in Mainpuri; recovered||Agra A roadways bus of Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) was allegedly stolen from Bewar bus stand in Mainpuri district on Monday night. However, it was recovered about 30km away from the bus stand near Naviganj Pulia, stuck in mud along the roadside on Tuesday, police said. According to senior bus station in-charge, Mamta Agarwal, the roadways bus from Loni depot was parked in the Bewar bus stand on Monday evening after it arrived from Farukkhabad. The driver slept in verandah of the bus stand while conductor went home. It was revealed in the night that the bus was not present where it was parked. A hunt was launched but the bus could not be traced in the night.She said that the search again started on Tuesday and the roadways staff moved in nearby areas to trace the vehicle and they found it near Naviganj Pulia. “They informed the Dial 100 that the roadways bus was stuck in mud alongside the road towards Kannauj and it could not be moved. A police team reached there and the bus was brought back to Bewar bus stand,” said Agarwal. When contacted, the police station in-charge of Bewar police station, Vijay Gautam stated that police responded on receiving information on Dial 100. “But, no written complaint has been received so far from the complainant,” said Gautam. “CCTV footage of the bus station are being scanned to get any clue,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-roadways-bus-stolen-from-bewar-bus-stand-in-mainpuri-recovered-101632845519705.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rain lashes Mumbai on Tuesday, water level in lakes reach 99%||The city witnessed heavy rainfall on Tuesday, owing to an advisory issued in the backdrop of Cyclone Gulab. Due to heavy rainfall, four Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus routes were diverted due to waterlogging in Kurla. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), however, maintained no major waterlogging was reported in the city.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday had issued an orange alert for the city, in which, it expected thunderstorms and lightning along with heavy rainfall. The IMD has also issued a yellow alert for Wednesday and a further green alert till Saturday.According to the BMC, the city received 67mm rainfall on Tuesday between 8am and 5pm, followed by 71mm in eastern suburbs and 65mm in western suburbs. Four BEST bus routes were diverted due to flooding on road in Kurla (West).According to BMC officials, no major waterlogging was reported in the city apart from the above spots. Areas like Gandhi Market and Hindmata, which usually report waterlogging during heavy rainfall, did not report any flooding. Civic officials said though it rained heavily, the downpour was not continuous.Meanwhile, the seven lakes in the city have a 99.07% water level, owing to which, Mumbai is unlikely to witness any water cuts this year. Of the seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city, four lakes — Tulsi, Vihar, Tansa and Modak Sagar — have already overflowed once this monsoon. According to BMC’s data, the livestock of water is 100% in Modak Sagar, Tulsi and Vihar, and Tansa is 99%. The seven lakes that supply water to the city are located in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts.Bhatsa dam in Thane which supplies 55% of the total annual water requirement of the city has 99.27% water stock, which was 99.16% last year at this time. In the case of Upper Vaitarna, the water level is 99% as of Tuesday. Last year at this time, the level was similar. Middle Vaitarna has 96% of water stock as opposed to 97% last year at this time.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems — the Vaitarna system which supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and Bhatsa system which supplies water to the eastern suburbs. The civic body supplies 3,850 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-lashes-mumbai-on-tuesday-water-level-in-lakes-reach-99-101632845459700.html
28-09-2021||Other||Sit-in at Jallianwala Bagh against its revamp||Amritsar The Punjab Students’ Union, the Naujawan Bharat Sabha, the Kirti Kisan Union and the Pendu Mazdoor Union, along with other Left-leaning organisations, started an indefinite protest against the facelift of the historic Jallianwala Bagh on Tuesday, alleging that revamp was a ‘superfluous decoration of a painful history’. Amid heavy police deployment, protesters gathered outside the monument. Punjab president of Naujawan Bharat Sabha Rupinder Chaunda said, “We want the closure of the ticket system they have introduced here, like this is an amusement park. The protest will continue until they restore the historical monument back to its original form or at least, promise to have a dialogue about it.”Ravinder Kaur, a representatives of the PSU, said, “Now, it is time to fight for other martyr’s’ legacy, as was our revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary on Tuesday.” The protest was still on, till the time of filing this report, even as deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira had also reached the spot to pacify protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sitin-at-jallianwala-bagh-against-its-revamp-101632845279695.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man rides away his impounded bike, booked for theft||A case of theft has been registered against a man, who took away his motorcycle impounded by the Chandigarh traffic police by using a duplicate key, officials said on Tuesday. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Satpal Singh of the Chandigarh Police’s traffic wing stated in his complaint that accused Rohit was stopped for violation on September 27. “He had violated the pedestrian crossing (zebra line) rules and the number plate on his bike was also improper. As he could not produce the vehicle’s documents, his motorcycle was impounded,” he added. The ASI said that he had then parked the two-wheeler on a footpath and kept its keys with him. “But while I was busy in the process of impounding another motorcycle, Rohit drove away his bike using a duplicate key he had on him,” the cop said. The FIR has been registered under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector-26 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-rides-away-his-impounded-bike-booked-for-theft-101632844199499.html
28-09-2021||Other||Akal Takht jathedar returns from Pak, says ETPB will restore neglected gurdwaras||Amritsar Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Tuesday returned from an eigh-day tour to Pakistan. After crossing over to India through the Wagah-Attari border, he told the media, “The visit went well and we were blessed to have a darshan (tour) of historic gurdwaras in Pakistan.”“I also held a meeting with the top brass of the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB), which is custodian of properties of minority communities — Hindus and Sikhs. Here, I requested them to pay attention to historic gurdwaras which are in dilapidated condition. I demanded the restoration of the buildings of these gurdwaras, instead of replacing them with new one,” the jathedar added. He added that the specifically mentioned that the conditions of Shaheedi Asthans of Bhai Mani Singh and Bhai Taru Singh, and the Diwan Khana associated with the 5th Sikh master Guru Arjan Dev in Lahore was not good. “Officials of the ETPB were receptive to our demands and told us that were are already restoring some of the shrines, and will now focus on the places we suggested,” the jathedar added.The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) had invited Giani Harpreet Singh, along with his family, to Pakistan to attend functions being held at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, to mark Joti Jot (immersion in the eternal light) Gurpurb (day) of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikh religion, on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akal-takht-jathedar-returns-from-pak-says-etpb-will-restore-neglected-gurdwaras-101632843959888.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||8-10 unidentified people attack 2 security guards at under-construction site in Thane||A mob of around 8 to 10 unidentified men allegedly attacked two security guards at an under-construction building in Kolshet, Thane, earlier this week.According to the Kapurbawdi police, the incident occurred at around 1.30am on September 25 at a new housing project by the Lodha group. The police said that the accused reached the entrance of the construction site armed with iron rods and swords.“We suspect that the accused were barging into the site with the intention of committing robbery. The two security guards who were on duty at the time saw the accused and tried to stop them, and in response the mob attacked them,” senior police inspector Anil Deshmukh, Kapurbawdi police station, said.Both the security guards, Devnath Pandey (33) and Vinay Pandey (35), sustained injuries in the attack, after which the accused fled the scene. The guards subsequently called the police control room and the information was relayed to the Kapurbawdi police, after which a team was rushed to the spot. Some construction equipment was later found to be missing from the site, officials said.“We have registered a case of dacoity against unidentified persons under the Indian Penal Code and are conducting further inquiries into the matter. Both the security guards are out of danger,” Deshmukh added.The police are now checking CCTV footage covering the site as well as the approach roads leading up to it in order to identify and apprehend the accused. Repeat offenders with a history of armed robbery are also being picked up for questioning, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/810-unidentified-people-attack-2-security-guards-at-under-construction-site-in-thane-101632843540627.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||LMC slaps ₹2.2-crore fine on EcoGreen for breach of contract||LUCKNOW The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) imposed a fine of ₹2.2 crore on EcoGreen Energy Pvt Ltd for breach of contract and its failure to operate the Shivri solid waste treatment plant at full capacity, causing environmental hazard.“During inspection, LMC officials found that tons of waste was lying untreated at the Shivri treatment plant. The company has failed to honour the contract by not treating the waste and this has created an environmental hazard for Shivri area. I have directed company officials to treat all the waste by June, 2022 and operate the plant at its full capacity,” said Ajay Dwivedi, municipal commissioner. Earlier too during the surprise inspection of the plant, not all machines were found to be in working condition. Company officials were warned of strict action a number of times, but they chose not to improve their functioning, said the municipal commissioner.He added, “The processing and treatment of garbage was unsatisfactory over the last few years. At present, about 340,000 tons of waste is lying untreated. I have asked company officials to treat the waste in three shifts. This is in addition to the 200,000 tonnes of residue derived fuel (RDF) lying at the plant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lmc-slaps-2-2-crore-fine-on-ecogreen-for-breach-of-contract-101632843539408.html
28-09-2021||Kolkata||IMD issues red alert for heavy rains in south Bengal; 35,000 evacuated||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert for very heavy rains in some districts of south Bengal for Tuesday and Wednesday as a low-pressure system has developed over the Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of West Bengal.In South 24 Parganas, one of the three coastal districts in West Bengal, more than 35,000 people were evacuated from low lying areas, even as the local administration in East Midnapore and North 24 Parganas were keeping the relief shelters ready while maintaining a close watch on the situation.“While red alert, the highest form of alert in the four graded rain alert system, was sounded for three districts – East Midnapore, West Midnapore and South 24 Parganas – on Tuesday, for Wednesday it has been sounded for West Midnapore and Jhargram where there could be rainfall up to 200mm,” said an IMD official in KolkataSimilarly, orange alert, the next category of alert, has also been sounded for multiple districts in south Bengal such as North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Bankura and Purulia, among others. Till 5:30 pm, Kolkata and its adjoining areas such as Dum Dum and Salt Lake received very light rain. Kolkata received 1.8mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours.“Even though a low-pressure system is common during the monsoon, the district administrations, particularly in the coastal areas and a few other districts, swung into action as large areas are still inundated because of last week’s heavy rain. It was the heaviest rain in September in one day in Kolkata for 14 years. More rains could aggravate matters,” said a senior official of the state’s disaster management department. West Bengal didn’t have to bear the direct brunt of cyclone Gulab which hit Andhra Pradesh on September 26. The IMD however had predicted that a cyclone circulation would develop over the sea around September 27 which could trigger a low-pressure system. The low-pressure system would bring heavy to very heavy rain in south Bengal. “There could be water logging in low lying areas, damage to standing crops and mud houses and lightning. People have been advised to stay indoors and avoid waterlogged areas and dilapidated houses,” the IMD official said. The Bhawanipore by-election, from where Mamata Banerjee is contesting to retain her chief ministership, is scheduled on September 30. There is, however, no warning of heavy rain on that day in Kolkata. Over the past one week, some districts received more than three times excess rain over the climatic normal. More than a dozen were killed due to electrocution in water-logged areas in various districts. At least 120,000 people had to be evacuated from two districts. The Kolkata Police have set up a unified command centre at its headquarters. Officials from the fire brigade, public works department, power supply corporation, city’s civic body and police would remain stationed at the centre. At least 22 teams have been formed. Officials said that special care is being taken for Bhabanipur in south Kolkata to avoid any waterlogging. “Heavy rains are expected. But even then I would request you to go to the booth with an umbrella and wearing a mask to cast your vote. Don’t waste a single vote,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/imd-issues-red-alert-for-heavy-rains-in-south-bengal-35-000-evacuated-101632843481305.html
28-09-2021||Other||Senior Maoist leader Tingraj Orang surrenders in Assam||A senior Maoist leader from Assam, Tingraj Orang, surrendered before police on Tuesday, officials said. According to a police statement, the 49-year-old surrendered before Hiren Chandra Nath, additional director general of police, special branch in Guwahati. Orang is the convener of the Assam State Organizing Committee (ASOC) of CPI (Maoist) which was formed in 2017. He was the general secretary Barak and Bramhaputra valley zonal committees of CPI (Maoist) in Assam. As per the statement, Orang started his association with Left parties from 1989-99 and was a former president of Adivasi Chah Janagoshti Suraksha Committee. He formally joined CPI (Maoist) in 2006. In 2011 he was arrested in Rourkela in Orissa along with 2 CPI (Maoist) cadres of Assam, Aditya Bora and Ajoy Sabor. Orang hails from Samuktola village of Dibrugarh district. “He is the only senior Maoist leader who was expanding bases of CPI (Maoist) in Barak and Brahmaputra valleys of Assam. His surrender would be a huge setback for CPI (Maoist) movement in Assam, and the ASOC would be leaderless,” the police statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/senior-maoist-leader-tingraj-orang-surrenders-in-assam-101632842280899.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices hike in Mumbai: Diesel at ₹97.21 a litre, petrol at ₹107.47||At an all-time high, diesel prices in the city crossed ₹97 in the city on Tuesday. Diesel was priced at ₹97.21 a litre, while petrol was priced at ₹107.47 for a litre. An increase of 21 paisa on petrol and 27 paisa on diesel was witnessed.The petrol is priced the highest in Parbhani with one litre of petrol costing ₹110.04, while diesel was available at ₹98.75 in Amravati.Citizens have expressed their anger at the constant hike in fuel prices.“The hike in fuel prices have started once again. This is the third day of hike. If the situation continues, owning a personal vehicle will no longer be feasible in the city,” said Ankita Singh, a Parel resident.Transporters have stated that the government has not brought the petroleum products under Goods and Service Tax (GST) ambit despite repeated requests.“The transport fraternity had hoped that diesel and petrol would come under GST ambit, however, the subject did not come up for discussion in the recent GST Council meeting. The transport fraternity is under acute stress and the rising diesel prices have only been adding to it,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Congress (AIMTC).In Mumbai’s neighbouring Thane, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹107.60 while a litre of diesel was priced at ₹97.34.Petrol crossed ₹100 per litre mark in the city on May 29 and has since then been on a rise in Mumbai. Fuel prices in the city have been on an increase since May 3.Earlier on September 1, fuel prices had dropped in the city. One litre of petrol was priced at ₹107.39 and a litre of diesel was available in the city at ₹96.33.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-hike-in-mumbai-diesel-at-97-21-a-litre-petrol-at-10747-101632842099298.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Yes Bank case: Bombay high court rejects bail pleas of Rana Kapoor’s wife, daughters||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday rejected bail applications of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s wife Bindu, daughters Radha and Roshini and the then business head of the private bank, Rajiv Anand.“In the instant case, it is apparent that all the applicants are alleged to have indulged in the commission of offences, which have resulted in the serious dent to the financial health of the state as well as defrauding the public at large,” said single judge bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while rejecting the four bail applications.“Such offences are occurring in plenty and have resulted in the stultifying overall growth of the nation and also have caused tremendous impairment to the economy of the nation. These crimes are more heinous in nature as they intend to destroy the economic fabric and financial edifice of the state,” the high court said.Bindu Kapoor and her daughters were remanded to judicial custody when they appeared before the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on September 18. The special court had rejected their bail pleas and sent them to jail. Similarly, Anand was taken into custody and sent to jail on September 20.All of them had then moved the high court for bail, contending that though the CBI did not find it necessary to arrest any of them for completing its investigation, the special court rejected their bail pleas when they formally appeared before the court, after filing of the charge-sheet. It was argued on their behalf that grant of bail in such matters is a mere formality and the special CBI court had erred in rejecting their bail applications and taking them in custody.HC, however, rejected the argument. Justice Dangre said there was nothing in the Code of Criminal Procedure to indicate that the grant of bail post-charge-sheet is a formality. On the contrary, the bench said, the court is bound to take into consideration the entire material brought on record on the filing of the charge sheet.Justice Dangre said it is only upon the presentation of the charge sheet, when full material is compiled together, the gravity of the offence and the possibility of conviction could be judged on the basis of the material coming before the court in a crystallised form, which perhaps prompted the Special court to reject the bail, applications.“Dispensation of arrest at the stage of investigation need not continue throughout and in particular, when the offence made out against the Applicants has clearly emerged in the charge-sheet as a grave economic offence and the witnesses who will participate in the trial apparently surfacing, the Applicants do not deserve their release on bail,” said HC. The economic offences wing of the CBI has on March 7, 2020, registered an FIR against M/s. Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL), M/s. DOIT Urban Venture (India) Private Limited (“DOIT”) and some other entities, their directors and promoters and has named Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor as the prime accused.The central agency alleged that Yes Bank had invested ₹3,700 crore in short term non-convertible debenture of DHFL between April and June 2018. Kapoor allegedly received ₹600 crore as kickbacks from DHFL in terms of loan advanced to two firms, DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited and Morgan Credits Private Limited. Rana Kapoor’s three daughters hold 100℅ stakes in DOIT, whereas Morgan Credits is controlled by his wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/yes-bank-case-bombay-high-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-rana-kapoor-s-wife-daughters-101632841979247.html
28-09-2021||Other||Mizoram logs highest single-day spike of 1,846 new Covid-19 cases||Mizoram's Covid-19 tally mounted to 90,539 on Tuesday as a record 1,846 more people, including 324 children, tested positive for the infection, a health official said.The northeastern state's coronavirus death toll rose to 302 as one more patient succumbed to the infection.On September 21, the state had reported its previous highest single-day spike of 1,731 Covid-19 cases.The single-day positivity rate dipped to 19.44 per cent from 31.77 per cent on Sunday as the fresh cases were detected from 9,494 samples. A total of 1,659 samples were tested on Sunday.Aizawl district registered the highest number of new cases at 1,082, followed by Siaha (348) and Lunglei (119). Three new patients have travel history, while 1,843 infections were detected during contact tracing, the official said.Mizoram now has 15,843 active cases, while 74,394 people have recovered from the infection so far, including 1,481 on Monday. The recovery rate among the Covid-19 patients stood at 82.16 per cent, while the death rate was at 0.32 per cent.The state has conducted more than 10.8 lakh sample tests for the virus to date. A total of 6.77 lakh people have been inoculated to date, of whom 4.21 lakh have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mizoram-logs-highest-single-day-spike-of-1-846-new-covid-19-cases-101632839651518.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Morbe Dam in Navi Mumbai fills to capacity with adequate rainfall||After two years, Morbe dam of Navi Mumbai became full on Tuesday. With 3742 mm rainfall till now this year, Morbe dam has reached its capacity of 190mn cubic metre (MCM).On Tuesday, there was a rainfall of 35.96 mm reported. In the year 2020, a rainfall of 3546.24 mm was reported till October while in 2019, it was 4638.29 mm.According to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) officials, there would not be any water cut in Navi Mumbai in 2022 due to enough storage. A week back, the dam was 98% full.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/morbe-dam-in-navi-mumbai-fills-to-capacity-with-adequate-rainfall-101632840482972.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports first deaths due to Covid-19 in 10 days; 2 patients succumb to infection||Delhi on Tuesday recorded the first fatalities related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in 10 days as two patients succumbed to the infection, according to the health bulletin by Delhi government. Following this, the death toll of the city has increased to 25,087, with the case fatality rate standing at 1.74 per cent.The last death due to Covid-19 was reported in the national capital on September 17 – a little less than two weeks before. As many as 34 fresh cases were logged, which took the cumulative tally of the city to 14,38,780, the health bulletin data revealed. Tuesday’s new caseload is slightly higher than Monday when 32 infections were reported. With 25 new recoveries, the total number of recovered patients in Delhi has reached 14,13,320, the bulletin data showed. On Monday, 37 new recoveries were logged in the city.Furthermore, Delhi has been witnessing less than 50 single-day rises in Covid-19 cases for the past 13 days. On September 15, the national capital logged 57 fresh coronavirus cases. Following Tuesday’s figures, the active case count of Delhi stands at 373, the bulletin data showed.A total of 105 people are currently under home isolation in Delhi, while as many as 229 people are hospitalised due to coronavirus. Five people are admitted in dedicated Covid-19 care centres.In the last 24 hours, as many as 205,999 people have been administered Covid-19 vaccines, of which 90,935 received the first jab and the remaining 115,064 were inoculated with the second shot. Till now, a total of 1,73,59,825 individuals have been vaccinated in the national capital, with the first dose administered to 1,18,24,261 people and the second shot given to 55,35,564 individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-first-deaths-due-to-covid-19-in-10-days-101632839842046.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai receives moderate to heavy rain, effect of Cyclone Gulab to subside on Wednesday||The city experienced a final spell of heavy rains on Tuesday before the monsoon season closes out at the end of the month, due to the remnants of cyclonic storm Gulab travelling westward from Andhra Pradesh toward the Arabian Sea. Experts and officials have warned that moderate to heavy rains may continue during the day’s first half on Wednesday. The weather system’s influence over Mumbai and surrounding areas began around 5pm Tuesday.As a result, most monitoring locations around the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) received between 40mm to 70mm of rain in 12 hours between 7am and 7pm. However, some areas in Thane and south Mumbai also received between 70mm to 100mm of rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) classifies 15.6-64.4mm as moderate rain while 64.5-115.5mm rain as heavy, 115.6-204.4mm as very heavy, over 204.5mm as extremely heavy rain, and over 300mm as exceptionally heavy rain.Mumbai has been placed under a yellow category weather alert on September 28, indicating chances of “thunderstorm accompanied with lightning/gusty winds and heavy rain at isolated places,” while Thane and Palghar districts have been placed under an orange category weather alert indicating chances of “very heavy rain at isolated places.”“Intensity of rains may pick up during the night, and the influence of the weather system will start receding during the second half of the day,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. The IMD has also forecast that some affected districts may continue to see strong winds between 30-40kmph, gusting at 50kmph in isolated places.With the IMD’s monitoring station in Santacruz (taken as representative of the city) receiving 39.6mm of rain during the day on Tuesday, the total rainfall for the entire season (from June 1) stands at 3075mm, as against the seasonal normal of 2,205mm. This is an excess of about 38% and marks the third consecutive year that Mumbai has received seasonal rainfall in excess of the 3,000mm mark. Including the rains brought by Cyclone Tauktae in May, the total rainfall for the entire year stands at over 3,400mm. Between June and September last year the city had recorded a total 3,687mm of rain, stopping just 70mm short of 2020 being the wettest monsoon on record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-receives-moderate-to-heavy-rain-effect-of-cyclone-gulab-to-subside-on-wednesday-101632840179139.html
28-09-2021||Noida||Three men rob jewellery shop in Noida||Three armed men allegedly robbed a jewellery shop in Sarfabad village on Tuesday afternoon. The suspects held the shopkeeper and his staff at gunpoint and fled with some silver jewellery, said police. Police identified the owner of the shop, Balaji Jewellers in Sarfabad village, as Amit Kumar, 35. Vinod Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 49 police station, said that three suspects arrived at the shop on a motorcycle in the afternoon. “One person sat on the motorcycle while two of his accomplices entered the shop. They asked the shopkeeper to show them some jewellery. Kumar was showing them the jewellery when the suspects took out a gun and held him at gunpoint,” he said. The SHO said that the suspects snatched four silver rings and swiftly fled on the motorcycle. Kumar informed the police and a team from Sector 49 police station reached the spot and launched an investigation into the matter. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said police have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. “The suspects fled with only some silver jewellery. There was no CCTV camera in the shop. We scanned the CCTV cameras in the neighbourhood and found three suspects fleeing on a motorcycle. The suspects will be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-men-rob-jewellery-shop-in-noida-101632839580603.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya Dham shopkeepers’ rehab: HC disposes of petition with liberty to petitioners to approach DM||LUCKNOW The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court disposed of a writ petition seeking directives to the state government to rehabilitate shopkeepers of Hanuman Garhi road before their establishments are demolished for the road widening project. A division bench of Justice Devendra Kumar Upadhyaya and Justice Abdul Moin on Monday said: “Considering the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties and going through the record, we feel it appropriate to dispose of the writ petition with liberty to the petitioners to approach the district magistrate, Ayodhya/opposite party.” “In case the petitioners prefer any representation to the opposite party no.2/ district magistrate, Ayodhya, he is expected to decide the same in accordance with law and after giving opportunity of hearing to the petitioners, expeditiously,” added the court. “The writ petition is disposed of accordingly,” order the court. To recall, traders of Ayodhya Dham (old Ayodhya) had been opposing the road widening project. According to them, the mega project would affect hundreds of shopkeepers whose commercial establishments would have to be demolished. In protest against the project, traders of Ayodhya Dham had kept their establishments closed on September 23. All sweat meat shops at Hanuman Garhi road also remained shut in protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-dham-shopkeepers-rehab-hc-disposes-of-petition-with-liberty-to-petitioners-to-approach-dm-101632839579377.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet minister Razia Sultana resigns ‘in solidarity’ with Navjot Singh Sidhu||Hours after Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu tendered his resignation from the post, state minister Razia Sultana also submitted her resignation in solidarity with Sidhu, just two days after being sworn-in as a cabinet minister on Sunday. The resignation came following a meeting between Sultana and Sidhu.She called Sidhu a “man of principles” and also said that he is “fighting for Punjab,” news agency ANI reported.In her letter to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Sultana said, “I, Razia Sultana, hereby resign as cabinet minister, Punjab in solidarity with Sh Navjot Singh Sidhu, PPCC president and millions of Congress workers across the state. I will continue to work for the party as a worker in the best interest of Punjab.”Further, she also thanked Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi “for their countless blessings on me and my family in our hours of need.”Also read | Amarinder Singh reaches Delhi, says ‘not here to meet any politician’Earlier in the day, another protege of Sidhu, state Congress treasurer Gulzar Inder Singh Chahal, also resigned from his post, in solidarity with the cricketer-turned-politician.Meanwhile, Sultana’s husband Mohd Mustafa, a former IPS official and advisor of Sidhu, hailed her decision to resign. In a tweet he said that he was proud of her “principled decision” to resign in the best interest of Congress and its leadership, especially Rahul Gandhi.Chief minister Channi, in a press meet earlier in the day, said that he had no information about Sidhu's resignation and said that he had "full confidence and faith" in Sidhu.Amid the ongoing political developments, former chief minister Amarinder Singh, with whom Sidhu recently had a fall out, called Sidhu an “unstable man.” In a tweet immediately after Sidhu’s resignation, Singh said, “I told you so... he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of punjab.”When asked about his arrival at the national capital, the former CM said that he was there to vacate the Kapurthala House, the residence of Punjab CM in Delhi and also said that he was not there to meet any politicians, amid speculations about his meeting with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Union home minister Amit Shah.Sidhu, who had quit his post on Tuesday afternoon, wrote to Sonia Gandhi in which he said that he could never compromise on the welfare and future of Punjab. In his letter, he said, “The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab. Therefore, I hereby resign as the President of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Will continue to serve the Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-minister-razia-sultana-resigns-in-solidarity-with-navjot-singh-sidhu-101632838702270.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Eligible adult population to be fully vaccinated by Feb 2022, first dose to all in Mumbai by Diwali: BMC||Going by the current pace, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) expects the entire eligible adult population of 9.2 million in Mumbai is likely to get fully vaccinated by February 2022. The BMC anticipates that by Diwali, in the first week of November, the entire eligible population in the city would have got at least their first dose. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force has meanwhile suggested that citizens might have to continue wearing masks till the end of 2022. Currently, 85% of the eligible population has got their first dose of the vaccine. According to BMC officials, the entire population will be vaccinated by February 2022, provided the vaccine supply remains the same as that in September. Also, the BMC anticipates that of the total vaccinated, 20% is the floating population of those who work in Mumbai but reside outside. Similarly, the BMC anticipates that hundreds of citizens who are residents of Mumbai have also got their vaccination outside Mumbai. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We hope that all eligible adult citizens will get their first dose of vaccine by October-end, and both doses by say February. We have to consider the 84-day gap after the first dose. These calculations are valid if we have proper supply, which currently does not look like a problem. However, the vaccination drive will continue even after February 2022, as the scope might widen with vaccination for children below 18 years of age.” According to BMC data, the supply of vaccine has been the best till now in September 2021, ever since the vaccination drive kicked off in January 2021. From getting vaccine doses supply between 0.5-1 million doses on a monthly basis, the BMC anticipates that the vaccine supply will go up till 1.5 million by the end of September. Mumbai crossed 10 million vaccinations in the first week of September. As of September 22, 2021, 85% of the total target population have got at least first dose and 40% of the citizens are fully vaccinated. In terms of age-wise vaccination ratio, the highest target of fully vaccinated has been achieved is in the age group of 45-59, in which 59% target is achieved, followed by 55% in senior citizens above 60 years of age. Further, a 23% target is achieved in the 18-45 age group. The data reveals that 52% of the total healthcare workers and 57% frontline workers have been fully vaccinated. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of state taskforce, said, “We have vaccinated a substantial number of the population, and we still have to vaccinate the remaining beneficiaries. We do not have to let down our guard and have to continuously keep wearing masks. Also, I feel by the time we will fully vaccinate all our citizens for both doses, there will be time for a booster dose. Hence, I feel citizens will have to continue wearing masks till the end of 2022 at least for now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eligible-adult-population-to-be-fully-vaccinated-by-feb-2022-first-dose-to-all-in-mumbai-by-diwali-bmc-101632837839137.html
28-09-2021||Other||‘IAS officers involved in PDS scam should be removed’: Raman Singh||Former Chhattisgarh chief minster and national vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Raman Singh alleged that Bhupesh Baghel-led Congress government is trying to save two Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers in multi-crore Public Distribution System (PDS) scam by weakening. Singh demanded their removal from current positions till the case is in court.Singh’s comments came during a press conference. He was referring to a news report published on Tuesday which claimed that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) informed the Supreme Court through an affidavit that Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, some members of the special investigating team investigating the PDS scam and a top law officer are allegedly trying to weaken the case against the two IAS officers involved in the PDS scam.The two officers are former managing director of Nangrik Apurti Nigam (NAN) Anil Kumar Tujeja and former chairman Alok Shukla. “It is very clear that the Congress government made several mistakes in the entire case. Congress government ordered a fresh SIT probe in the case where a chargesheet was already filed. They were also reports of pressuring investigation officer to bring in light new evidence. The officers (two IAS) for whom Congress wrote a letter to the Prime Minister demanding strict action on them so much so as asking that these officers should be put in jail… But now when they are in power, they are weakening their cases and did nothing against them,” said Raman Singh citing the media report.“We demand that both the officers in question should be removed from their position and the government should stop interfering in the cases that are in Chhattisgarh high court,” said Singh.On the other hand, Congress claimed that the Central government is misusing central agencies for political purposes and the allegations against the state agencies are politically motivated.“This is a clear misuse of central agencies by the Union government... They are using the ED for political purposes in a Congress-run state. Secondly, as far as Raman Singh is concerned, he is the one who weakened the investigation of the NAN scam... Raman Singh should first answer who was ‘CM madam’ in the dairy found during the PDS scam. The central government had approved the prosecution of these two officers in 2016, what were the reasons for him to wait for two years till 2018 when they were charge-sheeted?” said Shailesh Nitin Trivedi, Congress’s state communication head. Nan scam came into light in 2014 when the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted raids in various parts of the state and seized cash and documents. The ACB also recovered coded diary entries of pay-offs to officials and politicians. Then in opposition, the Congress party claimed that the scam is about ₹36,000 crore and further alleged the involvement of BJP leaders. In 2015, a PIL was filed by Sudeep Shrivastava in Chhattisgarh high court demanding an SIT investigation in the case. Shrivastava in his PIL alleged the investigating agency saved few officers who were involved in the scam. The PIL which was filed by Shrivastava stated that 111 samples of 254 samples of rice and out of 185 samples of salt 64 samples were found to be sub-standard and unfit for human consumption but were cleared by officers.“The mega PDS scam has deep roots in Chhattisgarh. The so-called welfare scheme to provide cheap rice has been envisaged in a manner to have enough cushions for corruption. In September 2013, the total number of below poverty line (BPL) ration cards was 70.67 lakh against 56.11 of total families as per the 2011 census. Moreover, the iodized salt supplied under PDS was found unfit for human consumption risking the lives of innocent people. During the rule of Raman Singh, the ACB ensured that investigation doesn’t reach the CM and ministers despite clear evidence of money trail, now in Bhupesh-regime, the ACB tries to save these charge-sheeted IAS officers,” said Shrivastava, a lawyer and activist who filed a PIL in this case, adding that it is an irony that Chhattisgarh high court, in last 6 years, could not decide PILs seeking an independent court-monitored probe into this huge scam.Shrivastava further said that the empathy of the Congress regime to these two officers is beyond understanding considering the fact that one of them, Shukla, got retired in July 2020 but the cabinet appointed him on a contractual basis for three more years on the same day despite the corruption charge-sheet against him. Shukla, refused to comment over the current development and the transcript submitted by the ED.Meanwhile, a senior ACB officer commenting over the transcript said that the said transcript was based on a seizure of the IT department raid in 2020. “Since then, everything in ACB and EOW has changed. Now, new men are leading the state agencies,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ias-officers-involved-in-pds-scam-should-be-removed-raman-singh-101632837658443.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Paying homage to my first and last companion in life’s journey||If our birth is deemed as the fountainhead of a mountain, death an ocean, then our life would be akin to a river constantly flowing down the ‘age’ at a constant ‘time’ and speed. Most of the water in my case has already flowed under the bridge, irreversibly like time. However, imagination allows me to scan the whole gamut of childhood, adulthood and retired life at my leisure to recall scores of people who bumped into me in the rites of passage for a particular time only to get replaced by new ones at regular intervals. Call it a sheer twist of good fortune, or my destiny, the first person in my life has ironically been the ‘last’ one who has continued staying with me selflessly under all conditions thus far; spanning decades as the rest of the faces around kept changing over time. The quantum of effort she’d put in through the ages to ensure her son’s life remained in poise during all his ups and downs is writ large upon her sagging anatomy, conspicuously marked with her deeply wrinkled face, baggy eyes and veined hands. That priceless companion is none other than my octogenarian mother. One memory is too vivid worth declaring the moment of yesterday; when having got my first job at a meagre salary in a textile factory in Ludhiana, I’d lifted her in my arms spinning round and round in unchecked alacrity. Sitting next to me looking ever so sprightly, she bubbled with unbridled cheerfulness observing my celebratory wedding as I put offerings into the sacred fire unmindful of the real, insidious and volatile designs of the ‘time’. Years later, when I was setting fire to my wife’s pyre, she was still standing by my side though in a starkly contrasting mood. Not only had my joyous mother wiped my tears when I was a newly ‘born’ baby, but she did the same when I was a newly ‘dead’ adult. Her strengthening presence served as a reminder to a gospel truth that if a wife is the better half, who else could be one’s best half apart from mother. Privy to my innermost thoughts, she took it upon herself to buffer my delicate predicament as having had my own mother alive at my side I was futilely making endeavours to placate the pangs of my children longing for their departed mother. My struggle in vain to come to terms with the sudden loss of my spouse at times turned into frustration and anger that she went on absorbing like sponge to water. If my wholesome identity in my mother’s presence had not perpetually interpreted ‘double’, the double whammy of losing my wife and then my younger brother within a short span would have crushed me to unspeakable, unbearable, and irreparable proportions. Holding a pen to channel my pent-up emotions, I often tend to visualise many wayward and wild things, but immediately rein in my mind daring to imagine how my life might have read without her. Many people will come and go, but mother tends to stay with us right from the time we open our eyes until we close them forever before her, or when she breathes her last. My silent wish goes one way; may my case fall in the former category for, I’ve honestly run out of the willpower to afford losing her to the deadly claws of time after losing my dear ones for, she’s indeed been the ‘dearest’ to me in no uncertain terms. ak.bhardwaj3103@gmail.com The writer is a Mukerian-based retired headmaster||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paying-homage-to-my-first-and-last-companion-in-life-s-journey-101632837179149.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||46-year-old stabs 8-year-old to death, injures man who intervenes in Dahanu||The police on Tuesday arrested Pramod Ratnakar Goshe, 46, for allegedly killing Varsha Suresh Goshe, 8, near a zilla parishad overhead tank in Ranshet-Vangadpada, Dahanu. The accused stabbed the girl with a sickle on her neck, head, back, hands and other parts of the body and she died on the spot. Goshe also assaulted Vilas Barkya Bolada, 40, a farm labourer, who intervened during the attack. He is admitted to Cottage Government hospital at Dahanu. The police nabbed Goshe within a few hours of the murder from a dense jungle. Dashrath Patil, senior police inspector, Dahanu police station, said, “Goshe may have had a previous enmity with the girl’s parents. We don’t know the motive yet. We arrested him under sections 302 (murder), 307(attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and have seized the sickle. We will produce him before the Dahanu court on Wednesday. The post-mortem report of the girl is awaited and we will take statement from the injured as soon as he is able to communicate with us.” According to police sources, the accused is a distant relative of the girl. He has three children and his wife had left him three years ago. Sanjay Mohite, DIG, Konkan Range, and other officials visited the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/46yearold-stabs-8-year-old-to-death-injures-man-who-intervenes-in-dahanu-101632836099100.html
28-09-2021||Other||Tripura makes Covid-19 tests mandatory for priests, organizers for Durga Puja||Tripura government on Tuesday issued guidelines for the celebration of Durga Puja and other pujas from October to December to avoid transmission of Covid-19. The administration has also mandated Covid-19 tests for priests, puja organizers and volunteers two days before Durga puja, officials said. The guidelines served by the Disaster Management Authority on Monday, directed the puja organizers to take prior permission from the concerned district and police administration for puja celebration, reducing the number of puja pandals through mutual consultation where 5-10 visitors will be allowed to enter at a time and that too, maintaining one-meter physical distance from each other, avoiding narrow entrance and exit systems in the pandal. The clubs are also asked to go for online subscriptions for puja and avoid visiting homes amid pandemic. The guidelines also directed puja organizers, priests and volunteers to undergo Covid-19 tests two days before Durga Puja and set up Covid-19 testing booths at major puja sites. The priests have been directed to conduct pushpanjali ritual through microphones during puja and the devotees are advised to bring flowers from their homes for pushpanjali. Maximum 10-15 devotees can participate in the ritual at a time. The puja clubs are directed to not let more than 10-15 women for ‘Sindoor Khela’ (a ritual where married women put vermillion on Goddess Durga’s) at a time on Dussehra. No procession has been allowed while bringing the idol of Durga to the pandal. At least 30 persons will be allowed to attend the immersion of the idol as per the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-makes-covid-19-tests-mandatory-for-priests-organizers-for-durga-puja-101632835800779.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||‘Wedding in open space, Ramleela staging…’: Covid relaxations allowed by UP govt ahead of festive season||Ahead of the grand festive season, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday allowed the holding of wedding ceremonies and other events in open spaces. The number of people permitted to be in attendance in these ceremonies will depend on the region, the state home department informed via a statement on Twitter.“Along with this (holding wedding ceremonies and other events in open spaces), compliance with Covid-19 protocols and setting up of Covid-19 help desk at the entrance will be mandatory,” the statement issued in Hindi read.
28-09-2021||Mumbai||17-year-old gym trainer dies in road accident on Vashi bridge||A 17-year-old gym trainer died on Vashi Creek Bridge on Monday after his two-wheeler was hit by an unknown vehicle.Police said that the victim, Kabir Salim Mehda, stayed with his family at Shivaji Nagar in Govandi and worked as a gym trainer in Turbhe. On Monday, he was on his way to the gym when the mishap occurred.Ramesh Chavan, senior inspector of Vashi police station, said, “Mehda suffered severe injuries at different parts of his body and was rushed to NMMC hospital, Vashi, where he succumbed. We handed over his body to his family after post-mortem. The vehicle that hit him ran away from the spot after the accident. We are examining the CCTV footage and hope to arrest the accused driver soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/17yearold-gym-trainer-dies-in-road-accident-on-vashi-bridge-101632835678973.html
28-09-2021||Indore||Metal spring found in lungs of 2-year-old child in Madhya Pradesh||A spring was removed from the lungs of a 2-year-old girl in Madhya Pradesh in a surgical procedure by doctors at Indore’s Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMC). The toddler had been suffering from cough and cold for the past one month. However, in an X-ray scan it was found that she had accidentally swallowed a metal spring, doctors said.“A 2-yr-old girl child was suffering from cough & cold for a month. In an X-ray, a spring was found in her lungs that she accidentally swallowed. We successfully removed it in an operation,” Dr Yamini Gupta (ENT, HOD, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore told news agency ANI.Doctors often find metal objects like coins, clips etc as children accidentally swallow such items. However, in this case the swallowed item was found in the child’s lungs.A similar incident happened in Karnataka where a four-year-old girl choked to death after accidentally swallowing a five-rupee coin while playing with it. The child was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/metal-spring-found-in-lungs-of-2-year-old-child-in-madhya-pradesh-101632832618314.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi distributes 1.23 lakh smartphones among anganwadi workers||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath showered praise on anganwadi workers for their contribution to Covid control efforts in UP and distributed 1.23 lakh smartphones to 1.23 lakh anganwadi workers during a programme to promote nutrition among women and children in the state capital on Tuesday. Under Nutrition Campaign, he also gave away 1.87 lakh newborn growth monitoring devices (infantometers) to the anganwadi workers for health testing of children. Now, these workers will be digitally enabled to perform their task.“During the peak of the pandemic, anganwadi workers went from house to house. They provided medicine kits to every patient, checked who is having flu-like symptoms, who is suffering from cough, cold and fever. They prepared a list of such patients and gave it to the district headquarters by evening. This way, Uttar Pradesh created a new model by controlling Covid through field workers. This also sends a message to others that by doing collective work, we can easily deal with any major challenge, said Yogi Adityanath while addressing anganwadi workers.The CM said institutions/departments/individuals could do any propaganda about themselves, but their real work was tested in times of calamity or adverse situations. “UP has passed all tests with flying colours, because of such a strong workforce. Covid was all over the world, but the eyes of the country’s media were on Uttar Pradesh, because they had some expectations from the state,” he added.Yogi Adityanath also indicated a wage hike for anganwadi workers but stopped short of any announcement in this regard.“Technology not only makes our work easier, but is also transparent and brings added responsibility. It makes us skilled in the field besides earning respect. He said today the perception of people about UP has changed. Every department has done something new and good. Remember what the situation was four and a half years back. Now, the state of affairs has changed and the respect and honour of anganwadi workers has increased during our government,” said Yogi.On September 7, governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath had inaugurated 529 new anganwadi centres, constructed at a cost of Rs. 4,142 lakh, in 24 districts of the state, and appointment letters were distributed among 91 newly-selected child development project officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-distributes-1-23-lakh-smartphones-among-anganwadi-workers-101632833218786.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Vehicle owners clear fines worth ₹22.77 crore in Maharashtra||A fortnight after the Maharashtra traffic police issued an ultimatum to traffic rules’ violators to clear their pending e-challans, 484,739 vehicle owners have cleared their pending fines worth ₹22.77 crore. The number of unpaid challans still stands at 2,100,983, involving 679,676 vehicles and ₹102.39 crore fine.From September 13, over one million vehicle owners across Maharashtra were sent pre-litigation notices by the additional director general (ADG) of Maharashtra (traffic), warning them to clear their pending fines levied through e-challans or remain present before the next Lok Adalat.Also Read: Maharashtra ATS again takes custody of 2 terror suspects arrested a week back BK Upadhyay, ADG traffic, said the notices were sent to the traffic violators who together owed the government more than ₹417.41 crore in fines for traffic violations. The notices were sent to violators via SMSs on their registered mobile numbers, he added.Of the one million pending e-challans, the traffic police have sent maximum notices to violators in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vehicle-owners-clear-fines-worth-rs-22-77-crore-in-maharashtra-101632832378678.html
28-09-2021||Patna||‘Coming with a mission’: Kanhaiya Kumar entry raises hopes in Bihar Congress||PATNA: Former president of Jawaharlal University Students’ Union (JNUSU) Kanhaiya Kumar’s induction in the Congress could improve the party’s ability to revive its roots in Bihar and beyond but its ally Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) may not be comfortable at the entry of the high-profile leader, Congress leaders and political analysts said.Kanhaiya Kumar, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Begusarai as the Communist Party of India (CPI) candidate, along with Gujarat’s youth Dalit icon and MLA Jignesh Mevani joined the Congress in the presence of party leader Rahul Gandhi. To be sure, Mevani said he hadn't formally joined the party due to a technical hitch - he will lose his membership to the Gujarat assembly if he does - but will contest the state elections on a Congress ticket.The two inductions are broadly seen as part of a continuing effort by Congress to expand its diminished support base. It was in this context that the Congress last week opted for S Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab Punjab chief minister. “Elevation of S Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister of Punjab would give a fresh fillip to the party in the state owing to the caste factor,” said former Patna University professor and political observer Nawal Kishore Chaudhary.Congress MLA from Kadwa and JNU alumnus Shakeel Ahmad Khan said the Congress was certain to harness Kanhaiya Kumar’s mass appeal. “This will make other senior leaders to rejuvenate their ties with the people, or face the risk of being marginalised. Kanhiaya is coming with a mission,” said Khan after his conversation with the former JNUSU leader.Some Congress leaders how Kanhaiya Kumar, whose arrest as a JNUSU president in a sedition case in 2016 put him at the centre of a nationwide debate on free speech, would start in his new role with some distinct advantages. Apart from his background, said a former Bihar Congress vice president, “he will enjoy the freedom to work as he would have access to party seniors such as Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi”. He hoped tht the Congress leader’s bid to connect to the masses would make others to fall in line.Some RJD leaders insisted that they weren’t worried about the Congress’ new find. But there were others who acknowledged that if the Congress and Kanhaiya Kumar come anywhere close to expanding the party base in Bihar, it would enhance the Congress’ bargaining power in the coalition and give some competition to the opposition camp’s most prominent face, Tejashwi Yadav.Senior RJD leader Alok Mehta, however, brushed aside such concerns. “He was part of the alliance in 2020 elections and will remain so,” Mehta said, confident that his switch from the CPI to the Congress not alter the ground realities. It will not be a challenge for the RJD’s leadership of the opposition’s grand alliance, he added.Chaudhary contended that how things play out in the field would depend on Kanhaiya Kumar’s role and authority in the party, and if Kanhaiya is really given the chance to rebuild the party’s base in Bihar and make the best of his clean image, dynamic leadership and charismatic appeal among the youth across caste barriers.“The Congress’s pro-poor and secular image, which suffered badly over the years due to liberalisation and its previous pursuit towards soft-hindutva, could be restored if Kanhaiya delivers,” said Chaudhary, adding that the RJD might not face any immediate challenge from Kanhaiya Kumar’s increased engagement with the Congress.Anand Madhab, chairman of the research department of BPCC, said that Kanhaiya Kumar is a brand and a very analytical person. “He talks with facts and a very good soldier. The entire Congress is happy,” said Madhab, convinced that the party was likely to deploy the young leader in and outside Bihar.Chief spokesman of the BPCC Rajesh Rathore said that Congress would be strengthened by his entry. “He is young and together with Tejashwi, he will strengthen the Grand Alliance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/coming-with-a-mission-kanhaiya-kumar-entry-raises-hopes-in-bihar-congress-101632832258758.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt further eases Covid restrictions for weddings, other events||Amid a dip in corona cases in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday further eased Covid restrictions and said wedding ceremonies and other similar events in open spaces can now have the number of attendees according to the size of the area. Till now these events had a cap of 100 attendees.The Uttar Pradesh home department made the announcement through a tweet on Tuesday a day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced similar guidelines for holding Ramleelas and such events in open spaces. However, all Covid protocols like masks, sanitisers and social distancing, have to be in place, the home department said.Meanwhile, chief minister at the Covid review meeting on Tuesday, said the state government’s ‘trace, test, treat’ policy had been effective in controlling the pandemic in the state and all the systems for safety and prevention of the spread of Covid must stay in place.“In the last 24 hours, only 18 fresh cases were reported from across Uttar Pradesh while 14 patients recovered in the same duration. The state has 177 active Covid cases at present,” Yogi said.He said till Monday, Uttar Pradesh had administered a total of 10.39 crore doses of Covid vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-further-eases-covid-restrictions-for-weddings-other-events-101632831785323.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra ATS again takes custody of 2 terror suspects arrested a week back||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has again taken custody of the two terror suspects arrested a week back. A special court on Tuesday remanded Zakir Hussain Shaikh and Rizwan Momin to ATS custody till October 4.The ATS arrested Shaikh on September 18 while Momin was arrested from his Mumbra home on September 19. Both have been booked under sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967.Initially, both were remanded in police custody. Subsequently, they were produced in court after their initial remand ended on September 20, and on ATS’ request, they were sent to judicial custody for 14 days. On September 24, ATS filed an application in session court to get their police custody again. During the course of the hearing on the plea on Monday, the ATS informed the court that they have got sufficient evidence to interrogate and confront the accused. “We have scrutinised call data records of Shaikh and Momin and other documents seized during the raid at their residences in Jogeshwari and Mumbra respectively. We have learnt that few more people were in touch with them and the agency has been looking for them,” said an ATS officer.The ATS has also been looking for one Fazlu Rehman Ubedu Rehman Khan alias Mujju, a resident of Kurla (West), as he was also in touch with Shaikh and Momin and allegedly associated with the Dawood Ibrahim gang or the D company.Khan, police officers said, was arrested by the anti-extortion cell of the Mumbai crime branch in November last year for allegedly conspiring to kill a south Mumbai-based businessman at the behest of Fahim Machmach. Fahim, a close associate of Dawood’s younger brother Anees, is believed to have died in Pakistan last month. The officer said after Fahim’s death, all his associates in Mumbai were in direct touch with Anees Ibrahim and Khan was one of them. “Khan has switched off his phone and has fled from Mumbai. The ATS and the crime branch have been looking for him,” said a senior Mumbai police officer.Shaikh and Momin were arrested after the terror module was busted and Jaan Mohammad Shaikh alias Sameer Kaliya, along with five other suspects were arrested by Delhi Police’s special cell from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on September 14. Shaikh got scared then fled his Jogeshwari house to Mumbra and stayed two days with Rizwan Momin, 40, in his residence in Kausa, Mumbra. Both were arrested for suspected criminal conspiracy and committing terror acts. Momin was aware of the terror plan, destroyed Shaikh’s phone and threw it in the drain. The ATS has recovered it, added the officer.ATS, in a statement, said that Zakir Shaikh was allegedly acting as per instructions of his foreign handler, Anthony aka Anwar aka Anas, but the agency has not revealed what the conspiracy was all about.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ats-again-takes-custody-of-2-terror-suspects-arrested-a-week-back-101632831540427.html
28-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand to send proposal for separate tribal religious code for census||Jharkhand’s Tribes Advisory Council (TAC) chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday decided the state government will send a proposal to the Centre for a separate religious code for tribals in the census. A Soren-led delegation will also meet the Prime Minister later.“It is established fact that tribals have distinct religious and customary practices. ...it was decided at the meeting that we would forward the proposal for Sarna religious code in the census through the governor,” said Champai Soren, a minister, and TAC vice-chairman.The decision came a day after an all-party delegation led by Soren met Union home minister Amit Shah over the census.Also Read: 3 dead in accident at Bokaro industrial unit in Jharkhand The Jharkhand Assembly in November last year passed a unanimous resolution seeking the Sarna tribal religious code in the 2021 census.The TAC also decided to form a sub-committee led by legislator Stephen Marandi to look into the issues related to tribal land and review the status of tribals lying in jails for long periods.It also recommended notifying rules for the issuance of one-time caste certificates to the members of the scheduled tribes for life. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-to-send-proposal-for-separate-tribal-religious-code-for-census-101632831538493.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||New Delhi railway station re-development work underway. What will be changed||The Ministry of Railways is revamping New Delhi railway station to give it a look and feel of world-class airports. Citing that around 4.5 lakh people visit the New Delhi station every day, the ministry has said there is a need for the station to be equipped with world-class amenities. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also extended full support on behalf of the Delhi government and hoped that the project will come up as aesthetically rich and beautiful as being envisaged.1) As per Indian Railways' plan, the New Delhi railway station, once developed, will have a 40-storey twin tower, multi-level car parking, pick up and drop zones. The twin tower will house offices, retail shops and will also have space for a hotel.2) The railways will get its own office in a 45,000 square metre area. Further, 91 bus bays, 1500 ECS parking, skywalks for pedestrians and metro passengers will be developed on site, a statement by the government read.3) The architectural expression of the proposed station is envisaged to carry a signature style, which is relatable to both historic and modern Indian culture to give it a unique identity, the statement further said.4) The station's built up area will be about 2,22,000 square metres. Separate pick up and drop up zones will be allocated for the convenience of the passengers.5) A multi-level car parking will also be constructed at the station. Apart from this, multimodal integration, road network, and social infrastructure will be developed.6) Delhi’s Lt. Governor Anil Baijal is closely monitoring the re-development work of New Delhi railway station.Baijal on Friday called a meeting to take stock of the progress of the New Delhi Railway Station redevelopment project. The meeting was attended by Kejriwal, Delhi chief secretary, Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) officials, NITI Aayog CEO and PWD, DJB, DDA, traffic police and civic body officials.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-railway-station-re-development-work-underway-what-will-be-changed-101632825970741.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar, the oracle who predicted Sidhu’s early exit||When Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu sent his resignation letter to party national president Sonia Gandhi six weeks after he took charge, he left just about everyone in the ruling party shocked. But there was one senior party leader – his predecessor Sunil Jakhar – who had a strong inkling that this was coming. Jakhar had, in a chat with this reporter on Monday, predicted this, stating that seeing the way things are developing and knowing his temperament, Sidhu will leave before the elections roll out. Also read: Five possible reasons why Navjot Singh Sidhu may have quitJakhar, known for his strong political instincts, made the prediction when asked about former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s statement that he (former CM) will field a strong candidate to oppose Sidhu in the assembly elections in 2022. The cricketer-turned-politician, handpicked by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra despite Capt Amarinder’s strong opposition to his elevation, sent his shock resignation from his post to the Congress president within 24 hours. Sidhu, who took over as the president of the faction-ridden state unit on July 23, posted his resignation on Twitter even as Sonia and Rahul, who were holidaying in Shimla, boarded a flight from Chandigarh to Delhi. Jakhar, a Hindu face, had made way for Sidhu’s elevation and was a frontrunner for the chief minister’s post with Rahul’s backing after Capt Amarinder resigned following months of internal strife in the state unit. His name was more or less final at one stage, but a section of the party leaders, including Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Ambika Soni and some MLAs, pressed for a Sikh CM. The assembly elections in Punjab are less than five months away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sunil-jakhar-the-oracle-who-predicted-sidhu-s-early-exit-101632830938640.html
28-09-2021||Other||Agra Metro project’s team completes erection of 100 piers in 10 months||Agra Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has completed erection of 100 piers (pillars) being laid for the Agra Metro Rail project, in just 10 months from the start of construction. The completion of 100 piers marks the completion of most of the civil construction work for the 3-km elevated section of the priority stretch, which runs between Taj East Gate and Fatehabad Road, according to a press statement released by UPMRC’s public relation office. “The team of Agra Metro project has completed the erection of 100 piers, in just 10 months from the commencement of civil construction of the project. Piers, commonly known as pillars, are the main support structure for the U- girders of the project,” the press release stated. Managing director, UPMRC, Kumar Keshav said, “The timely erection of the piers indicates that the project is being executed with accuracy and in a time-bound manner, and the entire project will be executed within the stated timeline, with utmost safety, accuracy and finesse.” The first station of the corridor, i.e. Taj East Gate, has already started coming into shape and it would soon be ready. Double T-Girders are being placed for the concourse area along with commencement of construction work for area from concourse to platform, for Taj East Gate Metro Station. Also, the concourse beam of Basai Metro station has been casted and the construction work of the station area will commence shortly, added the press statement. Agra Metro Project was virtually inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath on December 7, 2020. In first 10 months from the date of its inauguration, Agra Metro Project team has completed 616 piles, 120 pile caps and 102 piers for the elevated section of the priority stretch of the 29.4 km long first corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-metro-project-s-team-completes-erection-of-100-piers-in-10-months-101632830819072.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir will be connected with Kanyakumari by train by December 2022: LG Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha has announced that Kashmir will be connected to Kanyakumari by train by next year-end. Sinha made the announcement after laying the foundation stone for four national highway projects worth ₹3,612 crore in Jammu and Kashmir, including the Srinagar Ring Road project. Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari was also present at the function on Monday evening. “By December 2022, Kashmir will be connected to Kanyakumari by train. Besides, the national highway projects will catalyse the overall socio-economic development of the Union Territory,” Sinha said. Strengthening road infrastructure The projects include strengthening and upgrading 43km of existing carriageway on the Baramulla-Gulmarg section of National Highway-701A; the construction of a new double lane bypass from Donipawa via Ashajipora connecting NH-244 and NH-44; the construction and upgrade of a 28km stretch from Vailoo to Donipawa on the Khellani-Khanabal section of NH-244, besides the construction of the much-awaited Ring Road around Srinagar city. The lieutenant governor said that from national highways to rural roads, the infrastructure in the UT had become stronger than ever. “Till 2014, there were only seven national highways in erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir, including Ladakh. In 2021, the number of national highways has increased to 11 in J&K alone. In 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced road infra projects worth ₹40,900 crore for J&K, out of which work on projects of about ₹38,000 crore is underway,” he said. 11 tunnel projects approved for J&K He said that Jammu and Kashmir today has the distinction of being the third UT in the country in terms of road construction. Sinha said that with liberal funding and special interest of the Prime Minister and the Union minister for road transport and highways in the development of Jammu and Kashmir, 11 tunnel projects have been approved for J&K in one year alone. “Four tunnels will be built on the Chenani-Kishtwar highway at a cost of ₹10,000 crore. To modernise the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway, tunnels at a cost of ₹4,000 crore, besides five flyovers worth ₹3,000 crore will be built in J&K, reducing the travel time and traffic congestion substantially,” he said. Road connectivity key driver of growth Gadkari termed road connectivity as a key driver of socio-economic growth and development of any region. “The new projects will further strengthen the road connectivity in J&K, opening up new livelihood avenues for the local population, enhancing tourism and business activities besides improving the quality of life of the people,” he said. Gadkari said it’s his endeavour is to decrease the time travel between major cities. “Be it Delhi-Jammu or Jammu-Srinagar, the time to travel will get reduced to half by providing expressways and better road connectivity. Mega highways and tunnel projects will reduce the travel time from Delhi to Kashmir by eight hours in the coming years,” he said. The Union minister said that the long-pending Srinagar Ring Road project will be ready by 2023-end. Work on the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway will be completed in three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-will-be-connected-with-kanyakumari-by-train-by-december-2022-lg-sinha-101632830521483.html
28-09-2021||Dehradun||4-year-old child killed by leopard in front of mother in Uttarakhand||A 4-year-old child was playing with his siblings when a leopard suddenly pounced on him in front of his mother on Monday evening. Before his mother could understand what happened, the leopard dragged the child away. Later the body of the child was found in a sugarcane field, officials said. The incident took place in Uttarakhand’s Vidora village under Sitarganj tehsil in US Nagar “The incident happened around 8 pm on Monday. The child’s body was recovered from a sugarcane field. We have intensified patrolling as well as installed a cage and five camera traps,” said Sandeep Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO), Terai east forest division Haldwani. Kumar said Lavjeet in Vidora village under Sitarganj tehsil in US Nagar was playing with his siblings in his courtyard while his mother, Babli Kaur, was working on Monday evening when a leopard suddenly attacked him. “Before his mother could understand, the big cat disappeared with Lavjeet. Babli Kaur raised alarm and her neighbours ran towards the big cat’s direction to rescue the child”, he said. He said the child’s body was found in a sugarcane field 150 metres away from his house. His relatives took him to the government hospital but the doctors declared him dead. The DFO said, “The victim’s village is quite far from the forest. Leopard might have come along the rainy nullah. We have provided ₹one lakh as the first instalment of ex-gratia to the family. The remaining amount will be given later. The villagers have been advised not to venture unnecessarily after the sunset and be careful to avoid untoward incidents.” Earlier an 8-year old girl was killed by a leopard in Bajeti village of Pithoragarh on September 19. Night curfew from 8 pm to 6 am was clamped by the local administration in nearby areas to avoid any mishappening. In Jaspur of US Nagar district, four people, including a woman, were injured in a leopard attack on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/4yearold-child-killed-by-leopard-in-front-of-mother-in-uttarakhand-101632829559649.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM says actions will be guided by Bhagat Singh’s ideals||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday said that his actions would be guided by the ideals of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. Paying tributes to the freedom fighter on his 114th birth anniversary at his native village of Khatkar Kalan in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, the chief minister along with assembly speaker Rana KP Singh said: “We will keep his vision in mind and work to ensure the betterment of the state and society, particularly for the youth, besides maintaining communal harmony.”Also read: Five possible reasons why Navjot Singh Sidhu may have quitChanni paid tributes at the samadhi of Kishan Singh, the father of the martyr. He felicitated relatives of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and Shaheed Sukhdev at a function at the museum in the village. Inspiration for youth to render selfless service The chief minister also visited the ancestral house of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, where he bowed his head in reverence at the threshold as a mark of respect. “Blessed is the land that has given birth to a great leader like Shaheed-e-Azam Sardar Bhagat Singh. I’m extremely happy to smear the soil on my forehead. I pledge as chief minister to discharge my duties with this belief that Sardar Bhagat Singh is watching me,” Channi wrote in the visitors’ book at the ancestral house. He said that the nation will always be indebted to the martyr who sacrificed his life at the age of 23 years for emancipating the country from British imperialism. “Shaheed Bhagat Singh will remain a source of inspiration for youngsters to render selfless service to the nation,” he said. Channi distributed 31 sports kits to the youth and sports club. Cabinet ministers Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Rana Gurjit Singh besides MLAs Angad Singh from SBS Nagar, Chaudhary Darshan Lal from Balachaur and Navtej Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-says-actions-will-be-guided-by-bhagat-singh-s-ideals-101632829259349.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Armed mob attacks guards at construction site in Thane||A mob of around 8 to 10 unidentified men allegedly attacked two security guards at an under-construction building in Kolshet, Thane earlier this week, officials said.According to the Kapurbawdi police, the incident occurred at around 1.30 am on September 25 at a new housing project by the Lodha group. The police said that the accused reached the entrance to the construction site armed with iron rods and swords.“We suspect that the accused were barging into the site to commit robbery. The two security guards who were on duty at the time saw the accused and tried to stop them, in response the mob attacked both the guards,” senior police inspector Anil Deshmukh, Kapurbawdi police station said.Both the security guards, Devnath Pandey (33) and Vinay Pandey (35) sustained injuries in the attack, after which the accused fled the scene. The guards subsequently called the police control room, and the information was relayed to the Kapurbawdi police after which a team was rushed to the spot. Some construction equipment was later found to be missing from the site, officials said.“We have registered a case of dacoity against an unidentified person under the Indian Penal Code and are conducting further inquiries into the matter. Both the security guards are now out of danger,” Deshmukh added.The police are now checking the CCTV footage covering the site as well as roads leading up to it to identify and apprehend the accused. Repeat offenders with a history of armed robbery are also being picked up for questioning, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/armed-mob-attacks-guards-at-construction-site-in-thane-101632828299364.html
28-09-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Why Pune’s biodiversity strategy is no walk in the park||PUNE Citizens’ protests against the conversion of forests and grasslands on the hilltops and hill slopes such as Taljai or Baner into ornamental gardens and amphitheatres and channelising and concretising of streams are not just romantic fantasies or anti-development stances. They have a sound basis that considers the benefits of biodiversity for our well-being in the city.The web of lifeThe Web of Life is a game that environment educators love to engage children and even adults in. We stand in a circle representing different elements in nature, including the sun, water, soil, air, microbes, fungi, different plants, and animals. Passing a ball of string, each participant in turn talks about how the element they represent is connected to another. The web that results shows how nature has complex interconnections which we often don’t realise.The presence of natural ecosystems in a city makes the urban landscape more liveable. Hillslopes that are vegetated and undisturbed help percolate rainwater, have lesser erosion, and regulate the micro-climate. They act as sinks for pollutants and bringing these substances back into natural cycles.Earlier, biodiversity studies in Pune have shown the connection of these natural areas to the cityscape. Bats and birds that help control insect populations in the city need the natural habitats on the hills, streams, and riverbanks to nest, roost and breed undisturbed. Beehives in these natural areas, and butterflies that begin life on host plants there, also help in the pollination of plants in city gardens. Dr Swati Gole, director of Pune’s Ecological Society says “Hill ranges, rivers with their riparian vegetation, roadside trees, hedge-rows support not only biodiversity movement but also the flows of energy and water through the city ecosystems. Landscape ecology is a relatively new science, but such landscape facets must be considered while making the city’s development plans.” “Natural geomorphic, soil, hydrologic and biological processes such as the growth of various kinds of vegetation, population dynamics of birds, small animals, insects are closely linked to the landscape mosaic. Human activities almost always interact with natural processes to produce new landscape mosaic patterns. Natural vegetated grassy, shrubby, woodland, riparian ‘patches’ of appropriate size and numbers are necessary so that they are connected and have adequate and sustained functioning of biological processes without human inputs”. When we simplify the ecosystem by removing native plant species, converting forests or grasslands into parks and gardens, excavating soil, and making roads, we unravel the web of life. Since the city is already extensively covered with buildings and roads, the last remaining natural areas become more precious. It’s important to understand that these natural areas provide us benefits other than recreation.Needed - plan for biodiversity conservation These recent protests underline the need for a well-thought-out biodiversity action plan for Pune. Eminent biodiversity expert Dr Erach Bharucha says, “Ideally, policymakers and the public in Pune should deliberate on how we can conserve biodiversity, considering our own needs and values, and studies, good practices, and policy guidance available.”Other cities in India are already doing so. Kudos to Pimpri-Chinchwad for developing its Biodiversity report recently. Kochi in Kerala has gone a step further and prepared a local biodiversity strategy and action plan. These cities have used the City Biodiversity Index framework to prepare the biodiversity status report. Under this framework, cities are expected to promote natural biodiversity and allocate budgets for conservation, learning and management. Protecting remnant natural areas in cities can mean, for example, preventing the destruction of the habitat due to quarrying, buildings, and hard paved roads, preventing littering, reducing bright lights and sounds at night-time that disturb wildlife, removing, and controlling alien invasive species (like Lantana). We can try to infuse biodiversity into built-up spaces through roadside plantations, public parks, and home gardens. Let’s bring nature closer to people, rather than converting the last remaining natural areas into built spaces for increased crowds.Pune had set up a Biodiversity Management Committee. Indeed, public deliberations would not only help us make a biodiversity action plan but also raise our collective understanding and commitment to conservation. Such understanding is essential for cities to address the climate and ecological crises we now face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-why-pune-s-biodiversity-strategy-is-no-walk-in-the-park-101632828179925.html
28-09-2021||Patna||‘Congress’ assertiveness and focus on Bihar reflects through Kanhaiya’: Experts||Kanhaiya Kumar’s entry into the Congress is mostly being viewed as an attempt to resurrect the party in a state where it has struggled for over three decades and mostly rode piggyback on the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). But there is more to it.The way Bihar politics is evolving, youth may end up in the drivers’ seats to script a new trend in tune with the state’s predominantly young population. With almost 58% of the Bihar population below 25 years of age, the highest in the country, it could be a potent force cutting across caste and creed if properly channelised.Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, 31, and Chirag Paswan, 38, are already in the political ring and now with the entry of Kanhaiya Kumar, 34, the battle may be truly on. Only time will tell if all the three could come on one platform, but even if they don’t, all three have shown their penchant for connecting with the state’s youth with their powerful oratory skills and talking in their language.As per the 2011 census, Bihar’s population was 10.40 crore with a density of 1106, which is projected to go up significantly in the coming census. With nearly 57.4% of the population below 25 years of age, the youth will certainly be in a position to tilt the election in any favour. The youth population includes 57.9% of women.This makes Kanhaiya’s entry into the Congress fold a significant development. Along with Tejashwi and Chirag, the youth may have plenty of voices to identify with to strengthen the anti-BJP opposition.“It is a timely move both on part of the Congress as well as Kanhaiya. If the CPI is also toeing the line of the Congress, Kanhaiya thought it wise to directly enter the party. CPI should also not have any reason to complain. On part of the Congress, it is a sign of the assertiveness of its new leadership at the Centre which it demonstrated even in Punjab and now taking it further. It is a fact that Bihar Congress remained with leadership vacuum for far too long and the party decided to project Kanhaiya, who could ask for a due share in the anti-NDA front and compete even within the non-BJP opposition, which, too, has tough competition to occupy the front space in Bihar,” said social analyst Professor Nawal Kishore Choudhary.He said that the Congress, having none to fill the void in Bihar from amongst the state leaders, while the RJD and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) enjoyed dynastic leadership change, has gone with Kanhaiya in the hope of capturing the imagination of the enormous youth power in the state with a generational shift. “This demonstrates new strategy on part of the Congress leadership with an eye on future, which is very important and may augur well, for both Janata Dal-United (JDU) and the BJP seem to lack young and dynamic leadership for future at the state level not only in Bihar, but in other states also. Kanhaiya also gets a larger platform to deliver,” he added.Former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, DM Diwakar, too, viewed it as a pro-active step of the Congress to cash in on the opportunity in the form of Kanhaiya to take on the BJP and at the same time have a voice in the non-BJP opposition. “For Kanhaiya, his rise is attributed to the CPI and so his switchover may put him in the same bracket of leaders who look for political opportunism, but for the Congress, it is an indication of its willingness to change and bring competent leaders to its fold. Both BJP and the JD-U don’t seem to have young leadership at present and so it is to the credit of the Congress to realise its limitations in Bihar and bring Kanhaiya to its fold. It shows that the Congress is getting decisively active ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha elections,” he added.BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said that projecting hired or dynastic leaders would not serve many purposes for the Congress. “BJP has already gone in for a generational shift at the organisational level and the process started ahead of 2019 elections and has yielded good leadership at the mandal and district level. It will gradually find its place at the higher level. Even in ticket distribution, the youth got preference. In the mandals, the average age of chiefs is less than 40 years,” he added.JD-U spokesman Neeraj Kumar said the youth of Bihar would never go by rhetoric, rather by what they have experienced during the Nitish Kumar regime in the form of youth-centric schemes and incentives. “The line Nitish Kumar has drawn will be tough for anyone to match, as he believes in delivery. Be it a large number of engineering and medical colleges, polytechnic, incentives for girls, allowances for competitive exams and many others, they are all meant for youth only and the people know it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/congress-assertiveness-and-focus-on-bihar-reflects-through-kanhaiya-experts-101632826877168.html
28-09-2021||Noida||Noida-Greater Noida Expressway to be barricaded on Tuesday night; here's why||The Noida-Greater Noida Expressway will be blockaded on Tuesday night due to resurfacing and repair work on the carriageways, the Noida Authority informed. The decision was taken in the aftermath of a car crash earlier this month on the expressway near Sector 145 of the city.The Noida Authority chief Ritu Mahesghwari chaired a review meeting to ensure all precautionary measures including barricading are put into place. During the nighttime, retro reflective boards will also be set up on the stretch to warn two-wheelers taking the route. Traffic around the busy Parthala Chowk will be diverted via service lanes towards Gaur City.Commuters had complained that driving on the expressway had become especially difficult during peak evening hours for the past few days. The Noida Authority further stated that an alternative route will be provided through service lanes for those travelling from Sector 71 towards Gaur City.The Noida-Greater Noida Expressway was damaged after a car owner collided with a stationary road roller on the highway, resulting in one death. The accident had caused a huge traffic jam on the busy route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidagreater-noida-expressway-to-be-barricaded-on-tuesday-night-here-s-why-101632825231101.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Five possible reasons why Navjot Singh Sidhu may have quit||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s surprise resignation on Tuesday, less than five weeks after he took over the reins of the faction-torn state unit, was the culmination of a series of behind-the-scenes events that left him peeved since the resignation of bête noire, Captain Amarinder Singh, as the chief minister. HT looks at possible reasons why cricketer-turned-politician may have called it quits:-- Though the Congress leadership endorsed Sidhu’s choice of Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister, it nixed his opposition to the appointment of Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, a prominent Jat Sikh face, as deputy chief minister.-- Sidhu, also a Jat Sikh, is believed to have viewed Randhawa’s elevation as a threat to his chief ministerial ambitions after the 2022 assembly polls.-- He is believed to have been miffed at being overruled on Randhawa who had made a common cause with him in the rebellion against Amarinder Singh.-- Sidhu is seen to have been riled over a limited say in the formation of the 15-minister cabinet last Sunday. The cabinet had a stamp of Rahul Gandhi who did not go by Sidhu’s bidding for ministerial berths for his loyalists Kuljit Singh Nagra and Surjit Singh Dhiman.Also read: Navjot Singh Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress chief-- What is believed to have added insult to Sidhu’s injury was the return of Rana Gurjit Singh, a sugar baron from Kapurthala, to the cabinet four years after he quit the Amarinder Singh-led ministry over allegations of involvement in a sand auction scam. Sidhu opposed Rana’s comeback, but the high command overlooked his objections and that of eight party lawmakers from the Doaba region.-- Sidhu is believed to have also been miffed over Channi’s assertion, with the high command’s backing, in the allocation of ministerial portfolios. On Sunday, Channi gave the powerful home department to Randhawa.-- What is seen to have been the last straw was Channi ignoring Sidhu’s recommendations for the appointment of Siddhartha Chattopadhyay as director general of police and DS Patwalia as advocate general.-- Channi, in a move seen to be an attempt to shake off the perception about Sidhu calling the shots in his government, went ahead with his own choices, appointing Iqbal Preet Singh Sihota and APS Deol for top police and law office posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-reasons-why-navjot-singh-sidhu-called-it-quits-101632826798098.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||One dead, three missing after bus sweeps away on flooded bridge in Maharashtra||One person died and three others were missing after a state transport bus got swept away while crossing an inundated bridge in Maharashtra's Yavatmal district on Tuesday morning, officials said. The incident took place around 8 am at Dahagaon bridge in Umarkhed tehsil when the semi-luxury bus of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) was going from Nagpur to Nanded. The bus got swept away for about 50 metres while passing through the bridge, which was flooded following heavy rains in the area, and then overturned, an official said. There were four passengers in the bus, besides its driver and conductor, Umarkhed tehsildar Anand Deolgaonkar said. Two passengers were initially rescued. Later, of the four missing persons, one more was rescued and taken to a local hospital where the person was declared dead by doctors, a spokesperson of the MSRTC said. Shekhar Channe, vice-chairman and managing director of the MSRTC, told PTI that search was on for the three missing people, including the bus driver and conductor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-dead-three-missing-after-bus-sweeps-away-on-flooded-bridge-in-maharashtra-101632821072505.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress chief||In a development that left party leaders shocked, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday resigned from his post. Sidhu announced his resignation on Twitter, stating that he will continue to serve the Congress. Also read: Amarinder Singh’s Delhi visit triggers speculation in political circles“The collapse of a man’s character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab’s future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab,” Sidhu wrote in a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi that he posted on the microblogging site. His resignation came barely half an hour after Sonia Gandhi and former party president Rahul Gandhi, who were holidaying in Shimla, took a flight to Delhi from Chandigarh airport. Soon after Sidhu’s resignation, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted: “I told you so. He is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of Punjab.” Was opposed to Randhawa getting home Sidhu has been upset over the induction of some ministers and portfolio allocation, besides some key appointments made by the new government headed by Charanjit Singh Channi. The Punjab Congress chief had opposed Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who was among the frontrunners for the chief minister’s post and was not in favour of giving him the charge of the home department, said a party leader, who did not want to be named, adding that his recommendations were ignored. Not interested in any post, says media adviser “Sidhu is not interested in any post. He has resigned to focus on his Punjab agenda and the 18-point to do list given by the high command. He is not power hungry,” his media adviser Surinder Dalla said. Soon after Sidhu’s resignation, his protege and Punjab Congress treasurer Gulzar Inder Singh Chahal also resigned from his post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-resigns-as-punjab-congress-chief-101632824218240.html
28-09-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Police to probe alleged assault on BJP's Dilip Ghosh, FIR lodged||Kolkata Police has lodged on their own an FIR against unknown people in connection with the incident where BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh was pushed and heckled while campaigning in Bhabanipur, an officer said on Tuesday. Several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) relating to unlawful assembly, rioting with arms and weapons, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation have been invoked in the FIR filed at Bhawanipore police station, he said.Ghosh was Monday pushed and heckled by alleged TMC supporters in the Bhabanipur assembly constituency, where West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is in the fray, provoking his security officer to whip out a pistol, as political temperature shot up on the last day of electioneering. National TV channels showed Ghosh being pushed and heckled on a road as a posse of security guards tried to shield him. A suspected TMC supporter was seen grabbing a security man by his collar who swiftly pulled out a pistol to scare away the crowd.The incident occurred when Ghosh had gone inside a vaccination camp in the Jadubabur Bazaar area in the constituency, where the by-poll will be held on September 30. Ghosh, who was whisked away by his security guards, had alleged TMC supporters "attacked" him without provocation and injured a BJP activist. He had also demanded deferment of the by-poll which Mamata Banerjee must win to stay on as the chief minister.Under the constitutional arrangement, Banerjee can continue as the chief minister only till November 5 without getting elected to the state assembly. She was defeated in Nandigram in the state assembly elections held in March-April this year. A BJP delegation is scheduled to meet Election Commission officials in New Delhi later on Tuesday to register a complaint about the incident involving Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-police-to-probe-alleged-assault-on-bjp-s-dilip-ghosh-fir-lodged-101632816371878.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Bharat Bandh's success has unnerved BJP, says Akhilesh Yadav||Accusing the BJP of working in the interest of capitalists who had helped it come to power, Samajwadi Party President  Akhilesh Yadav has said the "success" of the farmers' Bharat Bandh has unnerved the ruling party.The Bharat Bandh was called on Monday by farmer unions to protest against the Centre's three agri laws.In a tweet in Hindi on Monday night, the SP chief also charged that the BJP was working for those who hold its reins in their hands."The nationwide success of the Bharat Bandh has unnerved the ruling BJP. BJP leaders and supporters could not muster the courage to come out of the house today. The BJP is working only at the behest of capitalists to whom it was indebted to win the elections,” the SP president charged.The Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Congress had extended support to the bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bharat-bandh-s-success-has-unnerved-bjp-says-akhilesh-yadav-101632814407261.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab portfolios: CM Channi keeps vigilance, mining, power; deputy Randhawa gets home, Soni health||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday allocated portfolios to his ministers, giving plum departments to his two deputies and fresh faces in the council of ministers. The chief minister will hold the portfolios of personnel, vigilance, general administration, justice, legal and legislative affairs, information and public relations, environment, mining and geology, civil aviation, excise, investment promotion, hospitality, power and tourism and cultural affairs. The portfolio, if any, not allotted to any of the ministers will also vest with the chief minister. Also read: Punjab cabinet passes resolution seeking repeal of Centre’s 3 farm lawsDeputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has landed the home department in addition to the cooperation and jails held by him during the Capt Amarinder Singh government. Randhawa, who remained critical of Amarinder’s handling of the sensitive sacrilege and police firing cases, was said to be angling for home and vigilance departments. While the deputy CM has been given home, vigilance will remain with the chief minister. In the previous government, Capt Amarinder held the charge of both departments. OP Soni, the other deputy CM, has been given health and family welfare in place of medical education that he held earlier. He will hold the charge of defence services welfare and freedom fighters in addition. Channi had expanded his cabinet on Sunday, inducting six fresh faces and bringing back a former minister. He also dropped five ministers from the previous Capt Amarinder Singh cabinet. Rana Gurjit gets technical education, Randeep Nabha agriculture Among the fresh faces inducted by Channi in his cabinet, Rana Gurjit Singh, who made a comeback, has been allocated technical education and industrial training, employment generation and training, horticulture and soil and water conservation. Channi was the technical education and industrial training minister in the previous government. Randeep Singh Nabha, whose name was added the list of ministers at the eleventh hour, is the new agriculture and farmers’ welfare and food processing minister. In the previous government, agriculture was with the chief minister Sports, education and NRI affairs with Pargat Pargat Singh, a confidant of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, has got a heavyweight portfolio with school education, higher education, sports and youth services and NRI affairs. Another new inductee, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, has been made the transport minister, while Raj Kumar Verka has been given social justice, empowerment and minorities, new and renewable energy sources and medical education and research departments. Sangat Singh Gilzian is the new forests, wildlife and labour minister, whereas Gurkirat Singh Kotli has been made the industries and commerce, information technology and science and technology minister. Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Badal retain portfolios Most of the eight former ministers, including Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbhinder Singh Sarkaria and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who were retained from the previous government, have been allocated their earlier portfolios. However, Vijay Inder Singla will continue to be the minister in-charge of public works, but school education has been taken out of his portfolio. Aruna Chaudhary, who held the charge of social security, women and child development, has been given revenue, rehabilitation and disaster management. Razia Sultana is the new social security, women and child development minister with water supply and sanitation in addition. Team Channi: Portfolio snapshotCharanjit Singh Channi, chief minister: Personnel, vigilance, general administration, justice, legal and legislative affairs, information and public relations, environment, mining and geology, civil aviation, excise, investment promotion, hospitality, power and tourism and cultural affairs Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, deputy CM: Home affairs, cooperation and jails Om Parkash Soni: deputy CM, health and family welfare, defence services welfare and freedom fighters Brahm Mohindra: Local government, parliamentary affairs, elections and removal of grievances Manpreet Singh Badal: Finance, taxation, governance reforms, planning and programme implementation Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa: Rural development and panchayats, animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development Aruna Chaudhary: Revenue, rehabilitation and disaster management Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria: Water resources and housing and urban development Rana Gurjit Singh: Technical education and industrial training, employment generation and training, horticulture and soil and water conservation Razia Sultana: Water supply and sanitation, social security, women and child development and printing and stationery Vijay Inder Singla: Public works and administrative reforms Bharat Bhushan Ashu: Food, civil supplies and consumer affairs Randeep Singh Nabha: Agriculture and farmers’ welfare and food processing Raj Kumar Verka: Social justice, empowerment and minorities, new and renewable energy sources and medical education and research Sangat Singh Gilzian: Forests, wildlife and labour Pargat Singh: School education, higher education, sports and youth services and NRI affairs Amarinder Singh Raja Warring: Transport Gurkirat Singh Kotli: Industries and commerce, information technology and science and technology||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-portfolios-cm-channi-keeps-vigilance-mining-power-deputy-randhawa-gets-home-soni-health-101632814497355.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana byelection: Ellenabad goes to the polls on October 30||Polling will be held on October 30 for the Ellenabad constituency, which fell vacant after Indian National Lok Dal’s lone MLA, Abhay Singh Chautala, resigned from the Haryana assembly on January 27 in support of the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. The Election Commission said on Tuesday that the votes will be counted on November 2. Also read: EC announces by-poll schedule for 3 Lok Sabha, 30 assembly seatsAccording to the Representation of People Act, an assembly byelection must be conducted within six months of the creation of the vacancy. However, the bypolls were delayed due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Section 151-A of the Act provides that the EC, in consultation with the central government, can defer the byelection if it certifies that it is difficult to hold the elections within the period. According to the schedule announced by the EC, a notification will be issued on October 1 and the nomination process will start on the same day. The last date for filing nominations is October 8. The nominations will be scrutinised on October 11 and the last date for withdrawing it is October 16. The Ellenabad seat in Sirsa has been considered a stronghold of the INLD and it had been represented by former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala and his son Abhay Singh Chautala. A few days ago, Pawan Beniwal, who was runner-up in the 2019 assembly elections from Ellenabad, switched sides from the BJP to the Congress in the presence of Congress state chief Kumari Selja. INLD supremo OP Chautala had been accusing the state government of delaying the bypoll due to the fear of losing security deposit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-byelection-ellenabad-goes-to-the-polls-on-october-30-101632811976777.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal byelections to one Lok Sabha, three assembly seats on October 30||The Election Commission on Tuesday announced that byelections in Mandi parliamentary constituency and three assembly segments of Arki, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Fatehpur in Himachal Pradesh will be held on October 30. The votes will be counted on November 2. With this, the model code of conduct comes into immediate effect in these constituencies.Also read: Militant killed, another captured as army foils infiltration bid in UriAccording to the Representation of the People Act, a byelection must be conducted within six months of the seat falling vacant. However, the byelections were delayed this year due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Section 151-A of the Act provides that the EC, in consultation with the central government, can defer the byelection if it certifies that it is difficult to hold the polls within the period. The EC said a notification will be issued on October 1 and the nomination process will start on the same day. The last date for filing nominations is October 8. The nominations will be scrutinised on October 11 and the last date for withdrawing papers is October 13. All polling officials shall be double vaccinated against Covid-19.Seats fell vacant after death of incumbents The Mandi Lok Sabha seat fell vacant after the death of Ramswaroop Sharma, who was found dead at his Delhi residence in March this year. The Congress is considering fielding former Congress member of Parlaiament Pratibha Singh, who is the wife of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, from the Mandi seat even as the BJP has kept its cards close to its chest. The Arki assembly byelection was necessitated after the death of sitting MLA and six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh on July 8. Both the BJP and the Congress are yet to reveal the name of their candidates. The ruling BJP is facing rebellion from former MLA Govind Singh Thakur, who is already in campaign mode. Keen contest for BJP ticket in Fatehgarh, Jubbal-KotkhaiThe Jubbal-Kotkhai seat in Shimla district and Fatehpur in Kangra fell vacant following the death of incumbent legislators Narinder Bragta in June and Sujan Singh Pathania in February. Bragta’s son Chetan is tipped to be the BJP’s choice for Jubbal-Kotkhai as the party tries to cash in on sympathy votes though there are a few other party leaders vying for the ticket. For the Congress, Rohit Thakur, a former chief parliamentary secretary, is the obvious choice. In the politically significant Kangra district, Pathania’s son Bhawani Singh Pathania has staked claim to the Congress ticket from Fatehpur. Bhawani Singh quit a career in the banking and insurance sectors to take the political plunge. He has already launched his poll campaign. For the BJP, selecting a candidate will not be easy as there is tough competition between former MP Kripal Parmar and local leader Baldev Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-byelections-to-one-lok-sabha-three-assembly-seats-on-october-30-101632810117460.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Militant killed, another captured as army foils infiltration bid in Uri||A Pakistani militant was killed, and another was captured, while three soldiers were reportedly injured as the army foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri sector on Monday night. The army had launched a counter-infiltration operation along the LoC in the Uri sector in Baramulla district on Saturday after noticing suspicious movement, top army officials said. Also read: From drones to jets, China shows off its new arsenal in biggest airshow yetThe infiltrators were challenged by the soldiers, leading to a gunfight. Sources said three soldiers were injured in the exchange of fire between the two sides. A combing operation was in progress in the area. This is the third infiltration attempt foiled by the army along the LoC in Uri sector in a week. North Kashmir’s Uri sector general officer commanding of 15 Corps, Lt General DP Pandey, termed these attempts as a “little bit of mischief” from across the LoC. Last week, the army killed three infiltrators at Hathlanga village right on the LoC in Uri. The army said five infiltrators had attempted to infiltrate when three of them were killed and a cache of arms and ammunition was recovered, including 69 grenades. Earlier, the army had exchanged fire with infiltrators at Gawhalon village in the same sector after soldiers spotted the intruders. On the sidelines of a function at Boniyar in Uri, Lt General Panday told reporters that people shouldn’t get worried by these infiltration attempts or the situation as our troops are alert and prepared to deal with such situations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/militant-killed-another-captured-as-army-foils-infiltration-bid-in-uri-101632807176207.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Deshbhakti curriculum in Delhi govt schools from today in major patriotic push||The Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi will be rolling out its deshbhakti curriculum from Tuesday with an aim to instil patriotism among students and inspire them to feel proud for their nation. The curriculum is being rolled out in every class – from nursery to class 12 – across all public schools in the national capital on September 28 to mark the occasion of the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. Kejriwal, the chief minister of Delhi, is expected to launch the deshbhakti curriculum at an event in Chhatrasal Stadium.Also Read | Deshbhakti curriculum in Delhi schools from today: All you need to knowThe deshbhakti curriculum mandates one period every day for patriotism studies for students in the nursery to class 8, and two classes per week – not on consequent days – for senior students of classes 9 to 12. According to a circular released last week by the directorate of education (DoE), “Every deshbhakti period shall start with a five-minute ‘Deshbhakti Dhyaan’, where the teacher and students shall practice mindfulness, reflect on their gratitude for the country, freedom fighters, and any five persons that they consider deshbhakts, and pledge their respect for the country.”Delhi chief minister Kejriwal earlier said that the deshbhakti curriculum will not be based on rote learning and there will be no tests. “It will be activity-based and students will be told stories about independence and the nation's pride,” he said. “Children will be made to realise their responsibilities and duties towards the country.”Kejriwal added, “They (the students) will be prepared to fulfil their responsibilities and contribute towards the nation's progress. They will also be prepared in a way that if the need arises, they can lay down their lives for the nation and be willing to give their all to the country.”Also Read | Deshbhakti curriculum will be taught through activities, no formal examThe framework of the ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum submitted by a government-appointed panel was approved by the governing council of the state council of educational research and training (SCERT) on August 6. The chief minister of Delhi made the public announcement of the curriculum on the 73rd Independence Day in 2019, expressing his hope that in the future, this curriculum will be taught in schools across the country.According to officials, 41 mentor teachers, nine NGO partners, and experts played a significant role in developing the deshbhakti curriculum and holding a pilot run between June and July this year. The pilot run was conducted by a core group of Delhi government schoolteachers with over 250 students of different classes in 20 schools over the online platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deshbhakti-curriculum-in-delhi-govt-schools-from-today-in-major-patriotic-push-101632788514456.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Deshbhakti curriculum in Delhi schools from today: All you need to know||The Aam Aadmi Party-led government will implement the deshbhakti curriculum in all public schools across the national capital from Tuesday to instil patriotism in students. During his Independence Day address at the Delhi Secretariat, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the curriculum will be activity-based and it will be a tribute to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh.Kejriwal said that the deshbhakti curriculum will help realise the dreams of freedom fighters and the celebration of Independence Day will cease to be symbolic in schools but will now have substantive meaning. “This is not something that will require rote learning. Children will be told about the stories of the nation, there will be discussions about their responsibilities and duties to nation and how they can contribute,” he added.Kejriwal announced the vision for the deshbhakti curriculum on the 73rd Independence Day in 2019. The framework of the deshbhakti curriculum submitted by a government-appointed panel was approved by the Governing Council of the State Council of Educational Research And Training (SCERT) on August 6 this year. The deshbhakti curriculum will be implemented in schools in every class from nursery to Class 12 when the schools reopen physically. Right now, only students of classes 9 to 12 are allowed to return to schools for physical classes.Here’s all about the deshbhakti curriculum:1. The curriculum will not be based on rote learning and there will be no tests.2. The curriculum will be activity-based and students will be told stories about Independence and the nation's pride. Children will be made to realise their responsibilities and duties towards the nation.3. Students will be prepared to fulfil their responsibilities and contribute to the nation's progress.4. The deshbhakti curriculum framework aims to develop a deep sense of respect towards constitutional values and seeks to bridge the gap between values and action, according to a statement from the government, reports news agency PTI.5. “There is very little scope to relate values such as equality and fraternity to their daily lives. The deshbhakti curriculum seeks to build a deeper understanding of these values and make them part of children's behaviour. Therefore, the stress is also on connecting to children's lives outside of school,” an official statement issued during the launch of the curriculum said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deshbhakti-curriculum-in-delhi-schools-from-today-all-you-need-to-know-101632787339785.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Harassment’ of journalists: Send a fact-finding team to J&K, demands Mehbooba||People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday wrote to the Press Council of India and Editors Guild of India raising the issue of the “systematic harassment” of journalists in Kashmir and urged the council to send a fact-finding team to J&K, to independently verify these claims and take remedial action.Mufti took to Twitter to inform about the letter she wrote to the media watchdog bodies about what she termed the “continued harassment that media in J&K is facing”.“On one hand pliable journalists are para-dropped here to parrot the normalcy narrative. But local journalists who work under tremendous pressure & speak truth to power are punished (sic),” she said in a tweet.She also tweeted a questionnaire which the journalists are being asked to fulfil by the administration.“In addition to this harassment, J&K admin also shot off a questionnaire to journalists here seeking personal & bizarre information such as their religious/ political affiliations & ties/ links with Pakistan (sic),” she said.In the letter titled ‘Intimidation, snooping and harassment of journalists in Jammu and Kashmir’, Mufti said that raids were conducted by police at the residences of several journalists in Kashmir earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harassment-of-journalists-send-a-fact-finding-team-to-j-k-demands-mehbooba-101632789172938.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||In brief: Treatment at Sunday air show insulting, says Srinagar DDC head||Srinagar district development council (DDC) chairman Aftab Malik has alleged that during the airshow arranged on Sunday, he as the head of DDC Srinagar wasn’t treated with proper “protocol” and his chair was placed behind the junior-level government functionaries. Malik is a senior member of the Apni Party. Terming it ‘insulting’, he said, “This is how the representatives of people are treated.” Defence spokesperson Emron Masvi said the seating arrangement was decided by the UT government protocol division, not by the Indian Air Force. “As far as the IAF is aware, the protocol department followed the warrant of precedence strictly.”CBI raids EPFO office in Jammu Following complaints of irregularities and embezzlement of funds, sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday raided the Employees’ Provident Funds Organisation (EPFO) office here. “We have received many complaints regarding embezzlement of funds during the lockdown and in the name of false claims, crores have been looted,” CBI sources said, even as the agency is yet to issue any statement on the matter.Little bit of mischief: Army commander on infiltration bidsGeneral-Officer-Commanding, 15 Corps, Lt General DP Pandey on Monday termed infiltration attempts a “little bit of mischief” from across the LoC. On sidelines of a function held in Boniyar, Uri, Lt General, “People shouldn’t get worried by these infiltration attempts or the situation as our troops are alert and prepared to deal with such situations.”Security prep Katra, cave shrine reviewedAhead of the Navratri festival, J&K Police along with other security forces reviewed the security arrangements at Katra, tracks and the holy cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi in Trikuta Hills. Mohammad Suleman Choudhary, DIG Udhampur-Reasi range held a security review meeting at Katra, said a police spokesman. “SSP Reasi presented a detailed security grid in place for Katra town and discussed various security measures,” he said. IHBT scientists bag two CSIR awardsScientists of Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT), Palampur, have won two Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) awards. The ‘Certificates of Merit’ were conferred by vice-president Venkaiah Naidu on them during an event to mark the 80th foundation day of CSIR at Delhi on Sunday. The first award was conferred on a team consisting of Probir Kumar Pal, Sanatsujat Singh, Mohit Sharma, Ashok Yadav, Rakesh Rana and Ram Kumar Sharma for their work in ‘Stevia’ agrotechnology and processing. The second ‘Certificate of Merit’ was given to Sukhjinder Singh for his contribution in technology transfer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-brief-treatment-at-sunday-air-show-insulting-says-srinagar-ddc-head-101632788634954.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Submit verification rolls within 21 days or forego appointment: J&K admn to candidates||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday issued an order that candidates whose recommendation is released by the selection agency will have to submit their verification rolls before the appointing authority within a period of 21 days from its release, failing which they will have to forego their right to appointment forthwith.In this context, an order was issued by the commissioner secretary Manoj Kumar Dwivedi on Monday.“In continuation to the government order number 528-JK (GAD) of 2021 dated 21/6/2021, the following shall be inserted ahead of the first para of the Instruction 2 of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Verification of character and antecedents) Instructions 1997 notified vide government order number 1918 –GAD of 1997 dated 9/12/1997 as amended from time to time. The candidate whose recommendation is released by the selection agency shall submit their verification rolls in triplicate before the appointing authority within a period of 21 days from its release, failing which the candidate (s) shall forego their right to appointment forthwith,” read the significant part of the order.In respect of selection lists already published, the period of 21 days shall be reckoned from the notification of these instructions, it added. On Saturday, Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer had directs deputy magistrates to immediately submit list of ‘deadwood’ employees in revenue department for their termination.The government has started compiling data of ‘deadwood’ employees to be retired at the age of 48 years or those who have completed 22 years in service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/submit-verification-rolls-within-21-days-or-forego-appointment-j-k-admn-to-candidates-101632787012368.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu infants’ death case: NHRC again seeks proof of compensation||The National Human Rights Commission of India (NHRC) has again sought from the J&K administration by November 26 proof of payment of compensation to the families of infants who died after consuming spurious cough syrup late in 2019. “The NHRC has asked the J&K chief secretary to submit any additional/final report of the proof of payment of ₹3 lakh each to next of kin of infants by November 26 to the commission,” said social activist Sukesh C Khajuria. The UT administration has told the commission that the proposal of the payment of compensation is under active consideration by the general administration department for placing it before the administrative council for consideration and approval. “Interestingly, while on the one hand the UT administration has been trying to portray that it was willing to pay compensation to the victims, on the other hand it has even filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court against the order of the J&K High Court which has not only rejected the plea of the administration against the payment of compensation but also passed strictures against the conduct of the bureaucracy,” he said. “However, the UT administration is trying to delay the matter by pleading approval by the administrative council headed by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and also subject to the outcome of the SLP pending before the SC,” he added. The issue of deaths of infants was taken up by Khajuria with the NHRC to seek compensation for the families of the victims and fixing the responsibility of the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-infants-death-case-nhrc-again-seeks-proof-of-compensation-101632786773193.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||BSF recovers ammo, drugs, fake currency in Jammu||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Monday recovered a huge cache of arms, ammunition, drugs and fake currency along the International Border in Akhnoor sector of Jammu. “BSF achieved a big success when they recovered a huge cache of arms, ammunition, narcotics and FICN from International Border in Akhnoor area,” said a BSF spokesperson on Monday. Acting on a specific input, a search operation was launched wherein a bag was found hidden in thick grass, he added. It was found containing four pistols, eight magazines, a packet of heroin-like substance and ₹2.75 lakh in fake Indian currency, he said. Official sources said that fake currency was in the denomination of ₹500 and ₹1,000 notes. “They were of old currency, which are not in use anymore following demonetisation. The consignment was hidden in wild grass in Chicken Neck area. However, it was not dropped by any quadcopter,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-recovers-ammo-drugs-fake-currency-in-jammu-101632786532746.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: 32 students test positive for Covid in Rajouri||At least 32 students of a private educational institution in Thanamandi area of Rajouri tested positive for Covid on Monday, said officials. The school was reopened on Monday and a team of health department had visited there for sampling. Rajouri CMO Dr Shamim Bhati said none of the students had severe symptoms. “They are being isolated, but the parents are reluctant to send them to Covid care centre. The administration is trying to convince them. The students belong to small villages and hamlets in the nearby areas,” she added. Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 117 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday. Of the total, 62 cases were reported in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 55 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 118 with active cases reaching 1,513. Chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta said the administration is expecting 100% vaccination of 18+ age group by October. “Tourists and people associated with travel industry are already 90% vaccinated. Our effort is to enhance tourism and at the same time control Covid spread,” he added. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 666 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 173 and 145 such cases, respectively.Officials said with 33 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 40 cases in Rajouri. As many as 18 other districts had no or single-digit cases.Mehta said that Srinagar’s Covid figures are coming down. “A few days ago, Srinagar figures were on the higher side, which have now again come under control. We are trying to bring it down to even more manageable level,” he added. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,23,190, prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.19%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have reached 3,29,125 and the death toll stands at 4,422.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-32-students-test-positive-for-covid-in-rajouri-101632786292451.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Contamination of water: High court serves notice on HP chief secy||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Monday issued notices to state chief secretary, member secretary, state environment protection and pollution control board and Solan DC in a matter pertaining to the contamination of water of wells and borewells of the surrounding areas due to chemical waste of Shivalik Solid Waste Management Plant set up Majra village in Nalagarh.A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition taken up suo motu as a PIL on a letter written to the chief justice by one Joginder Singh of Majra village that falls under the Solan district. The petitioner has said that Shivalik Solid Waste Management Plant was set up 15 years ago after obtaining NOC from the panchayat by misleading it that an environment project was going to the set up there. “But later, when the waste management plant was built, villagers came to know that hazardous chemical and solid toxic waste of different factories of Himachal Pradesh was to be brought to this plant and responsibility for treating this solid waste has been entrusted to the unit. For the last 15 years, the solid waste is being dumped on the ground by the aforesaid plant by covering it with soil, without proper treatment,” he added. With passage of time, the water of natural sources, wells and bore-wells of Majra and the surrounding villages has become poisonous due to seepage of chemically contaminated water from this plant into the ground and resultantly foul smell is coming from the water, he said. He has alleged that villagers made many complaints to the pollution control board as well as various other higher authorities but till date, no action has been taken against the solid waste company. He has alleged that due to this poisonous water, their cattle have died and even the villagers have contracted many serious diseases.He has prayed that necessary directions for taking stringent action against the Shivalik Solid Waste Management may be issued so that they could be saved from the hazardous effects of contaminated water and people may not face any health-related issues. The court has posted the matter after two weeks and also directed the respondents to file their replies by the next date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contamination-of-water-high-court-serves-notice-on-hp-chief-secy-101632786052424.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP schools reopen to thin attendance||Schools in Himachal Pradesh reopened on Monday for classes 9 to 12 with thin attendance and amid fear of the third wave of Covid.The students of classes 1 to 8 will continue their online classes. Since, the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year, the schools have remained mostly shut.Earlier, the schools were reopened in April and August, but had to be closed after spurt in Covid cases.The state cabinet had in a meeting held on September 24 decided to reopen the schools.As per the SOPs issued by the education department, the students of classes 10 and 12 would attend the school on first three days of the week and classes 9 and 11 on next three days.The time of arrival, lunch break and departure would also be allotted in staggered manner.Principal, Government Senior Secondary School (Boys), Dharamshala, Anish Banyal said the schools were strictly following the SOPs to prevent the spread of virus on the campus.Sanitisation of the entire campus was done and students were screened with thermal scanners before entering the classes, he said.“Students of different classes attending the school on alternate days is a wise decision and will help prevent the infection from spreading,” said Banyal. He said they would also organise extra classes if students demand.There would be no sports or cultural events as per the SOPs, he added.Meanwhile, students are happy to rejoin the classes after a long gap. Saloni, a student of Class 12 in a Kangra school, said though they were attending the online classes, it didn’t help much.“Now that we are attending the school, we could meet the teachers and get clear understanding of concepts,” she said.Another student, Akriti Sharma, said the classroom studies are much better than the online classes.“Hope we will be able to cover our syllabus as the schools have now reopened. We also wish that there is no third wave. Covid has already hit our studies badly,” she added.About five lakh students are enrolled in classes 9 to 12 in Himachal Pradesh of whom, more than three lakh are registered in government in schools and the remaining ones in private. 209 cases detected in stateMeanwhile, Himachal Pradesh logged 209 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the state’s total case tally to 2,18,523. No fatality was reported, and the death toll remained 3,653.Among the fresh cases, 49 were reported in Hamirpur, 39 in Kangra, 36 in Mandi, 24 in Solan, 20 in Bilaspur, 14 in Shimla, 13 in Kinnaur, five in Kullu and three each in Chamba, Sirmaur and Una. The active cases have come down to 1,730 while recoveries reached 2,13,124 after 225 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,830 cases reported till date, followed by 30,868 in Mandi and 27,169 in Shimla. No cultural or commercial events at Kullu DussehraNo cultural or commercial activities will be held during the International Dussehra Festival of Kullu being held from October 15. Only the deities will be invited to perform the rituals and ceremonies, the state government decided at a meeting of the Kullu Dussehra Committee that CM Jai Ram Thakur presided over. The CM has the directed district authorities to complete preparations related to the Dussehra in a time-bound manner, with Covid-19 norms to be followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-schools-reopen-to-thin-attendance-101632785692491.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two Kolkata trekkers die of cold at HP’s Khemenger glacier||Two mountaineers from Kolkata reportedly died while descending the Khemenger glacier in Spiti valley after crossing Parahio summit, officials said on Monday.A six-member team from Arete mountaineering club, Kolkata, was on a trekking expedition to the glacier which is the main source of Rongtong stream. The glacier is 5,884 metres above the sea level. One of the trekkers, Abhijit Banik, along with a porter reached Kaza in the morning after trekking for two days and informed that two persons have died.The duo said that it would take three days to reach the other members of the group, who are stuck in snow.Their group comprised 18 members, including 10 porters and one sherpa. The two deceased have been identified as Sandeep Kumar Thakurta and Bhaskerdeep. Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar said two rescue teams have been formed consisting of members from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Dogra Scouts, local mountaineers, doctors and armymen. “The two trekkers reportedly died due to cold weather conditions as there was unseasonal snow in the high-altitude region,” he added.The rescue operation will start from Kah village in Pin valley. On Tuesday, the teams will trek from Kah to Chankanhango, then to Dhar Thango and on the third day reach the Khemengar glacier via Dharthango.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-kolkata-trekkers-die-of-cold-at-hp-s-khemenger-glacier-101632785272432.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Capital adds 62 dengue cases in a week, MCDs say breeding on rise||With record rainfall in September this year, Delhi is reporting an increase in the number of dengue cases, as it added 62 infections in a week, showed data from the city’s civic bodies. The Capital registered 273 cases of the vector-borne disease till September 25.In comparison, the city recorded 212 cases of the infection in the same period last year. To be sure, doctors say fewer dengue patients reported to hospitals last year due to a fear of Covid-19. In 2019, Delhi logged 282 dengue cases in the same period.Municipal officials warned that the breeding is on the rise. “This is the peak time for breeding. Additionally, the city also received record rainfall at unexpected time, which will lead to more breeding. It does, however, seem less than 2010, when there was a lot of rain and Delhi saw one of the worst dengue outbreaks,” said a senior official from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation.An official from the East corporation said, “Nowadays, we see cases being reported well into November. Earlier, the number of cases used to go down mid-October, as temperatures started dropping, but now we see that the mosquitoes start breeding indoors, especially in rooms where people switch on heaters during the winters.”Even though the treatment for dengue is symptomatic, people must seek a doctor’s opinion said Dr Ashutosh Biswas, professor of medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) during a public lecture. “Some people who get dengue may develop severe disease. If they receive timely care and support they will be okay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-adds-62-dengue-cases-in-a-week-mcds-say-breeding-on-rise-101632782060995.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||PHSC director resigns a day after Balbir Sidhu dropped from cabinet||Dr Manjit Singh on Monday tendered his resignation from the post of director of the Punjab Health System Corporation (PHSC), a day after the name of health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was dropped from the state cabinet. Dr Manjit, who was considered close to Sidhu, was appointed the PHSC director in January 2021 when he was given an extension of one year after retiring as director, health and family welfare. He submitted his resignation to the principal secretary, health and family welfare. “It (resignation) is out of respect for Sidhu who recognised my honesty and offered me top posts in the health department. What is the point of continuing in the post when the minister is not there? I am thankful to him for supporting me,” said Dr Manjit, an ophthalmologist. In May 2019 also, Dr Manjit had put in his papers soon after he was transferred from Patiala to Sangrur as the civil surgeon. He, however, later withdrew his resignation after senior officials asked him to rethink the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/phsc-director-resigns-a-day-after-balbir-sidhu-dropped-from-cabinet-101632777530720.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet passes resolution seeking repeal of Centre’s 3 farm laws||A day after the induction of 15 ministers, the Punjab cabinet led by Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday passed a resolution seeking repeal of the central government’s three contentious farm laws. The specially convened meeting coincided with the Bharat bandh call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions leading the protests at the Delhi border and elsewhere. Terming the agriculture laws as anti-farmer and against food security, Channi said they were a threat to the peasantry and their future generations. “Therefore, the earlier resolutions passed by the state assembly seeking repeal of black laws should be conceded by the Centre without delay,” he said. Referring to a Supreme Court order staying the legislations, the CM suggested that there was the need for dialogue with all stakeholders as the laws had a direct bearing on farmers’ future. He asked his ministers to win the confidence of the families of 155 deceased farmers by visiting their homes and delivering them appointment letters for government jobs besides instructing chief secretary Anirudh Tiwari to verify the households left out of the process. Channi also directed Tiwari to explore ways to rationalise compensation to be awarded to the farmers whose land was acquired for government projects, including the Centre’s Bharat Mala road project. Farmers are complaining of inadequate compensation. Ministers asked to work overtimeThe CM asked all ministers to work overtime as time left to fulfill promises made before the 2017 polls was too short, it is learnt. “The CM also asked all ministers to work from 9am to 10pm and sit in office at least two days a week, it is learnt. The ministers would also be given additional responsibility of a district each to oversee government functioning and for redressal of people’s grievances,” said a minister. In Monday’s meeting, the second after he took over from Capt Amarinder Singh a week ago, Channi assured to announce “people-centric decisions” in the next cabinet meeting on October 1. Also, the new council of ministers as a “goodwill gesture” appreciated Amarinder for “pro-people initiatives and development works” during his tenure. Deputy chief ministers OP Soni and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa were also present in the discussions that went on for 3 hours. Curtail security: CM CM Channi asked the ministers to keep their security “bare minimum” saying that he had already curtailed his own. “This would save the general public from unnecessary inconvenience,” he said. To provide access to the elected representatives like sarpanches and municipal councillors it was decided to issue an entry card from the office of deputy commissioners and SDMs concerned so that they are allowed entry in government offices and the secretariats in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-passes-resolution-seeking-repeal-of-centre-s-3-farm-laws-101632777115885.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal stays mum on Bharat bandh call after attack on workers at Tikri border||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) did not respond to Monday’s Bharat bandh (countrywide shutdown) call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in protest against the central government’s three contentious farm laws, days after an attack on its workers at the Tikri border in Delhi. This was in contrast to the farmers’ March 26 bandh call when Akali workers staged protests at many places in Punjab under the party banner. The SAD leadership neither issued any official statement nor did it say anything on social media about Monday’s shutdown. Party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said, “We are not taking part in the protests directly as the farmers unions have announced not to share stage with political parties. As far as the attack on Akali workers is concerned, we have already asked the farmer leaders to take action against those behind it. But no action has been taken yet.” Also, the SAD-controlled Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which has been extending help to the protesting farmers at the Delhi borders and elsewhere, kept open its offices that remained close on March 26 to join the stir. The move is being seen as an aftermath of the Tikri border incident, even as senior SGPC officials declined to comment on the issue.In a video of the September 17 incident, hair of an elderly Akali worker were seen being pulled by protesters. SGPC president Jagir Kaur shared a graphic on his Facebook page supporting the bandh call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-stays-mum-on-bharat-bandh-call-after-attack-on-workers-at-tikri-border-101632776692491.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Complete shutdown in Punjab’s Majha on Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s Bharat bandh call against farm laws||A complete shutdown was observed on Monday in the Majha region of Punjab as nearly all sections gave a good response to the Bharat bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in protest against the central government’s three controversial farm laws.Commercial establishments, including shops, and public transport remained shut at most places in Amritsar and adjoining districts. In Amritsar, protesters staged dharnas, asking the shopkeepers and vendors to support the strike. They also moved around in vehicles calling for people to observe the protest.However, the commuters had a tough time reaching their destinations.The farmers owing allegiance to various organisations, including the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) and the Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, staged dharnas at more than 30 points on the national highways and other key roads till around 3pm. The protesters also laid siege to railway tracks in the district. Sandeep, 27, a vegetable vendor from Tarn Taran, said he had to shell out ₹1,000 to an auto-rickshaw driver to bring his mother to a local Hospital for eye surgery. “My mother was slated to be operated on at 11am. We left Tarn Taran at 6am so that we could reach in time. Since no bus plied on their routes, we had to hire an auto-rickshaw,” he said.Zain-ul- Abedeen, who runs a dhaba at Katra Ahluwalia, said, “I have to pay salaries of 5 workers. I can’t tell them that there was a strike for a day or two.”The Golden Temple, however, witnessed a heavy rush of devotees despite the bandh. People were seen standing in long queues in front of the sanctum sanctorum.Only a handful of shops in some narrow streets didn’t observe the ‘bandh’ and went about their business as usual. In Tarn Taran district also, all services barring health facilities, remained closed till 4pm. The farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee blocked around a dozen roads, including the Amritsar-Bathinda highway near Rasoolpur village. The farmers also blocked the Tarn Taran-Khemkaran and the Tarn Taran-Beas railway tracks. Some shopkeepers in Tarn Taran city also expressed their solidarity with the farmers. A similar situation was witnessed in Gurdaspur and Batala towns.Traders, protesters come face to face in PathankotThe shutdown also brought life to a standstill in Pathankot district, considered a stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The farmers along with others staged a protest on the outskirts of the town, and the traders also kept their outlets shut.But the situation turned tense in the Post Office Chowk market in the city when the agitating farmers came there on tractors to ensure all the shops were shut. Some shopkeepers gathered to oppose them and started raising slogans and refused to shut their shops. Police brought the situation under control and the protesters returned after some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/complete-shutdown-in-punjab-s-majha-on-samyukt-kisan-morcha-s-bharat-bandh-call-against-farm-laws-101632776392980.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra woman held for killing husband, burying body inside house||A 25-year-old woman was arrested by the Kurukshetra police for allegedly killing her husband and burying his body inside their house in Amin village, with the help of an aide.The accused, identified as Shabnam had allegedly killed her husband Farooq, 40, around 20 days ago. Her aide, identified as Nitesh of Azad Nagar, Delhi, is currently on the run.The matter came to light after the victim’s brother-in-law, Murari, complained to the police after being unable to get in touch with him for over two weeks. The complainant also provided the police Shabnam’s mobile number, which was traced to Delhi. The cops managed to nab her and during interrogation, she confessed to killing her husband with the help of an aide.She allegedly revealed that she had killed her husband with a knife and then buried his body inside the house by digging a pit. After the incident, she and her two children returned to Delhi. Based on her statement, police raided the crime spot and dug out the decomposed body.Kurukshetra DSP Subhash Chander said the woman has been sent to four-day police remand by a local court while the body has been handed over to family members of the deceased after post-mortem at the BPS Medical College, Sonepat. He said efforts are on to arrest Nitesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kurukshetra-woman-held-for-killing-husband-burying-body-inside-house-101632775190438.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana police exam: Weird questions leave candidates stumped||Haryana staff selection commission (HSSC) explored the general knowledge of candidates at a very different level in an examination conducted for selection of sub-inspectors (SI) on Sunday. Through this examination, the commission will fill 463 posts of sub-inspector. There were at least half-a-dozen questions that stumped the candidates. To a question on ‘specialty’ of Haryana home minister Anil Vij, there were four options to choose from: Vij is highly educated, he has been a home minister before, he is unmarried or he has served as a police officer. If that was not perplexing enough, answer this: Name a Haryana BJP MP whose father died recently; or who is BJP’s Haryana president, or name BJP’s candidate in the Baroda bypoll. The fun didn’t end there. The next question was on the meaning of HSSC chairman Bhopal Singh Khadri’s surname and the options for the answer were: Is it the name of a caste, community/gotra, Khadar area or none of the above! “There were at least five to six questions related to Haryana BJP members. None related to the police field or general knowledge,” said Sachin Kumar, a candidate from Rohtak. “We will register a complaint. If the HSSC does not act on our complaint, we will move court,” he added. HSSC chairman Bhopal Singh Khadri said, “The agency had been given the task to set the question paper, we can’t do anything about the questions being asked. We re-conducted the examination at a Gurugarm centre because a wrong set of question papers was distributed there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-exam-weird-questions-leave-candidates-stumped-101632774829736.html
28-09-2021||Other||Mystery shrouds elderly woman’s death in Jalandhar||Jalandhar A 60-year-old elderly woman, Balbir Kaur, 60, was found strangulated to death under mysterious circumstances at Sant Vihar in Jalandhar on Monday. Police said she lived alone, as her husband had expired around seven years ago. The neighbours had called the police after she did not open up after repeated knocks. DCP (investigation) Gurmeet Singh said it was a murder, but had been given the shape of robbery. A murder case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mystery-shrouds-elderly-woman-s-death-in-jalandhar-101632774409450.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mortal remains of Kurukshetra jawan consigned to flames||The mortal remains of jawan Gurjant Singh were consigned to flames with state honors on Monday as thousands of people reached Kurukshtera’s Raipura village to pay their last tributes.Gurjant was a Naik of 102 Engineer Regiment of the Indian Army and reportedly died in an vehicle accident while on duty in Assam on September 24. Hundreds of people, including officials from the district administration reached to pay their last tributes to Gurjant soon after his body arrived at his native village, Rai Majra, in Shahbad sub-division.Gurjant is survived by his parents Rulda Ram and Karamjit Kaur, wife Rinki, a three-year-old daughter and a seven-month-old son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mortal-remains-of-kurukshetra-jawan-consigned-to-flames-101632774289561.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Weird questions in Haryana Police exam stump candidates||Haryana staff selection commission (HSSC) explored the general knowledge of candidates at a very different level in an examination conducted for selection of sub-inspectors (SI) on Sunday. Through this examination, the commission will fill 463 posts of sub-inspector. There were at least half-a-dozen questions that stumped the candidates. To a question on ‘specialty’ of Haryana home minister Anil Vij, there were four options to choose from: Vij is highly educated, he has been a home minister before, he is unmarried or he has served as a police officer. If that was not perplexing enough, answer this: Name a Haryana BJP MP whose father died recently; or who is BJP’s Haryana president, or name BJP’s candidate in the Baroda bypoll. The fun didn’t end there. The next question was on the meaning of HSSC chairman Bhopal Singh Khadri’s surname and the options for the answer were: Is it the name of a caste, community/gotra, Khadar area or none of the above! “There were at least five to six questions related to Haryana BJP members. None related to the police field or general knowledge,” said Sachin Kumar, a candidate from Rohtak. “We will register a complaint. If the HSSC does not act on our complaint, we will move court,” he added. HSSC chairman Bhopal Singh Khadri said, “The agency had been given the task to set the question paper, we can’t do anything about the questions being asked. We re-conducted the examination at a Gurugarm centre because a wrong set of question papers was distributed there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weird-questions-in-haryana-police-exam-stump-candidates-101632774229841.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer found dead at Singhu, cardiac arrest suspected||A 55-year-old farmer, who was protesting against the centre’s three farm laws at Singhu border, was found dead on Monday morning. The deceased, identified as Bhaghal Ram, a resident of Punjab’s Jalandhar, is believed to have suffered a cardiac arrest.Farmer leaders said the 55-year-old had returned to the protest site after visiting home on September 18. He had been associated with the farmers’ protest since November last year.“He was found dead in his tent on Monday morning following which we informed the police. Bhaghal Ram is survived by his wife, three daughters and a son,” said the farmer leaders.Kundli police station SHO Ravi Kumar said the body has been sent for post-mortem examination at the Sonepat civil hospital.“Farmers claimed that he died of heart attack but the exact reason will be known after post-mortem. We have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,” the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-found-dead-at-singhu-cardiac-arrest-suspected-101632773989413.html
28-09-2021||Other||IIT Ropar launches Taiwan Education Centre||Ropar IIT Ropar has launched a Taiwan Education Centre on its campus to promote education and cultural relations between India and Taiwan. The Centre will also promote Mandarin (Chinese) language among Indian students and faculty to facilitate increased cooperation between higher educational institutions of Taiwan and India. “Students will be trained in mandarin language and will be able to work in Taiwanese companies established in India and overseas. These language skills will be an asset over and above technical knowledge,” said CC Reddy, dean, International Relations, IIT Ropar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iit-ropar-launches-taiwan-education-centre-101632773929565.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bandh in Bharat brings Punjab, Haryana to halt||Chandigarh The Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) from 6am to 4pm to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three central agri-marketing laws by the central government evoked good response in Punjab and Haryana, while it was partial in Himachal Pradesh and Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.The 10-hour nationwide shutdown threw normal life out of gear in Punjab and Haryana, the epicentre of the farmers’ agitation since it was launched about a year ago. People commuting by road and train were at the receiving end as protesters blocked highways and squatted on railway tracks at many places in the two states. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere. Shops and other commercial establishments were closed in most towns in the two states as traders, as social organisations, employee bodies extended their support to the farmers. Protesters laid siege to nearly 500 locations across Punjab, blocking inter-state highways and key rail routes. Schools, colleges and universities and government offices reported thin attendance. Long traffic jams were reported from different districts, while ambulances were allowed to ply. “It is a near total bandh in Punjab. We are thankful to all those who supported us,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, the president of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), a constituent of the SKM. Over 50 trains affectedFourteen trains were cancelled in the Ferozepur rail division, while eight were rescheduled and two short terminated. Under the neighbouring Ambala division, 19 trains were cancelled and 15 rescheduled. Officials said the Delhi-Amritsar Shan-e-Punjab, New Delhi-Moga Express, Old Delhi-Pathankot Express, Vande Bharat Express from New Delhi to Katra, and Amritsar Shatabdi are some of the trains that have been affected.“More than 20 locations in Delhi, Ambala, and Ferozepur divisions had been blocked. About 50 trains were affected due to this. All train movement is normal now since 4:30 pm,” a spokesperson for the Northern Railway said.In Haryana, farmers blocked the Delhi-Ambala-Chandigarh highway, Chandigarh-Kaithal-Jind-Hisar highway, Panipat-Rohtak highway, Kurukshetra-Kaithal highway, Kurukshetra-Yamunangar highway, Karnal-Jind highway and Karnal-Yamunanagar highway. The protesters sat on rail tracks in Jhajjar, Bahadurgarh, Fatehgarh in Dadri and at Ramayana toll plaza in Hisar. Commuters used village link roads to reach their destinations. Traders in most parts of the state kept their business establishments closed in solidarity. Security was beefed up at Singhu and Tikri borders where farmers have been camping for almost a year. Entry and exit gates of metro stations from Tikri to Bahadurgarh were closed, inconveniencing commuters headed for Delhi. SKM leader Inderjit Singh said, “Shopkeepers and small factory owners also shut their establishments in support of farmers till 4pm. Medical staff and ambulances were allowed passage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bandh-in-bharat-brings-punjab-haryana-to-halt-101632773750528.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||10-hour bandh passes off peacefully in Haryana, rail tracks, roads blocked||The Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an alliance of farmer unions, on Monday to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of three central agri-marketing laws, hampered the movement of daily commuters and commercial vehicles in Haryana as most highways and several rail tracks remained blocked from 6am to 4pm. The northern railways cancelled 19 trains in Ambala railway division. The 10-hour Bandh passed off peacefully in Haryana, evoking good response in the heartland districts of Rohtak, Hisar, Bhiwani and Jind. Farmers blocked the Delhi-Ambala-Chandigarh highway, Chandigarh-Kaithal-Jind-Hisar highway, Panipat-Rohtak highway, Kurukshetra-Kaithal highway, Kurukshetra-Yamunangar highway, Karnal-Jind highway and Karnal-Yamunanagar highway. The protesters sat on rail tracks in Jhajjar, Bahadurgarh, Fatehgarh in Dadri and at Ramayana toll plaza in Hisar. Bus stands of Hisar, Rohtak, Jind and Sonepat wore a deserted look, and many buses were seen parked at the bus terminus itself. Commuters used village link roads to reach their destinations. Protesters, however, allowed the movement of vehicles on emergency duty such as ambulances. Traders in most parts of the state kept their business establishments closed in solidarity. Security was beefed up at Singhu and Tikri borders where farmers have been camping for almost a year. Entry and exit gates of metro stations from Tikri to Bahadurgarh were closed, inconveniencing commuters headed for Delhi. SKM leader Inderjit Singh said, “Shopkeepers and small factory owners also shut their establishments in support of farmers till 4pm. We occupied highways and rail tracks to raise our voice though medical staff and ambulances were allowed passage.” Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said that most market associations have assured the farmers of their support. “A team of farmers kept visiting markets and requested them to shut shop during the bandh duration,” Bains said. Asked about people stuck in traffic jams, he said: “Farmers had announced the blockade in advance and commuters should have avoided travelling on Monday. But farmers will make arrangements of food and water for them.” A Haryana police spokesperson said the Bandh call given by farmers’ organisations passed off peacefully and no violent incident was reported in the state.The spokesperson said the impact of the Bandh was largely seen in the form of road and rail blockades and hampered the intercity road and rail traffic movement. However, it did not have much impact on the activities within towns and cities.The bandh call did not have any impact in the districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Narnaul, Rewari and Nuh in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10hour-bandh-passes-off-peacefully-in-haryana-rail-tracks-roads-blocked-101632773689492.html
28-09-2021||Other||38th edition of Surjit Hockey Tourney starts in Jalandhar from October 23||Jalandhar The 38th edition of Surjit Hockey Tournament will be held at the Army AstroTurf Hockey Ground, Katoch Stadium, Jalandhar Cantonment, from October 23-31. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori who is also the president of the Surjit Hockey Society, said 12 teams are participating. Semi-finals are scheduled on October 30 and no gate entry money will be charged from spectators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/38th-edition-of-surjit-hockey-tourney-starts-in-jalandhar-from-october-23-101632773509283.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana vaccinates over 2.2 crore against Covid virus||More than 2.22 crore individuals in Haryana have been administered the Covid vaccine with about 1.62 crore persons getting the first dose. Health minister Anil Vij said that 60.23 lakh persons have been administered two doses. He said that 1.22 crore persons in the 18 to 44 age category have been vaccinated, with 98.36 lakh getting the first dose. About 51.36 lakh persons in the 45 to 60 age category have been vaccinated, with 34.54 lakh persons getting the first dose. About 39.41 lakh persons in the 60-plus category have been vaccinated, of which 24.74 lakh have got the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-vaccinates-over-2-2-crore-against-covid-virus-101632773389213.html
28-09-2021||Other||BJP condemns Deol’s appointment as Punjab AG||Chandigarh Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary Subhash Sharma on Monday said that with the appointment of APS Deol as advocate general, Punjab government’s facade of securing justice in sacrilege cases seemed like a blatant lie. “The true face of the Congress government stands exposed with Deol’s appointment, who is a personal lawyer of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and Paramraj Singh Umranagal, both accused in the Bebhal Kalan case,” claimed Sharma, adding that chief minister Charanjt Singh Channi had lost the moral ground. Condemning the appointment, he claimed that Punjabis were sad at the development, as everyone wants a logical conclusion into the incident in which two men were killed. “The Congress had come to power by promising that the guilty will be punished. Unfortunately, it has always been manipulative and follows no ethics,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-condemns-deol-s-appointment-as-punjab-ag-101632772969080.html
28-09-2021||Other||Punjab CM Channi’s claims on corruption ring hollow: AAP||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday said that Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s claims of tackling corruption rung hollow, as he has inducted Rana Gurjit Singh into his cabinet. The party also took a dig at Channi’s statement that sand mafia or any of its henchmen should not even try and meet him. AAP’s leader of opposition in the Vidhan Sabha Harpal Singh Cheema said, “When the kingpin of the mining mafia is sitting in the cabinet, then such claims of the CM are misleading for the people of state. Tainted ministers are not only being opposed by us, the opposition, but by even the ruling Congress MLAs.” He claimed that the Congress MLAs’ letter to Sonia Gandhi corroborated his allegations. “Channi has succumbed to the Congress high command and ‘self-styled super CM’ Navjot Singh Sidhu for his chair. Due to such weaknesses, the Congress is called the mother of corruption,” Cheema allegedHe claimed that the presence of Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Rana Gurjit Singh, Raja Warring and Gurkirat Kotli in the cabinet had put Channi, Sidhu and the Gandhi family in the dock. “If an FIR is not registered against former minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and other corrupt ministers within a week by the Channi government, the AAP will start an agitation,” Cheem claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-channi-s-claims-on-corruption-ring-hollow-aap-101632772308938.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh leads to traffic disruptions in HP||The ‘Bharat Bandh’ call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the three contentious farm laws evoked a partial response in Himachal Pradesh with reports of traffic disruptions on the state borders and Shimla town.Most of the shops and commercial establishments in the state remained open while various farm unions staged peaceful protests in HP. Himachal SKM members blocked the traffic at Victory Tunnel in Shimla and raised slogans against the central and state governments. The president of Himachal Pradesh Kisan Sabha, Kuldeep Tanwar, said that farmers have been agitating for the past over nine months but the central government is still ignoring their demands.“The farmers’ unions have been protesting against this adamant attitude of the central government and seek withdrawal of the three farm laws, which are not in favour of farmers but would benefit the friends of the Prime Minister,” he said.Speaking in the context of Himachal, Tanwar said the apple farmers were in deep crises as they were not getting reasonable price for their produce.The state government has failed to provide a relief to the farmers of HP. He said the HP government should implement the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) and fix minimum support price (MSP) for apple crop on the analogy of Jammu and Kashmir.He said the state farmers also demand the government to procure apple, barley, maize and wheat crops through National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India. He said the farmers’ movement will continue till the government repeals the three “anti-farmer” laws. Tanwar said a joint forum of all farmers’ unions, eight trade unions and students’ organisations participated in the bandh.Various farm unions led by CPIM legislator Rakesh Singha also blocked the NH at Theog.The protest, however, remained peaceful.Meanwhile, there was a heavy traffic jam on the Himalayan Expressway after the farm unions blocked the highway at Chandimandir in Panchkula, Haryana. Long queues of vehicles were seen on the Himachal side too.The farmers also staged protests in other parts of the state, including Dharamshala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-leads-to-traffic-disruptions-in-hp-101632772009158.html
28-09-2021||Kolkata||CBI arrests 4 in Bengal coal smuggling case; quizzes TMC MLA in chit fund probe||KOLKATA: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday made its first set of arrests in the Bengal coal smuggling case by taking into custody four suspects in West Burdwan and Bankura districts, officials aware of the development said.The men were identified as Joydeb Mondal, Narayan Nanda, Nirad Mondal and Gurupada Majhi. CBI suspects that they ran the operation for Anup Majhi alias Lala, the racket’s alleged head named in the FIR. Majhi was earlier granted an arrest shield by the Supreme Court. He has appealed for an extension of the order. The arrested men will be produced before the Asansol court in West Burdwan on Tuesday.The coal smuggling case is a raging political issue in Bengal. On September 6, Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi for almost nine hours. ED is conducting a parallel probe into money laundering charges linked to allegations of organised coal smuggling.Meanwhile, CBI on Monday questioned Madan Mitra, the TMC legislator from Kamarhati in North 24 Parganas district in the I-Core chit fund case in which industry minister Partha Chatterjee and legislator Mans Bhunia were questioned recently.“Our party has never said that we will not face CBI. I answered the questioned the officers asked,” Mitra said.Agency officials said Mitra’s son, Swarup, may be summoned on Tuesday. “I don’t know if my son has received any e-mail from the CBI,” Mitra said.CBI registered the coal smuggling case in November last year. It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs a number of mines.Abhishek Banerjee was summoned again by ED to its Delhi office on September 21 but he and his wife Rujira, who was earlier questioned by CBI in Kolkata, have moved the Delhi high court seeking permission to face the officers in the West Bengal capital Kolkata.The developments come days before the September 30 voting in the assembly bypoll at Kolkata’s Bhawanipore, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s old seat, which she has to win to continue as chief minister. She was defeated by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram in the March-April polls. During the campaign, which ended on Monday, the BJP described her as corrupt.On September 6, Abhishek Banerjee threw a challenge at the BJP, saying using probe agencies against TMC leaders will not help the saffron camp gain any political ground in Bengal.“TMC will never bow before you (BJP). Do whatever you can. If ED has any evidence against me, make it public. If anybody can prove that I have accepted even ten paise from anyone, I will voluntarily walk to the gallows and hang myself,” Abhishek Banerjee said in Delhi.On August 17, ED filed its first charge-sheet in the coal smuggling case and named former TMC youth wing general secretary Vinay Mishra’s brother Vikas and former officer-in-charge of Bankura police station, Ashok Mishra, as prime accused. Both were arrested in Delhi.A businessman, Vinay Mishra renounced his Indian citizenship in December last year and became a citizen of Vanuatu, a small island country in the South Pacific. ED’s charge-sheet, filed at a special court in Delhi, did not mention Abhishek Banerjee. The agency told the court that it will file supplementary charge-sheets as the probe progresses. ED has also summoned Bengal law minister Moloy Ghatak for questioning in this case. Ghatak informed the agency on Monday that as a senior citizen it is not possible for him to travel to Delhi during the Covid pandemic.Before summoning Abhishek Banerjee, ED wanted to question his wife Rujira Banerjee in the first week of September. She did not go to Delhi citing the risk a mother of two infants might face while travelling during the pandemic. She told the agency in an email that it would be convenient for her if ED officers came to her Kolkata residence.Rujira Banerjee was questioned by CBI in February. A CBI team visited Abhishek Banerjee’s residence. In March, CBI officials also questioned Rujira’s sister Maneka Gambhir and the latter’s husband Ankush Arora and father-in-law Pawan Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-arrests-4-in-bengal-coal-smuggling-case-quizzes-tmc-mla-in-chit-fund-probe-101632771710446.html
28-09-2021||Other||Punjab CM meets dept heads, asks for 100-day roadmap within a week||Chandigarh In his first meeting with department heads and administrative secretaries after he took over as Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday cautioned all officers against corruption. Channi also asked officers to give respect to ministers and MLAs, as per rule of law. In the previous government under Capt Amarinder Singh, Channi had raised the issue of bureaucratic dominance in government functioning, and the sidelining of the elected representatives. Over time, this had turned into a major issue against the former CM. “I am soft and gentle, but please don’t mistake my gentleness into an assumption that I will let inaction go unnoticed. I will act against those who won’t act for the common people,” Channi told the meeting.He directed officers to submit their proposals for a 100-day roadmap for their departments to the chief secretary within a week, also asking them to focus on the core sectors of providing affordable health care and education in rural areas. “The work of the common man must be done on priority and employee-friendly approach is to be followed so that they should not resort to agitation,” he said, adding that if anyone dropped his name to coerce them into any wrongdoing, the matter must be brought to his notice.Channi also asked administrative secretaries to ensure timely completion of ongoing projects, besides implementing welfare measures so the last man standing in line, benefits from government schemes. Punjab chief secretary Anirudh Tewari assured the CM of providing good service to citizens, and that the officers would achieve desired goals, according to his directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-meets-dept-heads-asks-for-100-day-roadmap-within-a-week-101632771648840.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Designers pin hopes on upcoming festive season||Navratri is just a few days away and fashion designers in the state capital are keeping their fingers crossed that it ushers a new beginning for them. Pinning their hopes on the festival and wedding season ahead, the glamour industry is readying itself for the buying season.Small functions as per permissible limits – now 100 people – have badly impacted designers. “Earlier, people bought dresses for haldi, mehndi, wedding, reception and more functions. Now, post-marriage receptions are rarely happening, and the other functions are confined to home, so just brides, groom and close family buys for wedding days. People used to come to us for high-end trail lehngas and all. Now, their budgets have gone down by 40-50%. Strangely, compared to Lucknow and Kanpur, customers in small cities are giving better business. We hope things improve for us and the people attached with the trade,” says designer Pallavi Madeshia Yadav. Budgets are surely down but people buy for themselves, says celebrity designer and Lucknowite Manish Tripathi. “Like we witnessed revenge travelling before the second wave, I see people going in for revenge buying. And this time, they are going to pamper themselves. We are running into the second year since the pandemic happened and people have not spent on themselves. Also, fat weddings and functions are not happening, so they are now buying for self-happiness, but budgets surely are lesser and we had to carve a new range accordingly,” he says.Lucknowite Gunriddh Sial, currently based in Singapore, says, “Millennials prefer more casual yet classy silhouettes and at House of Gulaal I have used shades that are very different, for example, the pistachio green or the icy blue. They are common festive colours but we’ve done it in a way that fashion conscious people are loving them. As people are environmentally conscious, we used 91% reused fabrics with fresh silhouettes. My festive collection has been inspired by some iconic dresses worn by Marilyn Monroe, Audrey Hepburn, Sarah Jessica Parker and many more.”Fashion designer Romaa Agarwal feels work from home culture has given rise to relaxed styles which can be worn both for online meetings and staying comfortable indoors. “The pandemic has changed our lives and our pattern of consumption, work and leisure. Rare outings and connection to the outside world has also brought about a shift in how we dress. Long lasting, classic, timeless styles are being bought more. Comfort, functionality and durability are taking over affordability and price. Staying indoors has given a huge boost to lounge wear and active wear. Practicality has become the core of design thinking for today’s consumer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/designers-pin-hopes-on-upcoming-festive-season-101632771589798.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 38 more Covid cases, one death||Punjab on Monday reported 38 fresh coronavirus cases that took the infection tally to 6,01,538, according to a medical bulletin.A Covid-related death was reported from Faridkot district and the toll went up to 16,507.Of the fresh cases, Jalandhar reported nine cases, followed by five in Amritsar and four in Fazilka.The number of active cases stood at 284.Thirty-five people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,747, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-38-more-covid-cases-one-death-101632771350166.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Govt has not finalised new mining policy: Punjab to HC||The Punjab government has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that no new mining policy has been finalised. The state government on Monday said before a bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Alka Sarin that all the mining contracts are in position as per existing mining policy and no new policy has been finalised. The submissions were made in a plea filed by Mahadev Enclave Private Limited, a mining firm that had approached the high court last week seeking quashing of the September 20 decision of state cabinet allowing “free mining” “The high court has posted the matter for October 1 in view of the stand taken by the state government and asked for an affidavit on the same,” one of the counsel in the matter, Raman Preet Singh Bara, said. In the first cabinet meeting chaired by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, he asked for a survey of the prices of sand and how to provide the sand at cheaper rates. At the meeting, it was also decided to allow landowners to do mining in their respective areas. The plea termed the decision a “political gimmick”, further submitting that state’s action in taking the decision of allowing “free mining” is totally illegal and arbitrary and the same is against the law laid down in various judgments. The assembly polls in Punjab are just about two to three months away and the ruling party, in order to gain political mileage, is resorting to policy of free sand to the public, which is legally and practically unfeasible, the firm told the court, adding that the move would lead to an environmental disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-has-not-finalised-new-mining-policy-punjab-to-hc-101632771110005.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Congress hits back at Azad group for questioning legality of cattle shed||A day after the councillors of Azad Group alleged that the construction of cattle shed on 3.5 acres of land in Industrial Area, Phase 8, was illegal, Congress has rubbished the allegations saying that since the Opposition did not have an issue, it was raising unnecessary ones to hamper development works in the city.While interacting with the media, Azad Group councillors alleged that Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had leased the land to Mohali MC so it could not be sub-leased further.Deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said that the Azad Group had stopped so low that now they had come down to opposing the steps being taken to address important issues of the people. He said that as far as the allegation of occupation of land by MLA Sidhu was concerned, it was clarified that the monthly rent would be charged from each cattle breeder per animal and the rent of the land would be paid in full.Former district president of Congress and councillor Rajinder Singh Rana clarified that the allegation that the land was leased to MC was false. He said that the land had been allotted to MC and was lying unused. Now that they had taken back possession of it, the Opposition was creating problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-congress-hits-back-at-azad-group-for-questioning-legality-of-cattle-shed-101632771108781.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: HC takes note of plea seeking revival of Apartment Rules||The high court has sought response from the Chandigarh administration and central government on a plea challenging the 2007 notification withdrawing Apartment Rules, 2001, claiming that the move was illegal and without jurisdiction.The high court (HC) bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh has sought response from various respondents by November 2.A 2016 plea is already under consideration of another division bench presided over by justice TS Dhindsa, in which petitioners are demanding that Chandigarh be restricted from allowing floor-wise sale of properties. In this matter, it has come to light that between 2016 and 2019, as many as 891 sale deeds were registered by the estate office, wherein a part of the property was sold outside the family. In 2001, the administration had notified Chandigarh Apartment Rules, 2001, whereby single residential units could be subdivided into apartments. It was repealed in October 2007. The administration has maintained that no permission is being granted to convert residential houses into apartments.The fresh plea demands that the sale of a storey as an independent unit be allowed, as it is not prohibited under the Capital of Punjab Development and Regulation Act 1952 and rules made thereunder. It also says that a committee be constituted to examine the issue of allowing construction of apartments to address the demand of residents and modern-day challenges of the city. It says each floor is an independent unit capable of being occupied by a family, and does not in anyway affect the basic character of Chandigarh and there is no violation of building rules. The regulatory powers of a state are also not affected in any manner if registration of floors as independent units is allowed, the plea underlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhhc-takes-note-of-plea-seeking-revival-of-apartment-rules-101632771048872.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||US Marines let Sikh officer wear turban but with riders, he plans to sue Corps||A 26-year-old Sikh-American officer in the US Marines who has been allowed to wear a turban --- the first person in the 246-year history of the elite force allowed doing so, but with a few limitations ---- plans to sue the Corps if he is not granted full religious accommodation, according to a media report. “Almost every morning for five years, First Lt Sukhbir Toor has pulled on the uniform of the United States Marine Corps. On Thursday, he also got to put on the turban of a faithful Sikh,” a report in The New York Times said.“I finally don’t have to pick which life I want to commit to, my faith or my country. I can be who I am and honour both sides,” Toor said in an interview.When Toor was promoted as Captain this spring, he decided to appeal. Toor’s case is the latest in a long-running conflict between two fundamental values in the United States military: “the tradition of discipline and uniformity, and the constitutional liberties the armed forces were created to defend,” the NYT said.However, Toor, who grew up in Washington and Ohio and is the son of Indian immigrants, has been allowed to wear the turban while on duty with limitations. He “can wear a turban in daily dress at normal duty stations, but not while deployed to a conflict zone, or when in dress uniform in a ceremonial unit, where the public could see it.” The NYT report said Toor has “appealed the restrictive decision to the Marine Corps commandant, and he says that if he does not get a full accommodation, he will sue the Corps.“The Marine Corps needs to show it really means what it has been saying about strength in diversity — that it doesn’t matter what you look like, it just matters that you can do your job,” he said. The Corps has maintained that “uniformity was as essential to a fighting force as well-oiled rifles”.“In order to build squads that will move forward in a combat environment where people are dying, a strong team bond is required,” Col Kelly Frushour, a spokeswoman for Marine Headquarters, said in written responses to The Times on Toor’s case. “The Corps cannot experiment with the components of mission accomplishment,” Lt Gen David A Ottignon, the deputy commandant for manpower and reserve affairs, said in the response. “Failure on the battlefield is not an acceptable risk.” Toor said the limits meant that “I would have to either sacrifice my career or my ability to practice my religion.” Toor appealed to the commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Corps agreed partially, allowing him to wear the turban with certain limitations, according to the report.The NYT report said that nearly 100 Sikhs currently serve in the Army and Air Force wearing full beards and turbans.Manvinder Singh, director of United Sikhs, a US-based advocacy group, said : “Sikhs have served in the armed forces worldwide. It is their fundamental right to practice their faith and also defend the nations they represent. The valour that Sikhs have shown in history comes from their faith . The American freedom guarantees through the Bill of Rights for the people to practice their faith while performing their duty. They shouldn’t have to choose between the two”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/us-marines-let-sikh-officer-wear-turban-but-with-riders-he-plans-to-sue-corps-101632770988775.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police rejig: ASP, 4 DSPs transferred||In a reshuffle in the Chandigarh Police, an assistant superintendent of police (ASP) and four deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) have been assigned new responsibilities. According to the orders issued on Monday, ASP Mridul will look after the operation cell. DSP Rajnish has been appointed as the DSP, crime and headquarters. Niyati Mittal is now DSP, economic offences wing and security (headquarters), and will continue to hold the charge of DSP, line. DSP Amrao Singh has now been moved to the women and child support unit. DSP Rashmi Yadav will continue to hold the charge of cyber crime investigation cell in addition to looking after all IT projects of Chandigarh Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-rejig-asp-4-dsps-transferred-101632770808837.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Punjab industry faces ₹500-cr loss||The Bharat Bandh call that received an unprecedented response in Punjab on Monday, caused a loss of around ₹500 crore to the industry in the state. While large and medium-scale units remained shut, some small-scale units operated with shutters down. In most parts of the state’s industrial hub Ludhiana, labour was unable to reach the factories. Businesses and all transactions were hampered as banks and commercial establishments remained completely shut till 4pm. A large section of industry extended its support to the farmers but there were many who were left fuming and have decided to not to extend support to such protests in future. “The estimated losses faced by the industry due to the bandh are close to ₹500 crore. We have decided that we will not be part of the bandh next time. The police and the entire government machinery support the bandh and it’s the common people who suffer. It was a Monday and after two days of bank holiday, all financial transactions get affected. The industry had already suffered enough since the last year due to Covid-induced lockdown and the farmers protest. There is a limit to how much we can bear as the industry has been taken for granted to support the farmers while no one thinks about us,” said Badish Jindal, president of the Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOPSIA). Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, Chamber of Commercial and Industrial Undertaking (CICU), said almost all factories remained shut as a precaution, fearing backlash from farmers and other protesters. “There should be an open space or a ground to hold such protests outside the city. Protesters can sit there, hold press conferences and enter the grievances in the record book. The govt representative should go there and receive their memorandum. Why disrupt the daily life which affects the economy?” he asked. Sharma also said that a lot many people blocking the roads have nothing to do with farm Laws. Some of them are factory workers who are allured on the pretext of free food, he said, adding that shutdowns in all forms should be condemned by all. It is high time politicians stop taking common man for a ride, he said. Amit Thapar, president of Ganga Acrowools and vice-president, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Punjab, said: “For me, it’s not about farm laws. I cannot support any cause which in form of protest denies me my right to livelihood. Disruption is not a solution and neither you can force people to close down anyone who wishes to be part of the protest can voluntary close down his shop / factory and keep it closed for as long as he wants. But he has no right to ask me to close mine.” Trucks remain off road With transporters in the largest Transport Nagar in the state extending support to the Bharat Bandh, thousands of trucks remained off road.The industrial activities also got disturbed in the industrial hub of the state with no loading and unloading of goods taking place during the protest hours from 6am to 4pm. According to transporters the Ludhiana Goods Transport Association, there are over 1,100 transporters in Transport Nagar with around 15,000 loading vehicles.Only the transport services related to medicines, vegetables, eatables among other essential services continued.Secretary, Punjab Bank Employees’ Federation Naresh Gaur said as per an estimate, banking transactions worth crores were hit due to the protest as the industrial activities were affected. President of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association Jaswinder Thukral said that the industry in Janta Nagar, Gill Road and adjoining areas also remained shut in support of the farmer agitation. “Though the industry will suffer losses, it is far less than what we will have to suffer if the farm laws are implemented. The economy of the state depends on the farming sector and if that sector is destroyed, we will not be able to survive,” he said. (Inputs by Harsimran Singh Batra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-punjab-industry-faces-rs-500-cr-loss-101632770752763.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covovax trials: PGIMER invites children to volunteer||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Monday invited children, aged between 2 and 17, to volunteer in second and third phases of trials of Covovax — a vaccine against Covid-19 for children.Covovax, which is primarily developed by the US firm Novavax Inc, will be mass produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, mainly for the below-18 age group. The PGIMER is among 10 institutes conducting the trials, aimed at checking the safety and immune response of the vaccine.While inviting children, the PGIMER authorities said: “Parents of healthy children, who want their children to participate in the trials, can fill the consent form and send it to the institute through email, text message or telephone numbers. The consent form is available at https://forms.gle/rmFo2kJrjwivHaeA8 and can be sent at covovax2021@gmail.com or 7347665382 or 7347665383.”The notice mentioned that participation is purely on voluntary basis and children above the age of 12 years can also self-register. The institute is also hiring a physician, clinical research coordinator, pharmacist and a lab technician for seven months to conduct trials. Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said: “The PGIMER has got ethical clearance for conducting vaccine trials. Children can volunteer as the vaccine is safe. In the initial stages of the trials, the efficacy of Covovax is said to be near 90%. We will start administering vaccines soon, and we aim to immunise around 100 children, with two doses of 0.5 ml each, on Day 1 and Day 22.”Last year, the PGIMER was among 17 medical institutes in the country that conducting second and third phase trials of Covishield vaccine, which is being administered to adults||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covovax-trials-pgimer-invites-children-to-volunteer-101632770585992.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Stalker assaults woman in Sector 45||A man from Burail village in Chandigarh has been booked for stalking and assaulting a 20-year-old woman after she reportedly snapped all ties with him.In her complaint, the woman told police that she came in contact with the accused, Yuvraj, in 2018. They became friends, but later when she came to know about his alleged criminal past, she stopped talking to him. The woman alleged that when she stopped picking up his phone calls, Yuvraj started calling on her mother’s mobile number. She alleged that he used to stalk and harass her, and even assaulted and tried to molest her near Dev Samaj College in Sector 45 on September 24. Police have registered a case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354D (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused is yet to be arrested. The woman’s family has alleged that Yuvraj has a criminal background and even remained in jail. Police are verifying it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-stalker-assaults-woman-in-sector-45-101632770570095.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali medical college aiming to produce top-class doctors||With the National Medical Commission (NMC) issuing a letter of intent for 100 MBBS seats to Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences in Phase 6, the college authorities say they are aiming to produce top-class doctors and are excited to welcome the first batch next month.The admissions to the medical college will begin in October last week or the first week of November after the results of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, held on September 12, are declared.Dr Bhavneet Bharti, director principal of the medical college, said, “Since it is the first medical college in the region, we will offer an agile and enthusiastic social environment that helps in the additional-curricular improvement and knowing the budding talent of its students.”The college is affiliated to Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, and has been constructed in the buildings of civil hospital and Punjab Health System Corporation (PHSC). Though the office of PHSC has been shifted to the second floor of the Punjab School Education Board building, the civil hospital will continue to run from Phase 6 till their new building in Sector 66 is constructed. The college will be further expanded to Jujhar Nagar, which is around 2 km from the present site.The ₹300-crore project was sanctioned during the Akali Dal regime in 2012 under the central-state partnership with funding in the ratio of 60:40. The Punjab government had finalised the site of the existing civil hospital in Phase 6 to set up the institute.College replete with all facilitiesThe new medical college has all facilities including a library, hostels (for both girls and boys), gymnasium and mess, all located in the PHSC building. The college has three departments with laboratories: anatomy, physiology and biochemistry. Other departments include general medicine, paediatrics, respiratory medicine, psychiatry, dermatology, general surgery, orthopaedics, ophthalmology, ENT, gynaecology and emergency medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-medical-college-aiming-to-produce-top-class-doctors-101632770512834.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Senior advocate APS Deol is Punjab advocate general||The Punjab government on Monday appointed criminal lawyer Amar Preet Singh Deol as the advocate general (AG) of the state replacing Atul Nanda who had resigned after Captain Amarinder Singh quit as the chief minister. Deol, 61, came into limelight recently when he secured release of former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini arrested by the vigilance bureau in a 2020 criminal case. Deol had appeared for Saini and other accused in the 2015 sacrilege cases in the high court. In the past, Deol has also appeared for former CM Amarinder Singh in some criminal cases registered during SAD-BJP regime. In 2007, he was appointed as special public prosecutor in a disproportionate assets case against former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal by then Congress government. Deol, who became a senior advocate in 2007, was in the reckoning for the AG’s post in 2017 as well when Amarinder took over as the CM.The government took more than a week to clear Deol’s name. Names of senior advocates Deepinder Singh Patwalia and Anmol Rattan Sidhu, too, were considered.The government’s move has invited sharp criticism from a section of legal fraternity, who are of the view that technically, Deol won’t be able to appear in the high court neither in cases against Saini nor in 2015 sacrilege violence cases as he had appeared on the other side in the past. Speaking to a news portal after his appointment, Deol said his name was cleared by Congress high command. He also said he would prefer senior advocates from high court over those coming from Delhi to defend interests of the state. To a question on him appearing for Saini, he said files have been sent back and his job is to watch the interests of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senior-advocate-aps-deol-is-punjab-advocate-general-101632770449064.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector welfare association calls on Purohit with MC, CHB issues||A delegation of the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) called on Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit on Monday to talk over the issues related to the municipal corporation (MC) and the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB).Two separate letters regarding these issues written by FOSWAC general secretary JS Gogia were handed over to Purohit with the residents’ problems. The letter on CHB issues mentioned how the implementation of need-based changes was a pending issue. FOSWAC has asked that a one-time settlement fee be charged for the changes and conversion of leasehold flats to freehold be done at the allotment rates and not at the current rates, which have increased manifold.In the letter regarding the MC issues FOSWAC, which claims to represent 74 resident welfare associations in the city, the new garbage collection system has been highlighted, how residents have to pay around three times the charges for garbage collection without any value addition and how the charges were now kitchen-wise and not plot-wise. Issues of charges being levied on vacant houses were also flagged. FOSWAC has also maintained that garbage collection should be handed back to the RWAs and they will run the system better.The garbage dump in Dadumajra and the increased water costs were also highlighted. FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu, chief spokesperson Pankaj Gupta and general secretary discussed these matters with Purohit who said that he would look into it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sector-welfare-association-calls-on-banwarilal-purohit-with-mc-chb-issues-101632770268793.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Normal life hit in Punjab’s Malwa region||Normal life was hit in south Punjab as traffic on highways and rail tracks was blocked on Monday morning in response to the Bharat Bandh call the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).Members of state government employee unions and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union also joined the protesters in Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar and Fazilka districts to express solidarity with the farmers protesting against the agri laws. The region witnessed an overwhelming response to the bandh call. No untoward incident was reported during the protest that ended at 4pm.Activists parked trucks, tractors and cars on the national and state highways to disrupt vehicular traffic. Groups of people also blocked traffic in the city roads.The protesters blocked the key Bhai Ghanaiyya Chowk, a national highway junction connecting Bathinda with Patiala, Chandigarh, Ferozepur, Amritsar and Jalandhar besides other places in Rajasthan since 6am.Long queues of trucks transporting goods were spotted around the chowk.Activists of the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) blocked traffic at 15 places in Bathinda district.In Faridkot, protesters blocked traffic on the Bathinda-Amritsar national highway number 54 at Tehna village. In Moga, a large number of farmers assembled at 23 spots and ensured all markets were shut.The supply of milk, fruit and vegetables was hit by the daylong protest. Milk unions in different districts had already announced that they will suspend supply on Monday. Farmers also disrupted rail services by squatting on tracks as a mark of protest.Farmers lay siege to Laddowal toll plaza The protesters blocked the Laddowal toll plaza on NH-44 (Jalandhar-Panipat highway) on Monday, leaving commuters a harried lot.The blockade started before 6am and continued till 4pm. Though long queues were not witnessed as the NH-44 was blocked at different points before and after Ludhiana too, a large number of commuters were seen arguing with protesting farmers to clear the way. The highway was also blocked near Dhandari.Heavy police force was deployed at the toll plaza to avoid any untoward incident as farmers from villages of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Phillaur among areas participated in the protest. “Langar’ was also distributed among the protesters by kisan unions. One of the commuters said the farmers should stage a protest in a way that the common man does not face problem.Protesters forcibly shut schools, offices in PatialaCommercial establishments remained shut in support of farmers’ call of nationwide shutdown in Patiala district on Monday. The protesters forcibly shut government schools, banks and public offices at several places. The road and rail traffic too remained suspended till 4pm.To restrict traffic movement, farmer bodies blocked state and national highways at many spots across Patiala district. Farmers also laid siege railway tracks and blocked the Ambala-Bathinda train.Meanwhile, the group of farm unions carried flag march across the district to ensure complete shutdown against three farm acts. Punjabi University student unions laid a siege to the main entrance gate and closed the varsity for the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-normal-life-hit-in-punjab-s-malwa-region-101632770092616.html
28-09-2021||Other||Air connectivity from Agra to Lucknow, Bhopal soon||Agra The city of Taj is all set to have air connectivity with Lucknow and Bhopal soon, informed, Airport director (Agra), A A Ansari on Monday. For Lucknow, the flight, operated by Indigo Airlines, will take off at 2.45 pm from Lucknow and reach Agra at 3.45 pm and in return, it will take off at 4pm and reach Lucknow at 5 pm, he said. “The flight for Bhopal, which was to begin from October 2, is now expected to begin from October 10. The flight will be available on Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Friday,” said Ansari. This flight will take off from Bhopal at 11.35 am and reach Agra airport at 1.10 pm. After a halt of 20 minutes, it will fly back at 1.30 pm to reach Bhopal at 2.55 pm, he said. Besides this, the flight for Ahmedabad, which was earlier thrice in a week from Agra, would now be available six days a week and its service has also been extended till Nagpur, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-connectivity-from-agra-to-lucknow-bhopal-soon-101632770091445.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Theft in doctor’s house in Sector 19: Accused security guard still at large||The police are yet to arrest the security guard, who is suspected to have stolen around ₹7 lakh cash along with gold jewellery and documents from a doctor’s house in Sector 19.The police are carrying out raids in search of suspect Rinku, 27, who had left the house on September 25, telling complainant Dr Rajesh Rana’s wife that he was going to meet a friend.Dr Rana, who is posted at the civil hospital in Manimajra, told the police that Rinku hails from Ahmedabad and worked as a security guard at a hospital and used to stay at his house in Sector 19.Dr Rana told the police that he had got Rinku home when he was about 10 years old and for the last 14 years, he had been staying with them. He had him educated and employed as a security guard at the hospital. Rinku also used to also take care of the household work for the Ranas.Police said that as per the doctor, Rinku was married. Police are scanning the CCTV footage of the area as the accused had allegedly switched off the cameras installed in the house before committing the crime. The police are tracking his mobile phone, but so far they have failed to make any breakthrough.The theft came to light on September 26, when Rana’s wife opened the locker and found ₹7 lakh cash, along with three gold rings, FD certificate amounting to ₹1.5 lakh missing.Dr Rana, who was in Goa for a conference, had received a call from his wife informing him that accused Rinku had left home saying that he was going to meet a friend on September 25, but had not returned. Dr Rana alleged that the accused had given his wife a sandwich that day after which she had fallen asleep. He suspects that the accused had mixed some sedatives in the sandwich.The police said that the accused was aware where the keys of the locker were kept and after the theft, he had left the keys back in the same place to avoid being caught. The mobile phone of the accused was also switched off. A case under Section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/theft-in-doctor-s-house-in-sector-19-accused-security-guard-still-at-large-101632770090157.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Mahant Narendra Giri case: CBI gets seven-day custody of three suspects||The chief judicial magistrate’s court (Prayagraj) on Monday granted CBI seven-day custody of three suspects in the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri.Anand Giri, Aadya Prasad Tiwari and Sandeep Tiwari are the suspects in the case.The body of Mahant Narendra Giri was found hanging from the ceiling inside a room at Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on September 20. A purported suicide note was found from the room and it allegedly named his disciple, Anand Giri, and two others.The CBI had filed an application before the Prayagraj court on Sunday seeking custodial remand of the three suspects on the ground that their presence was required to recover electronic gadgets containing incriminating information leading to the death of Narendra Giri.The agency seeks to recover evidences from various places, which the three suspects can point out in Prayagraj and Haridwar.“For the purpose of investigation of the present case and also to unravel the mystery behind the alleged suicide of the late Narendra Giri, custodial interrogation of accused Anand Giri, Aadya Prasad Tiwari and Sandeep Tiwari is essentially required,” the CBI mentioned in its application.CJM Harendra Nath granted seven-day custody to the agency.The three suspects will be on CBI remand from 9am on September 28 till 6pm on October 4.On Monday, the three appeared before the court through video conferencing.On September 23, the court had directed senior superintendent of Naini Central Jail to take necessary steps to make security arrangements for the suspects as per the provisions of jail manual and other relevant laws.CJM had directed the senior superintendent of jail that on the next date of hearing, the suspect should be produced in the court through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mahant-narendra-giri-case-cbi-gets-seven-day-custody-of-three-suspects-101632770032493.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pollution in Ghaggar: NGT directs UT, Punjab to ascertain amount of sewage discharge||The National Green Tribunal (NGT), New Delhi, has directed a committee to ascertain the quantity of sewage being discharged by Chandigarh and Punjab into the Ghaggar river.The committee has also been asked to elaborate on treatment of sewage to restore water quality of the river.The directions were given after a committee constituted by the NGT had, on three different dates in August and September, identified 24 points in the drain in Chandigarh and Mohali area where sewage could be checked/stopped.Further it was told that the sampling of water/waste during monsoon season had been completed and the analysis reports were under evaluation by the joint committee.The committee comprised members from the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The matter before the NGT was taken up by Sunaina, an advocate, submitting that statutory authorities in Punjab and Chandigarh had to install necessary sewage treatment plant to stop discharge of polluted water in the drain originating from Chandigarh and passing through various sectors and villages of Mohali, before merging into Ghaggar river. But had failed. The pollutants are affecting the ecosystem, including aquatic life and public health. Discharge of untreated sewage into the drain is in violation of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and constitutional obligation under Article 243W and also citizen’s right to clean environment, it was argued. It was also argued that since the wastewater of the drain was used for cultivation of crops and washing of vegetables consumed by residents, it was affecting the food chain and public health, the lawyer submitted. Taking note of the issue raised in June, the NGT had directed the chief secretary, Punjab, and the adviser, Chandigarh administration, to take remedial measures to comply with the mandate of law. A joint committee was also asked to inspect the drain and furnish a status report. The committee had submitted a report on September 20 after site inspection. Taking note of that report, the NGT posted the matter for October 30 and directed the committee to ascertain the status of the quantity of sewage being discharged by UT and Punjab, along with suggesting ways to improve water quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pollution-of-ghaggar-ngt-directs-ut-punjab-to-ascertain-amount-of-sewage-discharged-101632770028987.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER sees 33% rise in OPD footfall as walk-in facility resumes||As the walk-in facility for physical consultation resumed on Monday, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) recorded 33% increase in the number of patients visiting its outpatient departments (OPDs).For the past one week, on an average, 3,000 patients were visiting various OPDs daily, after prior appointments through tele-consultation or official website. According to hospital authorities, 3,942 patients were physically examined at OPDs on Monday (including walk-in and those prior appointments) besides 1,346 were provided consultation on phones.Patients were seen waiting in long queues at the registration windows of the hospital’s New OPD department. Though the hospital authorities provided face masks and hand sanitisers to the patients and their attendants, social distancing was hardly maintained at these windows. Meanwhile, patients were randomly screened and tested for Covid-19, the hospital authorities said. ‘Expected more patients’“We were expecting more patients for physical consultation on the first day, but due to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers, not many patients from neighbouring states could travel to PGIMER. However, we are expecting an increase in the number of patients in the coming few days,” said Dr Navin Pandey, associate professor, department of hospital administration, PGIMER. The institute has also cut down the tele-consultation timings by half an hour, to scale up physical consultation. “Now, tele-consultation is being provided between 8am and 9am. the hospital can easily manage this footfall and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour, but it is difficult to match the pre-Covid times as virus infection can spread. After inspecting the footfall for a few days, the institute will decide more guidelines for attending OPDs,” said Dr Navin.Before the contagion, over 10,000 patients visited PGIMER’s OPDs daily. Since the suspension of walk-in consultation and online appointments in March last year, the institute had been providing OPD services through tele-consultation. From June 21 this year, physical consultations resumed, but only after prior appointment through tele-consultation.On September 6, the institute also restarted online appointment facility, but with a cap of 30 patients per department to ensure adherence to Covid protocols. Later, the limit was increased to 50 patients, with 100 allowed at three major departments — opthalmology (eye), hepatology (liver) and internal medicine.Now, patients can simply walk into the institute’s New OPD between 9.15am and 11am and get registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-sees-33-rise-in-opd-footfall-as-walk-in-facility-resumes-101632769791074.html
28-09-2021||Other||Fake website scam: Two held in Prayagraj for duping unemployed people||Police at the Cyber Crime Police Station busted a gang involved in deceiving unemployed youths on the pretext of providing jobs and making a website resembling that of the Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Services Selection Board (UPSESSB), on Monday.It is suspected that the gang may have duped hundreds of unemployed people through the fake website of UPSESSB. The team was questioning some others in connection with the fraud.IG, range, KP Singh, said that the Cyber Police Station received inputs about a website www.upsssb.org that was similar to the website of UPSESSB www.upsessb.org. Investigations revealed that some persons were running the site to dupe people. SHO Cyber Crime Police Station Rajeev Kumar Tiwari and his team used advanced techniques and manual inputs to trace the culprits and arrested two members of the gang on Monday, who were identified as Sachin Kumar aka Lalit of Etah district and Sahil Srivastava of Sultanpur district.The accused revealed that they had earlier created a website in the name of Child Research Development Organisation and duped people of ₹50 lakh on the pretext of providing jobs. As no complaint was made to the police, it encouraged the accused to make another fake website in the name of UPSESSB.Sachin, who is the kingpin of the gang, did not communicate with people directly and used conference calling. He used to receive payments from people in the account of his girlfriend while using the VPN option in his mobile for connecting to the internet to avoid being traced by the police. Moreover, he used the email address and name of another person for creating the website. Two laptops, seven mobile phones, one tablet, WiFi calling phone, two pen drives, WiFi Airtel Extreme Modem, nine ATM cards, two passbooks, two cheque books, one passport, a document relating to the fake website and application forms of 567 students who applied for different jobs through the website, along with other documents were recovered from the accused. The Cyber Crime cops froze the cash that was deposited by applicants amounting to ₹2.17 lakh, the IG added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-website-scam-two-held-in-prayagraj-for-duping-unemployed-people-101632769790025.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The poolside Stein||It’s a sunny evening, here in the members-only India International Centre (IIC). The Lounge by the poolside is teeming with softly-chatting tea-drinking ladies in handloom saris. The only loud sounds are of the twittering birds, and of the pool water spraying up from the fountain jet, and sprinkling back into the pool. Meanwhile, the Lounge and the Dining Hall on the floor above are being reflected into the pool’s sparkling wavelets. As you stare longer at the reflection, the building seems to unravel itself gradually, each of its segments timorously trembling in the glassy liquid.Composed of light and shade, gardens and galleries, jaalis and pools, the IIC is among the most iconic buildings of contemporary Delhi. It was designed by Joseph Stein, the American architect who made the Capital his home and gave it a series of distinctive buildings that are admired for resting so gently on the earth. A typical Stein consists of a two-to four-storey edifice effortlessly fusing with the air, water, trees, and gardens, while flowers and vines spill about the walls. Delhi’s other Stein landmarks include the offices of the United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef), the World Wide Fund for Nature, the Triveni Kala Sangam, the American International School, the Australian High Commission, and the India Habitat Centre. The landscaping of Lodhi Garden, as we know it today, was done under his guidance.With Stein’s 20th death anniversary falling next week (October 6), it is time to pay homage to his legacy by surveying all his creations.One convenient alternative is to simply loiter by this pool in the IIC, and observe the aforementioned reflection, and surroundings, from various vantage points. Here all the elements that make up Stein’s aesthetics come together to stage a satisfying show. Bougainvillea is crawling up the walls, mynas are nibbling on the grass, lotus leaves are floating in the water, daylight is leaking into shaded porticos, and humans are babbling on with tranquillity.Indeed, one might easily imagine Stein among these poolside sophisticates. An IIC regular, he was often sighted enjoying his favourite meal of naan with seekh kebabs. One is envious of those earlier generation of Delhiites who frequented the IIC when its legendary architect was alive and was seen ensconced amid his buildings. Today, he appears more like a myth.Stein was cremated following his death, aged 89. His ashes lie in the US, in the custody of his younger son, who cared for him in his final years. Even so, New Delhi’s great architect does have a tomb in his karma bhoomi, the land containing his life’s principal works. It is this watery grave, here in his IIC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-poolside-stein-101632769262108.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bandh: Life at standstill in Mohali, business as usual in Chandigarh||With various associations in Mohali, including those of traders, industrialists, advocates and petrol pump dealers, extending support to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers, life in the district came to a standstill on Monday. All markets in Mohali, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi, Lalru and Kharar wore a deserted look during the day. Even petrol pumps remained closed, though chemist shops and banks were open.Overall, the bandh announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha from 6am to 4pm to protest against the contentious farm laws passed off peacefully in Mohali, though commuters had a tough time due to various blockades.Farmers belonging to Kisan Aid Mohali, Kisan Sangharsh Committee and Global Kisans had blocked all intersections on the Airport Road from Balongi to Chhat village besides Mohali-Chandigarh border. However, those going to the airport to board a flight were allowed to pass through after showing their tickets, said deputy commissioner (DC) Isha Kalia.“Police remained on their toes to ensure law and order. We were also in touch with the airport authorities,” said Kalia. Airport chief executive officer Ajay Bhardwaj confirmed that the operations were normal during the day, and most passengers reported much earlier.Traffic jams were witnessed in the periphery, as farmers blocked McDonald’s Chowk and Azizpur toll plaza in Zirakpur besides protesting at Lalru entry point, Kharar bus stand and Landran. Raising anti-establishment slogans, they did not allow any one to pass through, though people with medical emergencies were not stopped. All subdivisional magistrates with administrative staff were present at strategic locations to help police in maintaining law and order situation. Fire tenders and ambulances were also stationed in coordination with SDMs. No report of any untoward incident was received from any of the protest sites,” said the DC.Mixed response in Chandigarh, PanchkulaThe situation in Chandigarh remained calm. All major markets remained open and there was no report of traffic jams inside the city. The police had already issued an advisory for the Mullanpur and Hallomajra barriers, where some traffic snarls were witnessed. The road in front of the Hallomajra light point had been sealed off and protesters were seen sitting there. However, all roads were cleared by 5pm. Due to the bandh, some travellers were seen stranded at the Inter State Bus Terminal, Sector 43, and the railway station. Student outfits of Panjab University also organised a protest, wherein Gate No. 2 of the campus was closed for some time. On the request of students, traders in Sector 14 also closed their shops for some time.In Panchkula, as farmers had blocked toll plazas at Chandimandir and Barwala, police had put in place traffic diversions. Traffic moving towards Shimla via the Chandmandir toll plaza was diverted towards the Morni T-point and from there towards Thaapli. Similarly, traffic was managed at the Barwala toll plaza, said police, adding that overall, there was less vehicular movement as people were aware of the bandh.Even at toll plazas, protesters did not stop emergency vehicles or those going for examinations or to hospitals and airport. As far as shops were concerned, they usually remain closed on Mondays in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bandh-life-at-standstill-in-mohali-business-as-usual-in-chandigarh-101632769309929.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi inaugurates 3-day carnival to mark 50 years of UP’s tourism department||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday inaugurated a three–day carnival at Gomti riverfront to mark World Tourism Day-2021 and completion of 50 years of UP government’s tourism department. On the occasion, chief minister also released a book on traditional food of Uttar Pradesh. He felicitated 10 people from UP for their outstanding contribution in the promotion of tourism. Prateek Hira, CEO of Tornos in Lucknow, was among them. Adityanath also flagged off two tourist buses, released a short film on Varanasi documented by Discovery channel and launched an application of the UP Tourism Corporation. Addressing the gathering, the CM said: “Under the guidance of Prime Minister and the Centre’s Swadesh Darshan scheme, we are developing various circuits in the state, including Ramayan circuit and Buddha circuit among others.” He also pointed out that CM Tourism scheme had been launched in every assembly segment across the state. “This year is important as it is the 50th year of Uttar Pradesh tourism department,” he said listing out various religious tourism projects being executed by the state government. He pointed out the Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj, Dev Deepawali in Varanasi and Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya had been the centre of attraction for tourists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-inaugurates-3-day-carnival-to-mark-50-years-of-up-s-tourism-department-101632769308823.html
28-09-2021||Other||Under-construction Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS: CS asks officials to settle land related issues by October||Lucknow: Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Monday directed divisional commissioner (Meerut) and district magistrates of Meerut and Ghaziabad, besides other officials concerned, to remove hurdles coming in the way of construction of the regional rapid transit system (RRTS) at the earliest and also settle the land related issues by October. He was chairing the high-powered committee’s meeting to review the progress of the under-construction Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS. The CS also said that the process for taking a policy decision on fixing the government land purchase cost should be expedited by the competent authorities so that land required for the project could be acquired as soon as possible. It was informed during the meeting that the 17-km Sahibabad- Duhai stretch would be completed by March 2023 while the entire 82km-long rail corridor project would be ready by 2025. Around 1100 engineers and more than 10,000 labourers were working on the site these days. The CS said that the progress of the project was satisfactory despite disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/underconstruction-delhi-ghaziabad-meerut-rrts-cs-asks-officials-to-settle-land-related-issues-by-october-101632769192127.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow touch new single-day high in Covid vaccine doses||Uttar Pradesh and Lucknow touched a new single-day high in administering Covid vaccine doses on Monday.While 35.89 lakh (35,89,552) Covid vaccine doses were administered across Uttar Pradesh on the day, Lucknow gave over 1.77 lakh (1,77,578) doses to beneficiaries the same day. Both figures were the highest in a single day for the state and the state capital respectively since the inoculation campaign against the Covid disease began on January 16.Lucknow administered over one lakh doses by 3pm and crossed its previous high of over 1.05 lakh (1,05,981) doses given on September 6 at around 3.30pm, said Dr MK Singh, in charge of vaccination in Lucknow.For Uttar Pradesh, the previous single-day highest vaccination of over 34.90 lakh (34,90,056) doses was recorded on September 6.Earlier in the day, the total vaccine doses administered in Lucknow had reached 37.25 lakh (37,25,630). For Uttar Pradesh, the number had stood at over 10.36 crore (10,36,66,737). The figures went up further late in the evening.In Lucknow, the maximum 27,349 doses were administered between 3 and 4pm and in Uttar Pradesh the maximum 5,36,749 doses were given in the same period, according to data from the health department.“By 5pm, we had crossed the 1.5 lakh figure,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, the chief medical officer of Lucknow.The minimum number of doses with one vaccination centre was 500 while the maximum was 2000 doses.On-the-spot registration was provided at the work place Covid vaccination centres, apart from online slot booking. In all, 2,17,700 doses of Covishield and 31,100 doses of Covaxin were arranged in Lucknow, according to the health department.“With over 10.91 lakh second doses administered, 31% of Lucknowites are fully vaccinated with both the doses. Lucknow is leading among all districts in the state with 37.25 lakh doses administered till now,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.Ghaziabad followed Lucknow with over 1.07 lakh doses administered during the day.As many 16,416 vaccination centres, including 88 private hospitals, conducted the vaccination across UP. There were 435 vaccination centres in Lucknow alone, including 25 at private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-lucknow-touch-new-single-day-high-in-covid-vaccine-doses-101632769128598.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Stalker throws acid on 29-year-old beautician in Ludhiana||A 29-year-old beautician suffered serious chemical burns when a bike-borne man who had been stalking her for months threw acid on her on Sunday evening.The victim was on the way to the market with the owner of the beauty parlour she worked at on a scooter, when the accused, Sandeep Singh, who was the pillion rider on a bike, intercepted them and threw acid on her face.The victim managed to cover her face with her arms and suffered burn injuries on her hands. Passersby rushed the victim to the hospital and called her parents.Sandeep had attacked the victim with a brick three months ago, but the police had not taken any action against him, despite a complaint being lodged.The victim told the police accused had been following her since Sunday morning. When she had left home, the accused followed her and tried to assault her with some chemical, but she evaded the attack and rushed home. “I do not feel safe. had the police arrested Sandeep three months ago, he would not have dared to throw acid on me,” she said. Assistant sub-inspector Sukhdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a hunt is on for the arrest of the accused. A case has been registered under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint) , 326-A (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The ASI added that the police had raided the accused’s house, but he is on the run and his house is locked. The police are trying to determine what acid was used and where it had been procured from. Further he added that the police are investigating to know what acid was used in the crime and from where the accused had procured it. The things would be cleared after the arrest of the accused.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD, Amritsar) leader Paramjit Singh Rinka, alleged that women were not safe in the state and demanded stern action against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stalker-throws-acid-on-29-year-old-beautician-in-ludhiana-101632768948596.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress leader Mukesh Bassi dies of heart attack||Congress leader and former Chandigarh councillor Mukesh Bassi died following a heart attack on Monday. Bassi, who lived in Sector 28, had gone for a morning walk when he suffered the heart attack. He was spotted unconscious by a passerby and was later taken to a hospital in Mohali, where he could not be revived. A former president of Chandigarh Club, Bassi was in his 50s. His last rites will take place at the crematorium in Sector 25 on Tuesday. MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSPolio drive: 69,655 children get dropsAs many as 69,655 children were immunised during the two-day polio vaccination drive in Chandigarh, the UT health department said on Monday. Various teams visited vulnerable areas, including all construction sites, helping the department surpass the target of vaccinating 68,480 children.Garg gets CITCO’s additional chargeYashpal Garg, chief executive officer, Chandigarh Housing Board, will also hold the additional charge of CITCO managing director for about a month. As per the order issued by UT adviser Dharam Pal, current MD Jaswinder Kaur Sidhu will be on leave from September 29 to October 31, during which period Garg will take over the responsibility. UT adviser felicitates teachersUT adviser Dharam Pal on Monday felicitated teachers who had been conferred with the State Award on Teachers’ Day. Ten teachers of government schools were conferred the state award while eight received commendation certificates. The education department also gave 10 special appreciation awards to those who helped prepare students for the Programme for International Student Assessment.Diplomatic conclave at Chandigarh UniversityChandigarh University is organising a two-day diplomatic conclave on the theme cost-effective higher and technical education matching global standards. Ambassadors from 24 countries, including Indonesia, Tanzania, Iran, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Togo, Malawi and Zimbabwe, participated in the inaugural ceremony of Monday. University chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu said the conclave will prove fruitful in terms of internationalisation of education.Maloya man held with illicit liquorThe police arrested one Rahul of Small Flats in Maloya and recovered 32 quarters of countrymade liquor from his possession. The accused was caught near EWS flats in Maloya, the police said. A case under the Excise Act was registered. The accused was later granted bail.Skill development programme at homoeopathic college The Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital in Sector 26 is organising a skill development programme to develop soft and professional skills among interns, the hospital authorities said on Monday. The programme will run till October 1. College principal Dr Suhit Khanra enlightened the interns about different types of communication and conducted an activity for the interns during the session. It was the second day of the six-day skill development programme.CCA-Haryana to hold U-25 cricket trialsThe Chandigarh Cricket Association affiliated with Haryana Cricket Association (CCA-Haryana) will conduct trials to select U-25 probables on September 28. The trials will be held at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 19, at 3pm. New cricket academy to be launched The newly launched SD Cricket Academy, Sector 24, will be inaugurated by Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on September 29. The academy will hold trials to select trainees in various age categories at 4pm the same day. According to coach Harish Sharma, trials will be conducted for both boys and girls in U-10, 12, 14, 16, 19 and senior age categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-leader-mukesh-bassi-dies-of-heart-attack-101632768888597.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Close shave for four Delhi residents as car catches fire in Ludhiana||Four Delhi residents had a close shave after the car they were travelling in crashed into an electricity poll and burst into flames near the Pakhowal Bridge of Sidhwan Canal on Monday morning. The mishap took place after the driver fell asleep at the wheel around 3.30am. The police and fire brigade were dispatched to the spot. Assistant sub-inspector Dharminder Kumar, who is in-charge of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police post, said all occupants of the car were from the Capital and were on their way to visit a friend at Dugri, after paying obeisance at a shrine in Nakodar. The four men immediately jumped out of the car when the car caught flames and escaped unhurt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/close-shave-for-four-delhi-residents-as-car-catches-fire-in-ludhiana-101632768528895.html
28-09-2021||Noida||Bharat Bandh impacts major roads in Ghaziabad, highways; markets remained open||The Bharat Bandh call by protesting farmers impacted traffic on roads and highways connecting Ghaziabad on Monday, while shops and business establishments stayed open. The traffic police said that their entire staff -- about 250 members, including officers -- were busy managing traffic diversions and snarls during the day.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a farmers’ collective, announced Bharat Bandh on Monday; their protesters occupied the UP-Gate area of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway) from 6am to around 4.15pm.“Our protesters also staged sit-ins on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME), besides the Delhi-Meerut Road. Our call was largely successful. We, however, did not stop any emergency services. We regret the inconvenience to commuters but would like to say that our agitation--which has been going on for the past 10 months--is for them,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader and UP-Gate site spokesperson from Samyukta Kisan Morcha.As protesters closed DME down at UP-Gate, commuters were forced to use other border roads near EDM Mall, Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, and Seemapuri to travel to Ghaziabad, Meerut, and other cities from Delhi.On the Delhi-Meerut Road, connecting Ghaziabad to Meerut, protesting farmers blocked the Duhai area below the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, causing long traffic snarls.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) confirmed that traffic was thrown out of gear on several roads.“Farmers staged sit-ins at many spots of the DME. Vehicular movement was also affected on Eastern Peripheral Expressway and the Dasna to Hapur section of the DME,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI.The Ghaziabad traffic police said that the sit-in by protesting farmers ended around 4.15pm.“Our entire staff, including traffic inspectors, traffic sub-inspectors and other personnel, remained deployed throughout the day to control traffic snarls on Delhi-Meerut Road, Gaur City intersection, Wave City intersection, Duhai, and other parts of the Delhi-Meerut Road,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).He added that due to the blockade of the DME, vehicles coming from Delhi were routed through other border roads around Ghaziabad.Since November last year, farmers, under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, have been protesting against three new farm laws--The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act--at the Capital’s borders. They have been demanding the rollback of the laws and the creation of a new law on minimum support price (MSP).Farmers called the Bharat Bandh on the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws.“If need be, we will continue our ongoing protest for the next 10 years. People will say that the Bharat Bandh was a flop, but it is not the case. It has been successful. As part of the protest, we only held up roads and it was not like sealing the roads. If the union agriculture minister calls us for talks, we will go,” said Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union.Farmer union leaders and the Central government have held as many as 11 rounds of talks, but each time the talks have ended in a stalemate.The last time the two parties held talks was on January 22.Meanwhile, traders in major markets of Ghaziabad said that they did not shut their shutters or support the Bharat Bandh, because they had already suffered financial losses when they had to shut down operations due to pandemic-related restrictions last year.“Our traders have already been facing losses since last year due to the pandemic. So we kept our shops open and did not support the Bharat Bandh call. There were traffic disruptions, which delayed the arrival of our employees at shops, but shops were not closed,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti, a traders’ union in Indirapuram, Ghaziabad.At the city’s biggest market in Turab Nagar, shops were open as usual, but traders’ association members said that footfall was low.“The general footfall is about 20,000-25,000. But it was reduced to almost 50% on Monday. Customers probably avoided coming to the market due to the bandh call. But all our shops remained open,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairperson of Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bharat-bandh-impacts-major-roads-in-ghaziabad-highways-markets-remained-open-101632767868613.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||ED quizzes Azam Khan in jail; fourth time in two weeks||Officials of Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday quizzed senior Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, who is currently lodged in Sitapur Jail, in connection with alleged cases of money laundering and amassing property using unaccounted money.This was for the fourth time in two weeks that the SP leader has been questioned by the central probe agency.ED officials are likely to question mafioso-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is lodged in Banda jail, after being brought to UP from Punjab.Jail superintendent Suresh Kumar Singh said, “Two officials of ED reached the jail in the afternoon. They had court orders for questioning Azam Khan. The officials were allowed to question Azam Khan in person in a separate room. The questioning continued for over four hours. We don’t have any information regarding what ED officials asked Khan.” However, ED has officially has not shared any information regarding the questioning. 73-year-old Azam Khan has been lodged in Sitapur Jail since last year. His condition deteriorated after contracting Covid-19 following which he was hospitalised for over a month at a private hospital in Lucknow. He recently returned to jail from hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ed-quizzes-azam-khan-in-jail-fourth-time-in-two-weeks-101632767812039.html
28-09-2021||Pune||Not all Pune IT companies have resumed work from office, yet||PUNE: Although the state government is keen on further relaxation in Covid norms from October, a majority of multinational information technology (IT) firms in the city are yet to take a decision on resuming “work from office”. However, a few companies have already started calling their employees to office as per state government guidelines.The city has a strong base of IT hubs spread across Hinjewadi, Kharadi, Kalyani nagar and Viman nagar. On August 11, the state government issued a directive stating that companies can allow fully vaccinated employees to work from office but with only 25% employees per shift.Raj Gujar, cofounder, Bulb and Key Software Company, Bhandarkar road, Erandwane, said, “Coming out of the second wave of the pandemic, we have well-established processes allowing our product development team to work from home. However, our content, sales and operations teams have resumed working from the office and will continue to do so as these verticals work more efficiently in the same physical space. All those attending the office have completed their vaccination.”While many companies have started prepping to resume work from office, several employees want to continue with the “work from home (WFH)” model.Harpreet Saluja, president, Nascent Information Technology Employees Senate (NITES), a non-profit organisation working extensively for the protection of benefits, welfare and rights of tech industry employees, said, “Employees are not willing to go back to office. In the WFH model, none of the work got stuck and none of the clients had any problem with people working from home. With the festive season ahead, we cannot rule out the anticipated third wave so 95% of IT employees in our survey do not want to resume work from office. The product and quality of work has improved in the WFH model. If we look from the employees’ perspective, they are still considering safety first.”Then again, many companies that are planning to resume work from office from January 2022 are considering calling employees to office in a phased manner.Neha R, an employee of an IT firm based out of Aundh, said, “All employees won’t have to be in office for a complete week. They will be allotted days on which they will have to come to the office. All companies are coming out with different strategies to keep their employees safe.”Werner Van Huyssteen, general manager – India, TomTom, which has its main office in Yerawada, said, “We will continue with our hybrid working approach, but also firmly believe in the benefits that an office environment brings. We look forward to welcoming our TomTom’ers back into world-class facilities sometime in Q4 namely, between October 31 and December 31, adhering to government protocols.”“We strictly enforce all safety-related protocols to ensure that our employees and their loved ones are safe. We also want to create an environment to manage this optimally,” he said.Many other industrial firms have started calling their employees to office with the flexibility to work from home whenever needed.Pankajj Ghode, chief executive officer, Agri10X, Kalyaninagar, said, “We are following all the basic Covid-19 regulations while allowing staff into the office. If our team finds anything problematic, the employee is straightaway sent home. We have given flexibility to our employees so they can opt to work from home if they have even the slightest of symptoms.”State government directions for private offices:25% of staff allowed in one shiftCompletion of two doses of vaccination compulsoryAs per survey by NITES, 95% of employees want to continue with work from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/not-all-pune-it-companies-have-resumed-work-from-office-yet-101632767748732.html
28-09-2021||Noida||Malls, markets open in Noida despite Bharat Bandh call||Malls and markets remained open in Noida and Greater Noida on Monday despite farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh on the first anniversary of the enactment of three contentious farm laws.The farmers’ protest mostly impacted the Greater Noida area, authorities said.Traffic officials said that a group of farmers reached Zero Point with several tractors to protest, which halted vehicular movement for some time on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The officials also said that vehicular movement was slow at the DND Flyway and Chilla border during peak traffic hours in the morning as Delhi Police had set up barricades to check vehicles from 8am to 11am.Ashutosh Singh, Noida traffic inspector, said, “Personnel of Noida Police reached the spot and facilitated vehicular movement. They also ensured smooth traffic in Greater Noida and there was no major traffic jam reported,” he said.However, authorities said, there was no impact of the Bharat Bandh on the markets. Shamim Anwar, spokesperson, GIP Mall, said that the mall was open on Monday. “Shoppers visited the mall like on normal days. We also held a vaccination camp on the premises, which functioned normally,” he said.The DLF Mall of India spokesperson chose not to comment on the issue and just said the mall was open on Monday.SK Jain, president, Sector 18 market association, said that there are around 500 shops in the market and most of them were open. “The retailers did not participate in this Bandh. This is not our issue and hence all the shops were open. Also, the farmers or anyone else did not come to the market to enforce the closure,” he said.Jain said that the markets had already remained closed for several months when pandemic-related restrictions were in force since March last year, leading to severe financial losses. He said closing shops again, even for a day, would lead to difficulties for traders.Similarly, there was no impact of Bandh at the Atta Market in Sector 27. CB Jha, president of Atta Market association, said that the market functioned normally on Monday. “There are 700 shops in the market and most were open. There was good footfall as well,” he said.Sunil Pradhan, the media in-charge of Bhartiya Kisan Union-Tikait (a farmers’ group headed by Rakesh Tikait, a farmer leader), said that farmers gathered at Pari Chowk at 10am. “We protested there from 10am to 1.30pm against the farm laws. We also parked our tractors on the road, which halted Noida-Greater Noida traffic for some time,” he said.Pawan Khatana, BKU-Tikait spokesperson, said farmers also protested against the Greater Noida authority because the authority acquired farmers’ land nearly 10 years ago but have not yet met their demands. “The farmers have not got increased compensation or developed land. There are several companies and factories in Noida and Greater Noida. People from other states and districts get jobs here but our children are not given jobs,” he said.Since November last year, farmers, under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, have been protesting against three new farm laws--The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act--at the Capital’s borders. They have been demanding the rollback of the laws and the creation of a new law on minimum support price (MSP).“If need be, we will continue our ongoing protest for the next 10 years. People will say that the Bharat Bandh was a flop, but it is not the case. It has been successful. As part of the protest, we only held up roads and it was not like sealing the roads. If the union agriculture minister calls us for talks, we will go,” said Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union.Farmer union leaders and the Central government have held as many as 11 rounds of talks, but each time the talks have ended in a stalemate.The last time the two parties held talks was on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/malls-markets-open-in-noida-despite-bharat-bandh-call-101632767628574.html
28-09-2021||Noida||Abadi land dispute: Protesting farmers break barricades near Noida authority office||Farmers from across Noida removed barricades, broke a gate of the outer periphery, and reached the city authority’s main administrative building in Sector 6 on Monday to protest against the authority and the Uttar Pradesh government over the abadi land dispute.They urged the authority not to touch their extended abadi in villages, while demanding for an additional land compensation, settlement of the land dispute, among other benefits. They have been protesting over the issue since September 1. Police had earmarked a space near the Harola community centre there to maintain a proper vehicular movement in the area during the ongoing protest which usually takes place nearly 800 meters away from the authority office.On Monday afternoon, nearly 1,500 farmers on tractors marched towards the main administrative building, while shouting slogans against the authority and the state government. Police tried to stop them, but the farmers outnumbered them, removed the barricades, and broke the lock of one of the gates on the outer periphery, which leads to the Noida authority’s main administrative building.“Our protest has been going on for 27 days (till Monday), but the Noida authority is not considering our demands seriously, or solving the abadi land dispute. Farmers who gave their land for the development of this well-planned city are facing a lot of difficulties. It seems that the authority is trying to ruin their lives further. But we will not let this happen. Our agitation will continue until all the issues are addressed,” said Anil Yadav, senior farmer leader, who is also leading the protest.Many women farmers, children, and elderly people also joined the protest on Monday. With expanded families, there is no land left for the children in the villages, they said.“There are no drains, sewer lines, clean drinking water, roads, or other basic amenities in our villages. The authority officials are misleading the state government, and are not addressing our grievances,” said Sukhbir Arya, a farmer leader from Bhartiya Kisan Parishad.The authority, however, said it is ready to accept the demands of the farmers within legal limitations. “We have discussed the farmers’ issues many times, and are ready to talk to the farmers. But we cannot accept some of their demands due to legal issues... We can sit and discuss this,” said a Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, the Gautam Budh Nagar additional deputy commissioner of police, Ranvijay Singh, convinced the farmers to return to the Harola protest site. “We have appealed to the farmers to continue their agitation peacefully at the designated site. The farmers agreed to this and returned to the Harola protest site. We hope that the farmers and the authority will resolve the issues amicably, at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/abadi-land-dispute-protesting-farmers-break-barricades-near-noida-authority-office-101632767510768.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||World Tourism Day events kick off with a run in Chandigarh||The department of tourism, Chandigarh administration, is celebrating World Tourism Day with a series of events as a part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav.The celebrations were declared open with a “Run for Tourism” from Sukhna Lake to the Information Centre at Capitol Complex, which was flagged off by UT home secretary-cum-secretary, tourism, Nitin Yadav.Tourists and visitors were welcomed by the staff of the tourism department and students of the Chandigarh Institute of Hotel Management (CIHM) with rose buds at the Railway Station, Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden, Sector 17 Plaza and other places. City’s museums have also been lit up for two days.CIHM also organised an international food festival and in the evening, a sufi musical live performance by Ali Brothers was also organised. Free masks were also distributed during the event.On Tuesday, a nature walk at the Sukhna Lake circuit along with a Punjabi musical evening by singer Prabh Gill at Kalagram will be organised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/world-tourism-day-celebrations-kick-off-with-a-run-in-chandigarh-101632767509353.html
28-09-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Now, bank third party to handle escrow account for realty project||The Greater Noida authority has directly engaged the bank concerned in handling an escrow account opened for a realty project in the city, officials said on Monday.Now, an escrow account will be managed by three parties -- the authority, the developer, and the bank concerned. The move came in a bid to contain fund diversion by the developers, as alleged by many homebuyers during a board meeting held by the Greater Noida authority on September 24, they added. “Earlier, an escrow account was only controlled by the authority and the developer. But now, the bank concerned will become an operator, who will keep a track of the funds collected from a particular realty project. The move is aimed at monitoring funds collected from homebuyers so that it is spent on construction and other essential works. We want to ensure that the pending projects are completed at the earliest,” said Santosh Kumar, officer on special duty, Noida authority.At present, 200 projects are ongoing in Greater Noida, where thousands of housing units have been proposed, said the officials.Earlier, following the Uttar Pradesh government’s order, the Greater Noida authority had given an additional time to the developers to complete and deliver flats to the homebuyers amidst the Covid-19 crisis, pushing the deadline from June to December 31 this year. “If the developers fail to do so, the authority will impose penalties against them,” Kumar added.Homebuyers, however, said that the Greater Noida authority delayed the move by a few years.“If the Uttar Pradesh government or the Greater Noida authority had introduced the escrow account scheme six to seven years ago, the developers would not have been able to misuse the funds of the homebuyers. The escrow account method could have saved thousands of homebuyers as it contains the developers from diverting the funds collected in a realty project. Let’s see how this move helps all,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension flat owners’ welfare association.The confederation of real estate developers’ association of India (CREDAI), a realtor group, has also welcomed the move. “The Greater Noida authority’s decision to engage three parties in escrow was a much-needed step, as it will help in restoring the faith of the homebuyers into the system and the realty sector,” said Prashant Kumar Tiwari, president of CREDAI’s western Uttar Pradesh chapter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-now-bank-third-party-to-handle-escrow-account-for-realty-project-101632767449034.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh brings life to a standstill in Ludhiana||A year after the Centre passed the three contentious farm laws, protesting farmer unions’ call for a Bharat Bandh received an overwhelming response from residents, transporters, and roadways employees as roads, markets and malls remained deserted on Monday. Amid heavy police deployment, farmers carried out marches in the city and forced those who had opened their businesses to shut them down. Meanwhile, farmers used tractor-trolleys, tippers and other vehicles to block roads, which caused traffic chaos, at around 25 points in and around the city and in rural areas of the district. Protesting farmers blocked all major chowks, intersections and entry points to the city from 6am to 4pm.The areas that were blocked include Ferozepur Road, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Jagraon Bridge, Samrala Chowk, and Jalandhar Bypass, Jodhewal Basti Chowk, Dugri Canal Bridge, Southern Bypass, Sherpur Chowk near Dhandai Bridge, Kohara Chowk, Hambran, Dehlon Main Chowk, Hari Singh Nalwa Chowk in Raikot, Barnala Chowk in Raikot, Ludhiana- Moga GT road near Jagraon, and the toll plaza near Hissowal village.All main markets – Chaura Bazaar, Ghumar Mandi, main Sarabha Nagar market, Model Town, Gol Market, Feroze Gandhi market, Jawahar Nagar camp, BRS Nagar, and Dugri – remained shut as did malls such as Silver Arc, Pavilion, and MBD.While a section of shopkeepers closed their shops to extend support to the farmers’ cause, others shut them down fearing reprisal. Many shopkeepers who have been financially suffering due to the pandemic were also seen sitting outside their shops with half their shutters open in Jawahar Nagar Camp, Chaura Bazar, and Field Ganj. Medical stores and vegetable vendors went about their business as usual. Chaura Bazar shopkeepers association president Parampal Singh Witty said, “Shopkeepers are already struggling due to the pandemic and business is slowly getting back on track. Thus, farmers should not force shopkeepers to shut their businesses. We support farmers and many shopkeepers closed their shops in their support, but those who did not should not be harassed as they are trying to look after their families.” Ghumar Mandi Shopkeepers’ Association president Pawan Batra said the market had remained closed till 4pm in support of the farmers, but had been opened after that. A BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Gurpreet Singh said the call for a ‘bandh’ had received an overwhelming response across the city and urban-area residents had joined the protesting farmers near MBD Mall. “It was never our intention to harass the public. We are glad that tthe shopkeepers extended support to our cause. Residents with emergencies were also allowed to move past the barriers. Our fight is against the Union government and it will continue till the three farm laws are not repealed,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-brings-life-to-a-standstill-in-ludhiana-101632767333157.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||10 fresh Covid cases surface in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity area reported ten fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, a slight uptick from the five reported on September 26.Last time when the tricity area’s single-day tally was in double digits was on September 24, with ten cases.As many as seven people tested positive in Chandigarh while two cases surfaced in Mohali and one in Panchkula. It was on September 21 when Chandigarh had witnessed seven cases.However, no fresh casualty was reported in the tricity area on Monday.In Chandigarh, the infected patients are residents of Sectors 15, 45, Dadumajra and PGIMER campus. In Mohali, both the cases were reported from the city; in Panchkula, the infected man is a resident of Sector 20.The active cases in the tricity area stood at 89, with Chandigarh having 44 positive patients, Mohali 27 and Panchkula 18.Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,217, including 64,354 recoveries and 819 deaths. As many as 68,719 people have been found infected in Mohali so far. Among them, 67,628 have recovered and 1,064 have died.In Panchkula, of the 30,731 total cases, 30,336 patients have been cured and 377 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-fresh-covid-cases-surface-in-tricity-area-101632767091347.html
28-09-2021||Kolkata||‘Drama to get attention’: TMC MP on Dilip Ghosh 'heckled' and ‘abused’ during Bhabanipur campaign||The controversy regarding BJP national vice president Dilip Ghosh’s claim that he was "heckled" by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers while campaigning for the upcoming Bhabanipur by-poll received fresh fuel after TMC MP Saugata Roy said that Ghosh’s allegations are a “drama to get attention.”Roy told news agency ANI that no harm was done to him as the former saw pictures of Ghosh smiling and “changing Jai Shree Ram.” “All this was a drama to get attention. We want to see a peaceful campaign during whatever time is left,” Roy was quoted as saying.Further elaborating his viewpoint, the TMC MP said that Ghosh went to an area in Kolkata --Jadu Babu Bazar -- where there is resentment against him, thereby paving way for a spontaneous protest against Ghosh’s arrival. “Dilip Ghosh escaped and his security personnel pointed guns at the crowd,” Roy added.Hours earlier, Ghosh alleged that during BJP’s campaign for its Bhabanipur by-poll candidate Priyanka Tibrewal against TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the workers of the state ruling dispensation hurled abuses at him and one of BJP’s workers was beaten up as well. The BJP national vice president added that the local police didn’t help. The saffron party has since moved to the Election Commission (EC) in order to stop the Bhabanipur by-polls – which Banerjee has to win to continue holding the chief ministerial chair.Also Read | Campaign at Bhawanipore disrupted by TMC demonstration around BJP’s Dilip GhoshDuring the commotion, security personnel of Ghosh had to take him out to safety while two of them were caught pointing their pistols at TMC workers – allegedly to scare them. The former Bengal BJP president also got triggered and shouted back at the crowd.“Today’s incident has proved that the situation is not conducive for holding free and fair polls…However, we will contest if the EC decides to go ahead with the election,” Ghosh said.As many as 80 BJP leaders took part in the campaign rally for Tibrewal in the last push for the Bhabanipur by-poll, while TMC leaders and ministers also campaigned for the same post in support of Banerjee.Following the incident involving Ghosh, many prominent BJP leaders from Bengal, including state’s Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, Tibrewal and BJP Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta raised their voices.The EC has asked the returning officer to examine the CCTV footage showing Ghosh’s security personnel drawing their guns at the crowd, according to an official who wished to remain anonymous. The EC has also asked for a report on the incident regarding Bhabanipur on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/drama-to-get-attention-tmc-mp-on-dilip-ghosh-heckled-and-abused-101632766351778.html
28-09-2021||Pune||AirAsia Bengaluru-Pune flight delayed by 5 hours due to confusion over Covid test||PUNE The AirAsia Bengaluru-Pune flight was delayed by five hours on Monday after a flyer informed the crew that she is Covid-19 positive at the last moment. However, when the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) was again conducted at the airport, the woman’s report was negative.As per norm if a person has taken both vaccines doses RT-PCR negative is not mandatory, but only for those who have taken one on no dose.“A guest onboard i5 1472 from Bengaluru to Pune received a message that her RT-PCR test was positive. The guest brought it to the notice of the crew. All guests were offloaded and the aircraft was cleaned as per protocols. Subsequently, on departure, the aircraft experienced a minor technical issue. The crew after completing all actions elected to return back to Bengaluru. The aircraft was then changed to facilitate travel,” said AirAsia India spokesperson.The sources on request of anonymity confirmed that on conducting the RAT test again the report came negative.“AirAsia India assures all passengers that we place safety and security at the foremost and are addressing the failure before returning the aircraft for further service,” added the AirAsia spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/airasia-bengaluru-pune-flight-delayed-by-5-hours-due-to-confusion-over-covid-test-101632766908777.html
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Traffic gridlock keeps Ludhiana cops on toes||Traffic snarls and gridlocks were the order of the day as hundreds of commuters remained stuck throughout the day on Monday. Even after the Bharat Bandh was lifted around 4pm, it took at least two hours for traffic to get back on track. Though most residents stayed home, many were seen stuck on roads due to blockades and had to take multiple detours. Videos of residents struggling to move past the blockades were also widely circulated on social media.The cops were forced to think on their feet as farmers also blocked roads ,which were not on the list of proposed spots. Inner roads also witnessed heavy traffic and chaos was witnessed near Samrala Chowk, Kochar Market Road, near Octroi post, Jalandhar Bypass Chowk, Jagraon Bridge, Dholewal and Sherpur.Traffic was diverted to Ladhowal Bypass from Ladhowal Chowk. As the Bharat Nagar Chowk was blocked, cops shifted traffic to the Ring Road and Jawahar Nagar Chowk. Similarly, traffic on Ferozepur Road was shifted to the Southern Bypass and to the inner roads at Sarabha Nagar and Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar.Sachin Gulati, a resident of Khanna, who was travelling to DMC Hospital, said he was aware of the Bharat Bandh, but had to visit the hospital due to an emergency. “As the protest was scheduled to start at 9am, I left early so that I could reach the hospital on time. Butwhen I reached Ludhiana, I found that the Jagraon Bridge was blocked. So, I took the Bus Stand route from Dholewal Chowk, but as Bharat Nagar Chowk was also blocked, the traffic was diverted via Kochar Market Road,” he said.A Dugri area resident, Dilpreet Singh, who was stuck at the Dugri Canal Bridge, said. “The general public is suffering as farmers have parked tractor-trolleys on the roads. Even the police is not taking action against the protesters as the state government has extended support to the farmers for gaining political mileage.” “Protests should be staged in a way that the public is not harassed, otherwise the farmers will lose the support of residents,” said Parminder Singh, a resident of Salem Tabri area.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, city and traffic) Deepak Pareek said that all necessary arrangements were made and they had chalked out a special diversion plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bharat-bandh-traffic-gridlock-keeps-ludhiana-cops-on-toes-101632766733733.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Ankit Gujjar murder witnesses safe, prisons chief tells Delhi high court||The city prison authorities on Monday told the Delhi high court that steps have been taken to provide protection to the inmates, who are witnesses in the alleged murder of gangster Ankit Gujjar in Tihar jail. In a status report, Director General (Prisons) told justice Mukta Gupta that the inmates would be kept under CCTV surveillance, and that their every move was being monitored closely.The status report was filed in response to a petition by the five inmates of Tihar Jail who sought directions to ensure their safety as well as to restrain the authorities from “threatening/coercing/injuring them with a view to prevent them from seeking justice for themselves and the deceased inmate”.The petitioners, represented by advocate Mehmood Pracha, claimed to be eyewitnesses to the allegedly “brutal murder” of Gujjar. Gujjar, 29, was found dead in his jail cell on August 4.Earlier this month, the court, which has transferred the investigation from Delhi police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), sought a status report from the prison authority on the steps being taken to ensure the safety and security of the witnesses.Two of the petitioners, it was claimed, were the co-inmates of the deceased, and also victims of the same assault while the other three witnessed the alleged assault on Gujjar by prison officials. Justice Gupta, noting the stand, said no further court orders are called for on the petition.The status report said, “Two CCTV cameras are installed inside their (two inmates) cell and 24x7 footage of the cell is being closely monitored by the officials whenever inmates are locked out from their cell, they are escorted by two Tamil Nadu special police personnel. Two CCTV cameras are installed inside the barrack and one camera is installed out the gallery (for the third inmate).”HT reported on September 4 that according to a prison report, between 9.30am on August 3 and 4.50pm on August 4, the time when top Uttar Pradesh gangster Ankit Gujjar got into a scuffle with jail officers and was found unconscious in another part of the prison, CCTV cameras inside ward 1 and 5A of Tihar jail 3 were switched off for “maintenance work”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ankit-gujjar-murder-witnesses-safe-prisons-chief-tells-delhi-high-court-101632766428450.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||All 33 accused in Dombivli rape case held: police||With the arrest of two more persons on Monday, all 33 accused in the alleged gangrape of a 15-year-old girl in Maharashtra’s Thane district have been held, Manpada police said.The two accused, police added, were arrested late on Sunday and early on Monday from various locations in Thane. “Both the accused were arrested from different locations in the district. All the 33 accused named in the first information report (FIR) have now been arrested and no new names have cropped up in the investigation so far,” senior police inspector Dadahari Chaure said. With all the accused under arrest, the police’s priority will now be to file its chargesheet in the case, Chaure added. Of the total accused, two minors were detained last week and sent to a juvenile home in Bhiwandi. In her complaint on September 22, the survivor alleged that it all started in January when a man she was in a relationship with, threatened to leak their private videos and forced her to have physical relations with some of his friends and acquaintances. All the accused then raped the girl, a resident of Dombivli (East), at various locations on multiple occasions till September, officials familiar with the matter said. The matter, however, came to light earlier this month when the survivor approached a relative over the prolonged sexual abuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/all-33-accused-in-dombivli-rape-case-held-police-101632766248496.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC appoints former judge JR Midha as administrator of Kalkaji Mandir||The Delhi high court on Monday appointed it’s former judge JR Midha as an administrator to manage the Kalkaji Mandir in south Delhi, saying “there is a grave and imminent need to preserve the spiritual sanctity of the mandir and not allow it to be misused by unwanted elements who may convert it into a commercial enterprise”.Justice Prathiba M Singh said the mandate of the administrator will be to take all steps in the interest of devotees, pilgrims, baridaars (management), in order to ensure their safety, as well as to preserve the sanctity of the deity and the temple.The judge noted that the ‘baridaars’ are unable to exercise effective control to administer the temple and its premises.Listing out the tasks for the administrator, the court said that he will take steps to remove all unauthorised occupants from the temple complex. It also said the administrator will supervise the demolition of unauthorised construction and encroachments, which will be carried out by the South civic body or the Delhi Development Authority, and the Delhi Police.“The entire mandir complex shall be under the direct supervision and control of the administrator.…Owing to the forthcoming Navaratra season from October 7 to October 15, 2021, the administrator shall take immediate steps to create all necessary facilities for the devotees and pilgrims, including - demarcated queuing up areas; maintenance of discipline so as to avoid over-crowding or a stampede like situation; proper access to the sanctum sanctorum; potable water facilities and at least one toilet complex shall be refurbished on an urgent basis to be made available for devotees and pilgrims..,” the judge said in a 77-page judgment.The court also said that the administrator shall make urgent provision for dispensing masks /sanitisers to the extent possible, while also taking steps so that baridaars, devotees, authorised occupants and all visitors of the temple and those present in the premises follow Covid-19 related norms.To be sure, the judge said this is an interim order, and added that the matter will now be heard on October 27.Additionally, justice Singh also ordered that a medical centre with at least one doctor and two paramedics be set up. It said that immediately a bank account is opened, details of which would be put up in the Mandir premises.“All such devotees who wish to donate for the redevelopment of the Mandir would be entitled to make payments in the said bank accounts, by any online mode,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-appoints-former-judge-jr-midha-as-administrator-of-kalkaji-mandir-101632766188325.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Suspected gangster shot dead in Najafgarh||In yet another suspected case of gang war, a 20-year-old alleged criminal was shot dead by two unidentified assailants, who intercepted his car and opened fire at him in southwest Delhi’s Khaira Road near Najafgarh on Monday evening.Eyewitnesses told the police that 8 to 10 rounds were fired by the two attackers, killing the man, identified as Tinku Kharab, on the spot. Kharab was in the driver’s seat, and was alone in his i-20 car. Eight empty cartridges were recovered from the crime scene, police said.The firing and murder incident has taken place three days after notorious gangster, Jitender Maan alias Gogi, was shot dead in a courtroom at Rohini court by two assailants who were dressed like laywers, before they were gunned down by the policemen escorting Gogi. Police are suspecting that Gogi’s murder was a fallout of his decade-long rivalry with gangster Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuriya, who is presently lodged in Mandoli jail.Involved in three criminal cases, including a case of extortion, Kharab is suspected to be a member of a syndicate led by jailed gangster Manjeet Mahal. The gang, which also has Nafe, better known as Mantri, as its key member, has been running a rivalry with Nandu gang that is led by fugitive gangster, Kapil Sangwan, also known as Nandu, since 2015.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said the police control room received a call reporting firing near a school on the Khaira Road. A police team reached there and found a man dead in an i-10 car with multiple bullet injuries.“On local enquiry, it was found that a white Swift Dzire car was chasing the i-20 car bearing Haryana’s registration number. The Dzire car blocked the way, two persons came out of it and opened fire at the victim,” said DCP Meena.Police said the assailants fled in their Dzire car that was probably being driven by a third person. A country-made pistol that one of them used in the firing fell at the crime scene. A case of murder has been registered and several teams formed to identify and nab the killers, the police said.The police are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed on the routes leading to the crime spot. They are also probing the role of Nandu gang behind Kharab’s murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-suspected-gangster-shot-dead-in-najafgarh-101632766128358.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi high courts to hear a plea seeking better security at city courts||The Delhi high court on Monday agreed to hear a plea seeking enhancement of security in district courts across the city after gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi and two others were shot dead inside a courtroom at the Rohini court complex on Friday.The matter was mentioned urgently before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh by advocate Richa Singh, counsel for the petitioner.Advocate Singh told the court that she has moved an application for early hearing in the petition pending since 2019, seeking better security at the city courts.The public interest litigation, filed by six law students, mentioned the Rohini court shootout, adding that a counter affidavit was filed by the high court registry and alleged loopholes were pointed out by them.“Your application will come for hearing on Wednesday,” the chief justice said.On Saturday, HT reported that Delhi high court registry on September 4, 2020, highlighted the need for augmenting security at court complexes across the city.The Delhi high court was informed that “in view of the growing requirement the same is required to be strengthened further and there is further need to augment the security arrangement in Rohini court complex”.The high court was also informed that even though the security apparatus e.g. X-ray machines, metal detectors, baggage scanner etc. installed at Rohini court complex are functional, “as on date (Sep 4, 2020) there was a grossly insufficient number of CCTV cameras installed in Rohini court complex”.In her early hearing application, Singh had said, “The writ petition...will take quite considerable time to come up in its own normal turn for hearing before this court. Therefore, the interest of justice demands that the Writ Petition (Civil)... is listed and finally heard at an early time convenient to this court,” the application reads.The PIL highlighted several “crimes” that took place inside the court premises and stated that there has to be an atmosphere of dignity which could be achieved only when security lapses are attended to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-courts-to-hear-a-plea-seeking-better-security-at-city-courts-101632766072012.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Over 2k children begin classes at schools of specialised excellence in Delhi||Over 2,000 children, who secured admission into the 20 new Schools of Specialised Excellence (SoSEs) and are among the first batch of students studying under the Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) with an International Baccalaureate (IB) curriculum, began school on Monday.At an induction ceremony for these students, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia interacted with parents, students, industry experts, and teachers, and said that SoSEs will focus on the development of “out-of-the-box thinking” to prepare students to face the challenges of the future.“Marks shouldn’t be the only criteria for a student’s success. In this uncertain world, a student’s ability to think creatively is what will set him/her apart from others. Covid has shown us that the future is going to be very uncertain. Hence, our students should be prepared to solve challenges which haven’t even arisen yet. They should be ready for the kind of jobs which haven’t been created yet,” said Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio.SoSEs offer specialised education to students of classes 9 to 12 in four domains — science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM); humanities; performing and visual arts; and “high-end 21st-century skills”. The schools are affiliated with the newly formed DBSE which has tied up with IB. The international education board, which has over 190 schools in India, has four dedicated programmes for students aged 3-19 that can be adopted by any school upon gaining authorisation from the board. While the IB board will provide the curriculum framework for the SoSEs, the content will be provided by the education department. School heads said they are waiting clarity on the nature of assessment, academic cycle, and books used for various disciplines. The 20 SoSEs received 26,687 applications in their first admission cycle, out of which 14,245 took the special aptitude test and 2,794 students were selected for the first batch. Sahil Kumar (16), a Class 11 student at SoSE Kalkaji, said that he was looking forward to an educational approach that would prioritise the practical application of skills over rote learning. “We will be familiarised with the IB curriculum as well as lessons that will help us in cracking competitive exams such as NEET and JEE. We have been told that we will be trained by knowledge partners. People usually end up going to Kota for such coaching, but we will be provided with these skills and lessons by the school itself at no extra cost,” said Kumar, who aims to crack the IIT entrance test.Mohammad Adil (16), another Class 11 student, was told by teachers that the school “will encourage critical thinking”. “An analytical approach will help us at every level and unlike other schools, the focus will not be on securing good marks in Board exams alone. I think we will be better prepared as far as competitive exams are concerned,” he said. M Shariq, principal of SoSE Kalkaji, that offers the STEM discipline, said that the school will hold orientations for students in the next few days to familiarise them with the curriculum and teaching methodology. “Our mission is to ensure that students are able to secure ranks in the top 1,000 of various competitive exams. They will get the best of both IB and DBSE at our school. Additional support through knowledge partners will also be provided to students,” said Shariq. Vandana Jha, an Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum (EMC) teacher at the school, said that training sessions for teachers were being conducted to familiarise them with the new approach to teaching and assessment. She said that teachers had been holding sessions with parents as well to answer their questions regarding the course. “This is a new beginning, and the first few days will be used to engage with students and understand their expectations and concerns. While two modules on languages and environment will be based on the IB curriculum, Physics, Chemistry and Maths will be taught in a manner that suits competitive entrances such as IIT and NEET,” said Jha. Preeti Tanwar, who will teach Chemistry to Class 11 and 12 students at SoSE Hari Nagar, said, “The teacher training which began in August focused on how to inculcate information and communication technology tools and engage students in enquiry-based learning... Since there are no rigid learning structures, it allows teachers to engage in such methods more freely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-2k-children-begin-classes-at-schools-of-specialised-excellence-in-delhi-101632765471098.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Thin crowd at farmer protest sites in Delhi||Even as hundreds of protesters blocked several highways and railway tracks across the country to mark the one-day Bharat Bandh call given by farmers protesting against the three central farm laws, the crowds at the three protest sites of Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri, on Delhi borders, remained relatively thin on Monday.Protesters across the three agitation spots said several among them had camped on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, as part of the Bharat Bandh blockade, while many others have returned to villages to work in the fields. On Monday, the crowd at the protest site in Singhu, which saw thousands of people between November and February, was sparse.The bandh call, given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a collective of farmer unions, to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws, severely hit vehicular traffic movement in the NCR, especially at the Delhi border points with Gurugram and Ghaziabad.Meanwhile, at the protest sites, farmers said the crowd was relatively more when compared to the past few weeks, but the carriageways that earlier used to be packed with protesters from different parts of the country remained empty on Monday.While a few tractors are still in use at the site to cater to daily needs, many farmers have parked their tractors there, refusing to budge them until the agitation is over.Sukhdev Singh, 30, a farmer from Asarpur in Patiala district of Punjab, said, “What is the point of taking tractors back home if there is no livelihood to sustain? My village panchayat said they will reimburse me if anything happens to my tractor. We will only take it back once the laws are repealed and the agitation ends. The tractor is a symbol of our resistance. ”Inder Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr in Punjab’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, said, “Agricultural work mainly happens during summers. When we started the protest last winter, it was easier for us to devote time to the agitation. Now that people have to work on their fields, many have gone back home.”Most protesters in Singhu, however, reiterated that their numbers have not dwindled. Ranjot Singh, 20, a farmer from the Ludhiana district of Punjab, said people from outside the farming community showed a lot of interest in the protest when it started in November.“These people visited the protest sites during the winter because it was convenient for them. Now, such crowds have reduced. Only farmers remain and they too have to work on the fields back home ahead of the harvest, which is likely to happen in another 10 days,” he said.Referring to the Republic Day incident and the lathicharge on farmers in Haryana’s Karnal district earlier this month, 62-year-old farmer Inder Singh said, “Every incident of violence on protesters only increases the support for the agitation. We have around 1,800 people in our village and each of them contributed money so that those protesting here do not fall ill.”Singh was talking about the air-conditioned trolley where he was seated along with others from his village. The trolley has a television set, three power points, and light fixtures, and is covered on all sides with tin and fibre sheets. “It cost us around ₹1.5 lakh to arrange this set-up. Now anyone coming from our village can rest here instead of falling sick by sleeping out in the sun,” he said.Since the beginning of summer, the protest site has transformed itself to accommodate multiple such AC trolleys, bamboo shacks with coolers, decorative plants and shrubs, porta cabins, and trolleys with thatched roofs. Most trolleys and tents have been converted into these semi pucca structures to offer protection from the heat and rain.Farmer groups said over 600 protesters have lost their lives in the agitation since November. On Monday, a 54-year-old protester from Kirti Kisan Union died and was taken back to his village in Khela village of Jalandhar district, Punjab.Metro shuts stationThe Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday closed its Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station for commuters as a security measure in view of the Bharat Bandh. The station reopened after almost nine hours.The station, which is located on the Delhi-Haryana border, is part of DMRC’s Green line (Kirti Nagar/Inder lok to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh in Bahadurgarh). It is located near the Tikri border, one of the sites for ongoing farmers’ protest.At 8am the DMRC tweeted, “Entry/exit for Pandit Shree Ram Sharma has been closed.” While the station was closed, Metro operations on the Green line were running smoothly. A DMRC official said that the station has been closed as per the suggestion of the security agency. The station was reopened at 4.45 pm, DMRC officials said.Dhaarna Yadav, district transport officer cum secretary, regional transport authority, Jhajjar , said the Pandit Ram Sharma Metro station was closed due to ongoing farmers’ protest, “They have blocked the entry and exit gates of the Metro station along with other railway tracks. The station is near the Tikri border where a large number of farmers have gathered,” she said.Long snarls in trafficA massive jam was seen at Gurugram-Delhi border as vehicles entering the national capital are being checked by Delhi Police and paramilitary personnel. Heavy barricading by the Delhi Police at the Sirhaul toll plaza on Monday morning triggered congestion, with tailbacks stretching for around 2km, up to Shankar Chowk, in Gurugram. It took commuters around 30-45 minutes to cross the stretch during the peak hour, traffic police said.The situation was no different in Ghaziabad. Vehicles queued up for kilometres as protesters occupied the UP-Gate area of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway) from 6am to around 4.15pm. On the Delhi-Meerut Road, connecting Ghaziabad to Meerut, protesting farmers blocked the Duhai area below the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, causing long snarls.Traffic officials said that a group of farmers reached Zero Point with tractors, and that halted vehicular movement for some time on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The officials also said traffic was slow on the DND Flyway and Chilla border during morning rush hour as Delhi Police set up barricades to check vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-thin-crowd-at-farmer-protest-sites-in-delhi-many-have-gone-home-for-harvest-say-protesters-101632765228311.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal launches one-stop app for tourists||The Delhi government on Monday launched a mobile phone app, “Dekho Meri Dilli”, that will act as a one-stop centre for tourism related information and tickets to all major tourist spots in Delhi, including popular market places and eateries. The app, built by the Delhi government’s tourism department, was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday on the occasion of World Tourism Day. The “Dekho Meri Dilli” app offers six unique ways to discover Delhi and helps one plan a city tour ranging from half a day to six days. It also provides access to Google Maps to the required destination, and lists public and paid toilet facilities nearest to the user. After launching the application, Kejriwal said the app has been created with the intention of making tourists stay longer in the city and spend more on various businesses. “This app will be extremely useful to all those who come to Delhi from across the world. Delhi is a historical city, but it is also very modern and technologically driven. If anyone wants to understand the history of this country, they cannot do that without visiting Delhi. Delhi boasts of amazing food, engaging entertainment and the most revered monuments. But until the launch of this app, we lacked information about all of these. Every information about tourism in Delhi will be available on this app in an organised, user-friendly, and effective manner,” Kejriwal said. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also the city’s tourism minister, said at present, people or tourists visiting Delhi stay in the capital for an average of 1.5 days. He said the Delhi government aims to increase the average stay of tourists to about 2.5 days. Sisodia said, “The average time that a tourist spends in Delhi is 1.5 days. It seems like a small period of time but those who work in the tourism sector would know how much effort goes into everything. We hope to increase this (average stay) to 2.5 days. Secondly, those who come to see Delhi, the government will provide them with all possible options to travel. Thirdly, for the locals in Delhi, who want to spend weekends in and around the city, we wish to give them options and make their experience of travelling and enjoying in Delhi better.” Senior officials of the tourism department said the app has a unique feature that allows one to browse the list of monuments, eateries, entertainment and recreational sites within a 5km radius of the user’s location. “The app also has information about the nearest public conveniences around the user. This is a first-of-its-kind app in India; only a few cities in developed countries have such apps. We hope that sectors such as food and beverages, and entertainment and hospitality will immensely grow because of this app. With an increase in the scale of tourism in Delhi, we’ll also see a rise in the economy and job offerings,” the chief minister said. The app also has the Google Lens feature integrated into it which allows one to look at Delhi through the Lens. It also has a “Delhi Darshan” video integrated in it, the government later said in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-launches-one-stop-app-for-tourists-101632764868371.html
28-09-2021||Pune||Pune on orange alert||With strong westerly winds in Maharashtra, around seven districts are on red alert where extremely heavy rainfall is likely on Tuesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Officials noted that an orange alert was issued for Pune district for September 28 as an intense spell of rainfall is likely.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune, said that the westerly winds in the state are getting stronger bringing good rainfall in the region.“For Pune city, very heavy rainfall is forecasted for ghat areas around Pune. Pune city is likely to witness intense spell of rainfall till September 28. From September 29, light rainfall is likely in the city till October 2,” said Kashyapi.On Monday, Pune city reported just 0.2 mm rainfall in Shivajinagar and 2 mm rainfall in Lohegaon.Cyclonic storm Gulab which originated in the Bay of Bengal is weakening and it is moving forward weakening further till September 28. IMD officials said that it is likely to move west-northwestwards and weaken into a well-marked low pressure area till September 28.“The system is likely to emerge into northeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Gujarat coast around September 30 evening and there is likelihood for the system to further intensify over northeast Arabian Sea during the subsequent 24 hours,” said IMD Officials.While speaking about the state, Kashyapi said that westerly winds are getting stronger and the results will give widespread rainfall.“Till September 28, moderate to heavy rainfall and thunderstorms and lightning are likely in many parts of the state,” said Kashyapi.He said that Ratnagiri, Raigad, Thane, Palghar, Nashik, Dhule and Jalgaon are on red alert for September 28.“In central Maharashtra, till September 28, heavy to very heavy rainfall is forecasted. For September 29, heavy rainfall is likely along with moderately strong wind along with thunderstorms and lightning. Marathwada may also witness similar weather patterns till September 28,” he said.As monsoon is very active in its last leg, Maharashtra is at 15 per cent excess rainfall as compared to the normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-on-orange-alert-101632764629087.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||Nod for dynamic parking norms around Metro stations, multilevel lots in Delhi||The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has given the final go-ahead for the new “dynamic parking norms” which aims to tackle the issue of traffic congestion by reducing parking space and encourage people to use public transport.Under the policy, which was notified on September 21, buildings near Metro stations and multilevel parking lots will now have 10-30% less parking space than what is allowed under the current policy. A senior official from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said the new rules will be applicable on all sites where the construction has not yet begun.“Even in cases where plans have been approved and construction has not started, the properties can be developed as per revised norms,” the official said.The MoHUA notification states that if a property is located within a walkable distance from a Metro station, the parking requirement within that property will be reduced by 15-30%, depending upon the distance. A maximum of 30% deduction will be available if the property is located within a 500m radius. It drops to 15% if the distance from the Metro station is between 500m and 800m.
28-09-2021||Delhi||Narela, eight others included in list of villages for DDA land pooling policy||The Delhi government has notified nine more villages, including Narela, as development areas for the implementing the land pooling policy, which was notified by DDA in 2018 with the aim to provide planned development and close to 1.7 million dwelling units in the urban extensions to meet the housing requirement in the national Capital. With the latest inclusion, the total number of villages chosen for land pooling will go up to 105.The nine new villages are: Bankner, Holambi Kalan, Bhorgarh, Khera Kalan, Kureni, Mamoorpur, Narela, Mubarakpur Dabas and Barwala. These villages, which fall in the Delhi Development Authority’s planning zone P-I, are in addition to the 95 villages that were urbanised and declared development areas in 2017 for the implementation of the pooling policy.“There is one more village (Naya Bans or Iradat Nagar in northwest Delhi) which is yet to be notified. All these villages are located in the urban extension areas of the city,” said a senior DDA official aware of the development.A senior Delhi government official said though the villages have been declared as development areas, there are some portions of land parcels which have been excluded from the notifications. “Areas where a government project has been approved, forest land, gram sabha land transferred to the government’s revenue department, green belt land, etc are excluded from the notification,” he said. A key objective of the land pooling policy was to do away with the complexities in land acquisition by making the land owners a direct beneficiary of the planned development. So far, the land owners have submitted 6,930.4 hectares to DDA for pooling. However, the agency is yet to operationalise it.This has led to calls for implementing land pooling expediently. Bhupinder Bazad, president of Master Plan committee of Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch, an association of land owners in Delhi villages, said DDA should expedite the land survey and planning. “It has been pending for a long time. We want DDA to expedite the survey and planning process so that people in these villages will be able to participate in the land pooling policy,” said Bazad.The land-owning agency is planning to develop three model sectors to operationalise land pooling in Bawana’s sectors 17, 20 and 21, Pooth Khurd and Sultanpur Dabas villages.“The entire area is divided into 109 sectors and on an average each sector is about 250Ha to 350 Ha and is anticipated to accommodate a population of about 80,000 to 100,000,” said a DDA official.Development of NarelaThe notification for Narela village, one of the three sub-cities planned by DDA, will help in planned development of the area, DDA officials said.DDA officials said while land was acquired for the sub-city, some areas couldn’t be acquired after the new Land Acquisition Act (Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013) came into force. “Now, we can plan for the area’s development in a better manner, as we are already working out the details to develop the sub-city as a commercial and institutional hub,” said the official. The land-owning agency has invested heavily in the area with over 25,000 housing units ready or in various stages of construction. The DDA has been struggling to sell its residential units in the area for the past six years.Last year, the land-owning agency hired a consultant to prepare a development plan for the Narela sub-city for effective utilisation of vacant land parcels available with DDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/narela-eight-others-included-in-list-of-villages-for-dda-land-pooling-policy-101632763908641.html
28-09-2021||Delhi||East Delhi residents adopt 1,800 saplings under ‘adopt a tree’ programme||Residents of east Delhi have so far adopted 1,800 saplings under the ‘adopt a tree’ programme launched by the civic body.Under the programme launched by East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), each sapling -- the civic body has identified 15 varieties, including mango, jamun, neem, rudraksha, champa, amla, ashoka, moringa and bottlebrush -- is protected by a meshed tree guard which also mentions the name of the person who has adopted it.EDMC mayor Shyam Sundar Aggarwal said that the corporation has set a target of planting 4,800 saplings under this initiative. “All 64 wards will be covered under this drive and will mainly focus on roadside plantations. We have been continuously encouraging residents to come forward and participate in this drive to make east Delhi area clean and green. The residents can adopt a tree through their area councillors and contribute to environment protection,” he said. RK Singh, the director (horticulture) of EDMC, said that the programme has got financial assistance from the ministry of urban development. “The urban development ministry has allotted us ₹1 crore for this initiative. After identifying the spots of plantation, our staff dig holes for proper plantation by the machines and fill it with proper soil and fertilizers. The name plates of the adopting residents, along with their municipal representatives, are also being displayed on the tree guards,” he said. Singh said that most saplings have been planted in the Karawal Nagar-Bhajanpura road stretch. “We are organising an exhibition on ‘adopt a tree’ programme in several parks of Shahdara, in which other achievements of the EDMC horticulture department will also be highlighted. Additionally, our department is also making benches and other recreative items for parks in Vivek Vihar nursery, using wood from trees that fell during monsoon this year,” he said. Many residents expressed support for the drive. Sunil Kumar of Karawal Nagar, who planted a sampling in August this year, said that watering and nurturing the trees have become a daily routine. “We are enthusiastic about its growth. Recently, one of my friends bought some organic fertiliser from the market, to ensure rapid growth of the plant adopted by him,” he said. Yamuna Vihar resident Dinesh Bisht (68) said that his wife is treating the plant they adopted as a newborn. “We are retired now and our children are well settled. The plant is giving us a sense of parenthood again,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/east-delhi-residents-adopt-1-800-saplings-under-adopt-a-tree-programme-101632763368289.html
28-09-2021||Mumbai||Congress’s Rajni Patil elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha after BJP candidate withdrew nomination||After Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) withdrew its candidate for Rajya Sabha (RS) seat, Congress’s Rajani Patil was declared elected unopposed on Monday. In the absence of the required strength in the legislative Assembly, Maharashtra BJP decided to withdraw its candidate Sanjay Upadhyay from the fray.BJP had fielded its Mumbai general secretary and north Indian leader Sanjay Upadhyay as its candidate last week. Upadhyay on Monday withdrew his nomination form at Vidhan Bhavan in Mumbai.BJP decided to withdraw the nomination as it has no numbers in legislative Assembly to elect the RS candidate. Besides its tally of 106 MLAs, the party enjoys the support of around ten more members from smaller parties and independents, which is too less to elect the candidate by polling 145 votes.“After Congress leaders Balasaheb Thorat and Nana Patole requested leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis by personally meeting him to withdraw the candidate, the party decided to pave the way for an unopposed election of Congress candidate. The decision was taken by core committee of state unit of the party. We respected Congress’s request to elect their candidate from the seat fallen vacant because of the demise of the sitting MP,” a statement issued by BJP reads.BJP had picked a north Indian candidate to send out a message in the community ahead of the Assembly polls to Uttar Pradesh and civic body polls in Mumbai early next year. North Indians accounts for more than 20% population of Mumbai.The election was necessitated because of the demise of sitting Congres MP Rajiv Satav, who was 46, died due to the post-Covid complications in Pune in May.“Since there were only two nominations under consideration, we announced Congress candidate elected unopposed after the withdrawal of the other candidate. The swearing in of the newly elected member, will be decided by the Rajya Sabha,” said Rajendra Bhagwat, principal secretary, Maharashtra legislature.Rajni Patil, 62, who is currently the party’s in-charge of Jammu and Kashmir, served as Rajya Sabha MP for five years until April 2018 on the seat fallen vacant after the demise of former Union minister Vilasrao Deshmukh. She was elected to Lok Sabha in 1996 from Beed as a BJP candidate. She is considered to be very close to party president Sonia Gandhi and has been preferred over other aspirants including Mukul Wasnik, Milind Deora among others. The party has believably picked Marathwada leader for the seat represented by Satav, who too was from the region.Upadhyay said, “As per the directives by the party, I have withdrawn my nomination. I am thankful to the party leaders Devendraji Fadnavis, Chandrakantji Patil for the opportunity given to me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congresss-rajni-patil-elected-unopposed-to-rajya-sabha-after-bjp-candidate-withdrew-nomination-101632759287676.html
28-09-2021||Lucknow||Heart disease affects Indians earlier than western counterparts, say doctors||LUCKNOW Prevention and treatment services for cardiovascular diseases have been severely disrupted amid healthcare providers more focused on combating spread of vector-borne and Covid infections, said health experts.“With the growing burden of heart failure in India, there is need to recognise it as a public health priority. However, another barrier to care that needs to be overcome is poor adherence to treatment,” said Dr Nakul Sinha, director, interventional cardiology, Medanta Hospital. Cardiovascular diseases affect Indians at least a decade earlier than their western counterparts, in their most productive years. This worrying trend is attributed to several factors, including stressful lifestyles, poor dietary habits, alcohol or drug misuse and lack of adequate physical activity. Identifying early symptoms of heart failure is essential, said experts. “In our population, up to one-fourth of patients default from treatment, especially once they feel that symptoms have regressed. This non-adherence can snowball into further complications, increasing risk of hospital admissions. Awareness can facilitate early and effective disease management,” said Sinha. Common symptoms include shortness of breath, fatigue, swelling in ankles, legs or the stomach, and difficulty in sleeping. Less typical signs include nocturnal cough, wheezing, loss of appetite and palpitations, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/heart-disease-affects-indians-ahead-of-western-counterparts-say-doctors-101632751128967.html
