29-09-2021||Noida||Mihir Bhoj controversy: Two arrested for smearing black paint on UP CM’s name on plaque||Two persons were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly smearing black paint on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s name on a plaque installed below a statue of ninth-century king Mihir Bhoj at a college in Dadri. Police said they have registered a case against 150 unknown persons for the incident.Adityanath unveiled the 15-foot statue of the king on September 22.Police identified the arrested suspects as Deepak Nagar, 32, and Vikrant, 30, residents of Ecotech 3 in Greater Noida. A group of people gathered at the Mihir Bhoj statue on Tuesday and painted over the name, police said, adding that a video of the incident emerged on social media. “We scanned the video and arrested two persons involved in the incident. We have launched a search to arrest other suspects,” said Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer of Dadri police station. The statue has been the centre of a controversy since its inauguration at the Mihir Bhoj PG College in Dadri. The Gurjar community has been protesting against the removal of their caste’s name from the plaque installed below the statue. The community leaders maintain that the king belonged to the Gurjar community. The Rajput community has also claimed that the ninth-century king belonged to their caste. Ramchandra Verma, secretary of Gurjar Vidya Sabha, a trust which manages the Dadri college, on Tuesday filed a complaint against unknown persons after the incident. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said based on the complaint, Dadri police registered a case against 150 unknown persons under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 153 (deliberately giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 427 (mischief) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984. The officials said that police personnel have been deployed at the Dadri college after the incident.The incident took place soon after Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Nagar visited the statue and offered tributes to the ninth-century king. “The word ‘Gurjar’ was never removed from the plaque. Some members of opposition parties are creating trouble,” said Nagar, a leader of Bharatiya Janata Party. Tanmay Shankar, media in-charge, Noida unit of BJP, alleged that the people involved in blackening the plaque were associated with Samajwadi Party. “The Samajwadi Party has lost ground in Gautam Budh Nagar. All the three MLAs in the district belong to BJP. The opposition party is trying to create a divide between Gurjar and Rajput communities for an electoral dividend,” Shankar said. Denying the allegations, Inder Pradhan, GB Nagar district president of Samajwadi Party, and a member of Gurjar Swabhiman Bachao Samiti, said that there were a number of people at the spot when the incident took place. “The members of BJP were also at the spot, and it is not clear who had damaged the plaque. The Samiti has called a meeting in Greater Noida on October 2 to decide the next move,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mihir-bhoj-controversy-two-arrested-for-smearing-black-paint-on-up-cm-s-name-on-plaque-101632940104276.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi in Lucknow on Oct 5 for urban conclave||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be in Lucknow on October 5 to participate in the urban conclave being organised by the state’s urban development department at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in the state capital. This would be Modi’s third visit to UP in recent months after his programmes in Varanasi and Aligarh, and ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) polls, more such visits are being planned, a UP minister confirmed. “During his nearly two-hour visit on October 5, the PM is expected to virtually interact with beneficiaries of the PM Awas Yojana,” an official said. The Urban Conclave would be a three-day affair. On the occasion, keys would given to nearly 75,000 beneficiaries of PM Awas Yojana, officials said. These beneficiaries are given monetary assistance of ₹2.5 lakh each to build their houses. “The beneficiaries of the scheme would be from different cities of the state,” an official said.From the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan venue, the PM is also likely to virtually flag off 150 electric buses that would ply in seven cities of the state, officials indicated. The PM is also expected to inaugurate an exhibition of various urban development schemes that have been implemented so far or are in the works, officials said. “He could also inaugurate, either virtually or physically, several other urban development schemes,” officials said. This time, instead of coming by road from the airport, the PM could take a chopper from the Lucknow airport till the La Martinere College grounds opposite the chief minister’s residence from where he is expected to go by road till the venue of the urban conclave. The PM had previously visited Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency, in July and had followed it up with a visit to Aligarh in September to lay the foundation stone of a state university that has been named after Jat king Mahendra Pratap Singh.“While these visits of his are in his capacity as Prime Minister, being the party’s tallest and most charismatic leader, several of his rallies are being planned exclusively with 2022 UP polls in mind,” a BJP leader said.The BJP is currently conducting Sewa Aur Samarpan (service and humility) campaign to mark the completion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s two decades as a public representative, starting with his three terms as the chief minister of Gujarat followed by his current two terms as Prime Minister. The party’s campaign that started on Modi’s 71st birthday on September 17 will continue till October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-in-lucknow-on-oct-5-for-urban-conclave-101632940103051.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: 13 fresh dengue cases take tally to 288, 50% cases from city areas||Ghaziabad reported 13 fresh cases of dengue on Wednesday, taking the tally of total cases to 288, of which about 50% of the cases are from localities in the city while the trans-Hindon areas make up for 20%, said officials from the health department. The tally of malaria and scrub typhus stood at 15 and 39 respectively on Wednesday. Officials said of the total 288 dengue cases reported in the district so far, 208 patients required to be admitted to hospitals, taking the rate of hospitalisation to about 72.22%. Officials of the district malaria department said city areas like Govindpuram, Harsaon, Pratap VIhar and Vijay Nagar among others were put under the ‘red zone’, indicating a high load of dengue cases. “In this category, we have placed such localities from where dengue cases are being reported in clusters. The localities under the red zone make up for about 50% of the overall dengue cases reported so far. In the next category (orange zone), we have placed localities, such as Shastri Nagar and Mahendra Enclave, where cases are being reported but not in clusters. These account for about 30% of the overall dengue cases reported so far,” said G K Mishra, district malaria officer. Mishra added trans-Hindon localities of Vaishali, Vasundhara, Indirapuram and Sahibabad fall under the ‘yellow zone’. “These localities do not have cases in clusters, but cases are sporadic. These account for about 20% of the dengue cases. We are mapping each and every dengue case on a map and have identified localities accordingly. Extensive anti-larvae and fogging drives have been taken up in high-risk areas,” said Mishra. According to official figures, the total number of dengue cases was 621 in 2016, 232 in 2017, 68 in 2018, 88 in 2019 and 15 in 2020. The number of cases spiked in September this year, with Ghaziabad recording the first 100 cases on September 15 and the next 100 in nine days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-13-fresh-dengue-cases-take-tally-to-288-50-cases-from-city-areas-101632940043192.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Agencies gear up to complete road repairs by Oct 30||With the Uttar Pradesh government issuing directions to all municipal corporations and local bodies across the state to complete repairs and ensure roads are pothole-free by October 30 and even residents complaining of roads going from bad to worse following heavy rain during monsoon, officials of the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation said they have expedited the road repair works and are likely to complete the works by the stipulated deadline. The directions with regard to road repairs were issued by the additional chief secretary of the state urban development department. According to official data of the Indian Meteorological Department, Ghaziabad district received 310.2mm rain between June 1 and September 29 against the normal precipitation of 544.7mm this monsoon. Residents said roads in Rajendra Nagar, Shalimar Garden Extension 1, Shalimar Garden (main), Vikram Enclave, Tulsi Niketan and at Apsara border are in an abominable state. “The entire stretch below the Red Line of the Metro is very patchy and roads in other localities have potholes. Due to waterlogging caused by heavy rain, roads in many localities have been damaged. If not repaired in time, it will soon lead to air pollution, which will be another difficulty that commuters, who take these stretches daily, will have to brave,” said Jugal Kishor, a resident of Shalimar Garden. He added residents have for long have been demanding road repairs. The current state of the roads pose a risk to those travelling in two-wheelers, said Kishor. “There are instances of vehicles getting damaged due to potholes and patchy road stretches.The roads in many sectors of Vaishali, such as Sectors 2,3, 4 and 5, need immediate repairs,” said B K Pandey, a resident of Vaishali. Mohan Sangwan, who lives in Indirapuram, said the condition of roads is no different in his area where 70km of the road network is maintained by the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA). “The roads at Kala Patthar near Swarn Jayanti Park and its adjoining areas have suffered most during the monsoon. Patchy roads and potholes are a common sight. The CISF road is in a bad state for the past one year due to the water pipeline project,” said Sangwan. The situation is same in Patel Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Raj Nagar and Govindpuram among other areas. “In Indirapuram, the Jal Nigam will start repairing the CISF Road while the GDA will immediately start the work of making the roads pothole-free. The GDA will issue separate tenders for repairing potholes and road resurfacing work, the second work will start within a week. According to our estimates, of the 70km road network in Indirapuram, about 3% is damaged,” said A K Chaudhary, executive engineer, GDA. Officials from the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said they are likely to spend about ₹40 crore for making the roads pothole-free and carrying out resurfacing work. “The engineering department has almost completed the assessment; tenders for resurfacing will be floated soon for each of the roads which have been damaged during monsoon. Filling up of potholes may cost us about ₹5 crore. We are expediting the process and are likely to complete the road works in October itself,” said municipal commissioner M S Tanwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-agencies-gear-up-to-complete-road-repairs-by-oct-30-101632939863088.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||HC sets aside JNU’s appointment of centre chairperson, says not done as per statutes||The Delhi high court has set aside the appointment of professor Mazhar Asif, the current chairperson of the Centre for Spanish, Portuguese, Italian and Latin American Studies (CSPILAS) at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), after it was challenged by a professor at the Centre, who contended that it was not done in accordance with the university statutes.On September 17, justice V Kameswar Rao, while passing his judgment on a plea by former chairperson of CSPILAS, professor Rajix Saxena, said the decision to appoint Asif as chairperson was not justified.Saxena had contended that Asif’s appointment as chairperson of CSPILAS was against the statutes as he was not a teacher at the Centre.“This court is conscious of the fact that a Centre cannot be without a chairperson who supervises its activities, but the appointment of respondent No. 2 (Asif) cannot be justified,” Rao said.“He (Saxena) has primarily challenged the appointment of the respondent No.2 being violative of the Act of 1966 and statutes framed there under. He has not sought any prayer in the writ petition for his appointment / continuance as Chairman of the Centre, In fact, his prayer is that a Chairperson of CSPILAS be made strictly in accordance with the Statutes 18(2)(c) (1) of the Act of 1966,” he further noted.Placing reliance on the Jawaharlal Nehru University Act, the petitioner contended that Statute 18(2)(c)(1) stipulates that each Centre/Department is required to have a chairperson and the chairperson is required to be appointed by the executive council from among the professors and senior fellows within the Centre itself.Saxena’s counsel added the statute does not confer any discretion on the university to act otherwise than the rules prescribed and that the only discretion which lies with the university is that if there is only one professor in the centre, then an associate professor may also be appointed.Saxena also said that neither he nor another professor at the centre could get the position as he had already served two consecutive terms and the other candidate was removed midterm due to some misconduct.Directing the university to proceed in accordance with law, the court said, ““There cannot be any dispute that JNU has been established under the Act of 1966 and is governed by the statutes and ordinances which are statutory in nature. It is the statute 18 of the statutes which govern the appointment of the chairperson of all centres under the school, including CSPILAS.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-sets-aside-jnu-s-appointment-of-centre-chairperson-says-not-done-as-per-statutes-101632939803057.html
29-09-2021||Pune||MSEDCL initiates criminal action against 2,237 consumers for power theft, recovers Rs3.42 cr||PUNE: In a major crackdown across the Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur and Kolhapur districts, the Maharashtra State Energy Distribution Company (MSEDCL) Pune has initiated criminal action against as many as 2,237 consumers for power theft. The MSEDCL has exposed power theft to the tune of Rs3.42 crore, taken action against the violators under section 135 of the Indian Electricity Act, and managed to recover the said amount.Action was taken after MSEDCL regional director Ankush Nale ordered a strict clampdown as part of a special mission to curb the rising number of power thefts. Hundreds of MSEDCL engineers and staffers participated in the drive that yielded strong recovery of power theft bills. MSEDCL authorities claimed to have checked 17,037 connections across domestic, commercial, industrial and agricultural consumers. A preliminary inquiry revealed theft of 20.66 lakh units of electricity following which the flying squad handed over the bills to the violators and recovered the amount in question. Pune had the highest number of power thefts followed by Satara and Solapur at the second and third spot, respectively.The MSEDCL authorities pointed out that the modus operandi of the violators included tampering with electricity meters, putting hooks on supply lines, and even bypassing underground cables by tapping the main power supply line. When power theft is detected, the authorised person can immediately disconnect the supply after he/she has sufficient prima-facie evidence, according to MSEDCL officials. In the event of such disconnection, the authority is under obligation to lodge an FIR within 24 hours of disconnecting the power supply. The supply is required to be restored within 48 hours of payment of the amount assessed as liability on account of theft.Lodging of FIRAfter disconnection of supply, it is mandatory to lodge an FIR within 24 hours. When there is no disconnection, it is not mandatory to lodge an FIR immediately. In the meantime, if the person who has committed the theft pays the amount assessed as liability on account of theft and comes forward for compounding of the offence and also pays the compounding charges, it is not necessary to lodge an FIR. However, an intimation to that effect has to be sent to the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-initiates-criminal-action-against-2-237-consumers-for-power-theft-recovers-rs3-42-cr-101632939743183.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi govt changed perception about UP, big investments pouring in: Satish Mahana||Uttar Pradesh (UP) minister for industrial development Satish Mahana on Wednesday said Yogi Adityanath’s government had changed the perception about the state and cited it as a major achievement of the BJP government.He said the state has been attracting investments ever since BJP came to power and added that UP continued to be looked at as a major investment destination even during the Covid-19 period.Speaking to media persons, Mahana listed achievements and the investments that the state had attracted in various sectors in the past four and a half years.Referring to UP Investors Summit that led to generation of investment intents worth more than ₹4.28 lakh crore, Mahana said investment of nearly ₹1.84 lakh crore was under active stages of implementation.“218 projects worth ₹51,923 crore are under commercial production, 130 projects worth ₹37,376 crore are under implementation while 449 projects involving an investment of ₹81,334 crore have been facilitated. These include 34 projects worth ₹15,893 crore beginning with commercial production and 23 projects worth ₹6935 crore entering under active implementation stage in post-Covid 19 period,” he said. About the defence corridor project that has attracted investment of ₹50,000 crore is expected to create 2.5 lakh jobs. “IIT Kanpur has been selected as technology partner for shaping up the defence corridor project,” he said.Mahana said Aligarh node inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently immediately found ready takers with land allotted to 19 companies who are likely to invest a sum of about ₹1245 crore. “Allotments have been made to three more companies in Kanpur and Jhansi. Next generation (Brahmos-NG) missile project involving investment of ₹300 crore has been proposed to be set up in Lucknow. Another MoU has been signed with Bharat Dynamics Ltd. (BDL) for investing ₹400 crore to set up missile propulsion system factory at Jhansi,” he said.Mahana said the state government’s helpdesk has attracted more than 96 investment intents worth ₹66,000 crore. He said these include the intents from 10 countries including Japan, US, UK, Canada, Germany, South Korea and Singapore etc.“Samsung India has relocated its display unit involving an investment of ₹5000 crore to NOIDA making India the third display manufacturer in the world,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-govt-changed-perception-about-up-big-investments-pouring-in-satish-mahana-101632939684261.html
29-09-2021||Pune||FDA shuts 246 chemist stores in Maharashtra||In raids conducted by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on chemist stores across the state, 246 outlets were told to shut shop as they were operating without qualified pharmacists. In Pune, 31 shops have been closed. The inquiry was conducted on 3,460 chemist stores of which 277 were given notices and 243 were told to shut shop. “In many cases families take the shop licence and continue to run it without a qualified pharmacist. It is not advisable to run medicine shops without qualified people,” said an FDA official, on request of anonymity. “Show cause notice has been sent to all of them. Until they respond shops will remain closed. Running of chemist shops without a licence is increasing in Pune district,” said, Suresh Patil, joint commissioner (drugs), Food and Drug Administration. Konkan tops the charts with 56 chemist shops that were shut after the raids. Division; number of chemist shops shut down Amravati; 29 Nashik; 31 Pune; 31 Mumbai; 55 Nagpur; 29 Aurangabad; 15 Konkan; 56 Total; 246||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fda-shuts-246-chemist-stores-in-maharashtra-101632939204231.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Education dept asks govt school teachers to get vaccine shots by October 15||The state government’s education department on Wednesday issued an order asking teachers and staff in its institutions to get vaccinated by October 15, failing which they will not be allowed to attend school.This is likely the first such vaccination mandate issued in the Capital so far.In a circular issued on Wednesday evening, education director Udit Prakash Rai said, “It is imperative that the Directorate of Education [DoE] ensures all the government school teachers and staffs get vaccinated on an immediate basis, therefore heads of all government schools of DoE were directed to take necessary steps for vaccination of all the government school teachers on an urgent basis via a circular dated June 6.”Currently, students of classes 9 to 12 are allowed to visit schools for in-person classes. The DoE order on vaccination comes on the day the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said it was considering reopening classes 6, 7 and 8 after the festive season.The education department also directed heads of schools, as well as district and zonal deputy directors of education to ensure all teachers and staff not yet vaccinated to get jabs by October 15.“All such teachers and school staff who have not got themselves vaccinated by October 15, 2021 should not be allowed to attend the school and their absence will be treated as on leave,” Rai said in the circular.Some teachers, however, questioned the leave clause in the circular. “While everyone should get vaccinated for the fight against Covid, if somebody does not want to get vaccinated for medical or personal reasons, they should not be forced to do so. The law doesn’t permit that,” said Sant Ram, district secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association (GSTA) in west Delhi-A.GSTA general secretary Ajay Veer Yadav said most teachers are already vaccinated. “Only a small percentage of teachers remain. The authorities should allow people to file for an exemption if they cannot take the vaccine for medical or personal reasons,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-education-dept-asks-govt-school-teachers-to-get-vaccine-shots-by-october-15-101632939143841.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||UP excise dept gets set for crackdown on illicit liquor||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh excise department has decided to install CCTV cameras at all liquor shops operated by the department. The CCTV cameras, along with a new five-digit toll free number (14405) issued on Wednesday, are aimed at identifying cases of overrating of liquor or of illegal activities outside liquor outlets. The new toll-free number would be marked on all country liquor shops, foreign liquor shops, beer shops and model shops also, officials said. Excise commissioner Senthil Pandian C said that cameras had already been installed at about 18,000 shops out of about total 27,500 liquor shops in the state. “Instructions have been given to the officers to get the cameras installed at the remaining shops also. DVR of CCTV cameras installed on shops will also be checked on random basis, which will help in checking illegal activities at the shops,” he said. While the new toll-free number is aimed at encouraging people to report cases of illicit liquor, the department has also introduced digital locks for tankers carrying molasses from the sugar mills as well as those carrying alcohol and ethanol. “At times, alcohol is stolen from the tankers and sold to notorious people, who illegally make and sell the illicit liquor prepared from this alcohol. The digital locks would be placed in front of department officials and will check theft from tankers, preventing the manufacture and sale of illicit liquor,” said additional chief secretary Sanjay R Bhoosreddy. “The department has decided to install digital locks by making a radical change in the already existing system of sealing the tankers. Digital locks can be opened only at their destination. Installation of digital locks in tankers transporting liquor / molasses/ ethanol shall be supervised by assistant excise commissioner appointed in distilleries and sub excise inspectors appointed in sugar mills,” the official said. The new five-digit toll free number – 14405 - on which complaints regarding illicit liquor can be made, would operate along with previous helpline number ‘18001805331’ and WhatsApp number – 9454466019, officials said. Excise commissioner, Senthil Pandian C said the new helpline had an “easy recall”. “It will make it easy for the complainants to remember and register their complaint immediately,” the officials said. Pandian said on Bhoosreddy’s instructions, a control room had already been set up at the excise headquarters in Prayagraj and it was continuously functional to receive information regarding the manufacture, sale and smuggling of illicit liquor. “These helpline and toll-free numbers are aimed at encouraging people to register complaints regarding manufacture, sale and smuggling of illicit liquor,” the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-excise-dept-gets-set-for-crackdown-on-illicit-liquor-101632938782984.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||EOW of UP police arrest contractor in 9-yr-old financial embezzlement case||UP police Economic Offence Wing (EOW) on Wednesday arrested a contractor accused of financial embezzlement of over ₹3 crore in the construction of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Awasiya Vidyalaya in Bijnor district. The EOW officials said the accused was arrested nearly nine years after registration of an FIR in the matter in 2012. EOW Lucknow superintendent of police (SP) Swapnil Mamgain said the accused Dharmendra Singh, a resident of Banda, was arrested by EOW Meerut sector team. He said Singh was wanted in the case registered against him under section 406 for criminal breach of trust and section 420 for fraud allegedly for procuring the payment of ₹3.03 crore for the construction of the school building and disappearing without completing the work allotted to him from the government agency. He said the case was transferred to the EOW in 2014 and the investigators have filed the chargesheet against Singh in the matter a few months back, but the latter disappeared since then and was on run. He said the EOW team tracked his location and arrested him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eow-of-up-police-arrest-contractor-in-9-yr-old-financial-embezzlement-case-101632938669070.html
29-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination: Over 16K given jabs on first day of mega drive||As many as 16,157 people were inoculated against Covid-19 on the first day of a mega vaccination drive across 119 session sites on Wednesday, officials of the health department said.Officials said that a three-day mega vaccination campaign will be held till October 1, with an overall target of vaccinating around 60,000 residents.Dr MP Singh, the district immunisation officer, who is heading the vaccination campaign in the district, said there is no need for registration and that residents can walk in for the jabs, which will be administered on a first-come-first-served basis.According to a release issued by the district administration, 3,077,131 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the district till Wednesday. It also stated that the drive would be held across 160 session sites on Thursday, across rural and urban areas of the district.The Covishield vaccine will be administered at 154 centres, while the second dose of the Covaxin vaccine will be administered at Radha Swami Satsang centre in Sector 61, Huda City Centre Metro station, and the primary health centres in Tigra and Manesar. Each site will have 300 slots, officials said.Citizens travelling overseas, meanwhile, can get the second dose of Covishield from the Sector 31 Polyclinic, where the second dose of Sputnik V vaccines will also be administered.“A total of 31,250 slots will be available for first and second doses of coronavirus vaccines at all 154 immunisation centres on Thursday,” a spokesperson for the district administration said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-over-16k-given-jabs-on-first-day-of-mega-drive-101632938667804.html
29-09-2021||Gurugram||Woman, accomplice held for murdering boyfriend to death in Gurugram||A woman and a male acquaintance of hers were arrested for allegedly murdering her boyfriend near Ghata on Monday, and were lodged in judicial custody after being produced in a court, the police said.According to the police, the victim was identified as Asif, a 25-year-old autorickshaw driver who had come to the city from Budaun in Uttar Pradesh. He was in a relationship with the main accused, identified as Sonia (26), for over three years but their relations were strained for the past few months as he wanted to end their relationship and marry a woman of his family’s choosing, the police said.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that unhappy over the turn of events, Sonia came to the city from Jalandhar in Punjab along with an acquaintance, identified as Yakub (24), and killed Asif. The duo allegedly called Asif to an isolated place outside Ghata village, where they attacked him with an iron rod and a stone, and bludgeoned him to death.“It appears that Asif wanted to get out of this relationship and this had enraged Sonia, who entered into a conspiracy with Yakub and came all the way from Jalandhar to kill the victim,” he said.A case was registered at the Sector 56 police station, after a resident informed the police about the body of a man, bearing severe injury marks, lying inside an autorickshaw outside Ghata village.Sangwan said that the police teams started an investigation soon after receiving the information. “The two accused, Sonia and her accomplice Yakub, also a resident of Budaun, were arrested on Monday itself,” he said.A senior police official, requesting anonymity, said that the woman also feared that Asif could harm her in the future as he was allegedly in possession of their intimate photos and videos.The police said that after questioning the duo, they recovered the rod and stone used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/woman-accomplice-held-for-murdering-boyfriend-to-death-in-gurugram-101632938666601.html
29-09-2021||Gurugram||Kherki Daula: Delhi Police personnel block toll plaza after being denied free passage, cause congestion||Personnel of the Delhi Police blocked three service lanes at the Kherki Daula toll plaza for around 45 minutes during the peak hour on Wednesday morning, causing heavy congestion at the toll, after being denied free passage, officials of the concessionaire said.The issue was resolved after the Gurugram police personnel intervened, reopening the lanes and allowing their Delhi counterparts to pass through.Officials of the Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), the highway concessionaire, said that as per the protocols set by the National Highways Authority of India, Delhi Police personnel are not exempted from paying the toll.Sohrab Khan, an MCEPL official, said that around 9am, a few persons in three separate cars refused to pay the toll and demanded exemption claiming that they were personnel of the Delhi Police. “When the toll agents refused to let the vehicles pass through the plaza, these persons who were wearing the uniform of Delhi Police entered into an argument with the toll staff. Finally they blocked lanes 26, 27 and 28, and this went for around 45 minutes,” Khan said.MCEPL officials said that vehicular movement slowed down from 9am to 10am and congestion was witnessed at the toll plaza after three lanes on the Delhi to Jaipur side were blocked. It was only after the intervention of Gurugram police that the matter was resolved and service lanes opened.When asked, officials of the Delhi Police refused to comment on the matter.Kherki Daula toll plaza witnesses heavy movement of traffic during peak hours in the morning and evening and around 100,000 vehicles pass through the plaza daily. MCEPL officials said that they had to divert the traffic to side lanes to ensure movement of vehicles and finally call the city police to resolve the matter. “We sought assistance from local police to get the service lanes opened,” Khan said. The Gurugram police said that there was a minor argument between staffers at the toll plaza and Delhi Police personnel, which was resolved later. “The matter was reported to us. Some officials of Delhi Police had a minor argument with the toll staff over exemption, which was sorted out. We have not received any written complaint,” Krishan Kant, the station house officer of Kherki Daula police station, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/kherki-daula-delhi-police-personnel-block-toll-plaza-after-being-denied-free-passage-cause-congestion-101632938665421.html
29-09-2021||Gurugram||MCG polls: Voting rehearsal held in Ward 34||A rehearsal for the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) Ward 34 elections was undertaken at the Sector 27 community centre on Wednesday, ahead of the elections scheduled for October 3, according to a release issued by the district administration. A spokesperson for the district administration said, “At each booth, a four-member team has been assigned duties. Along with this, five teams have been kept in reserve. As many as 28,668 voters are eligible for voting in the elections. Polling will be conducted from 8am to 4.30pm and counting of votes will take place immediately after polling.”Officials said that four candidates have filed nominations for the elections. Three of them are contesting as independent candidates while one candidate is fighting on a Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) ticket. The Ward 34 councillor seat has been vacant since RS Rathee’s death due to Covid-19 on May 30. RS Rathee had won the seat as an independent councillor in the 2017 MCG elections.The ward includes residential societies of Belvedere Towers in Cyber City, The Ivy apartments in Sector 28, The Magnolias in Sector 42, DLF Phases 1-2 township, Silver Oaks Apartment in DLF Phase-1, Oakwood Estate in DLF Phase-2, Beverly Park 1 and 2, Heritage City and Essel Towers, all of which are located in the vicinity of the Mall Mile.In the rehearsal, organised under the supervision of the returning officer and subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Satish Yadav of the Badshahpur assembly constituency, trainers gave detailed information to the workers assigned election duty on key issues, such as the handling of Electronic Voting Machines (EVM) and the voting process.According to officials, 30 booths have been set up at 12 polling stations at Ascent Public School in Chakkarpur, Sushant Lok Block A-1, Maruti Vihar community Centre, Pinecrest Primary School in DLF Phase-1, F-block community centre in DLF Phase-1, Sector 27 community centre, a primary play school in Essel Towers society, Garden Estate community centre, Government Secondary School in Sikanderpur, K-block community centre in DLF Phase-2, American Montessori Public School in DLF Phase-2 and at a tennis room in Heritage City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-polls-voting-rehearsal-held-in-ward-34-101632938664280.html
29-09-2021||Gurugram||Murders, suicide: Five bodies found in Palwal residence||Five members of a family, including three minors, were found dead at their residence in Aurangabad village of Palwal district on Wednesday morning. The police are suspecting that the head of the household poisoned and smothered his family members to death, following which he committed suicide.Police officials said that a family discord could be the reason for the extreme step, but they are probing the matter from all angles. The bodies were sent for an autopsy in the evening, the results of which are awaited.According to an initial probe, the head of the family, Naresh Kumar, either gave poison to his wife, Arti, and their seven-year-old daughter, 11-year-old son and a nine-year-old niece who lived with them, or served them sleeping tablets and later smothered them to death with a pillow, the police said, following which Kumar allegedly hanged himself.The police said that all bodies were found in the same room and there was no suicide note recovered from the spot.A case has been registered against Kumar on a complaint filed by his father and the matter is being probed, the police said.Sajjan Singh, the deputy superintendent of police, Hodal, said that after questioning the family members, they ascertained that Kumar was not under any financial stress and that he had recently returned to the village on Tuesday after a trip to Jhansi. “His father told us that there was no indication of stress or any other issue that was revealed by Kumar. He also interacted with his family normally,” Singh said.Kumar was a landowner and was engaged in farming, and a few months earlier, he started running a dhaba in collaboration with his in-laws in Jhansi, the police said. “The man smothered them and committed suicide by hanging. It appears family differences were the reason behind taking this extreme step,” Singh said.The deaths were reported by Kumar’s father, who, according to the police, found the bodies when he went to his son’s house to check on them as there was no movement. The father lives in a separate room in the same compound.Singh also said that in his complaint to the police, Kumar’s father did not raise suspicions of foul play or conspiracy.Bhagat Singh, Kumar’s brother, said that they were shocked by the incident as the family did not have any financial burden and there were no issues to indicate any stress or tension.Residents of Aurangabad who had gathered near the victims’ residence also expressed their surprise over the deaths, and said that a thorough probe should be conducted into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/murders-suicide-five-bodies-found-in-palwal-residence-101632938662997.html
29-09-2021||Gurugram||MCG works: Rao Inderjit Singh lays foundation stone for nine projects||Nine projects of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), comprising green work as well as road renovations, were launched by the Union minister of state and Gurugram MP, Rao Inderjit Singh, on Wednesday. A foundation stone ceremony was held in this regard at the PWD rest house in Civil Lines, for the projects that cumulatively cost ₹35 crore.According to the details released by the MCG, a 1.4-kilometre section of the Dhanwapur Road, connecting Dhanwapur railway crossing (Sector 104) and Dwarka Expressway, will be fixed. This has been a longstanding demand of residents in the area. The stretch is accessed by thousands of commuters daily as it connects commuters travelling between Dwarka in Delhi with parts of Old Gurgaon and vice versa.Despite its significance, the four-lane stretch is ridden with potholes and heavily degraded, with little bitumen covering. Residents have been raising demands for fixing the stretch with the MCG since early 2018.“This stretch of road was built in 2008 and has been in abysmal condition since 2012. Through social media as well as during meetings with MCG officials, we have been pressing for its repair to be carried out regularly since 2018. The condition of this stretch worsens during rains as it practically becomes a muddy swamp due to which crossing it becomes even a tough task,” Yashesh Yadav, the president of Dwarka Expressway (DXP) Welfare Association, said.To fix this, the MCG will be relaying the entire stretch at a cost of ₹1.6 crore.Besides this stretch, six projects pertain to the development, renovation and beautification of parks and green belts in sectors 21, 15 Parts 1 and 2, and wards 20 and 21, at a cost of ₹13.1 crore. The two other projects comprise the construction of community centres in Sector 12A and Kanhai at a cost of ₹20.37 crore.Singh also inaugurated a heart and vascular institute at a private multi-speciality hospital in Sector 44.In his speech at the venue, Singh said that the city’s Civil Hospital Sector 10 will also be reconstructed with state-of-the-art health facilities. “The construction work of this hospital will be done in two phases. For this, the land of the adjoining government school has been taken. With the construction of this hospital, the residents of Gurugram will get better health facilities. The matter was discussed with the chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the past and he has suggested that the Civil Hospital should be reconstructed on a priority basis,” Singh said.Constructed in 1967, the condition of the city’s Civil Hospital has degraded over the years, with studies done by the Public Works Department (PWD) in 2019 and by the MCG in 2016 recommending demolition and reconstruction of the hospital at the earliest. The hospital has over 200 beds and receives a footfall of more than 2,000 people every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-works-rao-inderjit-singh-lays-foundation-stone-for-nine-projects-101632938544161.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||3 wards in Mumbai have less than 100 active Covid-19 cases||Three of the 24 administrative wards in Mumbai corresponding to areas of Dahisar in the western suburbs, Marine Lines and Bhendi Bazar and Mohammad Ali Road area in south Mumbai have less than 100 active cases, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) daily Covid-19 report. Those with the highest active Covid-19 cases are K-West (Andheri) with 454 active cases, followed by R-Central (Borivli) with 334 active cases. Mumbai has 5,144 active cases as of Wednesday.While the B ward (Bhendi Bazar, Pydhoni, Mohammad Ali Road) has 37 active cases, the C ward (Marine Lines) has the lowest number of active cases – 32. Despite most wards in north Mumbai reporting a higher number of active cases, R-North ward, corresponding to Dahisar area, has 88 cases. In comparison, the other north Mumbai wards – R-South ward in Kandivli has 272 active cases, P-North ward in Malad has 176 active cases, P-South ward in Goregaon has 217 active cases, T ward of Mulund has 220 active cases, and S ward of Bhandup has 192 active cases.R-North ward also has the lowest growth rate of 0.03%, while C ward has 0.04%. However, B ward has the second highest growth rate in Mumbai at 0.09%. Growth rate is calculated as the average of the increase in number of Covid-19 cases reported in the ward within the past seven days. Mumbai’s average growth rate at present is 0.06%.B and C ward have routinely reported fewer cases and active cases since the beginning of the pandemic, and have been among wards with the lowest Covid-19 active cases since March last year. While B and C wards have a higher population density, they are smaller wards in comparison to north Mumbai’s administrative wards in terms of overall population. While B ward has a population of 127,290, C ward has a population of 166,161. R-North ward has a population of 431,368.Bharat Torne, assistant commissioner of C ward, said, “This ward has had fewer Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the pandemic. The staff of the ward level health department has been diligent.”A civic official from B ward said, “We have been following all quarantine, contact tracing and testing rules as decided by the civic body.”About 60% of the area that comes under the jurisdiction of the R-North ward is slums. Mrudula Hande, assistant commissioner of the R-North ward, said, “We have tightened quarantine rules, and contact tracing efforts in our ward. While we trace an average of 15 high-risk contacts per positive case, we have been tracing upto 18 high-risk contacts per case within the past week. We have also been conducting an average of 400 to 600 Covid-19 tests per day. We conduct weekly analysis of cases, and if we see even a small spike in cases, we increase our testing and contact tracing efforts.”Currently, there are 53 sealed floors in R-North ward, and one sealed building. In C ward, there are 14 sealed floors and no sealed buildings, and in B ward, there are 26 sealed floors and no sealed buildings. There are no containment zones across Mumbai, which are slums or chawls, as per BMC’s standard operating procedure. The civic body seals a building if it records more than five cases, and seals a floor if it records even one single Covid-19 case, according to the SOP.A senior civic official from BMC’s health department said, “In case of wards with higher active covid-19 cases, we have to take into account clusters, where many cases are reported among high-risk contacts, and also the presence of Covid-19 hospitals within their jurisdiction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-wards-in-mumbai-have-less-than-100-active-covid-19-cases-101632938183009.html
29-09-2021||Gurugram||Haryana reports zero Covid-19 deaths, 16 fresh cases||Haryana has reported zero coronavirus-related deaths, even though it recorded 16 new infections on Wednesday, pushing the state total case count to 7,70,863. Among the districts, Gurugram district reported the highest count with seven fresh Covid-19 cases.According to the Health Department's daily bulletin, the death toll remained unchanged at 9,874. The total active cases in Haryana stood at 105, while the overall recoveries were 7,60,711.The recovery rate was 98.68 per cent, the bulletin said.Earlier on Monday, Haryana's health and home minister Anil Vij was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi due to what doctors suspected to be post-Covid complications.He was admitted after complaining of breathlessness. Speaking to news agency ANI, an AIIMS official said, "Anil Vij is admitted in AIIMS due to post covid complications. He is suffering from cough and congestion. He also required oxygen support."The minister had tested positive for coronavirus on December 5 days after taking a trial dose of Bharat Biotech's COVID-19 vaccine 'Covaxin'.With Agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-reports-zero-covid-19-deaths-16-fresh-cases-101632937250998.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow reports 18 fresh dengue cases, notices issued to 21 house owners||LUCKNOW: State capital reported 18 fresh dengue cases on Wednesday. These cases were reported from different areas of the city, including Aliganj, Alambagh, Indira Nagar, Chinhut and Kakori, and notices were also issued to owners of 21 houses, said a press statement from the office of chief medical officer (CMO), Lucknow. “In all, 1,890 houses were surveyed and conditions favourable for mosquito breeding, such as stagnated water, were found in 21 homes. Notices were issued to the house owners along with warning to remove sources of mosquito breeding from their houses immediately,” it said. “Residents should not only remove sources of mosquito breeding (such as stagnated water) from their house, but also from the neighbours’ place as mosquito can fly anywhere,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-reports-18-fresh-dengue-cases-notices-issued-to-21-house-owners-101632937822780.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||In Mumbai, schools for classes 8 to 12 to reopen from October 4||Schools in Mumbai for classes between 8 and 12 will reopen from October 4, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a circular on Wednesday. The decision applies to all public and private schools of all mediums. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad had earlier announced that schools for classes 8 to 12 would resume from October 4. The circular was issued by BMC’s education officer Raju Tadwi on Wednesday evening.In its circular, BMC instructed all schools to strictly follow Covid-19 related hygiene before restarting classes, and after classroom teaching begins. All municipal schools will be required to take up sanitization of the premises with Sodium Hypochloride, by coordinating with the respective assistant commissioners at the administrative wards. All private schools will have to arrange for sanitization of their premises. BMC has attached separate instructions for all schools regarding safety measures they need to undertake before and after teaching commences on their premises.Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Wednesday: “We are reopening schools for classes 8 to 12 in Mumbai with effect from October 4, and for the rest of the classes we will take a decision in November. All Covid-19 SOPs issued by the government will be implemented.”If there are vaccination centres or quarantine centres in any schools operating classes 8 to 12, they should be moved to a feasible location, and made operational with the help of respective ward officers, the circular states.Teachers teaching classes 8 to 12, who have been assigned duties at vaccination centres, at railway stations to check vaccination status of passengers, or have been assigned election duties, will be relieved of their duties so they can return to full time teaching.Municipal schools will have to tie up with their nearest health posts, which are either municipal dispensaries, or private clinics, after students start attending classes regularly. Private schools have also been instructed to tie up with the nearest municipal or private dispensaries in case of emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-mumbai-schools-for-classes-8-to-12-to-reopen-from-october-4-101632937762855.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||Repair all potholes in Lucknow before Nov 15: Minister||LUCKNOW Minister of urban development, Ashutosh Tandon, directed officials of LDA, LMC, PWD, Jal Nigam and district administration to repair all potholes on different roads of Lucknow before November 15, as per the directives of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.He asked civic agencies to repair 32 roads before the arrival of the Prime Minister in the state capital on October 5. Officials were directed to repair the stretches from the airport to VIP Guest House, from VIP Guest House to VIP road, from Amausi airport to Shaeed Path turn, Kanpur road to Kamta Shaheed Path, Hussadia to Indira Gandhi Pratishthan crossing and Lohia Path to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital.The minister also said that proper illumination be ensured on every crossing of the city. He directed the LMC to organise a special sanitation drive on October 1, 2 and 3 as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi. Earlier in the day, UP law minister Brajesh Pathak met the urban development minister to discuss poor civic amenities in his assembly constituency – Lucknow Central.“I have requested urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon to ensure restoration of roads that are in bad shape,” said the minister. Pathak also urged the minister to ensure beautification of parks, community halls and other public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/repair-all-potholes-in-lucknow-before-nov-15-minister-101632937282954.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Delisle ROB construction delayed as oxygen diverted for Covid patients||The construction work of the Delisle road overbridge (ROB) is likely to be delayed owing to the non-availability of oxygen during the second Covid-19 wave.The entire bridgework including the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) part is expected to be completed in 18-24 months.The Western Railway that is undertaking construction work of the portion of the Delisle ROB that crosses over the railway tracks on Wednesday stated that due to the non-availability of oxygen and labourers during the second coronavirus wave.“The construction work on the railway’s portion of the Delisle ROB is going on, however, the work was delayed due to lack of oxygen supply a few months ago. We require oxygen for welding and other construction activities, an official from Western Railway said.The Maharashtra government in March this year during the second wave of coronavirus had directed 80% of oxygen supply in the state for medical use.The Western Railway shut Delisle ROB in July 2018 after a joint inspection with experts from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), officers from Central and Western Railway and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The pedestrian portion of the Delisle bridge was opened by the railways after pressure from local councillors.Inspection of 445 bridge structures was undertaken by IIT-B experts, railway authorities and municipal corporations after the pedestrian portion of the Andheri bridge collapsed on the railway tracks at Andheri station on July 3, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delisle-rob-construction-delayed-as-oxygen-diverted-for-covid-patients-101632937102811.html
29-09-2021||Jaipur||Reduce taxes, give relief to common man: Gehlot to Centre on fuel price hike||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Wednesday demanded the Centre reduce various types of taxes on fuel to give relief to common people from rising prices."Petrol/diesel prices were under control despite crude oil prices reaching $100 per barrel during the UPA-II regime. Now the cost of crude oil is rising continuously, and will soon touch $80 a barrel in a few days," Gehlot said in a tweet in Hindi."The centre should take immediate steps and give relief to the common man by reducing various excise duties," he said.Gehlot said the Centre has imposed various types of excise duties on petrol and diesel in which states hardly get any share.Giving a break up, the chief minister said if price of one litre of diesel in Rajasthan is ₹98.80, then centre takes ₹31.80 out of it, leaving only ₹21.78 in VAT to the state.Gehlot said that in view of the poor financial condition of states after Covid, the Centre should give relief to the common man by reducing additional excise duty, special excise duty, and agriculture cess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/reduce-taxes-give-relief-to-common-man-gehlot-to-centre-on-fuel-price-hike-101632924861876.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Contractors won’t be spared for negligence, Maharashtra CM warns over potholes on highways||After facing flak from motorists for pothole-riddled highways and roads across the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned of action against the contractors and engineers for the poor quality of repair works and inappropriately utilising the funds. Thackeray, in a meeting held with senior ministers and officials, also directed officials to prepare an action plan to improve the quality of road construction. A day after discussion was held in the state cabinet meeting over potholes on state highways and national highways, Thackeray chaired a meeting of senior ministers, including deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar, urban development department minister Eknath Shinde, and public works department minister Ashok Chavan and other senior officials over the issue. Thackeray, during the meeting, warned that contractors will not be spared if negligence is found in the repair work and also remarked that action would be taken against engineers making them accountable for the work. CM took a complete review of the potholes on some state and national highways of the state. “It will be ensured that there will be no shortage of funds for the pothole repair works. However, if it is observed that the funds are not utilised properly and any negligence is found [in pothole repair work], then the concerned contractors will not be spared. Also, action will be taken against the engineer responsible for the road to make them accountable for the pothole-riddled roads,” said Thackeray as per a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO). Pawar said that the condition of the roads has become extremely bad due to heavy rains. He said, “Fifty per cent of the budgetary allocation for roads will be released by October end.” He further directed all chief engineers to personally monitor the quality of the construction in their areas daily. Shinde, during the meeting, said that the rains have battered the Mumbai-Goa national highway, Thane-Nashik highway and all department-concerned have been directed to fill up the potholes at the earliest.Thackeray further said that the focus should be given to using the new technology while carrying out the pothole repair works. “Construction of all roads should be of good quality, use modern technology where necessary, with the highest emphasis on quality in road works as well as prepare an action plan for road works,” Thackeray directed officials. He further added, “In areas receiving heavy rainfall, the concrete roads should be built instead of the tar roads.”In a bid to monitor and review the construction work, Chavan said that PWD, National Highway Authority of India, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation can set up a war room in Mantralaya, the state secretariat.The state has been receiving flak for the poor condition of the highways including in Mumbai, Thane, Nagpur, Nashik among other cities. Last week, the Bombay high court had pulled up the government over potholes on the Mumbai-Nashik highway. The court also directed the Centre and state governments to address the issue of potholes on highways. Senior state government officials said that the condition of the roads has been severely damaged due to heavy rainfall over the past few weeks in parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/contractors-won-t-be-spared-for-negligence-maharashtra-cm-warns-over-potholes-on-highways-101632935542645.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to develop a well-planned city around Shirdi airport||The Maharashtra government has decided to develop the area around Shirdi airport in Ahmednagar as a well-planned city on the lines of Naina (Navi Mumbai Airport-Influenced Notified Area) project in Navi Mumbai. The decision was taken in a meeting of Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC) chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday. The influence area around the airport has also been named ‘ASHA’ (Area around Shirdi Hub Airport).MADC is a special purpose company established by the state government to plan, construct, operate and maintain airports in the state.It has been appointed as special planning authority for the ASHA project. The company will now prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for the project, the officials said.Shirdi is a popular temple town of the country, owing to the shrine of spiritual guru Sai Baba. Its airport is located at Kakadi in Kopargaon, which is 14-km from Shirdi and is spread over a 350-hectare area. It has surpassed airports like Aurangabad, Nanded, Nashik and Kolhapur, in terms of passenger load and is the fourth busiest airport in Maharashtra after Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. In 2020, it was used by 569,000 passengers, up from just 229,000 in 2019.“Identify the area around the airport to settle a city with all the facilities in Shirdi and also set up one of the best development centres in the state,” the chief minister said during the 76th board MADC meeting at his official residence Varsha, Malabar Hill in south Mumbai.The state government is planning to acquire around 1,600-hectare of land around the airport to develop the city.“The idea is to have a well-planned city around Shirdi airport like the NAINA project around Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) in Navi Mumbai. We are anticipating that it would become one of the busiest airports in the coming years and at a later period it will not be possible to expand so now itself we will acquire the land around the airport and make sure we will have a really good modern well-planned city around it in the years to come,” said Valsa Nair, principal secretary, (civil aviation) general administration department.Deepak Kapoor, vice chairman and managing director, MADC said that they will be focusing upon developing four types of industries in the project which will be mainly the maintenance and repair industry of aircraft, cargo and logistics, infrastructure for religious tourism and hotels and hospitality sector.“Shirdi is close to Nashik and the city has a huge plant of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) where they manufacture Sukhoi, Jaguar fighter jets. Considering Shirdi’s proximity to Nashik, we will be focusing on developing the aviation maintenance and repair industry. Since the Nashik-Shirdi belt is a huge centre of horticulture produce such as pomegranate, grapes, guava, we are planning to develop a cargo hub and logistics industry. We will also be focusing on creating religious infrastructure as a lot of people visit Shirdi temple and the last area of focus would be developing hotels and the hospitality sector,” Kapoor told HT.“The board has given us a go-ahead only today so now a DPR will be prepared. We have a large team of urban planners working with MADC, who will get down on the field, areas will be identified. We will then identify how much private land and how much government land is required and take further steps,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-develop-a-well-planned-city-around-shirdi-airport-101632935423075.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh’s free coaching scheme helps students crack UPSC, JEE||Three students enrolled with the Mukhyamantri Abhyuday Yojana, cracked the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) 2020 exams, within three months of its launch. The scheme, Mukhyamantri Abhyuday Yojana, is essentially a free coaching scheme for poor but meritorious students. CM Yogi Adityanath had inaugurated the ‘Abhyudaya’ scheme on February 15. The students who passed the UPSC exam include Srijan Varma (AIR 39), Aakash Singh (AIR 128), and Kishlay Kushwaha (AIR 526). Number of other students cracked the joint entrance examination (JEE). Those who got selected include Devraj Arya, Mohd Tarique, Rashi Sharma, Shrey Malik, Satendra Gangwar, Prince Singh, Anuradha Yadav, Ali Khan among others. Commissioner Lucknow and nodal officer of Abhyuday scheme, Ranjan Kumar said that the examination for admission to the next batch of JEE (advanced) will be conducted on October 3. Exam for selection for coaching of UPSC (preliminary) will be on October 10. “To ensure larger participation of students in various competitive examinations, the UP government gives free-of-cost training at Abhyudaya. These training classes were given online during the multiple lockdowns that the state went through,” Kumar said. More than 5000 students through offline medium and over 10,000 students through the online medium are being prepared for NEET, CDS, JEE, NDA and civil services examinations, he said. The state government also intends to provide tablets to some students selected under the scheme so that they can use digital resources to prepare for the examinations, officials said. The process of bidding on the GEM portal for the distribution of 9640 tablets is in final stage, officials said. As part of the Abhyuday Scheme, the Uttar Pradesh government has set up coaching centers and offer free classes to prepare the students for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) for engineering, National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for the medical aspirants, the entrance exam for the National Defence Academy (NDA), Combined Defence Services (CDS) examination and Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exams. The ‘Abhyuday’ coaching centers were set up at the divisional level in the first phase and will be followed up at the district level in the next phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-s-free-coaching-scheme-helps-students-crack-upsc-jee-101632935362504.html
29-09-2021||Other||Police kick off drive against wrong parking, encroachment||The traffic police have initiated a drive against wrong parking and encroachments outside shops on Wednesday. The drive was held at Ghumar Mandi, College Road, Rani Jhansi Road, Field Ganj, Clock Tower and near the Railway Station. During the drive, the police not only issued warnings, but also issued eight challans and towed 10 vehicles.Police say the action was taken to decongest the city roads. The action was taken after conducting an aerial survy using drones.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, traffic and city) Deepak Pareek said wrongly parked vehicles on roadsides were a major reason for traffic jams and road mishaps. The police also found that some of the shopkeepers put their wares on the roads, leaving residents with no other option, but to park their vehicles in no-parking zones.On Wednesday, the police made the shopkeepers remove the encroachments outside their shops and also towed away vehicles. He also added that the police will start lodging FIRs against the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-kick-off-drive-against-wrong-parking-encroachment-101632935301846.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Schools from classes 8 to 12 in Mumbai to reopen from October 4||Schools in Mumbai for classes 8 to 12 will reopen from October 4 (Monday), the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a circular on Wednesday. The decision applies to public and private schools of all mediums. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad had earlier announced that schools for classes 8 to 12 would resume from October 4. The circular was issued by BMC’s education officer Raju Tadwi on Wednesday evening.In its circular, BMC instructed all schools to strictly follow Covid-19-related hygiene before restarting classes, and after classroom teaching has recommenced. All municipal schools will be required to sanitise premises with sodium hypochlorite, by coordinating with the respective assistant commissioners at the administrative wards. All private schools will have to arrange for sanitisation of their premises. The BMC has listed separate instructions to all schools regarding safety measures they need to undertake before and after teaching commences on their premises.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Wednesday: “We are reopening schools for classes 8 to 12 in Mumbai with effect from October 4, and for the rest of the classes, we will take a decision in November. All Covid-19 SOPs issued by the government will be implemented.” If there are vaccination centres or quarantine centres in any schools operating classes from 8 to 12, they should be moved to the nearest feasible location, and made operational with the help of respective ward officers, the circular stated.Teachers teaching classes 8 to 12, who have been assigned duties at vaccination centres, at railway stations to check vaccination status of passengers, or have been assigned election duties, will be relieved of their duties so that they can return to full-time teaching. Municipal schools will have to tie up with their nearest health posts, which are either municipal dispensaries, or private clinics, after students start attending classes regularly. Private schools have also been instructed to tie up with nearest municipal or private dispensaries for emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/schools-from-classes-8-to-12-in-mumbai-to-reopen-from-october-4-101632935069411.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Deterrent punishment for rapists necessary: Bombay high court refuses to reduce sentence of three||The Bombay high court (HC) has said that though there were convictions in crimes against women the sentences were not proportionate to the gravity and magnitude of the offence. Hence, to ensure that the victim of a crime, as also the society, has the satisfaction that justice has been done, HC refused to reduce the sentence of three men convicted for raping a woman in Pune.“The sentencing policy adopted by the courts, in such cases, ought to have a stricter yardstick so as to act as a deterrent,” said the division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice Sarang Kotwal, while upholding the sentence headed down to Ranjeet Gade, Ganesh Kamble and Subhash Bhosale, all convicted by Pune sessions court on October 21, 2011.“There are a shockingly large number of cases where the sentence of punishment awarded to the accused is not in proportion to the gravity and magnitude of the offence, thereby encouraging the criminal and in the ultimate making justice suffer, by weakening the system’s credibility,” the bench added. The trio was accused of raping a woman on April 1, 2010, and then leaving her at her place of residence.According to the complaint filed by the woman with Pune Police, she was married and was originally from Nagpur. She had travelled to the US with her husband and returned to India in March 2010. Though her husband returned to the US thereafter, as she had a Master’s degree she worked in a private hospital. On April 1, 2010, as she was unable to get a bus to go to a seminar, when she was offered a ride in a car by two of the accused, she assumed the car to be of a call centre and as they were going in the direction of the seminar venue, she boarded it.However, rather than taking her to the venue the duo drove the car from one place to another and also picked up the third accused. She was gagged and threatened and then told to call her mother but not disclose her situation else she would be raped by 8-10 persons. Later the trio took her to a secluded spot and raped her and then dropped her near her residence.The advocates for the convicts argued that the trio had been convicted based on the witness account and their identification by the survivor which was questionable as the police had already shown the photo of one of the accused to her before the identification parade. Further, it was argued that the allegation of rape was false as the woman had consented to the sexual intercourse. The advocates further stated that the trial court had convicted the trio for conspiring, wrongful confinement, rape, gang rape and criminal intimidation and sentenced them to life imprisonment. The advocates pleaded that as the accused had been in jail since 2010, some leniency should be shown, and the sentence is reduced. Additional public prosecutor S V Sonawane however argued that the identification parade and DNA evidence clearly showed that the trio had raped the woman and as she had refuted the claim of consensual sex, the trial court was right in meting out the life sentence, hence the HC should not entertain the appeals. After hearing the submissions, the court held that in light of the crime against another woman in Pune wherein she was raped the criminal sentencing by the Courts had become a subject of concern.Holding that the accused had taken advantage of the helplessness of the woman and raped her and subjected her to extreme trauma, the high court said it was not inclined to reduce the sentence and hence dismissed the appeals. The court while appreciating the sentence meted out by the trial court judge however expressed dismay at the way in which the judge had gone into the details of the rape even while the survivor was uncomfortable disclosing it and said that such a practice should be avoided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deterrent-punishment-for-rapists-necessary-bombay-high-court-refuses-to-reduce-sentence-of-three-101632934702451.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||Teen couple paraded with shoe garland, blackened faces; 15 held||GORAKHPUR Fifteen people were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly assaulting a teenage couple publicly by blackening their faces and making them parade in a village of Basti with garlands of shoes.According to the Basti police, a case was registered against these accused for assaulting the couple on Tuesday for allegedly being in a relationship.A teenage girl belonging to Scheduled Caste was in a relationship with a boy from the same community. Later, villagers blackened the faces of the couple and forced them to wear a garland of shoes and paraded them in the village, said cops.The district magistrate and SP (Basti) inspected the place of incident and assured of justice to the victims. The boy and the girl belong to the SC community.On the complaint of the boy’s mother, the police registered a case under sections 147(punishment for rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object, 323(voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult and provocation), 506(punishment for criminal intimidation), 355(using criminal force to any person) of the IPC and sections 74, 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. During probe, SC/ST Act was added, and on Wednesday, the police arrested 15 accused, said DN Chowdhary, ASP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/teen-couple-paraded-with-shoe-garland-blackened-faces-15-held-101632934464225.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Ahead of Goa polls, Shiv Sena calls BJP real ‘beef party’, will field candidates on 22 seats||Shiv Sena has decided to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Goa in the Assembly polls next year and will field candidates on 22 seats in the state. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the party will take the failure and “politics of falsehood” of the BJP government to the people. The Sena mouthpiece Saamana slammed the BJP over cow slaughter in Goa, stating that it is the “real beef party”.Raut, who is on a two-day visit to the state, attacked BJP stating that the party led an anti-casino campaign in Goa, but is now supporting it the most. He also said that many villages and tourist spots in the state are in the clutches of drugs and narcotic substances.“Daily the Goa government comes up with a new lie. Goa is a huge tourist destination, but many villages and beaches are now in the clutches of drugs. Bharatiya Janata Party campaigned against casinos [in Goa] and came to power and grew. Today, they are supporting the casinos... this is politics of falsehood, that needs to come to the knowledge of the people. We will take these issues to the people,” Raut said on Wednesday.Raut is expected to meet party officials in Goa to discuss the roadmap for the Assembly polls, slated to be held in February-March 2022. He could also meet up with regional parties to forge an alliance for the election. He, however, iterated that the party would go solo if the alliance does not materialise. “We are going to contest on 22 seats. Whether an alliance happens or not, we are going forward with our plan. If somebody joins hands with us, well and good, if not, then we have the capability to go solo. We have voters in 32 assembly segments,” Raut said. The party is expected to take the Hindutva line and Marathi language as its agenda for the upcoming polls. Slamming the BJP government in Goa, the editorial in Saamana on Wednesday said, “It is the BJP [in Goa] which has truly become a ‘beef party and ‘Hindutva’ is just a mask. When there is a ban on beef in the country, but in Goa, you get cow meat. If this isn’t sham, then what is?”Raut added that Maharashtra and Goa have linguistic and cultural ties. “Balasaheb also went there to campaign. Though we have not got success there we do have our organisation there. Many parties are not entering Goa, including Aam Aadmi Party and Trinamool Congress. Goa and Maharashtra have always had ties. We share the same language and culture.”In an indirect attack on BJP, the Sena MP said, “Today the situation is such in Goa that nobody can say which legislator will go where after getting elected from one party. The people of Goa are also fed up. They vote for one party, the legislator jumps to other parties.” Raut was referring to several Congress legislators joining BJP after the 2017 election in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ahead-of-goa-polls-shiv-sena-calls-bjp-real-beef-party-will-field-candidates-on-22-seats-101632934223919.html
29-09-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh: Medical education dept floats tenders for setting up medical colleges on PPP model in 16 districts||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh medical education department has floated tenders for setting up medical colleges on public private partnership (PPP) model in 16 districts. The department has set November 5 as the deadline for receiving applications from the interested bidders. The land for opening medical colleges in the districts has already been identified. There is no government or private medical college in 16 districts, including Baghpat, Ballia, Bhadohi, Chitrakoot, Hamirpur, Hathras, Kasganj, Maharajganj, Mahoba, Mainpuri, Mau, Rampur, Sambhal, Sant Kabirnagar, Shamli and Shravasti. District hospital, CHC and PHC are currently functional, said a state government spokesperson. “Many big institutions of the country have expressed their willingness to open medical colleges,” said Alok Kumar, principal secretary, medical education department, in a press statement on Wednesday. Exemptions were also being given by the state government to private investors for setting up medical colleges, he added. The tender documents can be downloaded from http://etender.up.nic.in. The medical education department had recently issued the policy regarding setting up of medical colleges in 16 districts on PPP model after getting the approval of the cabinet and had provided three options. “The terms and conditions are different for each option. Private sector investors can open medical colleges either on their own land, or on the government land. The investors will be selected through the tender process in a fair and transparent manner. The entire process is being completed at a fast pace on the instructions of chief minister,” said the spokesperson. According to an estimate, the medical colleges to be set up in 16 districts will have 1600 new doctors while about 10,000 people will get jobs in them. Besides, these medical colleges will have about 6,000 new beds for the treatment of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-medical-education-dept-floats-tenders-for-setting-up-medical-colleges-on-ppp-model-in-16-districts-101632934222597.html
29-09-2021||Kolkata||How Kolkata is gearing up to conduct crucial Bhabanipur bypolls tomorrow amid heavy rain||Even as heavy rain batters West Bengal, including its capital Kolkata, Thursday will decide the future of Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s future at the top spot in the state cabinet as Bhabanipur goes to bypolls.Banerjee will be battling it out against Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal and CPI(M)’s Srijib Biswas, with Congress not fielding any candidate for the bypolls.The results of the Bhabanipur bypolls will be declared on October 3.Meanwhile, West Bengal has been witnessing heavy rain for the past few weeks, which has resulted in severe waterlogging situations in most parts of Kolkata. On Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert for East Medinipur, West Medinipur, and South 24 Parganas. Moreover, over 35,000 people were also evacuated from low-lying areas in South 24 Parganas.Also Read | IMD alerts: Cyclone Gulab weakened into low-pressure to bring heavy rainfall in 5 states till Sept 30Earlier in the day, visuals of waterlogged streets in Kolkata and West Medinipur were shared by news agency ANI. The weather department’s regional office in Kolkata’s Alipore recorded nearly 87mm rain till 8.30am on Wednesday since Tuesday morning. Officials told Hindustan Times that more rains could make situations worse after the city received the heaviest rain in September in 14 years. According to the latest IMD bulletin, West Bengal is expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places on Thursday as well.Owing to these conditions, and considering the significance of the Bhabanipur bypolls, several restrictions and stringent security arrangements have been put in place.Security arrangements made for smooth functioning of Bhabanipur bypolls:Arrangements made to combat the heavy rainfall:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-gears-up-to-conduct-crucial-bhabanipur-bypolls-tomorrow-amid-heavy-rain-101632933406367.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Noida authority issues notices to realtors to recover water dues worth ₹16 crore||The Noida authority’s water department has sent recovery notices to six defaulters, which together owe ₹16.77 crore in water supply charges. According to Noida authority officials, six realtors have not paid water charges for group housing societies for several years. These realtors are bulk consumers and owe the authority at least ₹25 lakh each.These societies are located in sectors 34, 74, 75 and 137. Authority officials said that they have decided to not cut the water supply because it will affect the apartment owners living in these societies.“We have issued recovery notices to six realtors, who repeatedly failed to pay for water consumption in their respective societies. The small consumers pay on time but some big defaulters, who owe more than ₹25 lakh, are delaying the payment,” said RP Singh, deputy general manager of the Noida authority and head of the water department.The authority has set a target to recover at least ₹70 crore from consumers of water. So far, since April 2021, the department has recovered ₹56.03 crore.“We aim to recover the remaining amount at the earliest as we have issued notices to all the defaulters. We will increase our revenue collection from water consumers and may collect around ₹100 crore this financial year 2021-22,” said Singh.As per the prevailing rates, the authority charges ₹188 per month from a middle-income group flat owner; ₹225 per month from a high-income group flat owner; and, ₹280 from a duplex flat owner. An owner of a 200 square metre plot pays ₹268 per month and the authority charges ₹505 per month from the owner of a 350 sqm plot. Noida has at least 80,000 consumers from all categories, said officials of the authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-issues-notices-to-realtors-to-recover-water-dues-worth-16-crore-101632933923103.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi restaurant that 'denied entry to woman in saree’ shut down over licence||A south Delhi restaurant, which recently drew flak for allegedly denying entry to a saree-clad woman, has been shut after civic authorities issued it a closure notice for operating without a trade licence, officials said Wednesday. A video of an argument between the woman and the restaurant staff went viral on social media last week."The Aquila restaurant was operating without a proper licence. It has now been shut after we issued a closure notice. We are also exploring other actions including imposing a penalty in accordance with the DMC (Delhi Municipal Corporation) Act against the eatery as it was functioning without approval from the civic body," South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) mayor Mukesh Suryan told PTI, confirming that the restaurant has been closed.The Aquila Restaurant, located at Ansal Plaza in Andrews Ganj, was issued a closure notice by SDMC officials on September 24 for operating without a valid licence. However, the restaurant came under scrutiny due to a social media post by a woman who alleged she was refused entry at the eatery because she was wearing a saree.She also posted a short video of her argument with the restaurant staff, alongside a couple of pictures of herself in the saree. The restaurant, however, claimed that the incident was "misrepresented". The National Commission for Women (NCW) had also asked the Delhi Police to probe the incident.The case was built against the investigation by the area public health inspector found on September 21 who found the facility running under unhygienic conditions. The notice also flagged alleged encroachment on public land."The public health inspector again inspected the site on September 24 and found that the trade is running under the same condition. You are directed to close the trade within 48 hours of the receipt of this notice failing which suitable action including sealing will be taken without assigning further notice," read the SDMC notice issued to the restaurant-owner.The owner responded to the notice saying: "I have closed-down the above said trade immediately and I shall not run the same trade without SDMC Trade Licence under insanitary condition from health point of view and create nuisance."In the SDMC House meeting today, Congress councillor from Andrews Ganj Abhishek Dutt raised the issue and moved a proposal demanding a fine of ₹5 lakh be imposed against any restaurant, bar or hotel that denies entry to any person wearing traditional Indian attire."The Aquila restaurant was running illegally without licence. The notice was issued to the eatery only after I raised the issue. Now, the authorities have informed that the restaurant has been shut. It is a matter of probe that how the restaurant was running without a licence," he told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-restaurant-that-denied-entry-to-woman-in-saree-shut-down-over-licence-101632930174024.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Noida authority allocates ₹25 crore for development of parks, sports facilities||The Noida authority on Wednesday said that it has allocated ₹25 crore to develop a park and sports facilities in each of the 81 villages falling under its jurisdiction. Each facility will have dedicated space for women, who pursue sports for fitness or want to make a career of it. The move comes after farmers demanded facilities in their respective villages at par with urban areas. Farmers have been protesting against the Noida authority since September 1 demanding better facilities in villages, among other benefits, as they gave up their lands for development of the city.“In response to the farmers’ demands, we have allocated ₹25 crore initially; this corpus may increase in future as per requirement. We have issued orders directing the staff to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) in 15 days so that these facilities can be developed as soon as possible. The motive is that people in villages, especially women, can make use of these sports facilities,” said Praveen Mishra, additional CEO of Noida authority.To begin with, the authority’s land department will identify plots in the villages and the civil department will develop the sports facilities. Since almost all urban villages in Noida are overflowing, with a spurt in population, finding land for the development of park and sports facilities is not that easy, said villagers.“If any village does not have adequate space for the facilities, we will make a cluster of two or three villages and identify land to develop the facilities that will be at suitable distance from the villages. We have decided to develop the facilities on green belt, so that we can develop sports facilities as well as expand green cover. We want to develop this facility as a hub of activities for women empowerment,” said Mishra.The DPR will chalk out the type of equipment and facilities the sports complexes will have. The authority will spend ₹50 lakh to ₹1 crore on each facility, said officials.Farmers said besides the sports facilities, the Noida authority should also work on improving other civic amenities. “The sports facilities and parks will benefit people. But the authority should also focus on improving sewer lines, drainage and roads, which are in an abominable state,” said Raghuraj Singh, a farmer leader from Bishanpura village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-allocates-25-crore-for-development-of-parks-sports-facilities-101632933502655.html
29-09-2021||Kolkata||Toddler among two dead in Kolkata building collapse amid heavy rainfall||Two people, including a three-year-old child, were killed after a portion of the residential building in north Kolkata’s Ahiritola area that they were residing in collapsed early on Wednesday morning. Even as the victims were rescued from the rubble both of them succumbed to their injuries later, news agency ANI reported.Police said that apart from the victims, three other individuals, who were trapped at the ground floor of the building, were rescued. The woman and the toddler were trapped on the top floor of the building, police added.How did the incident happen?The incident took place at around 6.45am when a portion of the old two-storeyed building collapsed. Three people, who were trapped at the ground floor, managed to escape from the debris through a big gap, police said.How was the rescue operation carried out?The collapsed building falls in the jurisdiction of the Jorabagan police station area. Following the incident, a rescue team comprising disaster management forces, fire and electricity department personnel, and local police officials reached the spot to carry out the rescue operation.What was the weather situation in Kolkata?Extremely heavy rainfall lashed West Bengal’s capital Kolkata, and districts such as East Medinipur, West Medinipur and South 24 Parganas since Tuesday night. The state, which has been witnessing severe waterlogging for the past few days, is expected to receive more heavy downpours on September 30, according to the latest IMD bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/toddler-among-two-dead-in-kolkata-building-collapse-amid-heavy-rainfall-101632932962290.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Air taxi service yet to take off in India||The much-hyped first air taxi service in the country, which was launched with fanfare by the Haryana government earlier this year was discontinued in August, barely seven months after becoming operational. This has come as a shock as expectations were that this new segment of urban commute will emerge as the next focus in the aviation sector after the government notified drone norms last month. An air taxi, which usually has a capacity of four people, including the pilot, is a passenger service which typically makes short flights to provide people with on-demand air services to locations within a particular region. Specialised aircraft such as very light jets may be part of such services, offering seats to a small number of passengers. However, the concept of air taxis is not alien. Ehang has already begun with the concept in China and is exploring deployments in Dubai; other cities in Europe have done intercity trials of a car that can be doubly used as an air mobility vehicle. “It’s not about if air taxis are possible, it’s just about when will the air taxis come in India,” said Smit Shah, director of Drone Federation of India (DFI). Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia had recently announced that air taxis are being researched globally and many start-ups are coming up in this segment. The Ministry of civil Aviation (MoCA) published its new liberalised drone policy on August 26, hinting the launch of air taxis in the near future. However, the grounding of first-ever air taxi service in the country on account of “regulatory” challenges puts a question mark on the sustainability of such a business in the long-term. It is expected that India’s new drone policy will only help these companies take their products to the next level which could pave the way for unmanned aerial vehicle transportation. Operated by the Chandigarh-based ‘Air Taxi’, air commuting services were launched on three routes from Chandigarh – Hisar-Chandigarh- Hisar, Hisar-Dehradun- Hisar and Hisar-Dharamshala-Hisar. “Most passengers were women, college students or elderlies, who would find it difficult to commute via road, especially to and from Chandigarh. However, despite a good response, the company shut its operations on August 1 owing to regulatory challenges,” Capt. Varun Suhag, director of Air Taxi said. “We had a project of deploying 30 of these air taxis on different routes which would be seamless connectivity to small towns. The issue is that regulations in India are half written, visual flight rules (VFR) need a minimum of 5km visibility, in instrument flight rule (IFR) one can operate in zero visibility, but IFR can be operated where airports have instruments. Small airports don’t have the facilities hence pilots operating to such airports have to fly only on VFR and visibility can drop below 5km at any point, especially in North India. The US and Europe have special VFR flights, in which they are permitted in 1500m (1.5km) and above visibility, which enables the pilot to call for special VFR. This provision is not written in the Indian regulation, making it difficult for flights to operate on a regular basis,” Capt. Suhag added. He said that the concept of air taxis that is now being spoken about is not different as the distances between two places will be smaller, security and visibility requirements. There is a lot of talking and less of action. However, industry experts believe that air taxis will be the future of India. “Air taxis will be a reality – not just in India but globally – in this decade,” said Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer, CAPA advisory. “As per the market analysis, affordability is still something that the stakeholders need to work upon along with the government agencies, as the operation of air taxis is a costly affair considering the huge investment required for manufacturing, certification, operation, vertiports/ charging/ refueling station and associated costs,” said an expert who did not wished to be named. Aerial vehicles can be used as air metros, business Jets, air ambulance, emergency cargo/ stores delivery apart from the primary use of air taxis. “VTOL has been working on two configurations for vertical take-off and landing air taxis. The first configuration’s prototype is ready and the mock is under manufacturing, the second configuration’s design is under review, so we anticipate by 2025 one of our configurations will be positively launched,” said Kalyan Chowdhury, founder and managing director of VTOL, Aviation India Pvt.Ltd. under industry academia collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur. However, being a UAV manufacturer and also an R&D organization, Chowdhury said that he has faced several challenges pertaining to the regulatory framework, certifications, cybersecurity, air traffic management, operational infrastructure and commercial implications while developing the VTOL Air Taxi product. “So once the challenges are addressed by the regulatory authorities, stakeholders, government agencies, air taxis will soon be a reality in India,” Chowdhury added. Another air taxi company eplane, which was created at IIT Madras and has been around since 2019, said it is looking to launch its first air taxi service by early next year. “The idea is to build flying taxis to move people within cities. We’ve raised one round of funding, close to USD one million last year. We’re looking at early 2022, February-March, when we run the first flight,” Pranjal Mehta, chief executive officer (CEO) of eplane said. According to a global survey conducted by McKinsey this year, traveller’s interest in using passenger advanced air mobility (AAM) [air taxis] was highest in India and Brazil. Around 47% of Indian respondents said they would definitely consider using an AAM vehicle in the future, depending on use case. 41% of Indian respondents wanted shorter travel times. The survey revealed that four Indian cities were among the world’s ten most congested in 2019, prior to the pandemic. 36% of Indian consumers said they would definitely pay five times the price of their current transport mode to hop on an AAM vehicle for a trip to or from an airport. About 76% of Indian respondents said they would be willing to pay extra to have items delivered within one to two hours by cargo drone, the survey revealed. “In India, an hour trip of 10km becomes 10 minutes with an air taxi. People are willing to pay up to five times more for this service,” Mehta added. Talking about their applications, Shah said that air taxis will initially be useful where time is of essence (when VIP movements or high earning people want to travel from urban centres to airports would be one area, or do critical logistics where time will be important and not cost).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-taxi-service-yet-to-take-off-in-india-101632933202424.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Bus driver arrested for molesting passenger in Noida||A 30-year-old driver of a mini bus was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly molesting a 20-year-old woman from Mainpuri. Police identified the suspect as Dastagir Khan, a resident of Greater Noida. According to a police complaint filed by the woman, she reached Greater Noida from Mainpuri on Monday. “I then boarded a mini bus from Pari Chowk in Greater Noida for Noida’s Sector 37 at 9pm. The driver did not stop at my bus stand even when I asked him for the same. He stopped the bus at a secluded location and touched me inappropriately,” she said. The victim said that there was no one else in the bus when the incident took place. According to police, when the woman raised an alarm, the driver dumped her on the way and fled the spot. She then dialled the police helpline and a team from Sector 39 police station reached the spot. Rajeev Kumar, station house officer of Sector 39 police station, said that a case of molestation was registered against the driver. “Police scanned the footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area and identified the bus. We arrested the suspect and also seized the bus. The suspect was produced in court that sent him to the judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bus-driver-arrested-for-molesting-passenger-in-noida-101632933142234.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Two phone snatchers held after gunfight in Noida||Two suspected mobile phone snatchers, both in their twenties, were arrested from near a hotel in Sector 58 after a shootout on Wednesday morning, police said.One of the suspects also sustained gunshot injury, police said. The duo was identified as Rohit Jatav and Siddharth Sharma, both from Morna village in Noida. Police said that several cases of loot and theft are registered across different police stations of the city against the suspects. According to the additional deputy commissioner of police (Noida), Ranvijay Singh, the gunfight broke out when the motorcycle-borne suspects were intercepted by officials from Sector 58 police station. “The suspects were speeding away on their motorcycle which did not have any registration number on it. When a police team surrounded them, they opened fire at the police personnel in order to escape. But one of them got hit in a retaliatory firing and was held, while the other managed to run away from the spot but was arrested later,” Singh said.While Rohit has seven cases of snatching and theft, among others, lodged against him at various police stations in Noida, Siddharth has four cases to his name, police said.Police recovered four stolen mobile phones, a countrymade pistol and a live bullet from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-phone-snatchers-held-after-gunfight-in-noida-101632933022181.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Men break shops’ shutters, flee with 600 smartphones in Ghaziabad||A group of men stole about 600 smartphones and the recording device of a CCTV camera from two shops in Navyug Market in Ghaziabad early Wednesday morning. Police said the incident came to light on Wednesday morning when locals spotted the broken shutters of the two adjacent shops. Sumit Tyagi, the owner of the two shops said the thieves could only take the recording device of a CCTV camera away from one of the shops.“On the CCTV of the other shop, we saw that five or six men arrived at the shops in a Brezza car around 3.40am on Wednesday. The group tried to break into four shops in the market, but they could only break the iron shutters of my two shops,” Tyagi added. Police said the men uprooted the shutters by tying one end of a rope to the shutter handles and the other to their car, and accelerating.Tyagi said that the men took 15-20 minutes to gather the smartphones and the recording device.“My employees are preparing an estimate of the loss, but it is expected that they fled with about 600 new smartphones and the loss is expected to be in range of ₹60-70 lakhs,” he added. The two shops are located about 40-50 yards away from the local police post. “Our PCR van was on night duty and crossed the two shops at least 10 minutes before the thieves arrived. We have registered an FIR for theft and are trying to trace gangs with similar modus operandi. Several teams have been formed to trace the perpetrators,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (City 1). Police officers familiar with the investigation said that the incident could be the handywork of some Mewati gang.Navyug Market is a prime commercial area in Ghaziabad city and also has residential houses. There are several banks, restaurants, retail brand outlets and other commercial and business establishments in the area. The headquarters of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation is also located in Navyug Market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/men-break-shops-shutters-flee-with-600-smartphones-in-ghaziabad-101632932842357.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC to scrap ₹1.2-K crore bids for roads in Mumbai over quality concerns||Following controversy over contractors quoting upto 40 percent less that estimated cost of ₹1,200 crore for road repairs and maintenance contracts, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday decided to scrap the tenders and reinvite bids. Further, the civic body has now decided to refloat bids worth ₹2,200 crore by adding a few more roads. The BMC says this time the conditions will be stringent to ensure quality of the road can be met.On September 13, additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu in his letter had sought justification from the deputy municipal commissioner of infrastructure on how the quality will be maintained amid the contractors quoting less than 30% of the estimated cost. With contractors offering to build roads at such a low cost, concerns were being raised over the quality. In his letter, Velrasu had stated, “I have received 30 tender files on the road works in city, eastern and western suburbs. It is surprising to see most of the tenders are quoted very much on the lower side. The department needs to explain how it intends to maintain the quality under control. When road supervision of 100% is not possible during the execution at senior level, how will the quality of execution be ensured by the road department?”Following this, the road department was asked to submit a reply to the additional municipal commissioner, who later in consultation with municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal took the decision to float the bids again. Velrasu confirmed that the bids will be refloated.One of the conditions of the revised tender document, would be holding back up to 20% payments, which would be given only in between the 6th-10th year after the road is repaired.A BMC official said, “In such a case, we propose to pay 4% each year which would be divided between four years. The 4% payment every year after the sixth year will also be done after testing the roughness of the road.”According to BMC officials, they will also have quality monitoring auditors for each zone, which is an upgrade from the current three such auditors for the whole city.Ravi Raja, leader of Opposition in BMC and Congress corporator, said, “One month has passed that the BMC has not taken a decision on it.”Prabhakar Shinde, BJP’s group leader in BMC, said, “We were demanding retendering and it is good if they have taken such a decision. However, the proposal has yet not come on our table.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-scrap-1-2-k-crore-bids-for-roads-in-mumbai-over-quality-concerns-101632932122770.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rains disconnect 3 villages in Shahpur with rest of Thane district||Heavy rains across Thane district on Monday night led to the district losing contact with three villages in Khadavali, Shahpur. The villages of Bere, Valkas and Juhugaon had lost contact as water levels rose onto the Khadavali Bridge that connects the rest of the district with these villages. As the water receded and rainfall reduced by afternoon, they managed to revive the connection with these villages.“We had informed these villages situated adjacent to water banks to remain cautious as the Cyclone Gulab alert was declared across the district. The situation in Khadavali is better now. Moreover, there were no other major incidents despite heavy rainfall all through the night,” said Anita Javanjal, district disaster management officer, Thane.Meanwhile, water levels in the catchment areas have increased. Both Bhatsa and Barvi dams are overflowing. Andra dam situated in Pune has received only 36mm rainfall on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-rains-disconnect-3-villages-in-shahpur-with-rest-of-thane-district-101632932062731.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Gulab brings 100mm of rain to Mumbai||The city received 100.5mm of heavy rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Wednesday, due to the passage of the remnants of Cyclone Gulab over the region as the weather system travelled westwards towards the Arabian Sea. However, as forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and experts, the influence of the weather system receded during the day, with the met department’s monitoring station in Santacruz recording just 15.4mm of rain in the nine hours ending 5.30pm. The cyclonic storm turned into a well-marked low pressure area on Tuesday, covering Gujarat on Tuesday, and is expected to emerge in the northeast Arabian Sea around Thursday. The system may further intensify on Friday, leading to the development of cyclone Shaheen which is then expected to move toward either Pakistan or the middle-east, IMD officials have said. “Though chances are less, we cannot rule out the possibility of its intensification into a cyclone. The low-pressure area (remnants of Gulab) will move westwards across central India, bringing a lot of rain in the region... With an incursion of moisture from the Arabian Sea, the system will be reinvigorated. Rapid intensification of the low-pressure system cannot be ruled out now because the ocean and atmospheric conditions are favourable. The cyclone or depression will move towards northern parts of the Arabian Sea,” Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD, said. As it passed through the state, Marathwada sub-region bore the most damage. At least 17 people were killed in Maharashtra due to heavy rain, which triggered floods, thunderstorms and lightning strikes over the past two days, which also led to significant damage of kharif crops. Though some respite is now expected from Thursday, there will be more showers to come in the first week of October due to delayed withdrawal of monsoon, which would lead to further crop damage. Mumbai, meanwhile, has been placed a green category weather alert by the IMD on Thursday, indicating chances of moderate rain. Since June 1, the city has received a total of 3152.7mm of rain, which is well above the seasonal long period average of 2,205mm. This marks the third consecutive year that Mumbai has recorded over 3,000mm of rain during the monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-gulab-brings-100mm-of-rain-to-mumbai-101632931522182.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt plans to utilise ‘river ranching’ to make Ganga clean, pollution-free||VARANASI In a continuation of its efforts to make the Ganga pollution-free and clean while maintaining the ecosystem of the river, Uttar Pradesh government has decided to incorporate ‘river ranching’ under the Namami Gange programme. According to a press statement from the department of fisheries, an action plan has been formulated in this regard and under the plan, about 15 lakh fishes of different species will be released into the river by the department of fisheries in 12 districts of the state. These districts include Ghazipur, Varanasi, Mirzapur, Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh, Kanpur, Hardoi, Bahraich, Bulandshahr, Amroha and Bijnor. Nearly 1.5 lakh fishes each will be released in Ganga in Varanasi and Ghazipur districts. River ranching would help in achieving sustainable fisheries, reducing habitat degradation, conserving biodiversity, maximising social-economic benefits and would also remove factors causing pollution, officials said. Principal secretary, Namami Gange, Anurag Srivastava, said that the practice of river ranching was a part of the efforts being made by the state government for cleanliness of the Ganga and conservation of groundwater. NS Rahmani, deputy director of department of fisheries, said that the ‘river ranching’ was also used to control pollution and improve marine life in the river. “In this activity, different species of fish are released in the river, which destroy factors that increase the level of nitrogen. These fishes will also aid in maintaining the cleanliness of the river as they feed on organic remnants. Due to overfishing and pollution in the Ganges, these fishes are also decreasing for the last 20 years,” he said. According to Rahmani, about 1500kg of fishes present in an area of ​​about 4000 square meters control about 1mg per litre of nitrogen waste. Therefore, the government has decided to release nearly 15 lakh fishes into the Ganges to control excess nitrogen in the river. “If nitrogen exceeds 100 mg per liter or more, it becomes highly detrimental to the fish diversity of the river. Consequently, the fishes cannot reproduce and lay eggs, which leads to their extinction. Through this practice, the released fishes will be made to grow and proliferate for restoration of the fish stock, which will not only protect the aquatic organisms but will also reduce the pollution. By the end of September, fishes such as Rohu, Catla and Mrigal will be released into the Ganges,” said Rahmani. As part of its resolve of making the Ganga pollution-free, the Yogi government has already constructed sewage treatment plants (STPs) to eliminate flow of untreated sewage into Ganga under the Namami Gange campaign. Besides, to monitor pollution along the river, the government has also deployed Ganga Task Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-plans-to-utilise-river-ranching-to-make-ganga-clean-pollutionfree-101632930802892.html
29-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Non-NDA parties hold sit-in protest against farm laws||Extending support to protesting farmers in the national capital, the non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parties in Jharkhand--Congress, JMM, RJD and Left front--on Wednesday organised a day-long sit-in protest outside Raj Bhawan in Ranchi, demanding the Centre to withdraw the three controversial farm laws. This comes a few days after a nationwide strike, or Bharat Bandh, was held on Monday following a call by one of the farmers’ bodies to mark the first anniversary of the three controversial farm laws getting Presidential assent.The sit-in protest on Wednesday was organised by the Congress as part of the direction from the central leadership in continuation of the virtual meeting done by party president Sonia Gandhi with like-minded parties. The participating leaders from across the political spectrum underlined that the farm laws were against the interest of farmers, and the Centre would have to ultimately withdraw them or leave. “In a democracy, this is the only righteous way to make our demands heard. Ultimately, more and more people would add weight to our words and they (Centre) will have to act, or else people would throw them out of power,” said Congress legislature party leader Alamgir Alam.On a specific question if their protest would make any impact, state Congress president Rajesh Thakur said, “It might take some time, but we will continue to raise our demand together. Ultimately, the Centre would have to budge. We were four parties together when we brought down the Raghubar Das goverment in 2019; now, 19 of us are together. We will throw them out of power even at the Centre in 2024,” he said. Hitting out at the BJP government, JMM principal general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said their effort is to upset the incumbent “corporate power” in 2024. “This is just the beginning. We will soon be meeting again and chalk out a future course of action,” he said. JMM women’s wing president, Mahua Majhi, said the government cannot ignore the demands of farmers, as they make the backbone of the Indian economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-non-nda-parties-hold-sit-in-protest-against-farm-laws-101632930683465.html
29-09-2021||Ranchi||Ranchi: Three, including couple, kill ‘each other’ over alleged love affair||Three persons, including a couple, were found dead allegedly following a quarrel at a house in Ranchi district on Tuesday night, said the police on Wednesday, adding that it was a case of dispute arising out of an alleged love affair. The couple’s minor daughter was also injured during the incident, and was currently undergoing treatment, officials said.The deceased were identified as Dev Prasad, an employee of Central Coalfields Limited, his wife Kaushalya Devi and one Prakash Chauhan. According to the police, Devi and Chauhan were allegedly involved in an affair.Preliminary investigation revealed that Chauhan, armed with a knife, had reached the couple’s house at Mohan Nagar area under Khalari police station on Tuesday around 10pm in an inebriated state. The three killed each other in the violence that ensued thereafter, said the police. Police reached the spot after neighbours alerted Khalari police station following commotion inside the house.“During investigation, it came to light that Prakash was in an illicit relationship with the deceased woman. On Tuesday night, the three got into a quarrel soon after he reached their residence and they killed each other in the process. The minor daughter of the couple, who was also injured, has been admitted to RIMS,” said Naushad Alam, superintendent of police, Ranchi (rural). Officials said while the woman and her alleged lover were found dead when police reached the spot, injured Prasad and his daughter were taken to CCL hospital in neighbouring Dakra. Prasad passed away during treatment, while his daughter, with a knife wound in her eyes, was referred to RIMS. Two other minors, including the son and niece of the deceased couple, were also present in the house at the time of incident, but they are safe, said the police. Khalari police station in-charge Farid Alam said a murder case was registered in this connection, with Prakash as the accused. “As per eye witnesses, Prakash had entered the couple’s house by scaling the wall and was carrying a knife. Since he also died in the incident, we would also take into account if his family wants to register a complaint. We will take the case forward accordingly,” the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ranchi-three-including-couple-kill-each-other-over-alleged-love-affair-101632930682232.html
29-09-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat polls: 55.02% turnout in 2nd phase||The second phase of panchayat polls in Bihar, in which polling was held in 48 blocks of 34 districts, concluded peacefully on Wednesday with overall voter turnout of 55.02%, state election commissioner(SEC) Dr Deepak Prasad said.Addressing a press conference, the SEC said the turnout among women voters, which stood at 60.02%, was higher than the turnout among male voters (46.02%). “Despite the festival of Jitiya, women voters’ participation was very good, “ said Prasad. He declined to comment on queries as to why voting percentage in today’s polling had dropped as compared to the first phase on September 24.Though the polling was peaceful by and large, a few instances of malpractices were reported. At booth number 101 of Rajpur panchayat in Buxar district, the presiding officer was removed after complaints of alleged irregularities while at booth number 87 in Araria district, ballot papers were misplaced. “We are serving show cause notices on the polling personnel for this lapse. However, voting at the booth was not disturbed as ballot papers were sent promptly, “ said the SEC. The police arrested 166 people during the day on various charges and seized one weapon, four live cartridges and 44 vehicles. Total number of candidates in the second phase was 71,467. Total number of posts for which polling was held in the second phase was 21,131, of which candidates were elected unopposed in 3,402 while for 319 posts, no nomination was filed. ASI thrashed A group of villagers thrashed an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) at a booth in East Champaran district.According to officials, the incident occurred at booth number 48 of Phenhara in Pakaridayal subdivision when ASI Ajay Kumar Rai spotted few people without identity proof. “When the ASI prevented them from casting votes, they assaulted them,” said Kumar Ravindra, subdivisional magistrate (SDM), Pakaridayal. A video footage that went viral on social media shows a man dragging the ASI by his shirt and others thrashing him as the polling was underway. The situation was brought under control after East Champaran superintendent of police (SP) Navin Chand Jha reached the spot with reinforcements.“We have arrested one person in this connection and others involved in the incident have been identified,” Jha said.Man in queue falls deadIn Ara, a 70-year-old man died while waiting in a queue to cast his vote. The deceased was identified as Rameshwar Mahto of Pitro village under Lahthan panchayat.Brajesh Kumar, station house officer of the local Agiaon Bazar police station, said the incident took place at booth number 170. “Suddenly, he became unconscious and fell on the ground. He was rushed by his family members to a doctor who declared him dead. The man probably suffered a heart attack,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-55-02-turnout-in-2nd-phase-101632930625151.html
29-09-2021||Patna||Centre putting national security in danger with under privatisation plan: Congress leader||Senior Congress leader Mohan Prakash on Wednesday accused the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre of promoting businessmen of dubious distinction under the privatisation policy to jeopardise the national pride and internal security of the country. Talking to reporters here at the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) office, Prakash, also the national spokesman of Indian National Congress (INC), also questioned the alleged silence of Prime Minister Modi, home minister Amit Shah and others over recovery of around 3,000 kg of heroine from the Mundra Adani Port in Kutch district of Gujarat. The port is run by the Adani group. “Recovery of such a huge quantity of narcotic drug exposes how private companies were indulging in compromising on the national security. This was just tip of an iceberg. Such type of the private entities could also serve a conduit for illegal supply of arms and explosives,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/centre-putting-national-security-in-danger-with-under-privatisation-plan-congress-leader-101632930623905.html
29-09-2021||Patna||Demand for special status to continue: Nitish||Two days after one of his ministers announced that Bihar would no longer seek special category status, chief minister Nitish Kumar Wednesday said his government had not dropped the demand and will pursue it. Defending his planning and development minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, the CM told reporters, “This was his (minister’s) way of speaking. The demand for special status for Bihar is quite old and it will continue.”Kumar was talking to reporters after reviewing preparations for the proposed visit of President Ram Nath Kovind to participate in the celebrations being organized to mark the centenary year of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building, which hosted the inaugural session of the joint Bihar and Orissa Provincial Council on February 7, 1921.The ruling Janata Dal (United), to which both Kumar and Yadav belong, had to face the Opposition’s fire after the minister said there was no point pursuing the demand for a special status for Bihar and that the state government would instead press for a special package. A special category status (SCS) is mainly given to hilly regions, states bordering another country or states not having their own viable sources of revenue generation.Kumar denied having received any letter from leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav urging him to seek an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a meeting with an all-party delegation from the state to apprise him about the damage caused to the state due to floods and excessive rain. “I am yet to get that letter but came to know through media. However, there is no need for this. There is a procedure for this. A central team had visited the flood-affected areas to access the damage and on the basis assistance will be provided,” said Kumar.Tejashwi on Wednesday claimed he had written to the CM urging that an all-party delegation should meet PM on the issue of floods and inter-linking of rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/demand-for-special-status-to-continue-nitish-101632930622174.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Landslide reported in Ulhasnagar; residents rescued by locals, fire brigade officials||A landslide was reported at Shivaji Garden, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Dhobi Ghat in Ulhasnagar 1 on Wednesday morning. A portion of a safety wall subsided on three houses. Two of the residents stuck inside the house were safely evacuated by the locals and Ulhasnagar fire brigade. No injury or casualty was reported in the incident.A team of fire brigade reached the spot and initiated the rescue operations. “The continuous downpour has led to the landslide in the area. A part of the safety wall subsided, further risking three homes nearby. As per the locals, around 10-12 people lived in the houses,” said Yuvraj Bhadane, PRO, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC).“Two of them were stuck inside the homes. The locals and our fire brigade team reached on time and rescued them too. The evacuation was carried out as a part of precautionary measure, Bhadane added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/landslide-reported-in-ulhasnagar-residents-rescued-by-locals-fire-brigade-officials-101632930384955.html
29-09-2021||Bangalore||Basavaraj Bommai moots Punjab-like food processing units in central Karnataka||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday proposed to create a “mini-Punjab” between Tungabhadra and Krishna rivers in the central region of the state by growing a variety of horticultural crops and setting up over 100 food processing units."The seven to eight-lakh hectare land between Tungabhadra and Krishna rivers can be utilised for a variety of horticulture crops where over 100 food processing units can be set up. It will be like a mini-Punjab which will give jobs through growing natural horticulture crops," Bommai was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Addressing the 40th foundation day ceremony of Karnataka Media Academy virtually in Bengaluru, Bommai said Karnataka is blessed with 10 agro-climatic zones, making the state distinct from others. He explained that these zones enable Karnataka to grow a variety of crops and stressed that it is an advantage that must be utilised. "The state is also gifted with a number of rivers flowing from west to east to other states, which must be tapped and properly utilised," Bommai said. The Karnataka chief minister said he is planning to introduce a policy on the utilisation of the 350km-long coastline for tourism and port development soon. "This week, we will take a decision on inland and hinterland development. When 60% of Indonesia's economy is growing due to its ports, we can also explore that possibility," Bommai was quoted as saying by PTI. Bommai further stressed the need for improving ports and airports to boost temple, coastal and heritage tourism. He also put emphasis on technical education in high schools and promoting science and maths education in rural areas."The Gross State Domestic Product is contributed by 30% population which needs to be increased. In this regard, we want the people from Schedule Caste, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Caste and minorities and their women to become skilled workers and take part in economic activities," Bommai said. Revealing his development plan for the state Bommai said upgrading hospitals in districts, protecting the people from economically weaker sections, implementing employment-centric policy for job creation, art, culture, music and literature are his focus areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/basavaraj-bommai-moots-punjab-like-food-processing-units-in-central-karnataka-101632929557809.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Over 2.5 million vaccine doses administered in Mumbai in September, highest so far||Over 2.5 million vaccine doses were administered in September – the highest so far since the vaccination drive kicked off. According to the data of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 2,530,145 doses were administered between September 1 and 28 – 1,417,652 in civic-run centres, 1,014,231 in private hospitals and the remaining in state-run vaccination centres. The data also indicates that the supply to the corporation has been highest in September. There are a total 464 vaccination centres in the city, of which 305 are by the BMC, 20 by the state and 139 private hospitals. September did not witness suspension of vaccination drive owing to shortage of vaccine doses, like in August or months before that. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, told HT, “We are expecting the supply will cross the 1.5-million mark in September. The vaccination is going at a good pace. Going by the current pace, we will vaccinate our entire target population by the end of October and all will be fully vaccinated by February 2022.” The BMC targets to fully vaccinate 9.2 million adults. While the target is February 2022, BMC officials said the vaccination drive will continue post that. This is because children may get eligible by that and if the Central government allows, even booster doses may have to be administered. The BMC got the second highest vaccine doses of (996,860) in August, 983,390 doses in July and 739,190 in June. In May, the BMC got 523,440 vaccine doses, 947,500 in April, 810,950 in March, 571,000 in February and 265,000 in January 2021. The vaccination drive kicked off in the city on January 16, 2021, with health care workers. This was followed by front-line workers, senior citizens, those between 45 and 59 and lastly those between 18 and 45 starting May 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-2-5-million-vaccine-doses-administered-in-mumbai-in-september-highest-so-far-101632929422220.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to start paddy procurement from Oct 1||Punjab government on Wednesday ordered to start procurement from October 1, 2021, with instructions to lift the procured crop within 48 hours. Giving details, food & civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the state had decided to start procurement from October 1, 2021. The minister said the Punjab government was committed to lift every single grain of the farmers’ produce. Ashu said that as many as 2,606 places had been notified as procurement centres across the state. Of the total, 1,806 were government mandis while 800 were public places and premises of mills. Ashu said the central government had announced the MSP of 1960 for A-grade paddy. He added that all authorities concerned have been directed to strictly follow Covid-safety protocols and ensure availability of soap, water and santisers at the procurement centres. RBI sanctions ₹35,712.73 cr cash credit limit for PunjabThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has sanctioned cash credit limit (CCL) of ₹35,712.73 crore, up to end October 2021, for procurement of paddy during Kharif marketing season (KMS) 2021-22 and extension of the time limit for liquidation of food credit account pertaining to Rabi marketing season (RMS) up to end July 2022. Notably, the RBI has sanctioned CCL of Rs.35,713 crore for paddy procurement against Rs.42,013 crore demanded by the state government and the remaining amount of ₹6,300 crore will be released in November 2021 for purchasing paddy during that month. The Punjab chief minister thanked the Union food secretary for his personal intervention to ensure timely issuance of CCL to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-start-paddy-procurement-from-oct-1-101632928822072.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train to miss deadline, 1st phase between Surat-Bilimora to open in 2026||Stuck due to land acquisition issues, the Centre’s Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed train corridor or bullet train project is likely to miss its 2023 deadline. Instead, the Railway ministry is now planning to open the first phase of the project on the Surat-Bilimora route in 2026.Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, on Wednesday in online interaction with media persons, announced that the work on the bullet train corridor project is going on. “The bullet train between Surat and Bilimora will be operated in 2026,” Vaishnaw added.Vaishnaw added that it is a detailed project and refused to speak further.The 508.17km long Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor project, is stuck due to land acquisition issues, mostly in Maharashtra. While the authorities have acquired most of the land required in Gujarat, the farmers in Thane and Palghar are against giving their land for the project. The Railways, through its subsidiary, National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NSRCL), has begun construction where it has already got possession of the land.The distance between the Surat-Bilimora route is 50km.The bullet train corridor project between Mumbai and Ahmedabad was inaugurated in 2017. The work on the project was initially aimed to be completed by 2023. Land acquisition issues and Covid affected its construction. Later NHSRCL was planning to complete the Gujarat portion of the project by the end of 2024.The corridor will have stations at Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai (terminal on Mumbai end of the corridor), Thane, Virar, Boisor, Vapi, Billimora, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara, Anand, Ahmedabad and Sabarmati.Of the 508.17km of the project, 155.76km is in Maharashtra, 384.04km in Gujarat and 4.3km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The estimated cost of the project is ₹110,000 crore, of which ₹88,000 crore will be funding from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).Speaking on the land acquisition problems in Maharashtra, Vaishnaw stated that discussions with the Maharashtra government are going on.“I have discussed the issue with the Maharashtra chief minister and all concerns are being addressed,” added Vaishnaw.Ruling Shiv Sena has supported the farmers and said it won’t let anyone acquire land without the consent of the farmers.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi conveying the state government’s willingness to accommodate the proposed Mumbai-Nashik-Nagpur high-speed railway corridor along the under-construction Nagpur-Mumbai super communication expressway or Samruddhi Mahamarg.Thackeray also proposed that the central government should take up the Mumbai-Hyderabad high-speed railway corridor between Jalna and Nanded expressway and requested the railways to build a high-speed corridor between Pune-Aurangabad.The work on the bullet train project between Mumbai and Ahmedabad was initially aimed to be completed by 2023. Later the NHSRCL officials had stated that they plan to complete the Gujarat portion of the project by the end of 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiahmedabad-bullet-train-to-miss-deadline-1st-phase-between-surat-bilimora-to-open-in-2026-101632928282331.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Case of extortion against Param Bir Singh: Court grants bail to Sanjay Punamiya, Sunil Jain||A metropolitan magistrate court on Wednesday granted bail to builder Sanjay Punamiya and businessman Sunil Jain, both arrested by the Marine Drive police in the extortion case against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and others.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate RM Nerlikar granted bail to Jain and Punamiya. Advocate Subhash K Jha who appeared for Punamiya and Jain had argued that in the dispute between complainant Shyam Sundar Agarwal and accused Punamiya consent terms were submitted before the Bombay high court and a consent decree was passed. How can a decree passed before such a higher court be forceful, Jha asked.At the most, section 385 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was applicable in the case for putting a person in fear of injury, in order to commit extor­tion which prescribes two years imprisonment and not section 387 of IPC for putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt in order to commit extortion, which is applied in the first information report (FIR), he argued.Advocate Shekhar Jagtap and Sairuchita Chowdhury, who appeared for the state, had argued that when the decree was signed the complainant Agarwal was in Rajasthan, Punamiya had forcefully taken his signatures on plain papers, threatening him with police action and that Punamiya had used his connections with Singh to threaten and extort money.In July 2021, the Marine Drive police have registered an FIR against Param Bir Singh, DCP Akbar Pathan, Assistant Commissioner of Police Shrikant Shinde and other police officers.The police had arrested builder Sanjay Punamiya, a resident of Marine Drive and his associate Sunil Jain in connection with the case.Punamiya and complainant Shyam Sundar Agarwal were partners in several projects in Gorai, Borivali and Bhayandar but they parted ways in 2011. As per Agarwal, Punamiya used his links with Singh to extort funds from him after they fell out.As per the FIR, Punamiya using his influence with Singh had purportedly registered false cases against Agarwal.Thane police had arrested Agarwal in 2017, after which Punamiya had allegedly sent an associate, Manoj Ghatkar, to offer a settlement. Ghatkar met Agarwal’s nephew Sharad and Shubham at Param Bir Singh’s residence says the complaint.Ghatkar threatened them and asked them to pay ₹20 crore or face charges under the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA).Agarwal paid ₹9 crore and handed over a plot at Bhayandar to Punamiya’s associate Sunil Jain.In 2021, when Singh was the Mumbai Police Commissioner, Punamiya filed another complaint at the Juhu police station for threats. Police raided and confiscated Agarwal’s Vile-Parle office but nothing was brought on record.Inspector Nandkumar Gopale, Asha Korake and DCP Patthan also demanded money from Agarwal. Patthan even threatened to arrest Agarwal if he failed to pay Singh and Punamiya.On March, 30, Punamiya forcibly obtained Agarwal’s signature on some property documents. Agarwal paid ₹15.5 crores by cheque to Punamiya at DCP’s office where he was taken forcibly and also paid money to DCP and ACP.The officers have claimed they have been falsely implicated in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/case-of-extortion-against-param-bir-singh-court-grants-bail-to-sanjay-punamiya-sunil-jain-101632927562395.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Shinde surveys spots for parking heavy vehicles in Thane to ease traffic congestion||Thane Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde, on Wednesday, surveyed spots at four locations in the district where parking lots for heavy vehicles could be created to ease traffic congestion. Instructions have been issued to start and complete the work at the earliest.The city has witnessed heavy traffic jams over the last few days, with the Ghodbunder Road being the worst affected. The jams are primarily caused due to heavy vehicles that enter Thane from the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust and from Gujarat to go to Mumbai.“We have created a coordination team comprising officials from the Thane, Raigad and Palghar districts to tackle the problem. Parking lots are being created so that heavy vehicles can park there during peak hours and be released in a staggered manner,” Shinde said.He added that possible locations were surveyed in Uran, Kharegaon, Dapodi and Bhiwandi.“We surveyed a 50 hectare plot at JNPT, a 100 hectare plot at the Razdan junction and several smaller plots as well. Work on these plots will be conducted on war footing,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shinde-surveys-spots-for-parking-heavy-vehicles-in-thane-to-ease-traffic-congestion-101632927443603.html
29-09-2021||Pune||₹80 lakh fund deficit delays PCB’s Shivaji market restoration work||Pune: Six months after a major fire destroyed the Pune Cantonment’s iconic Shivaji market, the restoration work is yet to see the light of the day due to severe shortage of funds. The estimated expenditure of the ₹2.50 crore project has exceeded by about ₹80 lakh. Despite the Public Works Department (PWD) pledging ₹1.25 crore towards the restoration project, the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) administration is struggling to arrange financial resources as it faces acute fund shortage. The board had directed the Shivaji Market traders’ association to pay their pending dues to be used for reconstruction and restoration work. Following the directions, the traders had deposited around ₹20 lakh till date while the Cantonment MLA Sunil Kamble has given ₹25 lakh for the project from the MLA development fund. PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “As far as the restoration work is concerned, we have already given the NOC to the PWD for carrying out the work. The only major challenge being availability of funds as the board is facing financial conditions where we are struggling to pay monthly salaries to staff. Currently, the deficit amount has to be procured so that it can be sent to the department concerned for carrying out the restoration work,” he said. A massive fire broke out at the Chhatrapati Shivaji market on the night of March 15 which destroyed at least 25 shops in the fish and chicken section of the market. Chhatrapati Shivaji Market, a grade I heritage structure, has been a bustling marketplace since its construction in 1885 by British army officer Lt Gen John Ross as per the design by Gen Cecil D’Urban La Touche and WM Ducat. The heritage structure still awaits restoration owing to lack of funds from PCB which is yet to receive central government funds for the past three years. Shivaji Market Traders Association president Manzoor Shaikh said, “We had given ₹22 lakh of the ₹25 lakh pending dues to the PCB and PWD will be giving ₹1.25 crore for the project. The remainder amount is to be given by the board and now the ball is in their court. We are worried that the restoration project has been inordinately delayed.” PCB is facing the worst financial crisis in its history since its inception with the administration struggling to pay the staff’s monthly salary. Many development projects have been affected as the administration is facing fund shortage of around ₹300 crore. Projects affected Construction of commercial complex at Dhobi ghat: ₹16 crore Construction of footover bridge on Shankarsheth road: ₹2.50 crore Multi-level car parking: ₹24 crore Cleaning and beautification of Bhairoba nullah project: ₹84 crore Construction of multi-level parking and podium garden at JJ Garden: ₹10 crore Replacement of old water pipeline: ₹10 crore Fashion Street reconstruction: ₹20 crore Road repair works: ₹5 crore Drainage infrastructure works: ₹10 crore Water bill pendency ₹40 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rs-80-lakh-fund-deficit-delays-pcb-s-shivaji-market-restoration-work-101632925882148.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Potholes in Kalyan make life difficult for motorists during monsoon||The stretches of Shahad Bridge and Mharal Junction that fall on the busy Kalyan-Murbad Road, are riddled with potholes, resulting in severe traffic jams during the peak hours. Motorists taking this stretch have also complained of incidents of bikes skidding due to the bad condition of the roads.The Kalyan-Murbad road connects further to Malshej Ghat and Ahmednagar.“The condition of the Shahad Bridge is the same every year. There are potholes all over the bridge as soon as it starts raining. Many a time, my bike has skidded on the bridge due to the potholes. The bridge is a vital one and still the authorities don’t come up with a permanent solution,” said Rakesh Jain, 27, a motorist who takes the bridge to connect to Murbad for work daily.Similarly, motorists have been complaining about the Mharal Junction, which has several potholes throughout the monsoon. Whenever it stops raining, there is a lot of dust on this stretch.A social activist from Mharal, Ashwin Bhoir, said, “The Public Works Department officials have claimed that they will be concretising the road after the monsoon. However, we have asked them to make the road safe at least with some temporary work now as it is very risky to ride on it.”Sanjay Utawar, deputy engineer of PWD, Thane, said, “For the Shahad Bridge, we have requested the traffic police to give us a block on one lane at night so that we can repair the stretch. Since the bridge is busy throughout the day, we can only do the work at night. Similarly, for the Mharal Junction, we have a project of cement concretisation of a 3.5km-stretch finalised. This work will begin after the monsoon. The project cost is ₹31Cr. Till then, what we have been doing is filling the potholes with metal blocks as during the rainy days, that is the only way to repair the potholes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/potholes-in-kalyan-make-life-difficult-for-motorists-during-monsoon-101632925826754.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Schools in Mumbai to reopen for classes 8 to 12 from October 4||The schools in Mumbai are set to reopen for physical learning for students of classes 8 to 12 from October 4, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Wednesday. The announcement comes amid speculations as Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar last week hinted on the reopening of schools in Mumbai after Diwali as the nation continues to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“We are reopening schools for classes 8 to 12 in Mumbai with effect from October 4. We will make a decision for the rest of the classes in November. All Covid-19 SOPs issued by the government will be implemented,” BMC Commissioner Iqbal Chahal said while speaking to news agency ANI.State education minister Varsha Gaikwad had earlier announced that schools in Maharashtra’s rural areas for students of classes 5 to 12 and in urban areas for classes 8 to 12, would resume from October 4 onwards. The minister mentioned that a detailed standard operating procedure will be sent to teachers and school administrators.She, however, clarified that any decision in this regard would be taken after considering the safety of children. “Though schools will reopen in the entire state, there is no compulsion for students to attend physical classes. Consent of parents will be necessary if they want to attend," the education minister was quoted as saying by PTI.The Maharashtra government had in July allowed reopening of schools for physical classes in the rural areas where the prevalence of coronavirus infection was negligible. However, schools in major cities like Mumbai and Pune remained shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-8-to-12-from-october-4-101632923379189.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Fire brigade rescue 17 revellers stuck at Pandavkada waterfalls in Kharghar||Seventeen revellers including nine women who went to Pandavkada waterfalls in Kharghar, Navi Mumbai, for picnic, were stuck in the hills as the water level of a stream rose due to heavy rainfall on Tuesday. They were rescued by officials from Kharghar and Kalamboli fire brigades using iron ladders.According to the police, the revellers who were from Dharavi and Chembur had entered the waterfalls by crossing a stream in the morning. However, due to incessant rains, the stream got swollen by afternoon, making it impossible for them to return to the city. Among the rescued people were seven minors.The forest department had banned entry to the Pandavkada waterfalls and Kharghar hills in June in view of the numerous accidents in the last few years.An officer from Kharghar fire station said, “Along with the officials from Kalamboli fire station, we reached the spot within a few minutes of receiving the call and rescued the people using iron ladders. The rescue operation continued for three hours and no one suffered injuries. The revellers belonged to the 16-27 years age group except for a woman who was 48.”Sandipan Shinde, senior inspector of Kharghar police station, said, “We allowed the revellers to go home in the evening, requesting them not to repeat the same mistake in the future. We have not registered any case against them yet.”In a similar incident, 116 people including 78 women and five children were stuck at Kharghar hills on July 18 this year. The local police and the fire brigade officials rescued them safely after a few hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-brigade-rescue-17-revellers-stuck-at-pandavkada-waterfalls-in-kharghar-101632923661723.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai citizens may experience severe health impacts of coal pollution: Study||Mumbai residents may be experiencing worse health and economic impacts from pollution caused by coal-fired power plants, as compared to other major metropolitan cities around the world, suggests new research by the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group. These findings, which were released on Wednesday in tandem with a report titled ‘Coal-free cities: the health and economic case for a clean energy revolution’, also show a significant impact of coal-fired power plants on Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru.Under the existing scenario, the C40 group’s analysis shows that Mumbai’s 13 million-odd population will experience 6,200 premature deaths, 3,200 preterm births and 4,400 emergency medical visits among patients suffering from asthma and related ailments by 2031. By extrapolation, residents in the city will take a combined 2.4 million days of sick leave over the next decade, which would directly impact economic productivity. The five metropolitan cities analysed by the C40 group will together suffer 52,700 premature deaths, 31,300 preterm births and 5,700 new cases of asthma in children within the next 10 years.Coal-fired power plants within a 500km radius of Mumbai generate a total 9% of the entire country’s coal-based power, and air pollution stemming from these plants often travels long distances, exposing and making vulnerable a much larger section of the population than residents in their immediate vicinity. Moreover, given the high domestic demand for power in the city, nearly 71% of Mumbai carbon footprint comes from electricity generation, according to a recent emissions inventory prepared as part of the BMC’s upcoming Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP).Commenting on these findings, Dr Rachel Huxley, head of knowledge and research at C40, highlighted the risk posed to citizens due to pollution from PM2.5 pollutants in the air, which stand at more than thrice the World Health Organisation’s recommended threshold. She also said that given India’s plans to expand its coal fleet to 64GW, the situation threatens to worsen in the near future.“Current national plans would expand the coal fleet by 28% between 2020 and 2030, and not by 20%, threatening the health and well-being of the urban residents in Mumbai while undermining India’s climate and air quality targets. Current national plans could increase the number of annual premature deaths from coal pollution in Mumbai by 35%,” Huxley said.Instead, the report advocates for “an energy transition that would supply Mumbai with renewable electricity would also generate 250,000 energy jobs in India between 2020 and 2030, and provide cheaper electricity.” The jobs would stem directly from demand in manufacturing, installation and operations of renewable energy sources.Suggesting tangible steps in the way forward, the C40 group, along with researchers at the University of Maryland in the United States and the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, modelled a plant-by-plant retirement scenario keeping in mind the age, technology, profitability, operations and pollution (air and water) caused by each individual coal-fired power plant. Around Mumbai, 20 coal units (3 GW) have been identified for retirement in the next two years, since they are the oldest, and most inefficient, emitting high levels of pollution while being the least cost-effective. Another 22 (3.5 GW) coal units could be retired by 2030, en route to a complete shutdown of coal power by 2045, the model suggests.A rapid phase-out of coal power in the vicinity around Mumbai would “reduce India’s total annual GHG emissions by 11% (274 MtCO2 of emission savings) per year, which would be the equivalent of taking 60 million vehicles off the road for a year,” the C40 group said in a statement Wednesday.Responding to these findings, Saurabh Punamiya, research and public policy assistant to the state minister for environment and climate change, Aaditya Thackeray, said that 25% of Mumbai’s electricity demand will be met through renewables by 2025, and that use of coal in the state will be phased out in a “just transition”.“We intend to identify ways and means to provide more renewables to the grid. From not only the point of view of energy alone but also towards climate resilience on how we design our buildings. The aim is to identify how we can reduce energy consumption in a city which has a hot and humid climate throughout the year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-citizens-may-experience-worse-health-impacts-of-coal-pollution-study-101632923601962.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||75% Covid patients overcharged by private hospitals in Maharashtra despite price cap: Survey||Nearly 75% of Covid-19 patients who were treated at private hospitals in the state were overcharged despite a price cap set up by the Maharashtra government, a new survey has found. Of the 2,579 patients and their families that were surveyed across 34 districts in the state, a majority of 95.4% of patients had taken treatment in the private sector while 4.6% were treated in the public sector.Health activists said that the findings of the survey were shocking and called for a detailed audit of the bills by the state authorities. “If a sample size of 2,500 odd patients shows such high level of overcharging by private hospitals, one can imagine the plight of lakhs of patients in the state,” said public health expert Dr Abhay Shukla, co-convenor of Jan Arogya Abhiyan that carried out the survey along with Maharashtra Corona Ekal Mahila Punarvasan Samiti.The survey was carried out this month and covered 317 patients and their families who were affected in the first wave of the pandemic and 2,262 patients and their families from the second wave.Of the surveyed patients, 1,294 had recovered while 1,295 had succumbed to the infection. Of the deceased, 1,059 were men who left behind their wives and children.In May 2020, the Maharashtra government had invoked five laws to cap the prices of private hospitals due to the pandemic. The state further extended the cap during the second wave as well. “The price cap for ventilator and intensive care unit (ICU) beds was ₹9,000 per day, ICU beds were capped at ₹7,500 per day and isolation beds were capped at ₹4,000,” said Shukla. “Our survey revealed that despite this capping, patients admitted in private hospitals were being charged an average of ₹21,215. Overall, our survey found that patients were overcharged by an average of ₹155,934,” he said.The survey also studied the cost of medicines that the families were asked to purchase from outside. In the public sector, families spent an average of ₹17,000 on medications from outside, while in the private sector, the average spending on medication was about ₹90,000.The costly treatment and the overcharging have left many families in debt. Patients were also given a cocktail of drugs, without any explanations or justifications to the family.“It felt like the doctors were conducting research by trying all the available medicines,” said Nashik resident Riddhi Kshirsagar who lost her husband due to Covid-19 in the second wave. She spent nearly ₹18 lakh for his treatment.Family members of the deceased said that an ex-gratia amount of ₹50,000 will hardly be of any help. “We should be given jobs,” said Seema Bhagwat, who lost her husband in the second wave after a 38-day long hospital stay and eventually contracting mucormycosis. She spent nearly ₹16 lakh on the treatment.Many family members have defaulted their loan instalments, sold off their gold jewellery and land plots to cover the treatment costs of their loved ones. “Introducing a price cap was a good step by the state, but its implementation has not been done,” said Shakuntala Bhalerao of Jan Arogya Abhiyan. “We are calling upon the state to conduct a detailed audit and get the hospitals to return the overcharged amount to patients in one month,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/75-covid-patients-overcharged-by-private-hospitals-in-maharashtra-despite-price-cap-survey-101632923241696.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Palghar bypolls: Not an alliance between BJP and MNS, but seat adjustment, say Union min||For the first time, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is all set to have “seat adjustment” for elections with Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) for the local body polls at Palghar. Both parties will fight the Palghar district council (zilla parishad) and panchayat samiti bypolls on 29 seats together.The BJP will contest 20 seats, while the MNS will contest the remaining nine seats. The BJP may even offer some seats to local outfits from its quota.Both asserted that it was just an adjustment and not an alliance per se. They said both parties will fight in those seats where they are strong and avoid fights against each other.Union minister and BJP member of Parliament (MP) Kapil Patil who is the architect of this tie-up said, “It is not an alliance between the BJP and MNS, but seat adjustment. We will fight on those seats where we are strong and they will not field their candidates and vice versa,” said Patil. He said the adjustment was being done for the sake of the development of Palghar.MNS leader Avinash Jadhav said the adjustments were based on local factors. “The local conditions are such that if we both (BJP and MNS) stay together, we will win power and hence we took this decision,” said Jadhav.After the Shiv Sena snapped ties with the BJP in October 2019 to form the government in Maharashtra with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, the saffron party is considering an alliance or a tacit tie-up with the MNS as a strategic move to counter three-party coalition, especially the Shiv Sena.BJP chief Chandrakant Patil called on Raj Thackeray at the latter’s residence in Dadar last month, fuelling speculations over a BJP tie-up. The MNS enjoys sizable pockets in cities like Mumbai, Nashik, Kalyan-Dombivli and could help the BJP in garnering votes of Marathi speaking population and denting the vote bank of friend-turned-foe Sena, which effectively plays the Marathi manoos card to get votes of Maharashtrians in metropolitan areas of the state. However, the BJP is wary of the anti-North Indian plank of the MNS which could hurt its North Indian vote bank.This month, the state Election Commission (SEC) announced bypolls for six zilla parishads (district councils) — Palghar, Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim, and Nagpur — and 33 other panchayat samitis on the seats vacated following the Supreme Court (SC) order against the political reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBC) community. The polls will be held on October 5 and the counting will be held the next day.Meanwhile, MNS chief Raj Thackeray is on a Pune tour to meet his party workers in preparation for the Pune civic polls. The Pune MNS unit has been strongly advocating a tie-up with the BJP. Thackeray, in his speech, asked his party leaders to prepare for solo fight now and not depend on an alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/palghar-bypolls-not-an-alliance-between-bjp-and-mns-but-seat-adjustment-say-union-min-101632923063183.html
29-09-2021||Pune||Two dupe man of ₹3 lakh in currency exchange deal in Pune||PUNE: A 28-year-old man lost ₹3 lakh to a person who allegedly offered him currency of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) at a cheaper cost. The police are looking for two suspects in the case. The complainant met the accused at a tea shop in Wagholi and made the exchange in Yerawada. While the complainant handed him ₹3,35,000 in cash, in return he received washing soap wrapped in a fabric that looked like currency notes wrapped in handkerchief. “The accused visited a popular tea shop in Wagholi and asked a random man to look up at the cost of a dirham that he had brought with him. The complainant heard it and searched online for the dirham rate and found that he could earn money from it. So, he asked the accused to meet him later on that day in Yerawada,” said sub-inspector Kiran Varaal of Lonikand police station where the case was registered. The man to whom the accused showed the foreign currency at the tea shop is also suspected to be an accomplice in the case. A case under Section 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the two men. Another similar case was registered in Kondhwa where a 28-year-old man and his friend were duped of ₹2 lakh by a person who offered him the UAE currency at a cheaper rate. The theft happened in Sainagar area along Upper Kondhwa road in Pune on September 16 between 7:30pm and 8pm, according to the police. The complainant and his friend lost a total of ₹2,01,000 in the process. In the Kondhwa case, the accused had met with the victims through a driver who worked for the complainant’s friend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-dupe-man-of-rs-3-lakh-in-currency-exchange-deal-in-pune-101632923061687.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor asks engineers for a fix to problem of potholes by October-end||By October end, the system will be in place and roads and potholes in the city will be filled, said Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar. Pednekar said she has instructed officials to attend to complaints on priority.Speaking with reporters, Pednekar on Wednesday said, “A review meeting was conducted with municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, in which it was decided that all potholes will be filled on priority.”Pednekar added, “The engineers have been directed that they have to fix the system in one month, and if they have any problem or issue, they should bring it up. This will ensure timely solving of the problems, considering having potholes free road is one of the basic requirements.”This comes a day after the BMC chief directed road engineers to fill all potholes in the next two-three weeks to ensure the road surface is made smooth. On Monday, Pednekar also had directed BMC officials to fill potholes in the eastern suburbs in 10 days, after visiting areas in Chembur and Kurla.According to BMC officials, it has filled 40,000 potholes on all roads in Mumbai since April 2021. However, continuous rains over the past few days and increased traffic on the roads have led to a resurgence of potholes.Meanwhile, in the city, around 1,000 potholes have been reported between June 2021 up to now on the BMC’s official mobile application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-asks-engineers-for-a-fix-to-problem-of-potholes-by-octoberend-101632922641867.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Noida STF arrest two persons for extortion||Two persons were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly extorting a man for money in Greater Noida. The suspects were identified as Atul Kasana, 22, a resident of Ghaziabad, and Arun, 32, alias Master, a resident of Badalpur in Gautam Budh Nagar.The complainant Rajkumar (known by his first name only) is a resident of Duryai village in Badalpur.Rajkumar said that his nephew Omveer, 25, sold his property and shifted to some other area two years ago.“Arun told me that Omveer owed him ₹24 lakh, and since Omveer had left the place, I should clear the dues,” Rajkumar said.He added that soon he started getting suspicious calls from numbers that appeared to have originated in the United States. The person on the other end of the line threatened to kill him if he failed to pay Arun. Rajkumar said he feared for his safety and paid Arun ₹30,000 and he was unable to pay more.Raj Kumar Mishra, additional superintendent of police, Noida Special Task Force (STF), said a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Badalpur police station on September 2.“We launched an investigation and found that Arun and his accomplice were involved in making these extortion calls. On Wednesday, we called Arun for questioning at the STF office in Surajpur. During interrogation, he revealed that he had hired Atul Kasana to extort money from Rajkumar,” he said.The two persons were then arrested. During interrogation, Arun revealed that he had promised to pay ₹5 lakh to Atul Kasana once he got money from Rajkumar. Atul Kasana is also associated with one Amit Kasana, a man with a criminal history who is presently in judicial custody, said police. Atul Kasana had also sent a WhatsApp message to Rajkumar, saying they wanted the money on behalf of Amit Kasana.The police said that Section 386 (extortion) and Section 66 D of the IT Act have been added to the FIR. “The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-stf-arrest-two-persons-for-extortion-101632922521477.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Guaranteed MSP is real farm reform: The case of edible oil||To end the ‘forever war’ with farmers, the central government must announce a law to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for the purchase of all 23 crops whose calculations are made by the Commission of Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP). It is known that assured procurement of only cereal crops has resulted in an overflowing buffer stock, which is more than three times of the mandated norm. However, the nation owes a debt to the humble farmer whose hard work ensured that there were no starvation deaths in the worst pandemic since the Spanish flu in 1918 and the famines in Bengal and Travancore in 1943. Records show that 92 million tonnes of grain were distributed for Covid relief, for migrant labour and the public distribution system (PDS) last year as against an average of 62 million tonnes for the past five years, starting 2014. In 2020-21, rice and wheat worth ₹70,000 crore ($9.36 billion) were exported. Aggressive cereal exports can raise a reserve fund (RF) for procuring all 23 crops. It is estimated that around ₹1.2 lakh crore can be raised by exports this year. How can this RF of 1.2 stabilise the farm economy? Shifting from wheat to oilseeds For a start, let us examine the case of oilseeds. India is the world’s largest importer of vegetable oils, buying two-thirds of its requirements overseas. In 2021, we imported crude and refined palm oil worth $5.8 billion. Edible oil is the third largest import after petroleum crude and gold. With an assured MSP, our farmers will produce enough oilseeds to make the nation self-sufficient. Isn’t this a golden opportunity to resolve the farm crisis, increase rural incomes, kickstart demand for industrial goods and save precious foreign exchange in the bargain? Using government agencies such as Nafed, FCI, STC, Punsup and Markfed, the MSP announced should be guaranteed at the time of purchase from the farmers. Physical procurement need not be necessarily made. Just like the Cotton Corporation of India gives price support for keeping cotton rates afloat, these government agencies, funded by the GoI, may buy, stock and trade in oilseeds only if the open market rates fall below the MSP. The CCI also does not purchase all cotton sold in the mandis. This month the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approved the hike in MSP of rapeseed and mustard by 8.6% and of safflower by 2.14%. If the government were to announce assured procurement, many farmers would shift from wheat to oilseeds in the coming rabi season itself as the MSP of wheat has been increased by only 2.03%. Palm oil plantation plan flawed For some inexplicable reasons, the GOI is planning to expand palm oil production in ecologically sensitive regions such as the Andaman Islands and in the North East. It is known that edible oil plantation tends to replace natural tropical forests, depleting biodiversity. Perhaps that is why Sri Lanka has banned fresh palm oil plantations, mandating older plantations to be phased out. This misplaced thrust on unsustainable agriculture is likely to meet rejection by the Supreme Court, which in 2002 ordered the phasing out of all exotic plantations to conserve the island ecology. The Supreme Court will keep in mind the warning issued by the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) that increasing deforestation and destruction of biodiversity is a major cause of climate aberrations. Additionally, the plan is flawed as the goal is to reach a production target of 2.8 million tonnes by 2030. The target can be achieved much earlier by encouraging oilseed cultivation in the irrigated lands of UP, Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab for a start. The worst example of misspending scarce resources is that this flawed scheme provides free fertiliser, guaranteed price to the palm oil plantation owner and viability price funding to the oil refiner. This has prompted observers to ask why the farmers of other oilseed crops are being given stepmotherly treatment. Self-reliant in oil production India is equipped to become self-reliant in edible oil production. It has the suitable natural conditions to produce several nutritious oilseeds, including groundnut, mustard and cottonseed. Indian farmers have a special skill in growing oilseed crops, which go well with other crops using traditional mixed farming systems and crop rotation. The reservoir of skill at the village level has generated small-scale oil processing and extraction plants, which produce high quality oil and nutritious oil cakes (as a byproduct), which are then used in the local dairies. All that needs to be done is to make farmers aware through agricultural universities and the state agriculture departments of newer varieties and to supply them certified good quality seeds. Earlier, the National Oilseeds Technology Mission, launched in 1985 succeeded in making India more or less self-reliant in edible oil production and the nation was producing 97% of its requirement at home by 1994. This is certainly doable now, too. dhanbirbains@gmail.com The writer is a retired IAS officer and former chairman of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guaranteed-msp-is-real-farm-reform-the-case-of-edible-oil-101632921082031.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||CBI officials take Anand Giri to Haridwar for recovery of laptop, mobile||PRAYAGRAJ: CBI officials on Wednesday took Anand Giri, an accused in the alleged death case of Mahant Narendra Giri, to Haridwar for the recovery of his laptop, cell phone and documents relevant to the case. After a few hours of questioning in the morning, sleuths took him to Prayagraj airport from where they took a flight around 3.30pm.The prime focus of the investigation agency is now on Anand Giri’s laptop and mobile phone, which may contain the alleged morphed obscene videos and photos of the Mahant, about which he had mentioned in the purported suicide note found in the room where his body was found hanging from the ceiling fan recently, said officials.During questioning, Anand Giri denied having knowledge about any such videos or photographs.After taking Anand Giri to Haridwar, the CBI will also investigate about the person there with whom Mahant Narendra Giri was in contact and learned from him that Anand was planning to release an alleged morphed video of him with a woman. Though the Mahant, in his purported suicide note, stated that he came to know about Anand Giri’s plans from a person in Haridwar, he did not mention his name. It is believed that CBI officials may have scanned call details of Mahant Narendra Giri’s phone to identify that person in Haridwar.Meanwhile, CBI officials continued to grill the other accused in the case –former priest of Bade Hanuman Temple, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep, at the Police Lines. The duo said they didn’t know why their name was mentioned in the suicide note. Aadya and Sandeep claimed they used to honour the Mahant even when the responsibility of aarti was taken away from Aadya Tiwari on the instructions of Mahant Narendra Giri few months back and his son’s flower shop was removed from outside the Bade Hanuman temple.The CBI officials also questioned the father-son duo about their multi crore properties in Naini and other areas. They informed the CBI that though they were close to Anand Giri, they had nothing to do with his enmity with his Narendra Giri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cbi-officials-take-anand-giri-to-haridwar-for-recovery-of-laptop-mobile-101632919161543.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Terror and beauty, the morning of the shikra||Living at a place surrounded by a few trees and a bit of wilderness offers us ample opportunities to observe the wild around us. Mornings arrive wafted over birdsong to nudge us out of our beds. The morning cacophony of raucous jungle babblers, mynahs, crows, parrots, tailor birds, sun birds, grey hornbills and koel is actually an avian ensemble with each songster playing its part. However, things take a serious turn when the shikra (Accipiter badius), a small hawk, immortalised in Punjabi psyche by Shiv Batalvi’s poem by the same name comes visiting. Shikra, derived from the Urdu word shikari or hunter, is a small raptor from the family to which Punjab’s state bird, the northern goshawk or baaz, belongs. Shikra is a widespread resident in the open wooded country and urban spaces in India, except in the North-East. It feeds on small birds, lizards and mice, but is also known for its speed, stealth, opportunism and pluck to take on birds larger than itself. The morning of the shikra in April this year was quite eventful. Scattered rain had followed a dusty, windy night in the early hours of that memorable morning. The air was thick with petrichor. I was pulled out of bed, for a change, not by the birdsong but by the loud ululation of a babbler in its death throes. A female shikra with a jungle babbler in its deadly talons was sitting on the ground in our backyard. Unnerved by the babbler’s wailing, I ran impulsively towards the place of slaughter. The hunter loosened its grip and flew away. The babbler sprang up like a tennis ball and hustled into the nearest lime shrub. It was alive and kicking much to my relief. But the shikra came back within a minute, looking for the kill. Perched on a guava branch, it surveyed the area with its keen, angry, orange-yellow hawk eyes. It looked at me for a while, perhaps cursing me silently for depriving it of its breakfast. Not finding the quarry, it flew away, only to come back again. This time, it sat on a branch of the same lime where its prey, the babbler had galloped. It kept coming and going many more times before finally disappearing behind a distant peepal. In Batalvi’s poem, the shikra is an ambiguous metaphor for love, longing, betrayal and sheer animal will. There is ambiguity even about its gender; it has a plume on its head and anklets in its feet. The narrator-lover in the poem bemoans: “Choorie kuttan tan oh khaunda naahi/ ve assan dil da maas khawaya/ Ikk udari aisimari, oh muhr watni na aaya.” (I crush choorie for him, /But he doesn’t take! /So, I fed him the flesh of my heart!/He took such a flight, /Never to come back again.)” Our shikra was a similar embodiment of terror and beauty. Like the narrator of the poem, I also believe that our shikra, having been denied the animal flesh that rightfully belonged to it, will never come back again. There was some finality about its departing flight that saddened me. The entire episode left me in a state of dilemma: In saving a defenceless bird, had I not denied its hard-earned meal to a powerful raptor? Is human intervention in nature’s ways, even if motivated by sympathy and humanitarian concerns, justified? There are no easy answers. With the number of overlapping zones of human and animal habitation increasing every day, we will be facing many more such unresolvable dilemmas. swarajraj@yahoo.comThe writer is a Patiala-based professor of English||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/terror-and-beauty-the-morning-of-the-shikra-101632918441498.html
29-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand launches 'Vaccine Express' to ramp up Covid-19 vaccination||In a bid to ramp up Covid-19 vaccination campaign in Jharkhand, the Hemant Soren-led state government on Tuesday launched 60 'Vaccine Express' with an aim to inoculate around 12,000 people per day.The facility has been launched for all 24 districts of the state. These vehicles would move around the rural areas and will be stationed at places depending on their requirement, a report by PTI said.Flagging off the initiative, Soren said the objective of the facility is to reach out to the people living in inaccessible areas and those who have been left out of the vaccination campaign. He also urged the people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour amid concerns over the possibility of an impending third wave of the virus.“The vehicles would be distributed among all 24 districts. I request the people to abide by Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Soren said in Ranchi.The 'Vaccine Express' vehicles are expected to run till December this year.Meanwhile, Jharkhand health secretary Arun Kumar Singh said that his department is trying to vaccinate as many people as possible even as he said the shortage of vaccine is a big constraint."We are trying to vaccinate maximum people with both doses but we don't have enough vaccines. As of now, we are vaccinating 1-1.25 lakh people every day. The number would be elevated to 3 lakh if vaccines were available, but sufficient vaccine availability is a big question for us," he said.As per the data from the ministry of health and family welfare, the total Covid-19 vaccine coverage in the state has surpassed 1,74,16,944.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-launches-vaccine-express-to-ramp-up-covid-19-vaccination-101632912303894.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer, nephew killed over old enmity in Tarn Taran||A 55-year-old farmer and his nephew were shot dead over an old enmity at Nagoke village in Khadoor Sahib subdivision of Tarn Taran district on Tuesday night. Lakhbir Singh and his brother’s son Amritpal Singh, 26, were on their way to their farmhouse in the village when they were attacked around 10pm. Also read: ‘Have no ego’: Punjab CM says party is supreme, invites Navjot Sidhu for talksPolice have identified seven of the accused as Yudhbir Singh and his brother Tejbir Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Arshdeep Singh and Kawaljit Singh, all residents of Nagoke, and Gurchet Singh, alias Cheti, of Gagrewal village. Police are trying to identify a dozen more accused involved in the crime. Amritpal had a quarrel with Yudhbir and Tejbir a few days ago. The brothers had been nursing a grudge against him ever since, the police said. Attacked with sharp-edged weapons “My uncle Lakhbir Singh and brother Amritpal were returning home from Nagoke bus stand on a motorcycle when they were attacked with sharp-edged weapons by Yudhbir, Tejbir and Lovepreet near the canal in our village,” Amritpal’s cousin Mandeep Singh said. In the meantime, Arshdeep, Kawaljit and Cheti and 10 unidentified persons also reached the spot in two cars. “All of them attacked my brother and uncle before Cheti opened fire from his gun, killing both,” he said. Raids on to arrest accused Vaironwal station house officer (SHO) Varinder Singh Khosa said that raids were on to arrest the absconding accused. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Sections 25-27 of the Arms Act. Amritpal, whose father died a few years ago, was unmarried, and Lakhbir was a farmer. They lived in a joint family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-nephew-killed-over-old-enmity-in-tarn-taran-101632915921401.html
29-09-2021||Jaipur||New Rajasthan marriage registration Bill retrograde: Activists||Even as the state government has maintained that the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages (Amendment) Bill passed this month does not legalise child marriages, rights groups continue to object to it calling the proposed law retrograde. The bill was passed last week in the state assembly.The government has said the Bill does not prevent courts from declaring child marriages void by seeking the registration of all marriages in the state since 2006 as per a Supreme Court order.Kriti Bhati, who works for NGO Saarthi Trust that campaigns against child marriages, said the provisions of the bill are unacceptable. “It seems that the government has wrongly interpreted the Supreme Court order, which nowhere seeks to register child marriages. If the government has doubts, it should approach the court for clarification.”Bhati, who said she has prevented 1,500 child marriages and has had 43 annulled, said the court mandated seeking public opinion and objections before amending the law, which was not done.Bhati claimed child marriages have not reduced in the state but were being underreported. “The number of such marriages would increase now with the amendment...”Also Read: Protest announced against ‘irregularities’ in REET-2021Kavita Srivastav of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties said allowing marriage registration for children directly approves child marriages. “The government should have undertaken pre-legislative consultation.” She said since the enactment of the Protection of Women from Child Marriage in 2006, there has been a decline in the number of child marriages. “The marriages annulled so far happened as the girls raised their voice but now this right would also end as the parents will not get the marriage registered fearing legal action.”Roopa Choudhary, 21, who was married off as a child, said child marriages should be prevented and hoped the amendment will ensure it.Four child marriages were registered in the state in 2016, 10 in 2017, and 17 in 2018.The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, provides for declaring a child marriage void. The government has said the amended bill does not in any way dilute provisions like these. It said it is committed to the eradication of social evils such as child marriage. “Sub-divisional officer and tehsildars have been appointed as child marriage prohibition officers...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/new-rajasthan-marriage-registration-bill-retrograde-activists-101632914781212.html
29-09-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s Tales: Unlocking history of 18 peths in 18th century Pune - part 1||PUNE The peth-dwelling Punekars, who have spent their childhoods in peths of Pune pride themselves of being the “quintessential Punekars” as compared to those living in suburban areas of Pune. Often one hears a person being called “pethi” or belonging to Pune 30, which originally encompassed the area of Sadashiv peth. An outsider would wonder what this “true blue” Punekar “swag” is all about!Peths formed and reformed around mid-18th century are not just separately demarcated areas in medieval town planning, but have contributed to the evolution of a special socio-cultural character for each peth. It grants a unique identity to each peth. When Pune served as a central market for nearby villages pre-17th century, the practice of weekly markets on a particular day was prevalent. As trading became an everyday affair, the trading areas were segregated according to the produce and were assigned a particular day of the week. Thus, the market areas were either bustling with the commercial activity or were closed on a particular day of the week and were named, accordingly. As Pune was divided into various peths, the peths assumed the name of the markets based on each day of the week and were referred to as Ravivar peth (Sunday), Shaniwar peth (Saturday) and so on. Kasba peth is the oldest of the lot and most organically developed. Initially, it was inhabited by minor revenue officials, merchants and artisans and existed outside the fortification of Killa-e-Hissar. Due to the residences of Shivaji Maharaj and Rajmata Jijabai, and later those of prominent nobles such as the Purandares, Mujumdars, Pethes and Shitoles, Kasba peth remained important. A number of Brahmin families engaged in Vedic learning also resided in the peth.Shaniwar peth lay along the river Mutha and began as Murtazabad established by Murtaza Nizamshah in the early 17th century. Peshwa Bajirao I built Shaniwar wada in 1730 at one corner of Shaniwar wada and the peth extended to the other corner, till the Omkareshwar temple by the river side. The fortifications of the fort were levelled to make way for the construction of mansions for various dignitaries serving Peshwas. In the census conducted to assess the damage after the Nizam’s raid in 1763, the houses of Brahmins were originally large in numbers. The peth was inhabited by good number of sonar (goldsmiths), tapkirwale (snuff makers), saraf (money changers) and other merchants, too. Ravivar peth was originally known as Malkapur and was settled by famous chief minister of Nizam Sultanate of Ahmendnagar, Malik Ambar sometime before 1626. It was redeveloped during Nanasaheb Peshwa’s period by Mahajan Vyavahare Joshi n 1740-41. It had homes of notable sardars such as Haripant Phadke and Ghorpade. In 1789, Durlabhsheth Govindji, a banker, built the Krishna Thakurdwar temple in the peth and appealed to shift the chambar (cobblers) elsewhere to avoid a “ritualistically undesirable” presence around the temple. The large presence of the Bohra community can be realised through records of the Jamatkhana (community hall) built in 1789. The census from the British period offers an eclectic mix of Bohras, Brahmins, Marwadi traders, bankers, merchants, artisans, workers, bahujans, “untouchables”, kalavantin (prostitutes) and hijras (eunuchs) belonging to different statuses, castes and religions. Ravivar peth, more than any other, offered an entire social spectrum through occupancy by a total of 63 castes.Somwar peth is almost as old as Kasba and initially functioned as a religious precinct along the sacred Nagzari stream. It was settled as Shahapura after Shahaji Raje in 1610. The peth was renovated when Aba Shalukar offered a generous donation to Nageshwar temple in late 18th century. The peth was occupied by professionals engaged in cloth, dressmaking and weaving occupations such as Koshti and Shimpi. The peth was home to many notable bankers and aristocrats and housed two main temple complexes and four chowkis (police stations). Brahmin, Kunbi-Maratha, Wani and Dalkari were the major castes and no dalit families were noted. The peth notes residence of Siddi (Abyssinians), which are not found elsewhere.Most populous of all, Budhwar peth was originally settled by Emperor Aurangzeb as Muhiyabad in 1703. This centrally located peth was rebuilt by Madhavrao Peshwa after the Nizam’s attack destroyed 60 per cent of the housing and Govind Sadashiv Khajagiwale was appointed as officer in-charge of renovation. It had residences of many eminent personalities such as Nana Phadnis and Morobadada Phadnis, including the three-storyed “Budhwar wada” of Bajirao II, built in 1803. It housed temples of Jogeshwari, Belbaug Vishnu, Tulshibaug Ram and was home to the Peshwa cavalry at “Huzurpaga”. Shukrawar peth, also known as Peth Visapur, was a settlement by Jivajipant Khajagiwale in 1748-50. He broadened the lanes, acquired the land and built many military, government establishments and mansions. Peshwa’s foundry, infantry lines, elephant stables, talimkhana (gym), gadikhana (stables), headquarters of artillery and Peshwa’s Shukrawar wada were located in this peth. This was a very mixed peth with houses of the richest citizens such as Pant Sachiv of Bhor. Later labourers, domestic servants, and foundry workers resided here. It is said that Tarabai wife of Shivaji Maharaj’s son, Rajaram , known for her courage and bravery lived here briefly. Jivajipant Khajagiwale built apartments called “Bawankhani” where prostitutes and courtesans could live in one place and stay under supervision. Pune settled in these 18 peths was prominently caste based with growing spatial divide in commercial and residential establishments. Thus, old city of Pune houses peths or wards named after all the days of the week. In addition to these exists various others peths which we shall review in next column.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-unlocking-history-of-18-peths-in-18th-century-pune-part-1-101632912321663.html
29-09-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal rains cause waterlogging in Kolkata, East Medinipur and other areas | Watch||Heavy rains battered Kolkata and other southern districts of West Bengal on Wednesday owing to low-pressure created by cyclonic storm ‘Gulab’ in the Bengal coast, leading to waterlogging and traffic snarls in several areas. Visuals of waterlogged streets in Kolkata, East Medinipur and other districts have been doing rounds on social media platforms.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted intense spell of rains or thundershowers accompanied with gusty wind 30-40 kmph over Kolkata, North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Medinipur, Jhargram, Howrah, Hooghly, East and West Bardhaman and Birbhum districts of West Bengal for three to four hours today.#WATCH | West Bengal: Heavy rainfall in Paschim Medinipur causes waterlogging in various parts of the district pic.twitter.com/fZjDchDWQnEarlier this morning, a three-year-old child and a woman died after a building collapsed in Kolkata’s Ahiritola region. Although they were rescued from the rubbles of the building, they succumbed to their injuries later. In another rain-related incident, a man was killed by electrocution in his waterlogged home in Kolkata. His wife and 10-year-old son also died while attempting to save him.The MeT had predicted waterlogging in low-lying areas of cities and towns, and damage to standing crops, and advised fishermen not to venture into the sea till Thursday. More than 35,000 people have been evacuated from low-lying areas and relief shelters are on standby, the local administration stated.Districts including West Midnapore, East Medinipur and South 24 Parganas received heavy to very heavy rain. Haldia in East Medinipur received 216.4mm rain in the past 24 hours, while Diamond Harbour and Sagar Island received 150mm and 152mm rain till 8:30 am this morning, the weather department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-rains-cause-waterlogging-in-kolkata-east-medinipur-and-other-areas-watch-101632907858836.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Schools for junior classes may reopen, modalities to be decided after Dussehra||With the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) considering allowing junior schools to reopen for in-person learning in a phased manner, educational institutes in the Capital will begin planning how to hold staggered classes for their students. The modalities for the reopening of the remaining classes in schools will be decided at the first DDMA meeting after Dussehra, said a DDMA official.Educational institutes in the capital, including schools, colleges, and coaching centres for students of classes 8 onwards reopened last month following a DDMA order on August 30. Several schools said they have been receiving queries from parents on the reopening of junior classes as the closure of schools due to the pandemic led to severe learning and emotional deficits.The National Progressive Schools Conference, which comprises top schools in Delhi, said it plans to resume in-person learning for classes 6 to 8 in November.Malini Narayanan, the chairperson of the group, said, “We will implement the same blended learning model for these classes and students will not be called to the school on all days. Learning will continue with a combination of online and in-person classes. Schools can start with classes 6 to 8 first and then call the junior students based on the prevailing Covid-19 situation around mid-November.”Also Read: Ramleela, Dussehra, Durga Puja allowed in Delhi with restrictions Narayanan said that parents and children had been approaching her about the reopening and many were left disappointed when the August DDMA order focused on reopening educational institutes only for students of classes 9 onwards.“Parents have been eagerly waiting for schools to reopen because the social-emotional learning and connection with peers, which is important for holistic development of children, has been missing as schools have been closed for over a year. Once schools reopen for classes 6-8, we can also take a call on providing transport (school buses) based on student strength for the convenience of parents,” she said.The Action Committee for Unaided Private Schools, a group of over 450 private schools in the city, also welcomed the latest DDMA decision. Its general secretary Bharat Arora said, “We understand that the possible spread of Covid-19 during the festive season is a genuine concern, but the decision should be reconsidered after Dussehra. It is time when we all stakeholders need to realise academic gaps and take proactive decisions accordingly.”Some schools in the capital may have issues in reopening as many are serving as vaccination centres with multiple sites on the premises. Since teachers have also been engaged in Covid-19 duties, principals said it was important to relieve teachers of those duties so that they could focus solely on academic work.Government school principal Sukhbir Singh Yadav, who is also the president of Vice and Principals’ Association of Delhi, said, “If schools are reopening for all classes, teachers and staff engaged in Covid-19 duties such as at the airport or hospitals should also be allowed to return to schools because the student strength will increase substantially. Government schools, with the paucity of space, may face problems in holding classes in a staggered manner while maintaining physical distancing protocols as many have vaccination centres on their premises. If the Covid-19 situation remains under control, we would prefer calling students from classes 6 to 8 in November and then the junior classes in December after the festive season is over,” he said.Old Delhi resident Nazia Habib, whose children study in class 7 and kindergarten, said, “Since tuitions have begun, students have been able to catch up a little on studies even with online learning. But the Covid-19 fear is still there. Every day, we read reports from across the world of reinfection. Most parents I know would not be keen on sending their children to school without vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/schools-begin-preparations-for-welcoming-students-back-101632909260736.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Deserted, Punjab Congress Bhawan misses the buzz||The Punjab Congress Bhawan in Sector 15, Chandigarh, which had been buzzing with political activity since July 23 when Navjot Singh Sidhu was coronated state party chief, wore a deserted look on Wednesday with security personnel directing people to the Punjab Bhawan instead.Also read: Punjab CM says party is supreme, invites Navjot Sidhu for talksThe Congress Bhawan had been seeing a steady stream of visitors for the past two months, but with the state unit in the grip of political uncertainty after Sidhu’s resignation on Tuesday, uncertainty prevails.After taking charge, Sidhu used to spend a lot of time at the Congress Bhawan. It was only at his instance that cabinet ministers were asked to sit in the PPCC office to listen to the grievances of party workers. He even made arrangements to stay at the bhawan.Action shifts to secretariatHowever, after the change of guard at the helm in Punjab with Charanjit Singh Channi replacing Captain Amarinder Singh as chief minister, the action shifted back to the second floor at the civil secretariat.Sidhu started feeling alienated and disillusioned after Channi had his way on the cabinet expansion and the appointment of top officers in the police and legal wings.Though Sidhu last visited the Congress Bhawan on September 24, banners proclaiming his popularity are intact at the entrance: “Congress worker da khidmatgaar, aa gayya Sidhu Sardar (The caretaker of Congress workers, Sidhu Sardar has arrived).”No Congress leader turns upA group of youngsters, who are children of home guard jawans who died in harness, waited outside the Congress Bhawan on Wednesday, hoping to submit a memorandum for jobs, but no Congress leader has turned up in the past two days.“We came on Tuesday also to meet Sidhu saab as he was scheduled to visit Congress Bhawan. We have been told by the security guards to visit Punjab Bhawan to meet the ministers concerned,” said Vaisakha Singh, the group leader.Following Sidhu’s resignation, his protege and actor-turned-politician Gulzar Singh Chahal, who was made the PPCC treasurer, and Joginderpal Dhingra, the PPCC general secretary, also resigned. Of the three appointments Sidhu made as Punjab Congress chief, now only Pargat Singh’s appointment as PPCC general secretary stands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deserted-punjab-congress-bhawan-misses-the-buzz-101632907400518.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Ramleela, Dussehra, Durga Puja allowed in Delhi with restrictions||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday decided to allow Ramleela, Dussehra and Durga Puja celebrations this year in public places but with a set of restrictions. However, the authority is yet to issue an order regarding the decisions taken in Wednesday’s meeting.Organisers will have to ensure number of people do not exceed total number of seats in a venue, no stalls and fairs are set up, there is 100% mask compliance, and separate entry and exit points are provided for, apart from a few other restrictions that the Authority will soon notify in a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) document, said three officials aware of the matter. DDMA also decided to consider phased reopening of remaining classes in schools (nursery to class 8) after the festive season, said two of the three officials mentioned above. They added that in its first meeting after Dussehra, the authority will take a call on reopening schedule and regulations for resumption of remaining classes for in-person learning.“In wake of the upcoming festive season, Delhi Police and the District Administration will ensure Vividh (various) appropriate behaviour enforcement and take care that gatherings during the festive season are strictly in compliance with the laid down SOPs that include no standing crowds, separate entry and exit points, appropriate social distancing for seating, no activities (like fares, stalls and giant wheel etc) that attract crowds in violation of social distancing and onus on organisers for ensuring SOPs are followed,” said a senior official in Raj Niwas who was present in Wednesday’s meeting.Also Read: Furore over Delhi restaurant not allowing saree Last year, the DDMA prohibited Durga Puja committees to organise public celebrations. Ramleela committees were asked to go for live streaming. Burning of effigies in Dussehra was allowed in a few locations with restrictions on maximum size of crowds.Arjun Kumar, general secretary of Luv Kush Ramleela committee, said: “We met government officials several times in the past few week and assured them that we will ensure all safety regulations are followed. We are happy that the government has trusted us. However, we will continue to live stream the Ramleela in social media and we have tied up with cable operators too.”Robin Bose, general secretary of the Durga Puja committee in Kashmere Gate, said: “We will ensure that all regulations are strictly adhered to. Safety of people comes first. We hope that the process of taking permission from the police and sub-divisional magistrate’s office is expedited too.”Another official in the executive council of DDMA, who was present in Wednesday’s meeting, said, “It was also decided today that phased re-opening of remaining classes in schools will begin after the festive season. Modalities regarding that, as in which set of classes will open when, what rules would apply, etc, will be chalked out in the first DDMA meeting after Dussehra on October 15.”Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “The government should focus on vaccinating all teaching and non-teaching staff and start schools at the earliest. Cities and states across the world are doing that now. Schools are necessary for well-being of children. Aa far as festivals are concerned, people should not let their guards down just because it is allowed. They should wear masks and avoid crowded places.”Currently, schools and coaching centres in the city are allowed to hold in-person physical classes for students in class 9 and above.Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal is the chairperson of DDMA. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice chairperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ramleeladussehra-durga-puja-allowed-in-delhi-with-restrictions-101632906800736.html
29-09-2021||Dehradun||Tiger translocation to resume from Corbett to Rajaji in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand’s tiger relocation project, which was suspended during the monsoon, will be resumed with the translocation of another tiger and tigress from the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) to Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR). On December 24 last year, a tigress, and on January 9, a tiger was relocated from CTR to RTR. The tiger ran away from its enclosure a few days after its relocation.JS Suhag, Uttarakhand’s chief wildlife warden, said the translocation project was briefly stopped as it was breeding season and they did not want to disturb the animals. He added it also becomes difficult to venture into these tiger reserves during the monsoon.“Now our team is in Corbett to select a tiger pair to be translocated to Rajaji Tiger Reserve soon. Under this project, five tigers will be translocated.”The translocation initiative is part of efforts to repopulate RTR’s western part, which is home to two tigresses that have not reported breeding in almost a decade.Also Read: Tiger kills man in Dudhwa buffer zone The Centre approved the translocation in 2016. In September 2019, a National Tiger Conservation Authority team visited RTR for reconnaissance for the exercise. The team suggested the release of tigers in a large, enclosed area for a few days to see whether they suffer from any diseases before completely releasing them in the wild.RTR had around 37 tigers with only two tigresses in its western part before the translocation began. The reserve has a capacity for 83 tigers. The eastern and the western parts of the reserve are divided by a busy traffic corridor making it difficult for the tigers to move between them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/tiger-translocated-to-resume-from-corbett-to-rajaji-101632904640499.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools to reopen remaining classes in phased manner from November 1||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday announced phased reopening of remaining classes (nursery to Class 8) in the national capital from November 1. In other announcements, the government body also laid out a series of protocols for observing Dussehra and Durga Puja in Delhi, albeit with restrictions such as limits on crowd capacity, mask compliance, and the like in view of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation.Phased re-opening of remaining classes in schools to begin on November 1, the DDMA decided today. @htTweets (2/2)Also Read | Delhi allows muted Dussehra, Durga Puja celebrations, curbs to remain in placeThere was a growing demand from several parents' groups in the national capital to restart physical classes for schoolchildren of classes 6-8. It was reported that the DDMA was intending to consult the education department to review the progress of students already attending physical classes; officials also sought experts' opinions to further assess the potential risks involved with the reopening of remaining classes.During Wednesday's meet, the DDMA finally decided to let the remaining students physically attend their classes from November 1, but the modalities for the phased reopening will be decided in the first DDMA meeting after Dussehra, said officials in the know.The authority will also decide what all regulations will apply.The DDMA is exercising caution ahead of the upcoming festive season since there is always the risk of Covid-19 cases spiking due to laxities in the pandemic protocol. It has asked organisers to cap gatherings at venues to the total of seats. Also, no eateries or fairs can be held as part of the festivals. Besides 100 per cent mask compliance, the DDMA has made it mandatory to ensure that there are separate entry and exit points for all festivals in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-to-reopen-remaining-classes-in-phased-manner-from-november-1-101632902885374.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Furore over Delhi restaurant not allowing saree||After a video went viral in which a woman is seen being denied entry to Aquila, Khel Gaon Marg, for wearing a saree, prejudiced dress codes at posh eateries have come under the scanner. In the 10-second clip, a staff member can be heard saying, “We only allow smart casuals. And saree doesn’t come under smart casuals.” The diner Anita Choudhary shared the clip on Twitter: “Saree is not allowed in Aquila restaurant as it’s now not a smart outfit. What’s the concrete definition of a smart outfit? Plz tell me.”However, according to the owners, who do not wish to be named, she barged in without reservations, misbehaved and slapped a staff member over delay in seating. To ask the guest to leave, one of the managers made the comment ‘as an excuse’, for which they later issued an apology. Here’s both sides of the story:THE DINERDelhi resident Anita Choudhary narrates she had arrived at the resto on September 19 for her daughter’s birthday with a prior confirmed reservation for 5.30-6pm. Clarifying the video of her slapping the manager she tells us, “We arrived a little late [6.30pm as per screenshots shared by daughter] but I did not slap any manager as the restaurant is claiming. If you look closely, I pulled down the mask because they were using abusive language. I said, ‘Jo bhi bolna hai zor se bolo taaki mujhe bhi sunai de’.” The matter escalated from there as the staff called bouncers and threatened to call cops. She adds, “The managers cornered my daughter and told her, ‘Your mother can’t enter as she’s wearing a saree’. I was made to feel like I’ve come from some other planet dressed in this attire. Hum khud bole humein yahan nahin rehna hai, tum maafi maanglo.” So, what next? “Unko apni sachaai aur transparency ke saath saamne aana chahiye. Saree maan hai, sammaan hai. Unko publicly maafi mangni padegi. Public shaming ka personal apology acceptable nahin,” she ends.RESTAURANT OWNER“It’s going viral for no reason. To follow Covid-19 protocols, we have made reservations mandatory. But ma’am came to Aquila without any reservations, apparently walked past the managers. They [manager] tried to stop her but she slapped him which is not acceptable. The comment made on saree not being a part of ‘dress code’ was in a heat of the moment. Unko [staff] bas ek bahana chahiye tha bolne ka to ask her to leave. We have apologised for the statement but we are not going to apologise to her because she slapped our manager. We have, in the past, served women diners in ethnicwear. We respect our country. But it’s very disrespectful that only one part of the video got highlighted. We have received more than 1,000 negative reviews, and threats.”PAST INCIDENTSEarlier this September, Delhi-based blogger Shilpa Arora also visited the same restaurant for a food review with a confirmation. On arrival she was denied entry as she was accompanied by her parents. It was communicated to her that, “Unfortunately due to Covid, our protocols don’t allow old people in the restaurant...We’d love to host you again without old people.” Arora feels that the reason could be her mother being dressed in ethnic wear. Last week, Jammu and Kashmir Workers Party President Mir Junaid was also allegedly refused an entry at a restaurant in South delhi on the basis of his India attire. In a tweet, he wrote, “It is a shame to see that after 75 years of independence, our obsession with western supremacy isn’t leaving us. Yesternight I went to a restaurant - We Qutub in South Delhi & was denied entry for wearing an Indian dress.” In March 2020, as per reports, Sangeeta K Nag, Principal of Pathways Senior School in Gurugram also tweeted an incident, “My shocking experience with discrimination at Kylin and Ivy, Ambience Vasant Kunj this evening. Denied entry as ethnic wear is not allowed! A restaurant in India allows ‘smart casuals’ but not Indian wear! Whatever happened to pride in being Indian? Take a stand!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/furore-over-delhi-restaurant-not-allowing-saree-101632903320308.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Power in 2022: Arvind Kejriwal in Punjab to address problems of industrialists||Amid turbulence in the Punjab Congress, Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal landed in Chandigarh on Wednesday afternoon before heading for Ludhiana to meet nearly 300 industrialists and make a “major announcement”. Also read: Punjab Congress crisis: Navjot Singh Sidhu sticks to his gunsSpeaking to reporters at the Chandigarh airport, Kejriwal said: “Whatever is happening in Punjab is very unfortunate. People don’t know where to go. The Punjab CM should fulfil the promises made by Captain Amarinder Singh and act against tainted ministers, MLAs and officers. The mastermind behind the sacrilege incidents of 2015 should be booked.”Asked who would be the AAP chief ministerial candidate, he said: “We will soon announce that and you all will be proud of him.”Hearing out the industry in poll-bound stateMeanwhile, Ludhiana-based Kulwant Sidhu, who quit the Congress last month to join the Aam Aadmi Party, said: “Before Kejriwal makes the major announcement, he wants to meet industrialists and listen to their grievances, particularly on power cuts and high tariff, so that a solution can be found and their demands can be included in the AAP manifesto for the 2022 elections.” Punjab industry has been facing unscheduled power cuts due to lack of maintenance of infrastructure and industrialists want tariff capped with relaxation in fixed and demand charges besides reduction in electricity duty. Industries want 50% rebate on night tariff and electricity at ₹5 per unit as promised. The pending goods and services tax (GST) refunds is another issue that the state industry wants addressed early.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-in-2022-kejriwal-in-punjab-to-address-problems-of-industrialists-101632902000031.html
29-09-2021||Kolkata||Bhabanipur assembly bypoll: Mamata Banerjee seeks to capture her home turf||All eyes would be on the Bhabanipur assembly bypoll on September 30 as West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee would be contesting from this seat to retain her chief ministerial berth.The assembly constituency in the heart of south Kolkata is Banerjee's home turf. Not only she is a resident of this constituency, she had been elected twice from the seat in 2011 and 2016.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has pitted woman youth leader and advocate Priyanka Tibrewal from the seat against Banerjee. While the Congress has refrained from fielding any candidate, the Left Front has pitted Shrijeeb Biswas from the seat.In the 2021 assembly polls, nine candidates contested from Bhabanipur, out of which deposit of seven candidates were forfeited. The fight was primarily between the TMC and BJP. This time 12 candidates, including Banerjee and Tibrewal are contesting from the seat.The bypoll became necessary because TMC leader Sovandeb Chatterjee, who had won from Bhabanipur in the assembly polls earlier this year, resigned in May so that Banerjee could contest from the seat and retain her berth.Even though the Trinamool Congress swept the assembly polls, winning 213 seats out of the 292 where polls were held in April this year to return to power for the third consecutive time, Banerjee lost from Nandigram to BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, her protégé-turned-adversary. Banerjee needs to win from an assembly seat by November 5 to remain the state's chief minister.The constituency has 2,06,389 electors out of which 95,143 are female voters, which comes to around 46%. More than 20% of the people in Bhabanipur are Muslims, while Sikhs and non-Bengali speaking Hindus comprise around 34% of the local population.The BJP has been attacking Banerjee for being allegedly pro-minorities and corrupt and also highlighted the post-poll violence.Though Banerjee won the Bhabanipur assembly seat in 2011 and 2016, the BJP has been making strides in the area. The BJP candidate from Kolkata South Parliamentary constituency Tathagata Roy came second in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Interestingly, he had a lead of 185 votes in Bhabanipur assembly segment. The TMC trailed the BJP in two of the eight civic wards in the last held civic polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bhabanipur-assembly-bypoll-mamata-banerjee-seeks-to-capture-her-home-turf-101632899320030.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||ED summons Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali in trust money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday summoned Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali for questioning in a money laundering case linked to a trust associated with the lawmaker. The agency asked the parliamentarian from Yavatmal-Washim to depose before the investigating officer of the case at the ED office in South Mumbai on October 4.Late on Monday night, the federal body had arrested Gawali’s close aide Saeed Khan.Gawali,48, had allegedly conspired with Khan to convert the Trust into a company through forgery and fraud with an intention to take over the property of the Trust, the ED has said.Last month, officials had carried out searches on premises linked to Gawali and Khan.The ED has filed a case over alleged financial irregularities related to the trust. It suspects the five-time Lok Sabha MP’s involvement in money laundering and embezzlement of ₹17 crore as well as misuse of power in obtaining government grants and funds.Khan is accused of converting the trust into a company and becoming its director for wrongful gains.(With agency and bureau inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-summons-shiv-sena-mp-bhavana-gawali-in-trust-money-laundering-case-101632898643575.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress crisis: Navjot Singh Sidhu sticks to his guns||A day after his resignation as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president took the party top brass by surprise, Navjot Singh Sidhu stuck to his guns on Wednesday, raising questions over the appointment of tainted leaders and officials in the new government. Also read: Navjot Singh Sidhu releases video message, says ‘can’t compromise with ethics’Sidhu said that the same system against which they have been, cannot be allowed to be created. “Those who gave a clean chit to the Badals have been given responsibility for justice…those who got blanket bails have been made advocate general,” he said in a four-and-a-half minute video posted on Twitter without directly naming anyone. The cricketer-turned-politician is piqued over the cabinet expansion and appointments made to top police and legal positions. Sidhu also said that he will neither misguide the high command nor let anyone else do so, adding that he would stand by his principles and commitments for the betterment of Punjab. Channi deputes Pargat, Warring to placate Sidhu “My political journey of 17 years had only one objective, to make a difference and improve the lives of people of Punjab, besides taking a stand on issues. I have no personal issues. My fight is on issues and Punjab agenda. There is no place for compromise and posts do not matter,” he said. Punjab cabinet ministers Pargat Singh and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring have been tasked by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi with making efforts to end the latest standoff. Congress high command in wait and watch mode The high command, which had backed Sidhu to the hilt till now, has shown no urgency this time in placating him. The state chief’s shock resignation has left the Punjab unit divided with several party ministers, MLAs and other leaders finding it a needless crisis created by him. Cabinet minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Ferozepur city president Parminder Singh Pinky said that the PPCC chief should have focused on strengthening the party ahead of the elections. Another senior leader said, “The high command should not give into this kind of politics or try to placate him. If they do, it will undermine their authority. There will be no end to it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-crisis-sidhu-sticks-to-his-guns-101632897199659.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress crisis: Border state deserves better, says MP Manish Tewari||Congress MP Manish Tewari on Wednesday expressed his disappointment and apprehensions over the latest political turmoil in his home states following Navjot Singh Sidhu’s resignation as state unit chief of the grand old party.He said in a border state like Punjab where there was already an intense social upheaval over the centrally passed farm laws, such political happenings can have a serious impact on stability and the only people to feel happy with the crisis is Pakistan.In a surprise move, Sidhu resigned from his post on Tuesday stating that he would not compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the state’s welfare. He, however, told Congress president Sonia Gandhi in his resignation letter that he would continue to serve the party. The state got its new chief minister in Charanjit Singh Channi only days ago after Amarinder Singh put in his papers citing months of disappointment.There's a higher ideal than power, than ministers holding org positions. That higher ideal is ensuring peace, tranquillity & stability of a border state like Punjab. Under those circumstances what has been playing itself out is extremely unfortunate: Manish Tewari, Congress pic.twitter.com/8nZs3a9hpQTewari, who was one of the senior Congress leaders to have written a note of dissent last year to party president Sonia Gandhi seeking sweeping organisational changes, said, “As a Punjab MP, I'm extremely distressed about happenings in Punjab. Peace in Punjab was extremely hard-won. (About) 25,000 people, most of them being Congress men, sacrificied themselves to bring peace back to Punjab after fighting extremism and terrorism between 1980-1995.”The Lok Sabha MP from Anandpur Sahib further said there was a higher ideal of ensuring peace and stability of a border state than power and ministers holding organisational positions, adding the latest turmoil in Punjab was extremely unfortunate.”Also read | Five possible reasons why Navjot Singh Sidhu may have quitHe, however, refused to speak about Sidhu's latest move and said the man himself was best suited to address the issue.  “The gentleman (Sidhu) can answer for himself. I'm in no position or neither would I like to articulate or second guess a question that can be best addressed by him,” Tewari said. “Punjab is border state, it's going through intense social upheaval primarily because of angst in people against farm laws. Under those circumstances, if such shenanigans played themselves out in public space, it has serious implications on stability of a border state,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“I have just returned from a regional security conference and I can tell you that the only people who are very happy with what is going on in Punjab is the deep state of Pakistan. They feel that they will get an opportunity to fish in troubled waters,” Tewari added.“All I'm saying is, someone who cut his teeth on trench lines on fight against terrorism in Punjab, personally suffered because of depredations of militants, saw families of Congressmen wiped out in struggle between 1980-95, this kind of instability is extremely disturbing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-crisis-border-state-deserves-better-says-mp-manish-tewari-101632893480587.html
29-09-2021||Kolkata||Heavy rain lashes Kolkata, south Bengal districts||Heavy rain and thundershower along with gusty winds, triggered by a well-marked low pressure, lashed Kolkata and other districts in south Bengal beginning Tuesday night. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional office at Alipore in south Kolkata registered around 87 mm rain till around 8:30 am since Tuesday morning. Even Kolkata received light to moderate rain, some districts such as West Midnapore, East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas received heavy to very heavy rain. Haldia in East Midnapore received 216.4 mm rain the last 24 hours. Diamond Harbour and Sagar Island in South 24 Parganas received 150 mm and 152 mm rain till 8:30 am in the last 24 hours, the weather office said. IMD on Tuesday issued a red alert for very heavy rains in some districts of south Bengal on Tuesday and Wednesday. In South 24 Parganas, one of the three coastal districts in West Bengal, more than 35,000 people were evacuated from low-lying areas, even as the local administration in East Midnapore and North 24 Parganas were keeping the relief shelters ready while maintaining a close watch on the situation. “While red alert, the highest form of alert in the four graded rain alert system, was sounded for three districts of East Midnapore, West Midnapore and South 24 Parganas on Tuesday, for Wednesday it has been sounded for West Midnapore and Jhargram where there could be rainfall up to 200mm,” said an IMD official in Kolkata Similarly, orange alert, the next category of alert has also been sounded for multiple districts in south Bengal such as North 24 Pargaas, South 24 Parganas, Bankura and Purulia among others. “In Kolkata there has been water logging in some pockets such as New Alipore. The lock gates through which storm water is drained out of the city had to be closed for four hours in the morning as there was high tide in the river Hooghly. The gates would be again closed in the afternoon. If there is heavy rain during that time then there will be some water logging. The water level will recede once the gates are opened,” said Tarak Singh a member of KMC’s board of administrators overseeing the drainage and sewerage department. Also Read: Cyclone Gulab weakened into low-pressure to bring heavy rainfall in 5 states Between 6 am and 9 am various drainage pumping stations in the city received between 17mm to 35mm rain. Mominpur with 35mm received the heaviest rain. “The well-marked low pressure lay over central part of Gangetic West Bengal on Wednesday morning. It has been triggering rain and thundershower in more than a dozen districts including Kolkata, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas. Murshudabad, Nadia, Birbhum, Bankura and the coastal areas,” said a senior official of IMD in Kolkata. Officials from the state’s disaster management department said that even though a low pressure system is common during the monsoon, the district administrations, particularly in the coastal areas and a few other districts, swung into action as large areas are still inundated because of last week’s heavy rain. More rains could aggravate matters after Kolkata last week received the heaviest rain in September in one day for 14 years. West Bengal didn’t have to bear the direct brunt of cyclone Gulab which hit Andhra Pradesh on September 26. The IMD, however, had forecasted that a cyclonic circulation would develop over the sea around September 27, which would trigger a low pressure. The low pressure system would bring heavy to very heavy rain in south Bengal, it had said. “There could be water logging in low lying areas, damage to standing crops and mud houses and lightning. People have been advised to stay indoors, and avoid waterlogged areas and dilapidated houses,” the IMD official said. The Bhabanipur by-election, from where Mamata Banerjee is contesting to retain her chief ministership, is scheduled on Septemnber 30. There is, however, no warning of heavy rain on that day in Kolkata. Officials said that special care is being taken for Bhabanipur in south Kolkata to avoid any water logging. “Heavy rains are expected. But even then I would request you to go to the booth with an umbrella and wearing a mask to cast your vote. Don’t waste a single vote,” Mamata Banerjee, chief minister had said last week. Over the past one week some districts received more than three times excess rain. More than a dozen people were killed due to electrocution in water-logged areas in various districts. At least 120,000 people had to be evacuated from two districts. The Kolkata Police have set up a unified command centre at its headquarters. Officials from the fire brigade, public works department, power supply corporation, city’s civic body and police will remain stationed at the centre. At least 22 teams have been formed for providing assistance and relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/heavy-rain-lashes-kolkata-south-bengal-districts-101632891259346.html
29-09-2021||Bangalore||60 students of Bengaluru boarding test positive for Covid-19, school shut||At least 60 students from a residential school at Electronic City in Bengaluru have tested positive for the coronavirus disease. Among them, one student who had high fever is undergoing treatment at Lady Curzon and Bowring Hospital, while another one is in home quarantine.The remaining students of Sri Chaitanya Girls’ Residential School, all of whom are so far asymptomatic, have been quarantined at an isolation facility on the school campus. They are being taken care of by staff from a private health facility, civic body officials said. The school has now been shut and may reopen on or after October 20.The school had resumed physical classes for senior students on September 5 with 57 fully vaccinated staff, including 22 teachers, and 485 students. On September 26, one pupil, who had reportedly come from Ballari, started developing symptoms like fever, vomiting and diarrhea following which she was found to be infected by the virus.Also read | Bengaluru police extend Covid curbs despite a dip in daily casesAccording to officials of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, all the students were then tested -- 27 of 105 students who underwent Rapid Antigen Test were found to be infected, while another 33 of 424 inmates undergoing RTPCR test turned out to be positive.We'll conduct retest on the 7th day. The school has been closed till 20th (Oct). There is no cause for worry, this is a proactive measure. Out of the 60 students who had tested positive, 14 are from Tamil Nadu and the rest of them are from various parts of the state: J Manjunath pic.twitter.com/BFkrrD0lXpAccording to a report in The Hindu, district health officer G Srinivas said the students were tested on September 27.Bengaluru urban deputy commissioner J Manjunath said there was no cause for worry, adding a retest would be done on October 20. He said among those infected, 14 were from Tamil Nadu, while the remaining from different districts of Karnataka. The authorities have now changed the room-sharing arrangement in the hostel. Earlier, four students were staying together in a room. This has now been changed to two inmates for every room. The school may start online classes again, Srinivas added. 34 nursing students test Covid positive in BengaluruMeanwhile, even as the authorities have completed sanitising the school and hostel premises, parents of several students have called for taking back their wards.In Kolar district, about 12 students of a school have tested positive for the virus, six pupils of two other institutes have also been found to be infected. The state government had allowed physical classes with cent per cent students last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/60-students-of-bengaluru-residential-school-test-positive-for-covid-101632888163066.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Rain fury in Maharashtra: At least 17 dead, 560 people rescued||At least 17 people were killed in Maharashtra due to heavy rain which triggered flood, thunderstorms and lightning strikes in the past two days. The brunt of the rain fury was primarily borne by the Marathwada region. According to disaster management officials familiar with the matter cited by the PTI news agency, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has so far rescued more than 560 people. However, more than 200 cattle were washed away in the rain while a number of houses ended up severely damaged.Officials, cited by the report, said the local administration opened all 18 gates of the Manjara dam and 11 gates of Majalgaon dam in the early hours of Tuesday, releasing 78,397 cusecs and 80,534 cusecs of water from these respective catchments.Also Read | IMD alerts: Cyclone Gulab weakened into low-pressure to bring heavy rainfall in 5 states till Sept 30Parts of Mumbai also received heavy rainfall on Tuesday; the forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted “extremely heavy rainfall” over Marathwada, Mumbai, and the coastal Konkan region over the next 24 hours. Marathwada is an area in central Maharashtra, which now lay devastated due to the torrential downpour; eight other districts – Aurangabad, Latur, Osmanabad, Parbhani, Nanded, Beed, Jalna, and Hingoli have also witnessed heavy rainfall.The office of the divisional commissioner informed that 180 circles of these eight districts recorded more than 65mm of rain. The water discharged from the dams, in turn, flooded villages along the Manjara river in the Beed and Latur districts. A press release issued by the commissioner's office said that of the people who were killed in the rain-related incidents, 12 were from the Marathwada and Vidarbha regions while one was from the Nashik district in northern Maharashtra.While 25 out of 40 people left stranded on the banks of the Manjara river at Sarsa village have been rescued using boats, efforts were on to get the rest 15 to safety, an official said. He added that three people stranded on a river basin in the Digol Deshmukh area in Renapur tehsil have been also rescued. Three employees of the state Irrigation Department were stuck in the Ghansargaon village barrage, and an NDRF team, as well as a helicopter, have been brought in help local personnel with the rescue effort, said district disaster management officer Sakeb Usmani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rain-fury-in-maharashtra-at-least-17-dead-560-people-rescued-101632884510695.html
29-09-2021||Kolkata||IMD predicts intense spell of rain over Kolkata, several districts of Bengal||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday morning predicted intense spell of rain accompanied with gusty wind over Kolkata, north and south 24 Pargans, east and west Midnapur, Jhargram, Howrah, Hooghly, east and west Midnapur, east, west Bardhaman, Birbhum districts of West Bengal "during the next 3-4 hours".The weather department had issued a red alert for very heavy rains in some districts of south Bengal for Tuesday and Wednesday due to a low-pressure system over the Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of West Bengal.The MeT department has predicted water-logging in low-lying areas of cities and towns and damage to standing crops and advised fishermen not to venture into the sea till Thursday. "Extremely heavy rain is likely in one or two places in Purba and Paschim Midnapur and South 24 Parganas districts, and downpour is expected in a few areas of North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Jhargram districts," Regional Meteorological Centre Director G K Das said, reports news agency PTI.In South 24 Parganas, one of the three coastal districts in West Bengal, more than 35,000 people were evacuated from low lying areas. “While red alert, the highest form of alert in the four graded rain alert system, was sounded for three districts – East Midnapore, West Midnapore and South 24 Parganas – on Tuesday, for Wednesday it has been sounded for West Midnapore and Jhargram where there could be rainfall up to 200mm,” said an IMD official in Kolkata.Over the past one week, some districts of West Bengal have received more than three times excess rain over the climatic normal. More than a dozen were killed due to electrocution in water-logged areas in various districts of the state. At least 120,000 people had to be evacuated from two districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/imd-predicts-intense-spell-of-rain-over-kolkata-several-districts-of-bengal-101632883768456.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Patchy rain to continue in Delhi, NCR in next few days||Patchy rains are likely to continue in isolated pockets of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) in the coming few days, but it was unlikely to be enough for the city to record the wettest September month, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. “We were expecting more rains over the weekend but that didn’t happen. While we got an exceptionally high rainfall this month, we might not break the record” said a senior weather department official.Also Read: DDMA likely to decide today on Ramlilas, reopening of schools for classes 6-8 Delhi has seen a unique monsoon this year with a slow and delayed start to the season. IMD records show that as on Wednesday, Delhi had recorded 413.3 mm rainfall for the month of September, as against the all-time record of 417.7mm rains for the month. September usually does not see high rainfall in Delhi, the weather officials quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/patchy-rain-to-continue-in-delhi-ncr-in-next-few-days-101632882618253.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC to hear today Anil Deshmukh's plea against ED summons||The Bombay high court will on Wednesday hear a petition filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh against summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an alleged money laundering case. Last Thursday, the court had asked the ED to respond to Deshmukh's plea seeking quashing of the summons.A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar was hearing Deshmukh’s plea. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who was representing the ED sought an adjournment, stating that Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta would like to address the court in connection with the plea, reported news agency PTI.Senior counsel Vikram Chaudhri and advocate Aniket Nikam, lawyers representing Deshmukh, told the bench that the ED has been indulging in “demeaning” tactics by delaying the hearing and argued that the court should hear the matter on Thursday itself for grant of interim protection from any coercive action.“This petition demonstrates a hapless state of affairs… Tactics by ED are deplorable. Manner in which it (ED) applied the law, it becomes a matter of oppression. We are here before a division bench as the earlier bench asked us to move the division bench and we are ready to argue,” Deshmukh’s lawyer said, according to PTI.The ED had begun a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed an FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 this year on charges of corruption and misuse of official position.Deshmukh in his plea refuted the ED’s claims that while serving as home minister, he misused his official position and through police officer Sachin Waze collected ₹4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. “The entire claim of Waze giving ₹4.70 crore to the applicant (Deshmukh) and the same amount being routed by the applicant’s family is factually incorrect, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-to-hear-today-anil-deshmukh-s-plea-against-ed-summons-101632873078903.html
29-09-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Ex-Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro, 3 others to join Trinamool Congress today||Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, who resigned from Congress, will join the Trinamool Congress along with three others on Wednesday. Besides Faleiro, former Ponda MLA Lavoo Mamledar, Sahitya Akademi awardee N Shivdas and environmentalist Rajendra Shivaji Kakodkar will also be joining the TMC on Wednesday.Meanwhile, Faleiro reached Kolkata on Tuesday and met some of the top TMC leaders.Addressing a press conference in Panaji on Monday after submitting his resignation, Faleiro lauded West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's ‘streetfighter’ spirit and said, “Mamata Banerjee has fought and succeeded in stopping Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from entering Bengal. She symbolises woman empowerment - she can bring the country back on the track of development and progress.”Faleiro, who previously served two terms as the chief minister of Goa, submitted his resignation on Monday as an MLA to the Speaker of the Goa Assembly ahead of state assembly elections next year.The All India Congress Committee (AICC) in charge of Goa, Dinesh Gundu Rao, confirmed to ANI that Faleiro has given his resignation from the primary membership of the party as well.Faleiro is the second Congress leader outside West Bengal who will be joining the TMC. He was recently appointed the chairman of the election coordination committee for Goa assembly polls and was also the AICC in-charge of northeastern states.Earlier, former Congress MP from Assam's Silchar and ex-president of the All India Mahila Congress, Sushmita Dev, joined the Trinamool Congress in August this year. She has been assigned to look after TMC's affairs in Tripura. A month later Sushmita Dev was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-ex-goa-cm-luizinho-faleiro-3-others-to-join-trinamool-congress-today-101632874593722.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||DDMA likely to decide today on Ramlilas, reopening of schools for classes 6-8||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is scheduled to hold a meeting on Wednesday where it is expected to take a call on allowing Ramlilas during the Navratri and reopening of schools for junior classes, news agency PTI reported quoting officials.Officials of some prominent Ramlila organising committees in Delhi met Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday and urged him to lift the curbs imposed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The DDMA in its previous order had banned all kinds of religious, political, cultural and social gathering because of the pandemic.Arjun Kumar, the secretary of Luv Kush Ram Leela Committee, one of the oldest in the city, said, “A delegation met the LG seeking approval for holding Ramlila. We are hopeful that the permission will be granted by the DDMA,” reports PTI.Many private schools have demanded the Delhi government to allow students from classes six to eight to physically attend school claiming the Covid-19 situation has improved significantly in the national capital.A DDMA-constituted panel has recommended phase-wise reopening of schools in the national capital. It had recommended reopening schools for classes nine to 12 from September 1.The DDMA order issued earlier this month, listing various prohibited and allowed activities under phased reopening from Covid-19 caused lockdown, will expire on midnight of September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-likely-to-decide-today-on-ramlilas-reopening-of-schools-for-classes-68-101632872221022.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Some Nizamuddin East dwellers||The daughter of the last nawab of Rampur resides in this neighbourhood. Author Vikram Seth has an apartment here. A neighbouring flat belongs to former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah. A stone’s throw away is filmmaker Mira Nair’s apartment. Celebrated social theorist Ashis Nandy lives nearby. So does hotelier Aman Nath. Hazrat Nizamuddin East is also home to Muhammed Mintullah. A rickshaw puller in his sixties, he has been a resident of this central Delhi locality for forty years.“I always sleep on this same spot,” says Mr Mintullah, sitting on a pavement in the neighbourhood’s market, which primarily comprises of a cafe, a boutique, two salons, and a handful of groceries, one of which stocks imported cheeses. Being midnight, the market is as dead as a graveyard. Mr Mintullah has parked his rickshaw in front of a shuttered dry-cleaning shop.He says he can easily rent a room cheaply in nearby Sarai Kale Khan, but tries to save money “because my family in the village depends on my earnings.” That’s why everyday he goes out of the upscale neighbourhood for his two meals of 40-rupees dal-chawal, in an eatery under a flyover.“I know all the madams and sahibs of the colony (sic),” Mr Mintullah remarks. A native of Saharsa in Bihar, he travels to his village once a year to meet wife and four daughters. His only son is an embroider in Ludhiana, Punjab. The young man’s career isn’t going well since the first lockdown, Mr Mintullah reports, refering to the ongoing aftereffects of the coronavirus pandemic. His own income has plummeted because of the same reasons. “Earlier I made 500 rupees daily, now not more than 200 rupees.”By now, the neighbourhood’s few other rickshaw pullers have gathered about Mr Mintullah. One of them observes that Mr Mintullah’s life mirror their lives. All the pullers sleep at night about this same space.Agreeing that Nizamuddin East is home to “very rich people,” Mr Mintuddin recognises the occasional generosity of the residents. They assisted him, and his fellow rickshaw pullers, with cash and food during the successive lockdowns. Shrugging his shoulders, he says that “the fact that some people sleep in AC houses and some don’t even have a hand-fan is all about naseeb (fate).” Other pullers concur. The men agree to pose for a portrait, while a grey-haired woman in her home above the dry-cleaning shop silently watches them from the balcony. From left: Muhammed Mintuddin, Kalim, Muhammed Kalam, Alam and Lalu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-some-nizamuddin-east-dwellers-101632872678927.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Masterstroke or a hit wicket? The jury is still out on Navjot Sidhu’s move to resign||In the run-up to elections, political parties strategise as much to build their momentum as they do to forge ahead of rivals in the battle of perception. But, the ruling Congress in Punjab has lately been busy in a different game: scoring self-goals. Barely over a week ago, the Congress high command upstaged its own regional satrap Capt Amarinder Singh as chief minister, installing a surprise successor Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab’s first scheduled caste CM. That choreographed coup, in the reckoning of top leadership (read all-powerful Gandhi family) was aimed to put a full stop to the long-running factional feud and, more importantly, to shore up the stock of newly appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu ahead of the assembly elections slated to be held early next year. But, on Tuesday, it was Sidhu’s turn to spring a surprise on his benefactors in New Delhi. With his dramatic resignation, a direct fallout of power tussle with Channi, the party’s calculations on capping the festering feud has come a cropper. Truth be told, Congress in the poll-bound state today stands split among three poles: one led by the high command-backed chief minister, the second behind defiant Capt Amarinder Singh, and third, now, spearheaded by Sidhu. “The Congress is proving to be its own worst foe,” says an exasperated party MP. “We are on the verge of losing the plot ahead of elections.” Those in the know of Sidhu’s overweening temperament and Channi’s understated shrewdness are not surprised by turn of events in less than ten days the power equations changed in Chandigarh. Behind their public show of camaraderie was a cold-blooded jockeying for power. The cricketer-turned-politician pushed for his hand on levers of power – cabinet formation, portfolio allocation and key appointments. In fact, Sidhu’s overreach was so evident that Amarinder was quick to slam his nemesis for his attempts to play “ super chief minister”. Not surprisingly, Channi, with the high command’s hand holding, stood his ground, sending out a loud and clear message : That I am the boss. Implicit in Channi’s new-found assertion was his strategy to draw a clear line between the party and government and negate the impression that PCC chief was calling the shots in governance. The competing power play came to a head over return to Channi’s cabinet of resource-rich Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh,who had to quit the Amarinder-led ministry following allegations over sand auction scam and appointment of DGP and AG. Sidhu was livid over both issues which he, according to people close to him, derided as “compromises” on sensitive issues of sand mafia and sacrilege. “Ethically, Sidhu is right” says one of PCC’s working presidents on the condition of anonymity. “ With such dubious decisions, how will the party face the people in elections” he added. Even after Sidhu dropped the bombshell, neither Channi nor the high command has shown an urgency to placate Sidhu whose next move will be guided by the support he commands in the party currently mired in confusion and shock. “The high command should not give in to this kind of politics or try to please him. If they do, it will undermine their authority and that of chief minister. There will be no end to it,” one of the senior-most party leaders said. The chaos also saw Capt Amarinder, ousted from the CM’s chair to leave the field open for Sidhu who had the backing of Gandhi siblings, was quick with I-told-you-so tweet before advising the central leadership to accept his resignation and immediately appoint some “competent man” in his place. Whether Sidhu has stumped the high command or done a hit-wicket, the jury is still out on this critical question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/masterstroke-or-a-hit-wicket-the-jury-is-still-out-on-navjot-sidhu-s-move-to-resign-101632864001449.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu resignation as Punjab Congress chief: Hectic parleys on between ex-cricketer, his aides in Patiala||Hectic meetings were being held at Navjot Singh Sidhu’s Patiala residence on Tuesday soon after the cricketer-turned-politician announced his resignation as the Punjab Congress president. It was with his principal adviser Mohammad Mustafa, a former director general of police (DGP)-rank officer, that Sidhu had been holding discussions over political developments in Punjab for the last two days, it is learnt. Mustafa is the husband of Malerkotla MLA Razia Sultana who on Tuesday also tendered her resignation as a cabinet minister in “solidarity” with the ex-cricketer. The decision to put in papers by Sidhu was taken late Monday itself after a marathon meeting between him and Mustafa, said a source. Sidhu is miffed with the party high command over ignoring him in the selection of cabinet ministers and portfolio allocation besides with his handpicked chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over selection of the advocate general and the DGP. “Some MLAs and newly inducted ministers, including Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, visited him last evening, but Sidhu didn’t reveal his plan to them. Actually, the final decision on resigning was taken around midnight. Earlier in day, Sukhpal Singh Khaira and others, who opposed the inclusion of Rana Gurjit Singh in the cabinet, also visited Sidhu airing their grouse over the development,” said an insider.Sidhu resigned soon after the allocation of portfolios to ministers, which were not as per his advice to the party high command. When other ministers were assuming charge of their departments in Chandigarh, Razia Sultana drove to Patiala. Around 4pm, actor-turned-politician Gulzarinder Singh Chahal, a protégé of Sidhu, whom the latter appointed as Punjab Congress treasurer, also resigned. Soon after, Punjab Congress working presidents Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sukhwinder Danny along with MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria gathered at Sidhu’s house, holding deliberations. Nagra is learnt to have tried to pacify Sidhu. Later, newly appointed minister Pargat Singh along with his cabinet colleague Amrinder Singh Raja Warring visited the former cricketer and tried to pacify him. Sidhu didn’t speak to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-resignation-as-punjab-congress-chief-hectic-parleys-on-between-ex-cricketer-his-aides-in-patiala-101632863401262.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||How Punjab CM Channi’s assertion in power politics riled Navjot Sidhu||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s surprise resignation on Tuesday, barely nine weeks after he took over the reins of the faction-torn state unit, was a culmination of a series of behind-the-scenes events that left him peeved since his bête noire Capt Amarinder Singh’s nemesis on September 20. A photo-op bonhomie that Charanjit Singh Channi and Sidhu had publicly exuded soon after the former’s surprise elevation as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister quickly evaporated, giving way to tussle over power politics. Here are five reasons why 58-year-old mercurial cricketer-turned-politician called it quits, abruptly ending his 68-day innings at the helm and plunging the ruling party into a deeper turmoil. Though the Congress high command endorsed newly-appointed PCC chief’s choice of Channi as CM after the cloak-and-dagger games that edged out Sidhu’s potential challengers in Sunil Jakhar and Sukhjinder Randhawa, it nixed his opposition to the appointment of Randhawa, a prominent Jat Sikh face, as deputy chief minister. Sidhu, also a Jat Sikh, viewed the Majha heavyweight’s elevation as a threat to his chief ministerial ambitions in the 2022 assembly poll sweepstakes. Sidhu was miffed at being overruled on Randhawa, who had made a common cause with him in the rebellion against Amarinder.Much to Sidhu’s consternation, he had a limited say in the formation of the 15-minister cabinet on Sunday. The cabinet had an unmistakable stamp of Rahul Gandhi who retained several of the Amarinder loyalists — a damage-limiting move to deny the sulking former chief minister a chance to emerge as a rallying figure of discontented party leaders. Sidhu had pressed for a new-look cabinet to jettison anti-incumbency of the Amarinder era. But, the high command didn’t buy into that.What added insult to Sidhu’s injury was the return of Rana Gurjit Singh, a sugar baron-MLA from Kapurthala, to the cabinet four years after he had to quit the Capt Amarinder Singh-led ministry over allegations of his collusion in the sand auction scam. Though Rana was absolved by a commission of inquiry, Sidhu doggedly opposed his comeback on “ethical grounds”, but the high command overlooked his objections and that of eight party MLAs from the Doaba region who, hours before the swearing-in, vainly raked up Rana’s tainted past. That raised Sidhu’s hackles as he saw this as “compromise” on party’s much-touted anti-corruption plank.Sidhu was also miffed over Channi’s assertion — undoubtedly, with the high command’s backing — in the allocation of ministerial portfolios. On Tuesday, Channi gave the powerful home department to Randhawa who will now directly supervise the 2015 sacrilege and police firing cases, and drug mafia investigations. An action on the electorally-sensitive issues, as the Channi government has avowedly promised, could potentially bolster Randhawa’s political standing which apparently doesn’t sit well in Sidhu’s scheme of things. What came as the last straw in their rapidly fraying ties was Channi assertively exercising the high command-mandated leeway and ignoring Sidhu’s push for the appointment of Siddhartha Chattopadhayaya as director general of police and DS Patwalia as advocate general. The chief minister, in a deft move to shake off the perception about PCC chief calling the shots in his government, played hardball on Sidhu’s intense lobbying, and went ahead with his own choices, appointing Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and APS Deol for the top police and law office posts, respectively. That galled Sidhu and became the last catalyst in his doing what he has done many a time before: calling it quits on “high principles”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/how-punjab-cm-channi-s-assertion-in-power-politics-riled-navjot-sidhu-101632863220952.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Balers worth ₹3 crore distributed in Moga to curb paddy stubble burning||With a view to curbing stubble burning in the district, Moga administration has distributed 20 balers worth ₹3 crore for management of paddy straw. The baler machines, purchased under the Niti Aayog’s aspirational district programme, were given to co-operative societies of 10 select villages. The administration also claimed that Moga is the first district of Punjab which has purchased such implements for farmers. Other districts were providing subsidy to farmers for procurement of balers. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said they are providing all possible assistance to the farmers for the proper management of paddy straw. ”In the aspirational district programme rankings, released by the NITI Aayog recently, Moga was included in the list of the 5 most ambitious districts of the country under which an amount of ₹3 crore was released,” he said. 58 hotspot villages The administration has identified 58 villages that witness most stubble burning incidents after the paddy harvesting season. Hans said, “We have deployed a nodal officer each for all these villages to keep a check and run awareness programmes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/balers-worth-rs-3-crore-distributed-in-moga-to-curb-farm-fires-101632862800722.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kharif procurement: Centre rejects Punjab’s revised paddy arrival estimate of 190 lakh tonne for CCL||The Union ministry of food and public distribution has rejected the Punjab government’s revised estimate of total paddy arrivals of 190 lakh tonne for releasing extra cash credit limit (CCL) for the upcoming procurement season starting October 1. Even as the fresh estimates were submitted by the state agriculture department after it predicted a bumper crop, the Centre has only allowed the CCL against the old estimate of 170 lakh tonne. The issue was flagged in a meeting with Union food and public distribution secretary Sudhanshu Pandey, who was in Chandigarh to meet the state food and civil supplies department officials last week. The previous kharif paddy procurement had broken all arrival records with 203 lakh tonnes of paddy purchased. “We are asking the Centre to send CCL as per the revised estimated so that there is no problem at a later stage,” said a food and civil supplies department official. State food and civil supplies secretary Gurkirat Kirpal Singh will meet the officials of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in Mumbai on Wednesday for timely release of CCL. He is expected to raise the matter with the central bank management. On receiving the CCL, the state’s procurement agencies such as Pungrain, Punsup, Markfed and the State Warehousing Corporation will start purchase of grain on behalf of the Centre and then hand over the shelled rice to the Food Corporation of India (FCI), a central agency that drives public distribution system in the country. Officials said the Centre has agreed to release CCL to the tune of ₹42,000 crore to procure 170 lakh tonne paddy while ₹46,950 crore is needed as per the fresh estimates.The CCL includes minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,940 per quintal besides 8.5% taxes that include 3% rural development fund and mandi fee each and 2.5% to arhtiyas. Grain starts reaching mandis Sporadic arrivals of paddy have started in the mandis of Punjab. According to reports, mandis in Khanna, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali have witnessed the crop arrival. The arrivals started since September 20, but slowed down due to rainfall last week. Due to the rain, the maturing of grain was delayed. “We are expecting arrivals to pick up pace by October 5,” said a mandi board official. Amid the pandemic, the board has extended operations (procurement facilities) at 3,000 sites. “There are 1,872 mandis in the state and we have extended operations to 1,200 more locations, designated rice mills and open spaces for procurement operations,” adds the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kharif-procurement-centre-rejects-punjab-s-revised-paddy-arrival-estimate-of-190-lakh-tonne-for-ccl-101632862500903.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB data: 45% arrestees 18 to 30 years old in Ludhiana||Around 4,356 arrestees were aged between 18 to 30 years; 3,440 were aged between 30 to 45 years and 129 were elderly persons, of which nine were women. The NCRB data shows that the majority of the people arrested were youngsters, who instead of choosing a career path, had taken to crime to make a living. Drop in cases due to pandemic Last year, the police had arrested 9,678 people against 6,741 cases, a drop from the 7,369 cases registered in 2019 and 8,470 cases registered in 2018. Officials attribute the drop in cases to the imposition of the lockdown. Of those arrested, 59 were juveniles and 680, which is 7% of the total arrests were women. Of the cases registered in 2020, 4,808 were under sections of the Indian Penal Code, and 1,933 were under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, Excise Act, Gambling Act and other special laws.Consulting psychologist Dr Rajiv Sharma says the youth were increasingly resorting to crimes as they were influenced by the lavish life shown in music albums, tele-serials and films. “Instead of working hard, they want to become rich overnight. The 18 to 30 age bracket is crucial as most people find direction to their lives in these years, but those who resort to crime, end up spending their peak years in jail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrb-data-45-arrestees-18-to-30-years-old-in-ludhiana-101632860701404.html
29-09-2021||Other||Dhindsa congratulates farmers on successful Bharat Bandh||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Tuesday congratulated the farmers’ organisations on the success and peaceful conclusion of the Bharat Bandh call made by them on Monday. He also thanked leaders and workers of his party for their support given to the Bandh call. The Rajya Sabha member said with the success of their call, farm organisations had sent a message to the Centre that they would not back down till the three farm laws were repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhindsa-congratulates-farmers-on-successful-bharat-bandh-101632860100628.html
29-09-2021||Pune||Drought-prone Marathwada sees 31% excess rainfall||PUNE Marathwada, a drought-prone region in Maharashtra has reported excess rainfall of 31 per cent this monsoon, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday. Earlier, Marathwada struggled with deficient rainfall, however this season, it has had the highest rainfall as compared to other subdivisions in the State. With the ongoing rainfall activity, Marathwada may futher receive excess rainfall till the end of September.As per data furnished by IMD and Indian Institute of Tropical Meterology (IITM), after 1990, 2021 is the seventh year with rainfall in Marathwada crossing 822 mm between June 1 and September 30. Since 2010, rainfall activity has significantly increased as this is the fifth year with more than 822 mm rainfall.With various breaks of the southwest monsoon and subsequent revivals, Maharashtra has now recovered its overall rainfall deficiency. Maharashtra as of Tuesday reported 17 per cent more than normal rainfall with 1162.4 mm actual rainfall received in the state.As per IMD, Marathwada reported actual rainfall of 822.5 mm rainfall which is 31 per cent more than normal. Whereas, central Maharashtra has reported 786.9 mm rainfall, which is 12 per cent excess.Konkan and Goa reported 3,402.7 mm rainfall which is 22 per cent more than normal. And Vidarbha reported 904.4 mm rainfall which is one per cent less than normal as per IMD.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that rainfall is likely to continue in the state.“Cyclone Gulab is likely to revive again as it goes over Arabian Sea. Due to stronger westerly winds, Cyclone Gulab may drag moisture and result in rainfall Maharashtra,” said Kashyapi.He added that, Central Maharashtra which includes Pune is likely to receive widespread rainfall till September 30.“Marathwada is also likely to get extreme heavy rainfall due to proximity to the weather system. From September 29, the rainfall activity is likely to reduce till September 30. From October 1, rainfall is likely to increase,” said Kashyapi.Dams at full capacity in MarathwadaWith good rainfall from June to September, major dams in the region are at full capacity. As per Water Resource Department, Jayakwadi dam till September 27 was 83.1 per cent full. Also, all dams in Aurangabad region are at 90.57 per cent ofcapacity. As per officials, Ujjani dam is at 89.90 per cent of capacity till September 28. Forecast for Pune cityAs per IMD, rainfall is likely to be light to moderate. In the ghat areas, isolated heavy rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning is likely on September 29. From September 30, the rainfall activity may reduce marginally. On October 3 and October 4, there might be revival of rainfall activity due to active weather system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/droughtprone-marathwada-sees-31-excess-rainfall-101632860040996.html
29-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana sees 8 more dengue cases, 1 Covid case||Eight more cases of dengue were reported in Ludhiana on Tuesday, bringing the total case count to 149.As many as 124 cases were reported from city areas, while others were reported from Payal, Khanna, Sudhar, and Sahnewal among other areas. Around 101 people have been discharged and 48 are undergoing treatment in different hospitals. Meanwhile, 1,277 suspected cases of dengue have been detected in the district.One fresh case reported One new Covid-19 case was reported from Ludhiana on Tuesday, a day after two cases were reported.So far, 87,539 positive cases have been reported from Ludhiana district and 2,101 have succumbed to the disease. There are 20 active cases in the district at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-sees-8-more-dengue-cases-1-covid-case-101632859865772.html
29-09-2021||Pune||SEC meets to finalise payment of ₹50K to families who have had a Covid death||PUNE The State Executive Committee (SEC) will meet on Wednesday to finalise the methodology of payment of the ex-gratia amount of ₹50,000 to families, where a family member’s death has been certified as being due to Covid-19This payout, which is to be done under the aegis of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), has been announced by the Union government in an affidavit to the Supreme Court, also specifying that the payment would be made to families of any government staff involved with prevention and protection relief work from Covid-19, where the person in question died of the virus.A senior official from the state relief and rehabilitation department requesting anonymity said on Tuesday that the policy framework for the state would be finalised at this meeting. As of September 27, Maharashtra has recorded 138,902 deaths due to Covid. The Union government contributes 75% of the SDRF allocation for general category states and union territories and 90% for special category states and UTs. It is anticipated that the payout of ex-gratia would burden the already-stretched SDRF. “We have received certain guidelines and we will finalise it tomorrow,” said Aseem Kumar Gupta, secretary, state relief and rehabilitation department. According to the state health department, as of September 27, Pune district has recorded 19,418 deaths due to Covid of which 9,151 deaths have been recorded in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sec-meets-to-finalise-payment-of-rs-50k-to-families-who-have-had-a-covid-death-101632859740587.html
29-09-2021||Other||RGNUL Patiala to set up Centre for aviation, space and defence laws study||Patiala To bridge the gap between law in practice and theoretical studies in aviation, space and defence, Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL), Patiala, has prepared a rare blend of academia and industry in a course for building the capacity of students. RGNUL vice-chancellor GS Bajpai said the university will establish a Centre for Studies in aviation, space and defence laws to meet the high demand of law professionals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rgnul-patiala-to-set-up-centre-for-aviation-space-and-defence-laws-study-101632859321985.html
29-09-2021||Pune||Activists, opposition leaders cry foul over PMC’s change in water tanker specs||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) latest decision to decrease the quantity of water supplied per tanker will only end up helping the water tanker lobby, activists and opposition party leaders have alleged.Last week, the PMC water supply department invited bids to supply water through tankers in Ambegaon khurd, Gurjarwadi, Dhayari, Kothrud, Baner, Bavdhan, Undri and other areas based on demand from citizens. While the earlier system mandated that each tanker supply 10,000 litre of water, the civic body has now changed specifications and allowed each tanker to supply between 8,000 and 12,000 litre of water.There are seven tanker points in the city where contractors fill up tankers with water to supply it to various areas. So far, the PMC was paying each water tanker with 10,000 litre capacity Rs1,135 per trip. With the change in terms and conditions, the PMC will now pay each water tanker with 8,000 litre capacity the same rate. Ferrying and supplying a lesser quantity of water at the same rate will help the contractor as it may increase the number of trips made by each tanker to supply water to areas facing shortage.Civic activist Vivek Velanker said, “The change in terms and conditions mentioned in the tender will definitely help the water tanker lobby. The number of trips will automatically increase with the PMC having reduced the water-carrying capacity.”However, PMC officials said that the decision has been taken to streamline the water distribution process. Aniruddha Pawaskar, head of the water supply department, said, “We supply tanker water to different parts of the city where people are facing shortage. It is free of cost. We float tenders and award contracts to contractors holding PMC licenses. Earlier, the PMC found that the contractor was showing an increased capacity (10,000 litre) on paper while actually carrying only 8,000 litre. So we decided to rectify it and avoid misuse by incorporating the condition of 8,000 litre, based upon which the PMC will pay money.”At present, the PMC supplies water to different parts of the city through more than 500 tankers. The fringe areas where water is supplied include: Baner, Bavdhan, Balewadi, Uruli-Devachi, Fursungi, Hadapsar, Warje-Malwadi, Wadgaon-Dhayari, Ambegaon khurd and Budruk, with a majority of the tankers supplying water to Uruli-Devachi and Fursungi. There are about 24,000 tanker trips per month to supply water to different parts of the city. With increase in demand during the summer season, the number of trips goes up to 27,000. The PMC has spent around Rs15 crore so far on this.Aba Bagul, Congress party leader and senior corporator, said, “In a smart city like Pune, the PMC should have implemented an online system to book and deliver tankers like the booking of domestic gas. There is no audit of the water tanker supply. All the work is being carried out manually. There is a chance of malpractice in the water tanker distribution system.”Further, Velanker raised doubts as to whether the meters placed on each tanker are working or not. “We had demanded that water meters be placed to measure the water and avoid misuse while filling up water tankers. The PMC placed water meters but I don’t know whether they are working or not,” he said.However, Prasanna Joshi, executive engineer of the water supply department, said, “Water meters are operating at water tanker points. We are also keeping a record of water tanker trips. We have data of daily, weekly, monthly and yearly water tanker trips. Besides that, we have made it compulsory to place GPS systems in all tankers to keep a record of and track the movement of tankers. All tankers have a GPS system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/activists-opposition-leaders-cry-foul-over-pmc-s-change-in-water-tanker-specs-101632859320795.html
29-09-2021||Jaipur||1,822 bodies found in Indira Gandhi canal in 10 years; Raj gets HC notice||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government has been issued notice by the high court on a petition that wants the government to take steps to stop bodies from flowing into the state from Haryana. The public interest litigation filed by a government teacher in Jaisalmer cited data obtained via right to information requests to underline that 1,822 bodies had been found in Indira Gandhi canal in the state between 2010 and 2019.Babu Ram Chouhan’s petition said an overwhelming number of bodies were never identified. Out of 1,822 bodies found in canal in Rajasthan, only 260 bodies could be identified. Chouhan’s petition wanted the Rajasthan government to develop a system of nets in the canal along the Haryana-Rajasthan border to prevent the bodies from floating into the state.Chouhan’s petition, filed by lawyer Razzak Khan, said the canal has become a haven for criminals to dispose of dead bodies and get away with crimes such as murder. He also asked the court to order the government to set up a special police station to identify the bodies and investigate the deaths.Also, the disposal of unidentified dead bodies is not done properly according to the rituals, which is a violation of human rights, the petition said, pointing that Chouhan had also approached the National Human Rights Commission and Rajasthan State Human Rights Commission in this connection.A division bench of justices Sangita Lodha and Vinit Kumar Mathur has issued notice to the Rajasthan government.The petition said cases of unidentified dead bodies pile up at police stations and are eventually closed without any action.The PIL said petitioner tried to persuade the government to take steps and had sent a representations to the authorities concerned. But he was told that if nets are set up, the moss would get stuck in the net and affect the flow of water, and this may damage the canal itself. He said his request for setting up a special police station for the canal area was also denied on grounds that there was a bar on creation of new posts due to the financial burden on the exchequer due to the Covid pandemic. The 445km long IGNP, considered India’s longest canal, originates at Punjab’s Harike Barrage. The length of its feeder canal is 204 km out of which 170 km is in Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/1822-bodies-found-in-indira-gandhi-canal-in-10-years-raj-gets-hc-notice-101632859140571.html
29-09-2021||Pune||Now hike in private cab rates adds to Pune-Mumbai commuter woes||PUNE: As if the lesser number of trains running between Pune and Mumbai wasn’t enough, commuters travelling daily between the two cities now have to also deal with the hike in private cab rates owing to the rise in diesel prices.With only two trains (Deccan Queen and Indrayani Express) currently running between Mumbai and Pune, a majority of commuters are dependent on road transport for their daily to and fro journey. Adding to their woes, most private cab services have increased their rates (see box). For instance, the earlier per seat rate in an air-conditioned (AC) cab was ₹475, which has now gone up to ₹675. There has also been a surge in the prices of cabs which provide an airport-to-airport drop between the two cities. Mukesh Sharma from Krushna cab service, Shivajinagar, said, “Diesel rates have risen steeply and we are left with no option but to increase rates. Still, private cab booking has not reached its peak like the pre-Covid days so continuing with the old rates will not be viable for us.”Trains remain the cheapest mode of travel between Mumbai and Pune with the cost of a Deccan Queen ticket being ₹105. However, other trains like the Sahyadri Express and Sinhagad Express which have more halts along the Mumbai-Pune-Mumbai route have not yet resumed services, causing huge problems for regular travellers.Pooja Rana, a resident of Wakad, said, “I hope more trains start soon. Since I am not comfortable travelling by bus, I have to opt for cab services but with the rates rising steeply, I am planning to shift again to Mumbai instead of this daily up and down.”Meanwhile, there is no hike in MSRTC bus rates. The driver of a Mumbai-Pune Shivneri bus on condition of anonymity said, “Many private cab owners try to draw passengers away by quoting cheaper fares but when the passengers begin the journey, the rates are hiked up depending on how many seats they are able to fill.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/now-hike-in-private-cab-rates-adds-to-pune-mumbai-commuter-woes-101632859081492.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Repair roads within the week or face charges: Ashu tells Ludhiana MC officials||Pulling up municipal corporation (MC) officials for not repairing roads throughout the monsoon season, Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu questioned why the 1,300 ready-mix bags available with the civic body were not put to use. The minster, who held a meeting at the MC’s Zone D office on Tuesday, recommended that show-cause notices be served to officials concerned of the bridges and roads department. “The officials (engineers and superintending engineers) have been directed to repair the main roads of the city within a week, otherwise strict departmental action will be taken against them. If required, a chargesheet will be recommended against them,” said Ashu, while directing officials to carry out repair work during day and night too for expediting the process.“Roads can be repaired using ready-mix in the rainy season. However, whenever councillors asked officials to use the mix, they would claim that they did not have the material. Although, 1,300 ready-mix bags are available in the municipal corporation’ stores,” the minister said, adding that it was a matter of great shame that though road projects worth ₹250 crore were in the pipeline, the existing roads were in a pathetic condition.“Residents have been complaining about potholes for a long time. The craters can be seen at all the entry points of the city, including Sherpur Road, and Ferozepur Road. The MC officials seem to be in slumber. Surprisingly, they did not apprise senior officials of the need for ready mix, which is available in the MC stores, or put in an order for the same,” said Ashu.With the assembly elections approaching, Ashu slammed officials for delaying the process of allotting road construction projects to contractors. He directed MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal to check the matter and issue show cause notices to concerned officials.Repair work initiated despite rainfall, waterlogging Soon after Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu threatened to recommend a chargesheet against officers if the major roads of the city were not repaired within a week, workmen could be seen repairing the roads despite the downpour on Tuesday. The roads had not been repaired throughout the monsoon as officials were claiming that waterlogging affects the quality of the hot-mix material. However MC staff was seen repairing roads in different parts of the city including Model Town, Focal Point, Jagraon bridge, and Dholewal. Surprisingly, the hot-mix plant on Hambran Road, which authorities said could not be made functional during the rain, was also operationalised.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said repairing waterlogged roads might affect the quality. However, senior officials had ordered that repairs be initiated, after the minister lambasted them. MC commissioner Sabharwal also inspected the ongoing work at a few sites. The superintending engineers (SE) of the bridges and roads department were also seen on the field after being criticised by the minister, mayor Balkar Sandhu, and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal.Guard of honour for AshuBefore the meeting, the district administration accorded a guard of honour to Bharat Bhushan Ashu during his first visit to the city after his appointment as Cabinet minister under newly appointed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, additional deputy commissioner (ADC, urban development) Sandeep Kumar, ADC (development) Amit Kumar Panchal, ADC (general) Rahul Chaba, assistant commissioner Parleen Kaur Kaleka and others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/repair-roads-within-the-week-or-face-charges-ashu-tells-ludhiana-mcofficials-101632858904903.html
29-09-2021||Other||609 fresh Covid cases, seven deaths in Pune district||PUNE As per state authorities, Pune district reported 609 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours on Tuesday. Seven Covid deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Of these, five deaths were reported from Pune rural and no deaths were reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. Two deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state Health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 516,883 Covid cases and 9,153 deaths till Tuesday. PCMC has reported 266,221 cases so far and a total of 3,495 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 357,975 total cases so far and 6,777 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 1,141,079 Covid cases. Of this, 1,112,042 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 19,774 deaths in the district. At present, there are 9,263 active cases in Pune district. As per the state Health department, 3,029 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,365,277 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.26%.Across Maharashtra, 2,844 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Tuesday and 60 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.Currently 254,985 people are in home quarantine and 1,514 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/609-fresh-covid-cases-seven-deaths-in-pune-district-101632858840371.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana includes bajra in ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’||The Haryana government on Tuesday announced to include bajra in the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’ from this kharif season, a move that appears to be aimed at encouraging private players to buy the produce which the government procures at ₹2,250 per quintal minimum support price (MSP).In case the private players buy bajra below the MSP, the government will pay farmers the difference in price up to ₹600 per quintal on average of the yield.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said considering the difference in price (average market price and MSP) of bajra as ‘Bhavantar’ price and after verification of crops of registered farmers on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal, if the given details are found correct, farmers will be given ₹600 per quintal on the average yield.The CM said Haryana is the first state in country to implement the scheme. At least 21 horticultural crops have already been included under the scheme.Khattar said neighbouring Rajasthan and Punjab will not procure bajra under the MSP again. He said in such a situation, there is a possibility of bajra (millet) coming from these states to be sold in Haryana.“Thus, it has been decided to compensate only those farmers of Haryana who have registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal for buying bajra,” he said.In kharif season 2021, 2.71 lakh farmers have registered on the ‘Meri fasal, Mera Byora’ portal for bajra.Procurement of bajra, moong, maize and paddy will start from October 1, and of groundnut from November. The state government will also procure toor, urad and sesame for the first time which will start from December 1.While 86 procurement centres have been set up for purchase of bajra, 38 for moong, 19 for maize, and seven for groundnut purchase in state, 199 procurement centres have also been set up for purchase of paddy.At least 72 additional procurement sites have also been identified as a contingency if there is huge arrival of paddy at the procurement centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-includes-bajra-in-bhavantar-bharpayee-yojana-101632858780547.html
29-09-2021||Pune||World Heart Day: Rise in heart attacks among under-50s, say doctors||PUNE: Doctors and experts have pointed to a worrisome trend on the occasion of World Heart Day celebrated on September 29. They have warned against an increasing number of young people (below 50 years of age) being diagnosed with heart issues. While developing blockages in arteries is natural above 50 years of age, people below 50 years of age developing blockages has become a cause for concern today.Food habits like eating packaged and baked foods containing palm oil, lack of exercise, stress, air pollution etc. are contributing to the early onset of heart-related diseases, doctors said.Dr Sujit Sawadatkar, interventional cardiologist from Noble hospital, said that almost 50% of the heart patients that visit him are youngsters. “When I say youngsters, I mean people who are less than 50 years old. This is a worrisome trend that we are seeing. Building up fats, cholesterol and other substances in and on the artery walls is natural in the 50+ age group. But witnessing heart issues before 50 years of age is the contribution of certain factors,” he said.Dr Sawadatkar said that most of the packaged food industry uses palm oil. “You take bakery items, icing on cakes, chocolates, or any other packaged food, it has cheap alternatives to healthy oil options and that is not good for heart health. High content of saturated fatty acids and cheap alternatives to healthy oil is damaging to heart health. Also, the younger generation is following a sedentary lifestyle with no proper exercise routine. Factors like stress and air pollution are also contributing in a big way to the early onset of heart diseases. Rampant use of some supplements also has a negative impact on the heart.”Sharing greater insights, Dr Benny Jose, consultant and interventional cardiologist at Jupiter hospital said that heart attacks among youth are on the rise due to lifestyle issues. “A sedentary lifestyle is a major cause for the younger population getting more heart attacks. And this includes food habits. But a person should focus on having a culture of exercise in their daily routine. And with this, healthy food is also important. Risk factors like diabetes, hypertension should not be neglected as these conditions can cause irreversible damage to vascular health,” Dr Jose said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/world-heart-day-rise-in-heart-attacks-among-under-50s-say-doctors-101632858722257.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||ETT teachers’ protest brings traffic to halt in Kharar||Commuters were stuck in traffic jam for nearly two hours on the Kharar flyover near Desumajra on Tuesday evening, due to the protest of unemployed ETT qualified teachers. Earlier, the protesters had planned to gherao the Punjab chief minister’s residence in Kharar, but were pacified after a meeting was arranged with principal secretary Hussan Lal. The protesters said that after the continuous struggle for more than four years, out of the 6,635 ETT posts, about 2,364 were declared, but the government had made amendments to give chance to the outsiders. They said that the recruitment is still pending due to policy of equal chance to the outsiders. They demanded that only ETT qualified teachers should be recruited on these posts. Union leader Deepak Kamboj said due to the dilly-dallying policy of the state government, the unemployed ETT teachers were either forced to climb atop water tanks or on fast unto death. MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFS ₹3 lakh jewellery stolen in Sector 45Thieves allegedly broke into a house in Sector 45 and fled with jewellery worth ₹3 lakh on Tuesday. In her complaint, Kaveri Chaudhary told police that she was at office when the theft took place. On returning, she found that the house was ransacked and a diamond ring, necklace, gold earrings and silver anklet were missing. Police are investigating the matter. Property grab: Mahajan seeks bail Sanjeev Mahajan, a former journalist, has approached the high court seeking bail in the Sector-37 property grab case. The plea was taken up by the bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan on Tuesday and posted for hearing on October 7. Mahajan was arrested in March this year after being booked along a dozen men for kidnapping and torturing a man and grabbing his house in Sector 37. His bail plea was dismissed by a trial court on July 13. Special team to deal with problem of fliesTo tackle the problem of flies in the Barwala-Raipur Rani poultry belt, Panchkula deputy commissioner Vinay Partap Singh on Tuesday constituted a special task force. The team, with members from poultry farm association and villages in the area besides animal husbandry and pollution control board officials, will monitor the situation and submit a detailed report. Meanwhile, the association assured of action against poultry farm owners who fail to follow proper measures.Rabies day observed World Rabies Day was observed at all government health institutions across Mohali district on Tuesday. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the day marks development of first rabies vaccine by French microbiologist Louis Pasteur in 1885. It is also observed to raise awareness about the deadly diseases and risk it poses to both humans and animals. Admissions open at PU stem cell centreOffline admissions to two-year MSc degree course at Panjab University’s Centre for Stem Cell Tissue Engineering and Biomedical Excellence is now open. The form should reach the centre by October 3. A department-level aptitude test will be conducted on October 4. Details are available at the portal stemcell.puchd.ac.in.PU-CET answer key made available  The answer key along with question booklet of the PU-CET (UG) 2021 conducted by Panjab University on September 19 is now available on the website http://exams.puchd.ac.in/show-noticeboard.php.The candidates can file their objections through email at arcet@pu.ac.in by 4:30 pm on September 30.Cricket: MP beat Chandigarh Chandigarh suffered a massive 149-run defeat against Madhya Pradesh in the first match of the Vinoo Mankad Trophy (Under-19) in New Delhi on Tuesday. Invited to bat first, Madhya Pradesh scored 263 runs for the loss of five wickets. Chasing the target, Chandigarh got bundled out for 114 runs. Chandigarh will next face Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ett-teachers-protest-brings-traffic-to-halt-in-kharar-101632858603809.html
29-09-2021||Other||Three-day All India Civil Services Athletics Tournament begins in Haryana’s Karnal||Three-day All India Civil Services Athletics Tournament 2020-21 began in Karnal’s Karna Stadium on Tuesday.Around 700 participants from different parts of the country have come to Karnal to participate in various categories of the games.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav welcomed the athletes in Karnal as participants took out a parade march.“We are excited as this is for the first time that Karnal is hosting this tournament,” said Yadav.The deputy commissioner said such activities, especially sports, will help in releasing stress and tension of the civil servants. He urged the players to participate in the game with discipline and dedication to achieve their goals.Yamuna, of Mumbai, in girls category, and Mohammad Sakil, of Kolkata, in boys category, were declared winners in 800m race.Archana, of Mumbai, and Anjali, of Kolkata, stood second and third respectively in the 800m girls’ category, while Raj Kumar, of Jaipur, and Shampu, of Mumbai, got the second and third position, respectively, in the boys’ category.In discus throw girls category 35-45 age group, Manu Dahiya, of Haryana, bagged the first position, whereas Darshana, of Gujrat, got the second spot and Lalita, of Rajasthan, stood third.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/threeday-all-india-civil-services-athletics-tournament-begins-in-haryana-s-karnal-101632858601770.html
29-09-2021||Pune||Incidence of falls among senior citizens can be reduced: SPPU study||PUNE: A recent study conducted by students of the department of health science from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has revealed that the increasing incidence of falls among senior citizens can be reined in by performing a few small exercises every day. The study was carried out under the guidance of the head of the department, Aarti Nagarkar and a paper based on it published in the research journal, “Gait and Posture”.Elaborating on the study, Nagarkar said that over the last two years, the health science department studied 800 senior citizens across various socio-economic groups from different parts of Pune. “It appears that many senior citizens have a higher fall rate. Increasing inactivity day by day affects their body and mind. In such cases, the confidence to walk is often lost. This increases the fall rate in and around the house.”Snehal Kulkarni, a student who is part of the study said that senior citizens were examined using sensor-equipped devices. “The device also measured their walking speed, ability to get up and sit down, and the possibility of their falling (in percentage) among other things. We also asked these senior citizens to perform some small activities every day. We asked them to make small changes in their homes. As a result, many senior citizens have increased their walking speed, decreased their dependence on others, and reduced their fall rate,” said Kulkarni.Nitin Karmalkar, vice chancellor, SPPU, said, “Many senior citizens will benefit from this research study. We will continue to conduct such socially useful research at the university.”What to do to avoid falling**Make small changes to some places in the house like fitting handles and installing radium on the steps.**Perform small daily exercises that will increase walking speed and confidence.**Try to increase morale to reduce the fear of falling while walking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/incidence-of-falls-among-senior-citizens-can-be-reduced-sppu-study-101632858420389.html
29-09-2021||Other||Five days on, Haryana Police yet to arrest accused in Kaithal double murder||Five days after an elderly couple was allegedly stabbed to death by unidentified assailants in Model Town, Kaithal on Friday, police have failed to arrest the perpetrators.Police have formed four teams to investigate the case but as of now, there is no information about the accused.Puneet Goel, son of deceased Satyawan and Kailasho Devi, had named five suspects as he said his father had some dispute with them.But police said they have some clue that Rajesh Kumar, a resident of the native village of the deceased, was involved in the case and police are conducting raids to arrest him.“We got some clues about Rajesh’s involvement and he is absconding,” said Kaithal superintendent of police (SP) Lokender Singh.He said the case was handed over to the CIA and police teams are conducting raids. He has also written to the higher officials to announce a reward for clues.On details of other suspects provided by the family, the SP said in preliminary investigation their involvement could not be proved and the first priority of police is to arrest Rajesh.Last Friday, the couple was found murdered with injuries from a sharp-edged weapon on their bodies. Satywan was a commission agent and his son works in a private company in Noida.The deceased’s son raised questions on the police investigation and wrote to many officials including Haryana home minister Anil Vij from his Twitter handle, seeking his intervention, for immediate arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-days-on-haryana-police-yet-to-arrest-accused-in-kaithal-double-murder-101632858180304.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC: Estranged wife can’t be made to run around to meet financial needs of child||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that an estranged wife can’t be made to run around to meet financial needs of her child.The high court dismissed the plea from the husband, who had challenged an order of a Panchkula family court, which ordered an increase of ₹2,000 to the monthly amount already being given by him.“It is beyond the dignity of a person, mother herein, to keep running for the reimbursement of such expenditure from time to time and therefore, being a parental duty, it is expected of the father to discharge his financial obligation towards the minor daughter, without seeking any account thereof,” the bench of justice Arun Monga said.The husband was giving ₹5,000 per month as ordered earlier by court. In August, acting on the plea from wife, the family court had directed him to pay ₹2, 000 more till the final decision on divorce petition.The increase was ordered after taking into consideration that ₹5,000 was going towards paying the school fee of the couple’s eight-year-old daughter, and more money was required for her upbringing.The husband had argued that he had to take care of his parents too. The court did not accept the argument stating that it was unable to accept that a person of such an educational background (the petitioner holds an MBA degree and works in private sector) cannot afford the expenses of school fee and parental obligations for his daughter. As regards his other responsibilities as a son towards his parents, the same is no ground to be exempted from his parental duties, the court said, dismissing the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hcestranged-wife-can-t-be-made-to-run-around-to-meet-financial-needs-of-child-101632858120963.html
29-09-2021||Other||2 maids booked for stealing from house in Hadapsar||PUNE Two women who work as house helps were booked for allegedly stealing valuables from their employer’s house in Hadapsar.The women worked in a house in Amanora Park Town for around two months between July and mid-September, according to the complaint. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 40-year-old woman who had employed the two women.“We have not yet arrested them. We are investigating the claims. The complainant says that both the women worked for a few days,” said assistant inspector S Padsalkar of Hadapsar police station who is investigating the case.The complainant claimed that the women took ₹2 lakh in cash and gold jewellery worth ₹1 lakh from her house.A case under Sections 381 (theft by clerk or servant of employer’s property) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-maids-booked-for-stealing-from-house-in-hadapsar-101632858119758.html
29-09-2021||Pune||Retired judge trying to sell furniture online duped of ₹90K in Pune||PUNE A 64-year-old retired judge living in Pune was duped of ₹90,000 while trying to sell his old furniture on a web platform.The man, who worked in Satara until retirement, had posted an advertisement to sell his old table and chairs in order to buy new ones, according to the police.The man got a call from a person who claimed to be interested in the furniture on August 3 when the complainant was at home. When a deal was struck, one of them sent a link to him.“He says he opened the link sent by the accused and it opened in PayTM. Whether it was UPI or something else is yet to be investigated. The complainant says that he opened the link and money got deducted,” said sub-inspector Deepak Barge of Kondhwa police station.A case was registered at Kondhwa police station under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/retired-judge-trying-to-sell-furniture-online-duped-of-rs-90k-in-pune-101632858062960.html
29-09-2021||Other||Paddy arrival picks pace in Haryana, no procurement yet||Even as the arrival of paddy in mandis is gaining momentum, the Haryana government agencies have not started procurement yet.As per officials associated with the procurement, the government had issued instructions to advance the procurement to September 25 but following the recent rains, Haryana has now decided to start procurement from October 1.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of food, supplies and consumer affairs department, in a statement on August 27 had announced that procurement of paddy will start from September 25, and of bajra from October 1.The delay in procurement is causing problems for farmers and arhtiyas as they said the harvest of early varieties of the Parmal paddy is on its peak and huge stock of unsold paddy is lying in mandis for past few days.“Following reports that procurement will start from September 25, I had harvested 14 acre Parmal paddy and 110 quintal is now lying in the mandi for past one week,” said farmer Manish Kumar, of Kurukshetra’s Gurhi village.“As per the government’s schedule, the transplantation began on June 15 and most varieties take three months in harvesting. Thus, the government should have started procurement from September 15,” said farm leader Ratan Mann.He said around 50% paddy is ready to harvest but the government seems reluctant to start procurement.As per government figures, this year over 40% area of paddy (5.84 lakh hectare of total 13.64 lakh hectare) is under Parmal varieties. Commission agents said delay in procurement and lifting will create a glut situation in the state mandis.The commission agents are also demanding the government to immediately start procurement to provide relief to farmers.As per reports, harvest of Parmal varieties has already started and farmers said they have no other option but to bring their produce to the mandis.“There is no procurement for the next three days yet most space in the mandis is already occupied and paddy arrival is picking pace with each passing day,” said commission agent Sohan Lal, of Kurukshetra’s Ladwa grain market.Additional chief secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, Haryana Anurag Rastogi confirmed that the government agencies will start paddy procurement in state from October 1 and this year, the government has set a target to procure 60 lakh MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paddy-arrival-picks-pace-in-haryana-no-procurement-yet-101632858061509.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||20-yr-old youth killed, three hurt in firing in Punjab’s Tarn Taran||A 20-year-old man was killed while three others received injuries in a firing between two groups over the “election” of a college president at Chohla Sahib in Tarn Taran district on Tuesday. While Sarwan Singh of Sarhali Kalan village was killed, Sadiq Mohammad of Bhathal Bhaike village was injured, said police, adding that the identity of two more injured persons is yet to be ascertained.The incident took place outside Sri Guru Arjun Dev Khalsa College, which is under the control of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), around 12.30 pm. The two groups gathered outside the college in cars and some were carrying firearms and some sharp-edged weapons, police said. Goindwal Sahib, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Preet Inder Singh said: “Our teams are working to identify the members of both the groups. There was no election in college. Those who had created the mess outside the college wanted to establish themselves self-styled presidents. They were outsiders belonging to nearby villages. Investigation revealed that the youths involved in the incident had brought licensed weapons of their parents.”He said the bullet-ridden body of Sarwan was found at Mohanpur village, 4km from the collage. “Sarwan was taken in a car by his aides after he was injured in the firing. They later threw his body along the road, said an official. According to villagers, nearly 20 rounds were fired by both the groups creating panic in the area. The groups had reportedly warned each other of dire consequences on Monday. However, the police remained fail to avert the incident, it was alleged. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act has been registered against unidentified persons at the Chohla Sahib police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/20yrold-youth-killed-three-hurt-in-firing-in-punjab-s-tarn-taran-101632858000501.html
29-09-2021||Other||Kejriwal starts Punjab visit with Ludhiana today||Ludhiana Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be in Ludhiana on Wednesday, as he begins his two-day trip to Punjab. AAP insiders claim that Kejriwal will make big announcements to lure voters in the poll-bound state. On his schedule is a meeting with industrialists at a city hotel on Wednesday afternoon and a press conference at a resort on the Pakhowal Road on Thursday, where he will launch his ‘Second Guarantee’, a poll promise, which has been not been disclosed as yet. Kejriwal’s visit comes at a time when the ruling Congress in Punjab is facing a lot of political turbulence; some observers see it as a boost to the AAP’s poll prospects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-starts-punjab-visit-with-ludhiana-today-101632857881480.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Community centres to be named after martyrs||On the 114th birth anniversary of revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta announced that community centres in the city will be named after martyrs.There are around 18 community centres in the city while three more are under construction. Gupta said that in the next General House meeting of the municipal corporation, which is likely to take place in 15 days, a resolution will be passed in this regard. Gupta made the announcement during a function organised at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk. Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal was also present at the event. He said many young sons of the nation have sacrificed their lives for their motherland, and remembered Major Anuj Rajput, who died in a chopper crash in J&K’s Udhampur last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-community-centres-to-be-named-after-martyrs-101632857880274.html
29-09-2021||Pune||Sacked IT worker held for threatening to destroy company laptop in Pune||PUNE A 42-year-old IT professional has been arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for threatening to damage company property after he was terminated from service.The arrested man has been identified as Piyush Agarwal (42), a resident of Maan, Hinjewadi.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a manager at the company.The complainant told the police that Agarwal was threatening to damage a laptop worth ₹42,000 in order to deprive the company of the data on that laptop.The complainant also told the police that the man threatened to put the laptop in water in order to damage it if the company did not reinstate him. A case under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sacked-it-worker-held-for-threatening-to-destroy-company-laptop-in-pune-101632857760349.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh estate office services go online||In a bid to bring transparency and ease of access at the estate office, UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit on Tuesday launched its website and online services. Five services were rendered online on the estate office website: estateoffice.chd.gov.in, while 11 more will be made available in next two phases on October 10 and 20. “Applications have been developed for all services provided by the estate office and internal workflow has been changed in such a way that all applications received will be processed online from end to end. The citizen would be informed about the progress of his application by SMS and can also track the status by logging in online,” said Purohit. Recently, the Supreme Court had pulled up the UT administration on harassment being faced by residents at the estate office. A bench of justices Hemant Gupta and AS Bopana had directed the administration to constitute a committee comprising the local MP among others to recommend improvements in its working.Transparency, speedy deliveryUnder the new system, dashboards have been developed to monitor not just the movement of files but also the performance of different officials. In case of delays, SMS alerts will be sent to the officials and will be reflected in red on the monitoring dashboard available with their seniors, said deputy commissioner-cum-estate officer Mandip Singh Brar. For now, the services that have gone online include transfer of ownership/lease rights or grant of NOC in case of transfer by way of sale gift/exchange/family transfer deed. Other services, including transfer of ownership/lease rights on basis of interstate death or will, permission to mortgage, execution of deeds and issuance of allotment letters, will also go online by October 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-estate-office-services-go-online-101632857641030.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Repeal farm laws, don’t make Punjab another J&K: Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday appealed the Centre to immediately repeal the three “black” farm laws otherwise his government would convene a special session of Vidhan Sabha to reject these anti-farm laws outrightly to safeguard the interest of the farmers and farm labourers, who are already passing through acute economic crisis. Addressing the media at the chief minister’s office, Channi said he had already asked his predecessor Captain Amarinder Singh to reject these laws, but the Cabinet at that time authorised him to take any decision, as he deems fit. He, however, chose to bring the amended bills instead of rejecting these draconian farm legislations. state of Punjab for its unprecedented sacrifices to uphold the country’s integrity and sovereignty, Channi said the Centre Urging the Centre to give due recognition to the border should not try to foment trouble in the state like J&K rather it should sincerely resolve the ongoing farm crisis at the earliest in the larger interest of the country. Reiterating his firm commitment to stand by the farmers and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha in this hour of crisis, the CM said that he would even lead a mammoth march towards Delhi either by foot or on bicycle to support their cause in case the Centre doesn’t concede their demand to repeal these laws forthwith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/repeal-farm-laws-don-t-make-punjab-another-j-k-channi-101632857520521.html
29-09-2021||Pune||4 in custody after ‘live’ wire electrocutes farmer in Mulshi||PUNE Four men have been remanded to custody of the Pune rural police for causing the death of a person with a ‘live’ wire accessed illegally from a main electricity line in Mulshi.The deceased man was identified as Vithoba Pandhurang Sathe (65), a resident of Bhalgudi village in Mulshi, and was a farmer by profession.A complaint in the matter was lodged by his son Nath Vithoba Sathe (40), a resident of Sutardara, Kothrud.The accused were identified as Santosh Bhikaji Sathe, Ramshankar Sathe, Shankat Dattu Sathe and Sadashiv Bhiva Sathe, according to the police.“The two families have the same name and live in proximity, even though they are not related. They were all arrested today (Tuesday) and remanded to one day police custody,” said sub-inspector MS Gaikwad of Paud police station who is investigating the case.The now-deceased man was walking along the edge of a paddy field owned by another man from the village around 7am on Monday when he came in contact with the ‘live’ wire. The wire is suspected to be have been installed to keep animals out, knowing the current can harm human beings as well as cattle and pet animals, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 304(2) (causing death due to negligence) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 135 and 138 Maharashtra Electricity Act, 2003 and Section 9 of Wildlife Protection Act of Paud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4-in-custody-after-live-wire-electrocutes-farmer-in-mulshi-101632857400401.html
29-09-2021||Other||Congress will win Ellenabad bypoll: Selja||After the Election Commission of India announced bypoll in the Ellenabad constituency, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Tuesday said the party will win the election.“Congress will definitely contest the bypoll and win it. We will announce the candidate after a party meeting,” she told the media in Yamunanagar after a ‘Mahila panchayat’ organised by the party’s women cell.Selja said the party is still going strong in Punjab and will win in the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh as well.“Congress is in a good position in Punjab. We will see a repeat of Congress government there. Other parties only gave slogans of empowering the Scheduled Castes, but Congress actually did it. We will perform well in Uttar Pradesh as every section of the society, including farmers, are against the BJP government in state,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-will-win-ellenabad-bypoll-selja-101632857220242.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad assembly bypoll: Another test awaits ruling BJP-JJP alliance||The upcoming Ellenabad assembly bypoll, scheduled in October, will yet again test the standing of the ruling BJP-JJP combine in Haryana, particularly in the wake of the ongoing farmers protest against the three central agri-marketing laws.The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced October 30 as the polling day for Ellenabad assembly bypoll.The assembly seat situated in Sirsa district and bordering Rajasthan had fallen vacant in January after the lone Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) MLA Abhay Chautala had resigned in protest of the three central laws.The ruling alliance had tasted defeat by over 10,000 votes last November when they lost to the Congress in Baroda assembly bypoll, a predominantly rural seat like Ellenabad. The Baroda assembly seat, which had fallen vacant due to the demise of the Congress MLA, was retained by the Congress primarily due to the sway of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and the resentment among the farming community due to enactment of three central agri-marketing laws.Political analysts said since the BJP-JJP leaders are facing stiff opposition from the farmers, it will be quite difficult for them to effectively canvass and reach out to the electorate.While the ruling alliance will put up a joint candidate, it remains to be seen whether the contestant will be from the BJP or the JJP stable. Analysts said that the ruling party or the alliance generally have an upper hand in the by elections. The BJP-JJP government which have three more years of rule would try to work this factor to their advantage.“Sirsa happens to be the home turf of Chautalas. But JJP leadership and deputy chief minister, Dushyant Chautala have consistently faced protests there. Things won’t be easy for the ruling alliance,” said an expert.Prof Ashutosh Kumar, who teaches political science at Panjab University, Chandigarh, says the assembly by election is much more important for the JJP.“Keeping in view the internecine war between the INLD and its offshoot, the JJP, this would be a litmus test for the JJP on their home ground,” Prof Kumar said.The BJP, which finished runners-up in Ellenabad 2019 assembly elections, getting 29.95% vote share too would be under pressure to perform well, experts said.Pawan Beniwal, a Jat leader who got BJP about 45,000 votes (of the 1.50 lakh votes polled) in 2019 assembly polls, has quit the saffron party earlier this year expressing solidarity with the protesting farmers. He recently joined the Congress.Following the imposition of model code of conduct, the EC ordered that no fresh release of funds under the MPLAD or MLA local area development will be made in the part of Sirsa where the Ellenabad assembly constituency is situated till the election process gets over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-assembly-bypoll-another-test-awaits-ruling-bjp-jjp-alliance-101632857040387.html
29-09-2021||Other||Maluka rebuts Punjab ex-minister Kangar’s job creation claims||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Kisan Wing president Sikandar Singh Maluka on Tuesday said that former Congress minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar was spreading falsehoods about his work as a minister. On Sunday, after the formation of the new cabinet, Kangar had addressed the media, claiming that during his tenure as power minister, he had created over 4,000 jobs. “The truth is that only 109 jobs given during Kangar’s tenure which was also a routine process,” said Maluka.“It is shocking that Kangar, widely seen as corrupt, is now talking about service to society after having missed a berth in state cabinet,” Maluka alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maluka-rebuts-punjab-ex-minister-kangar-s-job-creation-claims-101632856920207.html
29-09-2021||Pune||RSS’ Muslim wing opposes protest against arrest of UP cleric||PUNE A day after the Kul Jamaat E Tanzeem, an umbrella organisation of 22 Muslim outfits announced its plan to hold a protest in front of the District Collectorate to condemn the arrest of cleric Maulana Kalimuddin Siddiqui, the Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM) Pune, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Svayam Sevak Sangh (RSS), stated that the organisation opposes the “conversion of non-Muslims”.MRM state president and BJP spokesperson Ali Daruwala on Tuesday evening said, “We had sought police permission to protest against the Kul Jamaat Tanzeem but it has been denied. So we will take up the issue by organising a media conference. We strongly oppose the conversion of non-Muslims and at the same time oppose the stand taken by the 22 Muslim organisations in favour of the accused. We condemn and oppose individuals working against national interest s because for us, the nation comes first.” Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui who runs Jamia Imam Waliullah trust was arrested in Meerut by the Uttar Pradesh anti-terrorist squad (ATS) on September 22. The ATS on Sunday arrested three more associates of Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui, identified as Kunal Chaudhary, Mohammad Hafiz Idris and Mohammad Salim on charges of allegedly running a religious conversion syndicate across the country. Kul Jamaat Tanzeem co-ordinator Zahid Shaikh claimed that the religious scholar was deliberately targeted by the ATS. Meanwhile, the Bund Garden police has issued a notice directing the Kul Jamaat Tanzeem not to hold any protest in the wake of Covid 19 restrictions. The Bund Garden and Kondhwa police held a meeting with Kul Jamaat Members on Tuesday evening. Convenor Zahid Shaikh said, “Police have denied us permission and instead asked us to submit a memorandum to the district collector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rss-muslim-wing-opposes-protest-against-arrest-of-up-cleric-101632856860279.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police to carve out crime cell to speed up probes||Amid spike in crime and increased activity of gangsters in the city, Chandigarh Police will soon have a separate district crime cell. A specialised investigation wing, it has got the necessary approvals, confirmed a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named. Chandigarh Police already have two investigation wings — the crime branch in Sector 11 and operation cell in Sector 26. The crime branch deals with heinous crimes reported in the city. “The district crime cell is being created for effective supervision. Its need was felt in the wake of increased crime and movement of gangsters in the city,” said the officer.The cell will be entrusted with investigation of crimes reported in the city and will be expected to not just ensure early detection but also keep a tab on activities of gangsters and their sympathisers. According to the plans, an inspector will head the cell, which will directly report to the senior superintendent of police. About 40 police personnel from different units and wings have been already shortlisted to work in the cell, said the officer. The cell will soon be allotted an office, for which three places have been shortlisted. The staff will be equipped with latest technology and will also work on developing human intelligence network. The one-member police reform commission headed by former IPS officer KB Singh, in a report submitted on August 29, had recommended separation of the investigation and law-and-order wings of Chandigarh Police for better efficiency. The report stated that when the same personnel are assigned investigations and law-and-order duties, it has a cascading effect on the probe and leads to delays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-to-carve-out-crime-cell-to-speed-up-probes-101632856680899.html
29-09-2021||Other||FDA to check food licences of all street vendors||PUNE The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will launch a drive to check if all eateries in the city have the necessary food licence.This includes outlets selling tea, vada pav and any fast food.FDA commissioner Shivaji Desai said, “FDA will run a special drive to register all food outlets in the city and district. Food stall owners need to take a licence by filing an online application available on www.foscos.fssai.gov.in “ Outlets with a turnover below Rs12 lakh per annum will get a licence by paying Rs100 fee per annum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fda-to-check-food-licences-of-all-street-vendors-101632856679673.html
29-09-2021||Pune||PMC standing committee approves funds to resurface 5 major roads||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) standing committee has approved funds for the resurfacing Tilak road, Laxmi road, Kumtekar road, Bajirao road and Shivaji road. The action comes after the civic body, ruled by the BJP in Pune, faced much criticism for digging up the said roads to lay pipes for the 24x7 water project.The re-surfacing of the roads left much to be desired as per residents of these area with the monsoons causing huge potholes.V J Kulkarni, head of PMC’s road department said, “The standing committee had approved the funds for doing the resurfacing of these roads. Instead of disturbing the traffic, PMC will carry these works out at night and ensure that the roads are in a good condition.”An officer from the road department said, “There is pressure from elected members to resurface existing roads. Though it is temporary work, they want to have good roads before the municipal elections so that it does not become an issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmcstanding-committee-approves-funds-to-resurface-5-major-roads-101632856620301.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets ₹520-crore fund boost this fiscal||The Centre has lifted the 20% mandatory cut on the Chandigarh administration’s spending that was imposed as part of austerity measures amid the Covid-19 pandemic last year.The move will add at least ₹520 crore more in the UT’s kitty this fiscal, and boost development works being executed by both Chandigarh administration and municipal corporation. The administration has recently proposed to increase the grant-in-aid (GIA) for the municipal corporation by 40% this fiscal — from ₹502 crore to ₹700 crore. The revised estimates are to be submitted with the Union government for its approval. Confirming the development, UT adviser Dharam Pal said: “The municipal corporation has been requesting additional funds. We will consider enhanced support to them with the cut being revoked.” The news comes with less than two months to go for municipal elections, and could work in favour of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Starting the current fiscal with a deficit budget of ₹670 crore, the MC received its full dues without the mandated 20% cut in the first two quarters. It has received around ₹250 crore so far. Meanwhile, its finances received a major setback when the administration decided to stay the hike in water tariff till March 2022. Its demand for ₹90 crore compensation for loss of revenue was also denied.‘Will have positive impact on all projects’Meanwhile, with enhanced spending power, the UT administration also looks forward to push its development projects.This fiscal, there was only a marginal increase of 0.93% ( ₹48 crore) in the budget estimates from ₹5138.10 crore in 2020-2021 to ₹5186.12 crore in 2021-2022. The increase in capital expenditure by 25% in the budget was nullified because of the cut. The 20% cut in the first two fiscals had forced the administration to focus on meeting revenue expenditure (on wages, salaries and committed liabilities), due to which most development works had come to a halt. “(Lifting of cut) will have positive impact on all projects. More funds will be available. Monthly expenditure has gone up by 20%. In the remaining financial year, we will be able to spend more on development schemes,” said the adviser. “We have received the circular today. In the coming week, we will examine which projects are to speeded up and which to be expanded as we have more funds with us,” he said. For instance, horticulture and engineering department works are likely to get additional support. The administration is also working on seeking the funds cut in the first two quarters. “We may reflect it in the revised estimates to be submitted with Union government,” said Pal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gets-520-crore-fund-boost-this-fiscal-101632856443548.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Manpreet takes charge and Punjab FM, says challenges before state huge||Finance, taxation, governance reforms and programme implementation minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who assumed charge on Tuesday, said that the challenge before the state government was huge, particularly to reach and penetrate with far greater thrust in areas where it has not been able to make as much contribution as was expected. “There is always ‘dil maange more’ and you can be rest assured that this government, and I, as its FM, will do everything to bring joy and festivities to your lives and homes,” he told reporters after taking charge. Manpreet, who has been given charge of taxation in addition to finance that he held in the Capt Amarinder Singh government, said he has been given the added responsibility of commercial taxation, including GST, VAT and other miscellaneous levies on petroleum products. Manpreet said the state has done well, rather exceptionally well, so far despite a near bankrupt treasury that it inherited in 2017 from the previous regime. “However, for a finance minister, the situation is always challenging, never providing a minute of rest or comfort”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manpreet-takes-charge-and-punjab-fm-says-challenges-before-state-huge-101632856441426.html
29-09-2021||Pune||Lay cables for Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar metro route after monsoons, PMC tells PMRDA||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has asked the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) to lay underground 132 KV electricity cables for the metro route between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar after the monsoon season.PMRDA is executing the metro line between Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar and planned to lay the electricity line for the metro now, before the starting work on the pillars.V J Kulkarni , head of PMC’s road department said, “We got an application from the contractor to lay the electricity line for the metro, but we requested them to do it after the rainy season. Permission has also been sought for a cement concrete road near RBI bank on Ganeshkhind road.”The Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar metro route is executed on the PPP basis. PMRDA is the nodal agency.Recently, the PMC had approved the handover of land at various locations for entry and exit points to metro stations, as per the PMRDA’s request. The Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar metro corridor is elevated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lay-cables-for-hinjewadi-to-shivajinagar-metro-route-after-monsoons-pmc-tells-pmrda-101632856320497.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Minister Razia Sultana, two office-bearers quit in solidarity with Sidhu||Cabinet minister Razia Sultana and two state unit office-bearers resigned from their posts on Tuesday, just hours after Navjot Singh Sidhu quit as the Punjab Congress president. Sultana, who was among the ministers retained from the previous Capt Amarinder Singh government, gave her resignation after meeting Sidhu at his Patiala residence to “express solidarity” with him. “Sidhu Sahab is a man of principles. He is fighting for Punjab and Punjabiyat,” Sultana said in her resignation letter addressed to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, adding that she would continue to work for the party as a worker. Her resignation came just hours after she was given the charge of water supply and sanitation, social security, women and child development and printing and stationery departments. Sultana and her husband, retired IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa, are considered close to Sidhu. Mustafa is a principal strategic adviser to Sidhu. Punjab Congress general secretary Yoginder Dhingra and treasurer Gulzar Inder Singh Chahal also tendered their resignations. Dhinga and Chahal were appointed by the All India Congress Committee on September 21 after Sidhu recommended their names. Earlier, Sidhu’s media adviser Surinder Dalla said that he (PPCC chief) was not interested in any post. “He has resigned to focus on his Punjab agenda and the 18-point to do list given by the high command. He is not power hungry,” he said. Sidhu, who posted his resignation letter on Twitter, did not respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minister-razia-sultana-two-office-bearers-quit-in-solidarity-with-sidhu-101632856260240.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu an ‘unstable’ man, preparing ground to join another party: Capt||Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said Navjot Sidhu’s resignation as the state Congress chief within two months of taking over the vital post had proved beyond doubt that the cricketer-turned-politician was an “unstable” man, who could not be relied upon to lead the ruling party, especially in a border state like Punjab. Terming Sidhu’s resignation a sheer drama, Capt Amarinder said the move suggested that his former cabinet colleague was preparing the ground to quit the Congress and join hands with someone other party in the run-up to the state assembly polls. “I had been saying all along that this man is unstable and dangerous, and cannot be entrusted with the task of running Punjab,” he claimed, adding that Sidhu had also proved to be absolutely incompetent during his stint as a minister in his government. Amarinder, who reached Delhi on a personal visit, told reporters at the airport that Punjab is a sensitive state, sharing over 600km of border with a hostile Pakistan, alleging that Sidhu’s close links with his cricketer friend Imran Khan and ISI chief Qamar Javed Bajwa are a serious threat to India’s national security. He said that by resigning within two months of taking over as the PPCC chief, Sidhu had once again exhibited his “shifty” character. “I’ve know this boy since his childhood and he has been a loner and can never be a team player,” said Amarinder, recalling how the cricketer had deserted the Indian team in 1996 in England. “That’s what his real character is,” said the former CM. Describing Sidhu as a “flamboyant” speaker, Amarinder said what he speaks in public meetings or rallies may make people laugh, but it is all froth with no substance. “People don’t vote for buffoonery,” he said, adding that no one take him (Sidhu) seriously. Replying to a question that Sidhu was apparently upset with the inclusion of certain ministers in Charanjit Singh Channi’s cabinet, Amarinder said that the PPCC chief apparently wanted to run the government by remote control. “What nonsense is this! Cabinet formation is the prerogative of the chief minister, so why should Sidhu interfere in it,” he quipped. On Sidhu’s claim that he was quitting as the party chief on matters of principle, Amarinder quipped: “What principles is he talking about? He’s only making grounds to quit the Congress. You wait and see, he will join hands with some other party very soon.” Replying to a question, the former CM said the Congress high command should immediately accept Sidhu’s resignation and appoint some competent man in his place. When asked if he would back former PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar for the job, Amarinder said: “He (Jakhar) is very competent and had performed exceeding well as the party chief.” The former CM also scotched speculation that he was in Delhi to meet senior BJP leaders. “I have come on a personal visit, with the main intent of vacating the Kapurthala House for the new CM,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-an-unstable-man-preparing-ground-to-join-another-party-capt-101632856023097.html
29-09-2021||Pune||Somaiya files complaint at Kolhapur police station; Mushrif counters with ₹100 crore suit||PUNE Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya visited Kolhapur district on Tuesday and filed a complaint application at a local police station against Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Hasan Mushrif, for his alleged involvement in various “corruption cases”. The Minister on his part has already refuted allegations against him and filed a Rs100 crore defamation suit against Somaiya in A local court. According to Mushrif’s lawyer, the suit has been filed in Kolhapur court in which BJP state president Chandrakant Patil has also been made a respondent. After arriving in Kolhapur district, Somaiya visited the Murgud police station and submitted a complaint application saying if the police do not take action on his application in the next seven days, he will approach the court. “I will wait for seven days to see what action police take. If there is no action, I will approach the court,” said Somaiya while speaking to reporters. Claiming to expose one more scam of Mushrif worth ₹1,500 crore, Somaiya said that Mushrif in the capacity of rural development minister had given a tender worth ₹1,500 crore to a company linked to his son-in-law. He said that the tender given to the firm was related to filing tax returns and TDS filings of gram panchayats in the state. “The tender was given to the firm, which did not have any prior experience of filing GST, TDS, and tax returns,” Somaiya claimed. Earlier on Monday, Kolhapur district Collector Rahul Rekhawar had withdrawn his previous order prohibiting BJP leader Kirit Somaiya from entering Kolhapur district. The fresh order allowed Somaiya to enter Kolhapur district on Tuesday. On September 20, Somaiya claimed he was stopped and detained by police at Karad in western Maharashtra while he was on way to Kolhapur, after the district authorities cited law and order as well as security concerns following his allegations of corruption against Mushrif. His detention preceded high drama in Mumbai where Somaiya was asked by police not to venture out of his residence citing the Kolhapur administration’s order. The Sena distanced itself from the action saying directions were issued by Home department which is under Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). After being stopped at Karad, Somaiya alleged that he was jostled by Mumbai police who on Sunday night to tried to prevent him from boarding a Kolhapur-bound Mahalaxmi express. Somaiya planned to visit Kagal in Kolhapur, the Assembly constituency represented by Mushrif, and file a police complaint against the minister over alleged irregularities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/somaiya-files-complaint-at-kolhapur-police-station-mushrif-counters-with-rs-100-crore-suit-101632855720641.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man booked for duping auto-rickshaw driver||A resident of Sector 29 has been booked for cheating an auto-rickshaw driver from Nayagaon, Chandigarh Police said on Tuesday. The victim, Mukesh Kumar, said that Dinesh, whom he had known for the past two years, asked him to buy a Mahindra Bolero on monthly instalments. “Dinesh said he would get my vehicle hired for the use of Haryana’s irrigation department office in Panchkula by using his contacts and that would fetch me a monthly rental of ₹50,000,” he told the police. However, the accused took away the vehicle and asked Mukesh to pay him ₹3 lakh to get it back through a person who identified himself as Vicky Jain. Mukesh said that Dinesh had even made him sign an agreement in January 2020 as per which, his vehicle would be attached to the irrigation department and he would be paid ₹50,000 monthly rent from January till May 2020. Dinesh had also issued him a cheque which was dishonoured. The FIR has been registered under sections 420 and 406 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-booked-for-duping-auto-rickshaw-driver-101632855303803.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Two held for murder of 35-year-old Ropar man||Two persons were arrested in connection with a murder case of a 35-year-old man, the police said on Tuesday.A 35-year-old man from Ropar, who was out for dinner with his friends, was killed by a dozen men wielding sharp-edged weapons, who attacked him at Majri Chowk in Panchkula late on September 26.The police had constituted different teams, who on Tuesday arrested Ravidner, 30, and Manish, 21, of Kharak Mangoli, Panchkula. As per the police, the duo was arrested from the dumping ground and will be produced in a court on Wednesday.“They will be taken on police remand as we have to recover weapons used in the crime and ascertain the whereabouts of other accused,” said a police official.The investigation has revealed that both the parties—accused and victims—have criminal records and many criminal cases are registered against most of them. Even the deceased was an accused in a 2017 murder case and was out on bail.The police had registered a case against Shekhar, Johny, Puppy, Vakili, Manish, Babbi, Bada Bahadur and their accomplices under Sections 302 (murder), 301 (attempt to murder), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code.Four hurt in two clashes in UTThree friends who were sitting near a school in Sector 56 on the night of September 27 were attacked with sharp-edged weapons by six persons, the police said on Tuesday. The injured were identified as Akash, Jagtar and Goda, all residents of Sector 56. In his complaint, Pritam, brother of injured Akash, named the accused as Ganja, Gaurav, Sojal, Noni, Komal and Ashu. Pritam said that the accused started an argument with the victims before attacking them with sharp-edged weapons.The accused fled after residents came out hearing loud cries. Police said that the attack was due to old rivalry and both the groups had clashed four days back as well. A case was registered.Meanwhile, another case was reported in Mauli Jagran where a man was stabbed by his friend after an argument at a drinks party. Mohd Shahzad of Baltana in his complaint alleged that he was stabbed with a knife by Annu Kumar Singh of Raipur Kalan village on September 25.The injured, who was admitted to GMCH-32, runs a barber shop and the accused makes flex boards. A case was registered. The accused was arrested and later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-two-held-for-murder-of-35-year-old-ropar-man-101632855240139.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||Balbeer Giri to be Mahant Narendra Giri’s successor||PRAYAGRAJ: Respecting the last wishes of president of Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) Mahant Narendra Giri in his last will dated June 4, 2020 as well as in the purported suicide note found next to his body, office-bearers of Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani have decided to appoint Narendra Giri’s disciple Balbeer Giri as his successor. The akhada would perform the ceremony to appoint Balbeer as the next Pithadishwar (head) of Baghambari Gaddi Math on October 5, informed Niranjani akhada office-bearers. General secretary of Niranjani Akhada, Mahant Ravindra Puri said on Tuesday, “As in the last will of Maharaj ji (Narendra Giri), Balbeer Giri has been named as his successor and the same wish has been mentioned in the suicide note as well in his last video recording found on his cell phone before committing suicide, it has been decided that his wishes would be honoured and Balbeer would be made the next head of Bagamabari Math.” The ceremony would be held at the Math on October 5, he added. Narendra Giri had made a will on January 7, 2010 wherein he had named Balbeer Giri as his successor, but he changed his will on August 29, 2011 and named Anand Giri as his successor. He again changed his will on June 4, 2020, which is his last will as per his lawyer Rishi Shankar Dwivedi, wherein Balbeer Giri has been named as his successor. Mahant Ravindra Puri said that senior seers of the 13 Akhadas along with respectable individuals of the society, officials of the district administration and others would be invited for the “pattaabhishek” (anointing) ceremony which is scheduled to take place on October 5. The ceremony would coincide with ‘Shodashi’ of Narendra Giri, rituals performed on the 16th day of the passing away of a saint. Interestingly, Balbeer Giri would not only head the Baghambari Math but also the Bade Hanuman temple near Sangam, as its new Acharya. Mahant Ravindra Puri also informed that a five-member ‘supervisory board’ would look after the working of the Math. For all the major decisions, like selling or purchase of land etc, the future head of the Math would have to get approval of this five-member administrative body. “This all-important body would include members from Nirnjani Akhada only. Besides me (Ravindra Puri), the other members would be Mahant Dinesh Giri, Mahant Omkar Giri, Keshav Puri and Mahant Har Govind Puri”, informed Ravindra Puri. “We are following the set practices and traditions of the Akhada and all the decision are in strict accordance with it,” he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/balbeer-giri-to-be-mahant-narendra-s-giri-s-successor-101632855180093.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad family’s wait ends as body of Indian Army soldier brought home after 16 years||For 16 years, the family of missing Indian Army’s Lance Naik Amrish Tyagi did not perform his last rites and shraadh (ceremony performed in honour of a dead ancestor) in the hope that he will return home one day. Tyagi and three other soldiers went missing after an accident while they were returning from an expedition at a mountain peak above Joshimath on September 23, 2005.Coincidentally, his body was discovered by the army exactly 16 years later on September 23, 2021, in Harshil sector of Uttarakhand and handed over to his family.His family cremated the body on Tuesday at his village Hisali in Ghaziabad’s Muradnagar.Hisali village is located about nine kilometres from the district headquarters in Ghaziabad.“He was about 26 years old when he went missing during the expedition. The bodies of three of his colleagues were found soon after. A couple of days ago, some officials came home and told us that they recovered his body in the snow in the Harshil sector. He was identified with the help of documents found on the body,” said Vinesh Tyagi, Amrish Tyagi’s brother.Amrish Tyagi was the youngest of four brothers and a sister and got married about one-and-a-half years before he met with the accident. His wife was pregnant when he went missing.“All these years we did not lose hope and did not perform any last rites. We did not even perform his shraadh, hoping that he was alive. But now, having received his body, we are content that his soul will rest in peace. His wife gave birth to a daughter about five months after the incident. When he did not return, her parents got her remarried about a year later,” Vinesh Tyagi added.Amrish Tyagi served with the army ordnance corps.“He was an avid mountaineer and was returning from an expedition from a peak above Joshimath. While climbing down, all four personnel met with an accident and fell into a deep trench. Three bodies were recovered. On Tuesday, senior officers from the Babugarh cantonment arrived for his cremation while soldiers from the Bihar regiment brought his body from Uttarakhand,” said Colonel Devender Tyagi, a resident of Hisali.“His father is no more but he served the Indian Army as Naib Subedar and, like him, Amrish too joined the army to serve the country... Ours is a small village with a population of about 1200 but many people here have served and serving the defence forces,” Colonel Tyagi added.Hundreds of young men and locals from Hisali and neighbouring villages joined the procession as an army truck brought Amrish Tyagi’s body to his village.His cremation was performed later in the day by two of his nephews.“His daughter and his wife also arrived home on Tuesday and all were in tears. We are still on good terms with the family into which she remarried. Our mother passed away about four years ago in the hope that she will be able to see Amrish again. She used to be anxious in case someone arrived at the door and would think that her son had returned. She even started resisting the idea of any child from our family wanting to join the army. She was so upset that her son had not returned all these years,” Vinesh Tyagi said. “My brother was a lively man and popular among his friends. They all attended his cremation on Tuesday,” he added.Aditya Prajapati, sub-divisional magistrate of Modinagar, was also present during the cremation on Tuesday. “The cremation was performed with full military honours after the body arrived at Hisali village. His body was discovered exactly 16 years after he went missing following the accident,” Prajapati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-family-s-wait-ends-as-body-of-indian-army-soldier-brought-home-after-16-years-101632855060215.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Naraingarh Sugar Mills workers end strike||The workers of Naraingarh Sugar Mills ended their indefinite strike after about 16 days on Tuesday following the assurance of hike in salary and acceptance of their other demands, Naraingarh subdivisional magistrate Niraj said. Their protest ended weeks before the commencement of the sugarcane crushing season. The consensus was reached after the mill workers’ union and farmers from Ambala and Panchkula gathered near the mill under the leadership of senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni. Additional cane commissioner to Haryana agriculture department, JS Brar, SDM Niraj and mill owner Rahul Anand also reached the spot later. Charuni said the farmers had earlier sought from the administration arrangement of a meeting with the state government to discuss the issue of pending dues worth ₹66 crore and crop loans worth ₹33 crore taken in the name of farmers, but they couldn’t. “We can’t rely on the mill owners for our pending dues. We want to meet the government to convince it to take over the mill or sell it. We are giving an ultimatum till October 4 to find a solution else the cane commissioner’s office will be surrounded the next day. We’ll repeat the Karnal scenario and won’t allow any movement in the office,” the leader said.Charuni also asked the owners to ensure that the mill starts functioning by November 25 after the workers’ demands are met. The farmers were scheduled to gherao the cane commissioner’s office in Panchkula on Tuesday, but postponed it after an assurance by the owner. SDM Niraj said the mill management has also agreed to providing funds for the maintenance and other needs, and the mill is expected to start on time. Naraingarh deputy commissioner Vikram said, “Government officials are here to oversee the mill functioning, but the dues have to be arranged by the owner. We’ll try to convene a meeting between the government and workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/naraingarh-sugar-mills-workers-end-strike-101632855000315.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Mihir Bhoj row: UP CM’s name on plaque smeared with black paint||Tension prevailed in the Dadri area of Greater Noida on Tuesday after the name of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was allegedly smeared with black paint on a plaque installed below the statue of ninth-century king Mihir Bhoj at a local college. Adityanath unveiled the 15-foot statue of the king on September 22.According to a video that emerged on social media, besides the chief minister’s, the names of Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Singh Nagar and Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar, both leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party, were also blackened on the plaque. HT has not independently verified the authenticity of the video.After the alleged incident, there is heavy police deployment at Mihir Bhoj PG College that houses the statue. Police said they are probing the incident. “We have filed an FIR against unknown persons for painting the plaque black. There was no police deployment when the incident happened, but now police have been deployed,” said Abhishek (known by his first name), deputy commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar.Row over caste of Mihir BhojSince the inauguration of Mihir Bhoj’s statue, the Gurjar community has been protesting against the removal of their caste’s name from the plaque installed below the statue. The community leaders maintain that the king belonged to the Gurjar community. The Rajput community has also claimed that the ninth-century king belonged to their caste.The alleged blackening of the leaders’ names on the plaque took place after Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Nagar visited the statue and paid tribute to king Mihir Bhoj on Tuesday morning. Nagar, who belongs to the Gurjar community, also shared a picture of himself standing next to the statue on Twitter.“This is not an issue at all because the word ‘Gurjar’ was always there on the plaque, and our community is completely happy with the party. Some opposition parties are making it an issue to garner votes in the upcoming assembly polls but they will not succeed in their negative campaign,” said Nagar after paying tributes around 5am.However, Nagar’s efforts are seemingly not enough to convince agitated Gurjars to call off their campaign against the BJP. “Now, they (BJP leaders) have written ‘Gurjar’ before king Mihir Bhoj. But why was it omitted during the CM’s visit? We can stop our protest only if the state government issues a notification officially announcing that ‘Gurjar’ is added to king Mihir Bhoj’s name. We have also called a national level meeting at the Greater Noida’s institute on October 2 to decide on our future course of action,” said Navin Bhati, a member of Rashtriya Gurjar Swabhiman Samiti formed to fight for the cause, and national president of Akhil Bhartiya Gurjar Front.Meanwhile, the Rajput community also planned a panchayat on Sunday after they learnt that the word “Gurjar” was again added to the name of king Mihir Bhoj on the plaque.“They are distorting history without any basis. We cannot let it happen. We have called a panchayat on this issue to fight for justice,” said Prithivi Singh, national secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Kshatriya Mahasabha.Meanwhile, Kunwar Arunoday Singh Parihar, prince of Madhya Pradesh’s Nagod estate who claims to be a descendant of king Mihir Bhoj, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to do justice to this issue on the basis of facts.“Only the government can stop the distortion of Rajput history. We believe that a great man belongs to everyone and Mihir Bhoj was made a Samrat in the ninth century by all castes, not one. But that cannot change his caste. My family feels humiliated by these events and when people say such a great warrior was not a Rajput. I request Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop this practice. People should understand that ‘Gurjar’ has been used in history to refer to a place, not caste,” said Parihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mihir-bhoj-row-up-cm-s-name-on-plaque-smeared-with-black-paint-101632854820357.html
29-09-2021||Noida||District hospital among dengue mosquito breeding sites in Ghaziabad||Amid the rise in dengue cases in Ghaziabad, the district health department teams have found dengue larvae at five places in the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital. Officials from the district health department said that they have asked the district hospital authorities to take immediate action.The district hospital at Sanjay Nagar has a special 10-bed dengue ward.Several teams from the Centre also found dengue larvae at two private hospitals in the district, the officials said, adding that they have doubled the strength of inspection teams to 50 from 25. “We conducted an inspection of the Sanjay Nagar hospital on Monday and found five breeding sites in air coolers. The hospital authorities have been found erring in this connection for the past four years in a row. We have asked them to take immediate corrective steps. If they fail to do so, we will serve them a notice and also impose a penalty of ₹5,000 per instance,” said GK Mishra, district malaria officer. According to the official figures, 23 new cases of dengue emerged on Tuesday, taking the tally to 275 in the district, while the total count for malaria and scrub typhus cases stood at 15 and 39, respectively. Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of the Sanjay Nagar district hospital, said, “We have given directions to immediately dry up all 25 air coolers in the hospital. Though we maintain the coolers regularly, it is because of frequent rain that water gets filled up. But the coolers have been cleaned now.” The district malaria officer said that apart from the local teams, several teams from the Centre are also carrying out inspections. “These teams found breeding of dengue mosquitoes inside the flower pots at two private hospitals, one at Mohan Nagar and the other at Vaishali. Corrective measures were taken up by them,” Mishra said. According to the officials, they have so far identified about 6,000 dengue larvae breeding sites across the city. “Of these 6,000 instances, we have issued notices in about 2,500, and all of them have complied. The major hotspots are at Govindpuram, Harsaon, Vijay Nagar and Sahibabad, among others. Starting Wednesday, we will start inspection of all police stations,” Mishra added. According to the officials, the first dengue case this year was detected on September 1. In the past 28 days, the tally reached 275. Of the 275 cases, 198 patients required admission in hospitals, they said, adding the hospitalisation rate is about 72%. According to the official figures, the number of dengue cases was 621 in 2016, 232 in 2017, 68 in 2018, 88 in 2019 and 15 in 2020. The number of cases spiked in September 2021, with Ghaziabad recording the first 100 cases on September 15, and the next 100 within nine days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/district-hospital-among-dengue-mosquito-breeding-sites-in-ghaziabad-101632854761062.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Monsoon census 2021: More sarus cranes spotted in Gautam Budh Nagar||In a positive indicator of urban wildlife in Gautam Budh Nagar, the wetlands and agricultural areas in the district now have more numbers of sarus cranes -- the world’s tallest flying bird and the state bird of Uttar Pradesh -- as compared to three months ago, revealed a day-long monsoon census conducted by the forest department on Monday.According to the census, the divisional forest department of Gautam Budh Nagar counted a total of 170 sarus cranes -- 129 adults and 41 juveniles -- in seven habitats, mostly rural and agricultural areas in the district, with a wetland nearby. The maximum number of sarus cranes -- 84 -- was counted in Dhanauri wetland, followed by Parsol (32), Rawani Bujurg (17), Eshepur (14), Khodna Khurd (12), Nagala Bhatona (9), and Aakilpur (2), all villages in Greater Noida.In June 2021, the district forest department conducted a summer census wherein the officials recorded a total of 142 sarus cranes -- 122 adults and 18 chicks -- across five forest ranges and wetlands in Gautam Budh Nagar. In June 2019, the foresters counted a total of 140 sarus cranes -- 114 adults and 26 chicks in the district.“A good thing is that the total number of sarus cranes in the district has increased, and sarus roost has also been recognised at some new places. This will help us assess their presence and distribution in a better and more efficient manner,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Experts said the rise in the number of sarus cranes is a good sign of habitat health, and that there must be “more sarus cranes in the district and September is not the best time to conduct such a census”. “Based on what we observed earlier, there must be more than 200 sarus cranes in the district. Also, this is perhaps not the right time for a sarus census and the forest department should conduct the exercise around March or April, to get an accurate picture. Around April, the flocks roost in a very large number at one place and are not scattered as most of the wetlands are drying up. Also, the chicks that hatch around September-end have almost become juvenile. The department must hold the census twice a year, including once in April too,” said Anand Arya, a Noida-based birder who was among the birders who found Dhanauri, and initiated a legal battle in 2014 for its recognition and conservation. Sarus cranes are listed ‘vulnerable’ under the International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List, with human activities, habitat loss, predation by feral dogs, mongoose and snakes, and hunting among the major threats. As of 2017, there is an estimated population of 8,000 sarus cranes in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/monsoon-census-2021-more-sarus-cranes-spotted-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101632854700187.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Noida: Retired colonel loses ₹3.5 lakh to online fraud||A 65-year-old retired colonel lost ₹3.5 lakh in an online fraud after his wife ordered food online and shared his bank account details with an unidentified caller on June 2. The victim, Colonel SPS Yadav (Retd), is a resident of Arun Vihar in Noida’s Sector 29. In his complaint with the cyber police, Yadav said on June 2, his wife found a restaurant’s number on the internet and dialled the number to order food. “When the suspect on the phone line asked for mode of payment, my wife shared the debit card details. I got suspicious when the man started seeking more details and stopped my wife from giving away more information,” said Yadav, adding that no one came to deliver food that afternoon. In the evening, Yadav said, the suspect, identified as Rahul, again called his wife and pretended to be a bank official. “He asked if she had made a transaction of ₹44,000 from her bank account. He said the transaction had come to him for clearance and that he was withholding it. The suspect asked for the details of another bank account, assuring that he would transfer ₹44,000 in that account.”The woman believed the suspect and shared her husband’s bank details. The suspect fraudulently withdrew ₹3.5 lakh from Yadav’s account. Yadav then informed the bank and blocked his account and also lodged a complaint with the cyber cell, Noida, the same day. The cyber cell investigated the matter and directed the police to register an FIR in this case on September 26. Munish Chauhan, station house inspector, Sector 20 police station, said that a case has been registered against the suspect under IPC Section 420 (cheating) and Section 66D of the Information Technology Act on Monday, and a probe is underway.Asked about the delay in registering an FIR in the case, Baljeet Singh, inspector of cyber cell Noida, said, “We screen the complaints and investigate only cyber-related complaints. The screening and probe sometimes takes time... People should visit police stations and file complaints related to cyber fraud.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-retired-colonel-loses-3-5-lakh-to-online-fraud-101632854580057.html
29-09-2021||Lucknow||Noida: UP electricity body to furnish details of irregularities||The Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) on Tuesday issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) asking it to file a detailed report within seven days regarding alleged irregularities in issuing a large number of temporary power connections in the Gautam Budh Nagar district.The regulator’s action comes after consumer forum UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Awadhesh Kumar Verma filed a petition urging the commission to constitute an investigating authority to probe records of all the distribution divisions of Noida to ascertain the extent of irregularities in providing temporary power connections.“We have told UPERC that no less than ₹100 crore has been scammed and the commission must probe irregularities so that culprits can be identified and punished,” Verma said.The UPPCL on Saturday served notices to 23 engineers and three clerks, all of whom were found prima facie guilty of causing revenue loss to the department by issuing temporary power connections to a large number of consumers in violation of norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/noida-up-electricity-body-to-furnish-details-of-irregularities-101632854521789.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Doctors grapple with rise in dengue, flu, typhoid cases in Delhi||Doctors in the Capital are reporting fevers due to common cold, flu, typhoid, sporadic cases of malaria, and the occasional case of scrub typhus, aside from dealing with cases of mosquito-borne dengue which are on the rise.“It’s a mixed bag really; we are seeing some cases of all the seasonal fevers. That is why it is important that people consult their doctors if the fever doesn’t reduce in two or three days. People should only take paracetamol to control fever. Antibiotics and pain medicines must be avoided,” said Dr Suranjit Chaterjee, senior consultant of internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital. He said people must continue to take preventive measures. “These days, we see dengue cases well into October and November, so people must be careful and check for mosquito breeding in their houses and neighbourhoods. We also need to remember that Covid-19 is not over; everyone should continue wearing masks and maintain social distance. Scientists have said that there could be a third wave in October and November,” he said.
29-09-2021||Noida||Man killed as truck hits auto in Noida Phase 2||A 22-year-old man died after a truck hit an auto in Noida Phase 2 around 9am on Monday.The victim -- identified as Bobby (goes by single name) -- was a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, and worked at a private company in Udyog Vihar in the Greater Noida’s Ecotech 2 area, police said on Tuesday.Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer (SHO), Phase 2 police station, said that Bobby was going to work with three others in a shared auto when the accident took place.“Bobby received severe injuries and died at the spot after a truck, coming in the same direction, hit the auto he was travelling in. The 30-year-old auto driver, Ratan Singh, was also injured and was admitted to a private hospital. He is undergoing treatment,” Upadhyaya said.The other three passengers in the auto suffered minor injuries.Police said that the truck driver, Vijay Pal, had also hit another truck after losing balance of his vehicle. “Pal also suffered injuries after his truck overturned on the road. A police team had reached the spot and taken him to a nearby private hospital where he is undergoing treatment,” Upadhyaya added.A case has been registered against Pal under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 304A (death due to negligence) and 279 (rash driving) at the Phase 2 police station on Monday. “Police will interrogate the driver after he is discharged from the hospital,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-killed-as-truck-hits-auto-in-noida-phase-2-101632854400161.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: In a fight between parents, 10-month-old girl falls into drain, search on||A search operation has been launched to find out a 10-month-old girl who allegedly fell into a drain near the UP Gate when her parents were indulged in a fight on late Monday night. According to police, the incident took place around midnight when Sanoj Kumar, 25, and his wife Arima, 23, had an altercation and the girl allegedly in hands of her father fell into a drain from the flyover at the UP Gate. Officials from the Kaushambi police station said that they have registered an FIR under IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) against girl’s father on the basis of a complaint given by her mother. “We have detained the child’s father for questioning. The girl is yet to be traced,” said Sachin Malik, station house officer of Kaushambi police station. Police said that the child’s parents are daily wage labourers and reside at Bhovapur village near Kaushambi. They are natives of Vaishali district in Bihar, police said. According to police, Sanoj allegedly took the child and was going to his friend’s place at Sector 62 in Noida when he engaged in an argument with his wife in the flyover area. “There has been a domestic dispute between them for long. We are trying to find out exact sequence of events which led the girl fall into the drain near Hindon canal,” Malik added. Local councillor Manoj Goyal said that he has written to the Union road transport and highways minister to direct officials to put up fencing along the flyover. “I called up the corporation officials for help and they sent divers to trace the child, but she is yet to be found. Had the fencing been there, the incident could have been avoided. I have written to the Union minster so that fencing could be erected at the flyover,” Goyal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-in-a-fight-between-parents-10-month-old-girl-falls-into-drain-search-on-101632854341585.html
29-09-2021||Other||Assam man beats ailing mother to death, arrested after father lodges FIR||A 34-year-old man allegedly beat beaten his ailing mother to death in Assam’s Cachar district. The incident happened on Sunday night and the accused was arrested after his father lodged an FIR against him, officials said.The accused, Amarjit Deb, is a resident of Gosaipur part V, under Udharbond assembly constituency in Cachar district. According to his father, Apurba Kumar Deb, Amarjit dragged his mother Sumati Deb from her room and beat her with bamboo sticks at around 11:30 pm on Sunday. She died after few hours.In his FIR, Apurba Kumar Deb wrote, “My son Amarjit came home angry that night and started shouting at his mother first. His ailing mother was lying on her bed when Amarjit suddenly pulled her hair, dragged her outside and started kicking her. He collected a bamboo stick and started beating her with that. He also beat me when I tried to save my wife. Some neighbours too came to stop him but they could not help. Amarjit left his mother injured and unconscious when we took her to a local hospital. The doctors declared her dead.”During the incident, the locals informed the members of the Village Defence Party to save the family but by the time they reached, Amarjit had left the house leaving behind his injured parents.With the help of VDP members and neighbours, Apurba Kumar Deb took his injured wife to a local government health centre. After realising that his wife is dead, he went to file an FIR against his son at the local Police station.Talking to the media after lodging the FIR, Apurba Kumar Deb said, “It is true that my wife had mental health issues but this was nothing new. I have been dealing with it for many years. Even Amarjit has mental issues and we never misbehaved with him. I don’t know what happened on Sunday night that he killed his mother.”Amarjit Deb was produced to court on Monday and was sent to police remand for further investigations. Sumati Deb’s dead body was sent to Silchar Medical College and Hospital on Monday for post mortem.While Amarjit Deb was taken to court, local reporters tried to get his reaction. He said, “My mother was mentally imbalanced, when I reached home tired that day, she started talking nonsense. It angered me and I lost control.” He said he didn’t regret what he did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-man-beats-ailing-mother-to-death-arrested-after-father-lodges-fir-101632854161802.html
29-09-2021||Bhopal||‘Met at a coffee shop?’ BJP MLA provokes protests over Akbar-Jodhabai message||Bhopal/Jaipur: Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker in Madhya Pradesh Rameshwar Sharma touched off a controversy with his remarks on the nature of relationship between Mughal emperor Akbar and Jodhabai, provoking loud protests from Rajput groups not just in the state but in neighbouring Rajasthan as well.Security arrangements at the BJP office in Bhopal were also beefed up after Rajput community members called for a protest outside the premisesIn a video of his speech at a function in Sagar district, Rameshwar Sharma, a lawmaker from Huzur in Bhopal district, is heard suggesting that the relationship between the Mughal emperor and daughter of a Rajput king was based on a political alliance.“There was no love between Jodha and Akbar” he said, and joking asked whether Akhbar and Jodha would have met in a gym, a college or coffee shop. “There was no love between them and some power-hungry people put life of their daughter at stake for power. We should be aware of such people as they are a threat to our religion,” he said, in the video. Jodhabai was daughter of Rajput king Bharmel of Ajmer in Rajasthan.Rajput organisations in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan promptly objected to his references to Jodhabai in the video. HT cannot verify the authenticity of the video.Sharma, who has often landed himself in controversies with his statements, apologized for his choice of words, asserting that he meant to criticize the Mughals for their policy of divide and rule and his intention was not to hurt sentiments of any community. The apology, however, hasn’t pacified the community who want senior BJP leaders to take action against him for hurting their sentiments and distorting history.“It is unfortunate that people are distorting history. I don’t understand why efforts are being made to distort history politically and socially,” said Rajput Karni Sena (RKS) chief, Lokendra Singh Kalvi in neighbouring Rajasthan.Kalvi said people who made history sacrificed a lot. “We can’t tolerate this insult,” he added. Akhil Bhartiya Kshatriya Mahasabha national media in-charge Shyam Singh Tomar said, “Apology is not enough. BJP should take action against him so that nobody will ever dare to make such a loose comment.” Congress leaders also jumped in,“Rajputs always fought with invaders to secure our land. By calling them power-hungry people, BJP MLA not only insulted a king but the whole community. BJP should clear its stand,” tweeted MP Congress spokesperson Narendra Saluja.The BJP stood by Sharma’s intent, insisting that he was trying to highlight love-jehad issue. BJP media in-charge Lokendra Parashar said, “MLA Rameshwar Sharma’s intention was to say that Mughals used to divide Hindus but he might have used wrong words. They had made such condition that a Rajput king had to solemnize the marriage of his daughter with Akbar. Even Jodhabai was against it. We are very clear that Maharana Pratap was a great person, not Akbar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/met-at-a-coffee-shop-bjp-mla-provokes-protests-over-akbar-jodhabai-message-101632854160501.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav: 75-hour revamp of Manimajra park begins||The revamp of New Park in Indira Colony, Manimajra, to be done in 75 hours, started on Tuesday.UT adviser Dharam Pal launched the placemaking implementation to commemorate Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav at New Park.Placemaking exercise is being undertaken as a multi-faceted approach to planning, design and management of public spaces, said the UT adviser.MC commissioner Anindita Mitra said that the park located in Pocket 8 of Indira Colony will be an asset, and its potential will be realised with the intention of creating public spaces that promote people’s health, happiness and wellbeing. The park will be divided into various zones, like the Art Zone, Fitness Zone, Elder Zone and Kids Zone.A dedicated toilet block for the facilitation of users is under construction and will be handed over to the public on September 30.Mitra said that a corner had been developed with an herbal garden open to residents. The park has been revamped with newly painted gazebos, grills and pathways. The park has been dedicated to residents with a newly installed open gym, gymnastic/exercising equipment and various types of swings for children.Various citizen engagements and competitions were organised including yoga and kabaddi matches (national and circle style) for school boys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-75-hour-revamp-of-manimajra-park-begins-101632853981735.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police unveil plan to enhance security at courts||Security at Delhi’s seven district courts will be upgraded on par with that of the Delhi high court, Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana said on Tuesday, announcing a slew of measures such as deploying paramilitary personnel and regular security audits to enhance safety.The decision to upgrade the security at the seven courts -- Tis Hazari, Rouse Avenue, Karkardooma, Rohini, Saket, Patiala House and Dwarka -- comes following a sensational shootout inside a courtroom at Rohini district court on Friday in which notorious gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi was killed. The police gunned down the two shooters who came in a lawyer’s attire to gain entry into the court.Asthana said deployment of security personnel will be increased both inside and outside court. “The ratio of policemen deployed on the premises will be increased in proportion with the number of visitors. We will also deploy adequate paramilitary personnel, which we get for different purposes from the Centre, for security at the courts. Now, all the deployment of forces will be decided by the security cell of the police headquarters. Our officials are already on the job to determine what level of security will be needed for the district courts. The method of frisking and issuing entry passes will be made stringent like the high court,” he said.Asthana added a Protection Review Group (PRG) will be constituted to review the security arrangements for district and subordinate courts, as well as judges. “The security measures will be reviewed regularly by PRG members. We will also regularly audit security at these courts. During reviews, the requisition of manpower and equipment will be checked. This will help the police in modifying the security measures as per emerging needs,” Asthana said.Asthana, who visited the Rohini court on Sunday and talked to the security personnel there, said the Delhi Police has planned to install more CCTV cameras, both inside and outside the court premises. “So far, the Delhi Police could only install CCTV cameras outside the court premises, and the court management arranged cameras inside the premises. We have informally consulted judicial officers and different district bar associations in this connection, and hope that they will approve the police handling on-premises cameras too,” he said.The police commissioner added that additional measures and stricter monitoring will done during the court visits of “high target” prisoners. “We have requested the district courts to prefer hearings through video-conferencing for such prisoners,” he said.Following the shootout on Friday, many advocate groups met Delhi Police officers and demanded enhanced security at the court premises.Mrityunjai Singh, a lawyer who practices at Karkardooma court, said in the recent times, the district courts have become a ‘good’ place for the undertrials. “They mingle with their friends and families without any restrictions. Unlike the high court, district courts are not provided with the same level of security. It’s easy for them to give a slip to the authorities,” he said.In contrast, entry inside the high court is allowed only when a person produces a valid visiting card. To enter the courtrooms, the visitors (barring police, lawyers and court staff) must get a pass issued before entering the court room.Welcoming the move, Rakesh Sehrawat, chairman of Bar Council of Delhi, said it is important to tighten security at the district courts.“Friday’s incident was shocking for the whole Delhi. We’ve met the police chief in this connection and he has assured us about deployment of more police forces. He has also assured that the best quality of metal detectors will be installed in the court premises. It will definitely ensure security to the judges, magistrates, lawyers, visitors and prisoners,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rohini-shooting-delhi-police-unveils-plan-for-better-security-at-city-courts-101632853630828.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Social, civic responsibilities in focus in deshbhakti class||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday launched the Deshbhakti curriculum for students studying in over 1,030 Delhi government schools in the Capital with an aim to produce “staunch patriots” instead of “moneymaking machines”, to promote development in the country.Under the Deshbhakti curriculum, Delhi government school teachers will work from Wednesday on instilling a sense of patriotism among students by using classroom activities such as making and carrying flags and encouraging students to explore the idea of India and their love for the country.The larger objective was spelled out in the budget speech by finance minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, in March, when he said that the curriculum is aimed at making “responsible citizens who will contribute to nation-building”.The curriculum framework released in August stated that it builds on interdisciplinary themes of civic literacy, environmental literacy, and global awareness.“Deshbhakti curriculum actively seeks to build a sense of belongingness, ownership, and responsibility towards the nation among students, which would also inspire them to make necessary sacrifices for the country. These values are sought to be developed in students by facilitating critical and creative thinking skills rather than by coercion,” the curriculum framework stated.In the curriculum released on Tuesday, teachers have been asked to share worksheets through WhatsApp on social issues around children such as elderly abuse, harassment of women, discrimination against people on the basis of caste, religion, or gender, not paying taxes, selling adulterated goods, travelling in buses or trains without tickets, or seeing someone spit on the roads.Students will discuss these questions with their family members and acquaintances, record their observations in their diary, and share them in the class. According to the curriculum, the goal is for students to realise the misuse of resources in the country, and what can be done to improve the condition.“While we feel patriotic when listening to stories of our freedom fighters or hear the national anthem, or see the Tricolour, it does not happen quite often. The goal is to create an atmosphere in which a child can spend 24 hours of a day basking in the feeling of patriotism. No matter what we do, everyone, including adults, should remember that they do it for the country,” said Kejriwal.“Instead of training moneymaking machines who think about earning more money, we have to create kattar deshbhakts (staunch patriots) who work for the betterment of the country and its citizens.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said it “took two years to prepare the content due to Covid-19 pandemic”.“...the curriculum will create patriotic passion among students and not engage in moral preaching on what a patriot should or should not do. Children would be encouraged to look within themselves and be inspired through the stories of our freedom fighters such as Bhagat Singh who was hanged at 23 and understand their love for the country. We will bring this passion in the hearts of students studying in classes 6 to 7,” he said.The curriculum has been divided into three sections -- from nursery to Class 6; classes 6 to 8 and classes 9 to 12 — with the Delhi government releasing the latter two segments on Monday. The curriculum for the first group will be released when schools reopen for them. Currently, students in classes 9 to 12 are allowed to come to school for in-person classes. Delhi Disaster Management Authority officials are expected to discuss the reopening of schools for classes 6 to 8 on Wednesday.On September 23, HT reported that there will be one Deshbhakti period every day for students from nursery to Class 8; and two sessions per week for those in classes 9 to 12.Teachers have been asked to act as facilitators, and allow students time to ponder over questions and refrain from giving their views on the answers given by the children.Anju Rohilla, who is the Deshbhakti nodal teacher for SKV Uttam Nagar, said, “Learning will be through discussions and all views will be heard. While the teacher will not give their own views, their peers will be allowed to discuss every student’s idea of country, patriotism, and love for the country. So if a student’s idea of patriotism works against the spirit of diversity of the country, we plan to ask more probing questions which would lead to the student realising that any kind of discrimination or violence would not count as patriotism or love for the country...”Parents welcome moveMost parents that HT spoke to said that they weren’t aware of the details of the curriculum but welcomed it as a positive step to inculcate a love for the country among children.Siya Sharan, a parent of a Class 12 government school student, said, “We need the curriculum because children are getting detached from their culture and history. Planting trees or helping their fellow citizens is also a part of patriotism and only if we teach these things in schools from a young age, will students truly imbibe them. Casteism and religious divide have been a problem for too long in our country and if the curriculum addresses these issues in the school itself, it is a welcome step.”‘Inspiring stories’Sisodia said the idea of sharing these “inspiring stories” is to encourage students to think about the circumstances of the freedom fighters and how they strived for the country’s freedom despite adversities.For classes 9 to 12, teachers will facilitate group discussions on topics such as the contribution of freedom fighters and activities such as identifying the different feelings if one steps on a book, water bottle, cricket bat, or the Tricolour; the respect accorded to farmers and parents of those in the armed forces; and the workers who build our cities. The students will also be asked to reflect on the diversity of the country.The classroom learning will involve asking senior students to reflect on these questions and then note them down in their Deshbhakti diary.However, DU professor Apoorvanand was critical of the concept. He said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) should not bring “political battle to classrooms” and “trivialise the enterprise of education”.“I understand the political compulsion to introduce the curriculum as the party is competing with other parties to show who is more patriotic. But I feel it is unfair to bring this in classrooms,” he said.The curriculumThe teacher’s manual for classes 6 to 8 has seven chapters and that for classes 9 to 12 comprises five chapters.The chapters advise discussions on topics such as “difference between love for the country and respect for the country”, “who is a patriot and what constitutes patriotism”, and questions on why the country is lagging behind in terms of development even after 75 years of Independence, and what it would take to build the “country of our dreams”.Students will also maintain a Deshbhakti diary to record their reflections during these classes and to record their homework, including responses from elders around them.Among the different activities prescribed for classes 6 to 8 are writing a letter, story, poem, or article on India after a discussion on the reasons to be proud of the country.The students have also been asked to approach elder family members and acquaintances and ask them what they mean when they say they love the country.Some activities also ask students to reflect on the shortcomings of the country, such as rising poverty, unemployment, growing population, casteism, corruption, illiteracy, child marriage, child labour, and lack of clean water and electricity.The curriculum will also discuss India’s freedom struggle along with stories and contributions of 100 freedom fighters, including Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekhar Azad, Uddham Singh, Ashfaqullah Khan, BR Ambedkar, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, Savitri Bai Phule, Birsa Munda, Mangal Pandey, and even publications of revolutionary papers Swaraj and Amrit Bazar Patrika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-kejriwal-launches-deshbhakti-curriculum-in-delhi-govt-schools-101632853560188.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||DDMA meet on further reopening of schools, restrictions for festival||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will meet on Wednesday to discuss further phased re-opening of schools in the city and the regulations to be put in place ahead of Dussehra and Durga Puja festivals in the coming weeks.“The meeting is scheduled at 10.30am (on Wednesday). Discussions will take place on schools and festivals in the coming weeks,” said a senior DDMA official on Wednesday.Currently, schools and coaching centres in Delhi are open for classes 9 to 12 though online learning facilities are also available for students whose parents do not wish to send them to schools due to Covid fears.Several parents’ groups have demanded restarting physical sessions for students of classes 6-8 in the Capital.Dussehra falls on October 15 and Durga Puja festivities will start from October 11, with the days preceding the festivals often marked by large crowds in market places as people step out for shopping, eating, and entertainment.Last year, the government allowed Durga Puja committees to conduct the rituals but did not allow visitors to the pandals. Dussehra too was allowed in a few locations with a cap on visitors, and enforcement teams were deployed at the venues.Since Durga Puja last year, Delhi has witnessed two Covid waves -- in November 2020, cases peaked at an average 8,000 cases per day, while April this year saw an average peak of around 24,000 cases per day, which left the city’s healthcare system overwhelmed and led to thousands of deaths.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases division at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “Even though cases are less now, people should not let their guards down. Gatherings and crowds should be avoided at all costs. Organisers should go for live video-streaming of events and should not encourage people to gather in any location. People themselves should be careful when they think of stepping out for shopping and entertainment.”Delhi on Tuesday recorded 34 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths. So far, 25,087 people have died of the viral disease in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-to-take-call-on-further-reopening-of-schools-restrictions-for-festivals-101632853500409.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Fountains at Delhi’s Red Fort are back to life, much to the delight of visitors||After a gap of nearly eight years, the fountains at the Red Fort are back to life, giving tourists and visitors a taste of the fort complex’s yesteryear glory.Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials said the fountains were not used regularly in the past and had fallen into disrepair. “There are two fountains, near Rang Mahal and Zafar Mahal. For a long time, the fountains were in disuse. We have now revived them,” said an ASI official, who did not wish to be named.The official said the process of reviving the fountains started two months ago and water lines and connection pipes were excavated to repair connections. “Due to construction and demolition activity over the past year, it took us some time to find the water lines and reconnect them. In the coming two to three weeks, the fountains will be fully functional. With the revival of the fountains, visitors will get yet another spot to sit back and enjoy the Old World charm of the Mughal-era monument,” said the official.In 2019, the ASI carried out extensive restoration work on the fort complex built by Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan in the 17th century. A number of new additions such as museums and other facilities were added to the premises as part of the restoration work.According to the written accounts of Maulvi Zafar Hasan, ASI archaeologist who prepared the first list of monuments worthy of conservation in 1916, the marble basin in the centre of the large tank in front of Rang Mahal dates back to the 17th century.“The tank is of one piece of marble, taken from the Makrana quarries by Shah Jahan,” mentioned the listing prepared by Hasan. “It was brought from the Queen’s Garden, whither it was removed, presumably after the Mutiny, and placed in its present position in 1911,” stated Hasan.While the water channels and fountain at Zafar Mahal have also been revived, some more work is being carried out before they become fully functional.Dildar Singh, a city-based tourist guide, who frequently visits the Red Fort, said he last saw the fountains in full flow many years ago. “I have been coming to the Red Fort since the 1980s. As far as I remember, they have not been in operation since 1991,” said Singh.Historian and author Swapna Liddle said the water basin where the fountains have been revived had not been at the Red Fort continuously. “It was moved around a lot. After the 1857 Revolt, it was placed in the Queen’s Garden, north of the Town Hall. It was later moved to the Red Fort,” said Liddle.She said while additional elements add to the tourist experience, it was crucial to make visitors aware of the heritage as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fountains-at-delhi-s-red-fort-are-back-to-life-much-to-the-delight-of-visitors-101632853440166.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||CCTV footage key evidence in Rohini court shootout: Police||The four men allegedly involved in gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi’s murder at Rohini district court complex left a flat in Haiderpur village around 9.30am in their car and took about half an hour to reach the court on Friday, an hour before the gangster was shot dead inside a courtroom, investigation in the sensational shootout case has shown.Based on the CCTV footage analysis, investigators said on Tuesday that on the three-kilometre route between the flat and the court, the suspects were spotted at four different locations. They added that the footage will be a key evidence in establishing the role of the suspects in the murder.“The first CCTV footage from gate number 4 of the court complex shows Jagdeep aka Jagga and Rahul alias Nitin -- the two shooters --walking inside the court premises dressed as lawyers, and their associate Umang Yadav, who was also in a lawyer’s dress, entering the court premises in his i-10 car around 10.30am. The fourth suspect, Vinay Yadav, stayed outside as he couldn’t manage to find a black trouser to enter the court,” said one of the officers, asking not to be named.Footage from the CCTVs after the shootout, in which Gogi and the two shooters were killed, showed Umang visiting a gym in Haiderpur after escaping from the court. HT reported on Monday that the assailants were staying at Umang’s flat in Haiderpur since September 20.Gogi was shot dead inside courtroom number 207 by Jagga and Rahul. Security personnel gunned the two shooters down when they were trying to escape through the judge’s door. Gogi’s arch rival, Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuriya who is currently lodged in Delhi’s Mandoli jail, has emerged as the prime conspirator in the sensational murder, which the police officers said, capped a decade-long violent rivalry between Delhi’s two most powerful criminal gangs.Investigation has revealed that 38 rounds were fired in the courtroom. Of them 15 were fired by the two alleged attackers – Rahul and Jagga, and the remaining 23 were fired by the police personnel escorting Gogi.After the autopsy on Sunday, Gogi’s body was handed over to his family members who performed the last rites at a crematorium close to his house in Alipur amid tight security arrangements.On Monday, images of Gogi’s body were circulated on social media along with some disturbing messages that spoke about revenge for his killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cctv-footage-key-evidence-in-rohini-court-shootoutpolice-101632853320213.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||37 killed in 33 bus accidents until September 15 this year: Delhi Traffic dept||Thirty-seven people were killed in 33 accidents involving public buses in Delhi till September 15 this year, according to Delhi Traffic Police data. Of these, 11 accidents involved Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and 22 concerned cluster buses.The DTC buses come directly under the Delhi government but the cluster buses are operated by private entities for the state transport department.In the corresponding period last year, public buses were involved in at least 30 accidents. Data shows that though the number of people who died in accidents involving DTC buses decreased this year to 12 from 15 last year, those who died due to alleged negligence by cluster bus drivers increased to 25 from 15 last year.
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Bail for man who drove with city cop on bonnet||The Delhi high court has granted bail to a person accused of hitting a police constable with his car and then speeding away with the constable still hanging on the car bonnet, saying the investigation in the case was complete.Justice Subramonium Prasad, in an order on Monday, said no useful purpose will be served by keeping the accused, an engineering graduate, in further custody. He directed that the accused be released on a personal bond of ₹75,000 and two sureties of like amount.“A perusal of the site map shows that the petitioner hit the victim and drove a considerable distance before stopping the vehicle as another car came in front of him from the other side. The site map shows that the petitioner was not driving on the straight road but took at least four turns before stopping the vehicle.” Prasad said.“Be that as it may, the investigation is more or less complete. Most of the witnesses are police witnesses and their statements have been recorded. The charge sheet will be filed on or before October 10, 2021,” he said in his order dated September 27.According to the FIR, the complainant, a head constable, along with two others, was carrying out routine checking in Hari Nagar area June 22 this year when the accused refused to stop his car, having tinted glasses, in spite of being signalled by the police to do so, following which the cop clung to the moving car’s bonnet.The accused surrendered in July 2021 and sought his release on the grounds that the investigation was over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiengg-graduate-who-drove-with-police-constable-on-car-s-bonnet-gets-bail-101632852960012.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||1.1 million trees to be planted in Delhi: Environment minister Gopal Rai||Noting that national capital’s green cover has increased by 2,500 hectares, or 21.88% of the total land area, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said 1.1 million additional trees will be planted in the city.Addressing the press on Tuesday, Rai said the Delhi government will also organise a “wildlife conservation awareness campaign” at Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary from October 2. “To curb pollution in Delhi, tree plantation drives have been great contributors...Today (Tuesday) we held a meeting with the high-ranking officials of the forest department in which we noted that 2,232,000 of our target of planting 3.3 million trees has been achieved,” said Rai.He added, “We started working on this pledge right from Van Mahotsav and have achieved so much of this target already. We are planning to plant all these trees by March 2022 and it was stated in the report which came up in the meeting.”Rai said that “when the fight against pollution was started by the Arvind Kejriwal government in 2015-16”, 1,651,000 trees were planted, followed by 2,475,000 trees in 2016-17; 1,600,000 trees in in 2017-18; 2,895,000 trees in 2018-19; and 2,870,000 trees in 2019-20.“The forest survey of India has mentioned two categories of terrain for the purpose of green cover -- hilly and plains. It says that hilly areas should have at least 60% of their land under green cover and the plains should have at least 20%. In 2019 itself, the report by the FSI stated that Delhi had 21.88% of its area under the green belt. In 2015, the total area of Delhi was 1,483 sqkm. Out of this, 325 sqkm green belt (amounting to 21.88% of the area) was developed in Delhi,” he said.“From October 2 to 8, we will hold a Van Jeev Samrakshan Abhiyan programme at the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. Activities will be carried out to sensitise people. We are committed to preserving the environment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/11-million-trees-to-be-planted-in-delhi-environment-minister-gopal-rai-101632852780044.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s power tariff order for 2021-22 to be out any day now, says DERC chief||Delhi’s revised power tariff order for the year 2021-22 will be out any day now, Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (DERC) new chairperson justice (retired) Shabihul Hasnain said on Tuesday, putting an end to months of suspense over the fate of the annual revision.“The tariff order will come very soon, in just a few days. It is likely to be issued this week itself as we are bound by an affidavit in the court for it to be released by this month,” said Hasnain.Electricity prices, surcharges and other costs are supposed to be revised every financial year based on the petitions submitted by the distribution companies (discoms). According to the rules, all state power regulators have to mandatorily issue the tariff orders before April every year. However, Delhi has seen repeated delays in this regard.Hasnain’s comment came at a time when several residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) has begun raising questions over the inordinate delays in rolling out the new tariff order for Delhi. The United Residents of Delhi (URD), which is a collective of around 1,800 RWAs in the city, stated that the tariff order might have to be redone because of a new chairperson assuming office.“The public hearing and all the other processes should be redone as per the electricity Act. Otherwise the tariff order for this year was ready, but couldn’t be released due to disagreements between the lone member AK Ambasht and former chairperson justice (retired) SS Chauhan,” said Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary of URD.However, Hasnain refuted the claims and said none of the processes have to be redone as the work of the commission cannot get affected simply by a vacancy, even if it is that of the chairperson. “It is not true that the order had to be redone. Some routine checks have to be run, and that’s it,” he said.This year, discoms BSES Rajdhani and BSES Yamuna have projected a revenue gap of ₹1,703 crore and ₹1,148 crore respectively for 2021-22, while Tata Power expected a gap of ₹1,108 crore. The companies have put the cumulative revenue gap (till 2019-20) at ₹28,623 crore (BRPL), ₹19,123 crore (BYPL) and ₹3,810 crore (TPDDL). Discoms have been demanding a power tariff hike over the last six years.However, the Delhi government is unlikely to increase tariffs in the national Capital as it is one of the key models of its governance which the Aam Aadmi Party plans to showcase in the upcoming MCD elections, and the assembly elections it intends to fight in six states such as Gujarat, Punjab, Goa and Uttar Pradesh in two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-power-tariff-order-for-2021-22-to-be-out-any-day-now-says-new-derc-chief-101632852600770.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 20% reduction in circle rate may be extended till Dec 31||The Delhi government’s current scheme of 20% reduced circle rates for all categories of properties, which was to be in effect till September 30, is likely to be extended till December 31, said a senior government official on Tuesday. Circle rates are the minimum price at which a property can be bought or sold.The proposal for extending the scheme is awaiting approval of the cabinet, the senior official said, adding that the move is aimed at boosting the real estate market, which has seen a slump as a result of Covid-19, and increasing government revenue.“The proposal for extending the policy till the end of the year will be placed before the next cabinet meeting, which is likely to take place on Thursday. The council of ministers is in favour of the decision; it will be approved by the cabinet,” said the senior official, asking not to be named.On February 5, the Delhi government reduced circle rates for all categories of properties for a period till September 30. Circle rates were reduced by 20% for residential, commercial and industrial properties across all categories of localities.Circle rates vary with each state and is revised from time to time depending on demand, supply and other development indicators pertaining to the area concerned.Delhi broadly has eight categories of localities – from A to H – with Category A being the most affluent and Category H being the most economically weak. For instance, in a Category A locality, the circle rate for a residential property so far was ₹7,74,000 per square metre and for one in Category H locality was ₹23,280 per square metre.Neighbourhoods such as Golf Links, Vasant Vihar and Jor Bagh come under Category A, while localities such as Greater Kailash, Defence Colony and Safdarjung Enclave come under Category B.Tagore Garden and Subhash Nagar come under Category C, while categories D and E mostly have localities that were notified as regularised in the past, some old areas where low-income and mid-income flats were developed and resettlement colonies.Categories F, G and H comprise mostly unauthorised colonies in which residents have recently got the opportunity – through a central government scheme – to get their properties registered.“A reduction of 20% in the circle rate essentially leads to reduction of around 1% in stamp duty, which is paid during the registration of a property. Real estate sector in Delhi witnessed huge slump due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Lakhs of construction workers lost their jobs. So, the decision was taken and it is evidently doing well. So, the government has decided to extend it by another three months,” said the senior official.For registration, there is a stamp fee on the transaction value – which is 6% for men and 4% for women – to be paid by the buyer(s).“In property transactions, people tend to show the transaction value as less on paper and essentially pay the registry fee, which more or less approximates the circle rate,” said a second senior official in the revenue department, asking not to be named.In 2018-19, the Delhi government earned around ₹4,459 crore through property registries.For 2019-20, the revised estimate was ₹4,897 crore and for 2020-21, the budget estimate was ₹5,297 crore, showed budget documents of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-likely-to-extend-20-reduced-circle-rates-till-yearend-101632852182628.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Cracker ban to stay in place till January 1: DPCC||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Tuesday banned the sale, storage and use of firecrackers in Delhi till January 1, 2022.In an order, the DPCC said the ban on cracker sale, storage and use, which was first announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on September 15 this year, will be extended till January 1, 2022. “Several experts have indicated a possibility of another surge of Covid-19 and large-scale celebrations by bursting firecrackers will result not only in agglomeration of people, in violation of social distancing norms, but also in high level of air pollution leading to serious health issues,” the order said.It further said, “The DPCC directs that there will be a complete ban on bursting and sale of all kinds of firecrackers up to January 1, 2022, in the territory of NCT of Delhi.”In a series of tweets on September 15, Kejriwal said the decision to impose a complete ban on crackers in Delhi was taken to “save lives” of residents. The risk of high pollution levels in Delhi during winters, coupled with the risk of the Covid-19 pandemic could impact the health of citizens, Kejriwal said.The district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police shall implement the aforesaid directions. Daily action taken reports are required to be submitted to DPCC via email, the pollution control board said.Every year, during the winter months from mid-October, Delhi’s air quality plummets to emergency levels on several days owing to changes in weather, large-scale stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, and also due to local pollution sources and cracker bursting during Diwali.Despite a ban on crackers last year as well, Delhi’s pollution levels remained high on Diwali day (November 14) and continued to remain in the poor zone in the subsequent week. In a special report, the Central Pollution Conrol Board said almost all pollutants reported higher values on Diwali in 2020 as compared to 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-body-bans-sale-use-storage-of-firecrackers-till-january-1-2022-101632852060045.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Police file charge sheet in Sakinaka rape, murder||The city police on Tuesday filed the chargesheet in the rape and murder case of 34-year-old woman in Sakinaka before the Dindoshi sessions court.The 346-page charge-sheet contains statements of 77 witnesses, including the watchman who informed the police after witnessing the crime, the control room officers, the patrolling officers who took the woman to the hospital, the doctors who treated her, and family members of the victim and the accused, the police said.The special squad headed by an assistant commissioner of police completed its investigation in 18 days.The woman was raped and brutally assaulted with a rod in a stationary vehicle at the Sakinaka area on September 10 by a 45-year-old man. She died during treatment at a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sakinaka-rape-murder-police-file-charge-sheet-in-18-days-101632851939862.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks stand of Delhi Police, Bar Council on upgrading security at district courts||The Delhi high court on Tuesday observed that the safety and security of district courts in the city was an “urgent” matter, and sought to know the stand of the Delhi Police and the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) on a plea seeking to ensure adequate security in trial courts in the wake of the Rohini courtroom shooting last Friday.Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi was gunned down inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 by two assailants posing as lawyers, who were shot and killed by the police in return fire.“This is something urgent. We don’t want to lose lives. You never know lawyers may become the victims of all this…We don’t want that. Mr Sangwan (counsel for BCD) can only request, but ultimately you (Delhi Police) have to gear up,” Justice Rekha Palli told advocate Santosh Kumar Tripathi, appearing for the Delhi Police.The court issued notice on the plea by advocate Deepa Joseph, seeking directions to Delhi Police and the BCD to instruct all police personnel at court gates to check the ID cards of every lawyer who enters the premises.The plea also sought that the level of security and frisking in trial courts be upgraded, to be on a par with that at the Supreme Court and Delhi high court.During Tuesday’s hearing, advocate Tripathi, appearing for the police, assured the court that the police have been taking steps to ensure adequate security at district courts. Terming the shoot-out “scary”, Tripathi said suggestions are being sought from the BCD for stepping up security. He said unilateral decisions cannot be taken because frisking has always been an issue with lawyers.Advocate Ajayinder Sangwan, representing the Bar Council of Delhi, informed the court that they had a detailed meeting with senior police officers and it was agreed that the security at district courts will be upgraded to be on a par with that at the Supreme Court.The court asked the authorities to file their reply within five days and posted the matter to October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-seeks-stand-of-delhi-police-bar-council-on-upgrading-security-at-district-courts-101632851820058.html
29-09-2021||Gurugram||First butterfly survey: 60 species spotted in Aravallis||At least 60 species of butterflies were identified in the first butterfly survey conducted by the state wildlife department in the Aravallis on Tuesday.MS Malik, the chief conservator of forests (wildlife) for Gurugram circle, said that the presence of butterflies is a sign of a healthy ecosystem. “We received a very good response for the survey in a short span of time. With the species identified in this region, we will be able to plan our conservation strategies better, focussing on what plants should be planted to further improve the ecology.”The survey was conducted in the Khol block of Rewari district, covering an area of about 1,000 hectares across 10 villages, namely Palra, Ahhrod, Bassduda, Khol, Manethi, Bhalki, Majra, Nandha, Balwari and Khaleta.The striped tiger butterfly, yellow pansy butterfly, spotless grass yellow butterfly and common rose butterfly were among the popular species spotted, officials said.Ten teams with five to six members each, including experts, forest staff and volunteers, participated in the survey. Jagdish Chander, the principal chief conservator for forests and chief wildlife warden of the Haryana forest department, also took part in the survey, officials said.Along with him, senior officials MS Malik, chief conservator of forests for Gurugram circle (wildlife), Rajender Parsad, district wildlife officer Gurugram and Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector Gurugram also participated in the survey.Sunder Sambharya, the divisional forest officer of Rewari, said, “The survey was successful with both common and uncommon species of butterflies being identified. The fact that 60 species were identified in an area of 1,000 hectares within six hours shows that the trees and shrub composition of this area is very good.”Officials further said that maximum butterflies are visible during this season, which falls just after the larval breeding stage. Butterfly sightings are likely to continue till the first week of October.Sohail Madan of the Bombay Natural History Society, who participated in the survey, said, “Over 60 species of butterflies were spotted during the survey, which is a good response, but more such surveys are needed to understand what species are actually common for that area and which ones are rare. Common albatross, which was sighted on Tuesday, is an uncommon butterfly, but it might be common for that area; this can be known only with future surveys. But this is a good initiative as we are trying to understand more about the habitat and what more can be done.”The wildlife department will conduct a similar survey at the Kalesar National Park in Yamuna Nagar on Thursday. More such surveys are also likely to take place in other districts of southern Haryana in the first week of October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/first-butterfly-survey-60-species-spotted-in-aravallis-101632851099936.html
29-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Woman crushed to death, husband and son injured after bus hits bike||A 43-year-old woman was crushed to death and her husband and 10-year-old son suffered minor injuries after the bike on which they were travelling was hit by a cluster bus in southwest Delhi’s Najafgarh on Monday night.Police said the woman’s husband chased the bus and caught hold of the driver who was later handed over to the police. The locals present in the area later vandalised the bus.The woman’s husband, Chiranji Singh(45), who claimed to work with the MCD, said they were returning to their home in Najafgarh after an outing when the cluster bus hit their bike from behind.“I was riding the bike, my son was sitting in the middle and my wife, Sundari, was behind him. We were driving on the left side of the road when suddenly, a bus hit us from behind. The impact of the hit was such that we were all thrown on the road and Sundari was run over by the bus. All of this happened in the blink of an eye and before I could react, my wife was lying in a pool of blood,” he said.He said he quickly got up, picked up his son and rushed to his wife, by which time a lot of people gathered.“I quickly ran behind the bus and managed to stop it... Someone had called up the police by that time and had arrived at the spot. I handed over the man to them and immediately rushed my wife and son to a private hospital. My son was discharged after treatment but my wife was declared brought dead,” said Singh.Police identified the driver as Sandeep Dagar.“After he was caught by the woman’s husband, the locals present there vandalised the bus,” a police official said.Police said an FIR under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwoman-crushed-to-death-husband-and-son-injured-after-bus-hits-bike-101632850739909.html
29-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Civic body’s executive panel gives nod to increasing licence fee||The executive committee of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation, during its meeting on Tuesday, approved proposals related to increasing the licence fee of different business establishments under the municipal body’s jurisdiction from the next financial year.In December 1997, a government order stated that licences must be issued to business establishments and fixed the fees for the different kinds of licences. However, the municipal corporation never got around to enforcing the order.According to officials, the original proposal charged a ₹1,000 licence fee from establishments such as hotels, lodges, guest houses and marriage halls annually. Now, the executive committee has increased the amount to ₹3,000. Likewise, the licence fees for nursing homes with up to 20 beds have been hiked from ₹2,000 to ₹5,000 while those with more than 20 beds will have to shelve out ₹6,000 instead of ₹5,000 annually. “There was a proposal to increase the licence fee for private clinics from ₹3,000 to ₹4,000, but we have not increased the rates for this category. as there are many small clinics in the city. We are considering lowering their fees to ₹2,000 and will place this proposal before the board. Overall, the hiked rates will be applicable from the next financial year. There has been no hike since 1997,” said municipal commissioner MS Tanwar, adding that the establishments should start applying for licences. There was another proposal to levy a licence fee of ₹1,500 on small shops selling cold drinks, aerated water and snacks. “The executive committee decided not to approve it as levying this fee would mean an additional financial burden on the vendors. The increase in licence fee has been approved for certain categories, wherein people have the paying capacity while relief has been granted to others,” said Tanwar. The corporation also approved a proposal to levy an annual licence fee of ₹200 on establishments engaged in trading/selling of tobacco products. “The owners with permanent shops will have to pay ₹1,000 annually and wholesalers will have to shell out ₹5,000. For temporary shop owners, a licence will not mean that they have ownership of the land. Only a valid licence will give them the approval to sell,” said Sanjeev Kumar Sinha, the corporation’s chief tax assessment officer and licensing officer. He added that the increase in the licence fee will enable the corporation to earn about ₹5-6 crore annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-body-s-executive-panel-gives-nod-to-increasing-licence-fee-101632849902633.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||3 held for drug peddling in Ludhiana, 500g opium recovered||Two men were arrested with 500g opium while they were on their way to deliver a consignment near Galib Kalan village on Tuesday. The bike-borne accused — Amandeep Singh of Jalaldiwal village, Pritpal Singh of Raikot and – were caught during a checking, said sub-inspector Davinder Singh. The accused said they had procured the drug from one Gurtej Singh of Kulla Patti village, who was also subsequently arrested.Man held with 285 banned tablets In another incident, a man was arrested with 285 intoxicant pills at Sidhwan Bet village in Jagraon. The accused, Harjit Singh, is a resident of Salempur Tibba village. In both cases, the accused were booked under sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-held-for-drug-peddling-in-ludhiana-500g-opium-recovered-101632848939873.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||‘53% Mumbaiites did not undergo any health check-ups during pandemic months’||Fifty-three per cent of 7,864 Mumbaiites who were surveyed ahead of World Heart Day (September 29), revealed they have not undergone any health check-up during the Covid pandemic, while 21% Mumbaiites relied solely on home use gadgets such as blood pressure, pulse, blood sugar and temperature to keep track of their health. The survey was conducted between June and August 2021, by Fortis Hospital Mulund and Kalyan, Hiranandani Hospital at Vashi, and SL Raheja Hospital at Mahim. Through the pandemic, doctors witnessed an alarming trend of surge in the number of cardiac incidences among young adults. This prompted the hospitals to undertake the survey to understand citizens’ awareness levels and preparedness for cardiac-related events. While 75% of the surveyed Mumbaiites were aware of the behaviours and conditions that increased the risk of heart disease, 82% knew about the lifestyle changes they had to make to have a healthy heart. Dr S. Narayani, zonal director, Fortis Hospitals, Mumbai, who spearheaded the survey, said, “We initiated this survey to understand if Mumbaiites were able to put their medical preparedness and knowhow to use, and if the pandemic had worsened Mumbai’s heart health.” A total of 53% of Mumbaiites who were surveyed believe that Covid-19 significantly increased the risk of heart ailments, 63% believed the pandemic made it unsafe for them to walk and exercise outdoors, especially with existing heart conditions [comorbidity] and 72% believed that their heart diseases may develop more severe symptoms and complications if they got infected by Covid-19. Significantly, 15% of the surveyed citizens were unsure of the symptoms and were not sure of the actions that had to be taken during cardiac emergency and 19% of the surveyed citizens believed their first response to a cardiac emergency would be to give the patient an asprin and call a doctor. In case a family member or a coworker experienced a cardiac emergency, 43% of the respondents said they would check symptoms, call an ambulance, and take the patient to a nearest hospital; only 23% people knew how to give a CPR. Dr Atul Limaye, senior interventional cardiologist, Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said, “The survey is an eye-opener. Over 60% of people are aware that sitting for long hours causes health ailments, yet nearly 40% do not find time to exercise and stay fit, is concerning. There is an urgent need to sensitise people that the lifestyle they adopted during the pandemic is even more detrimental and that urgent efforts need to be made to ensure better quality of life”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/53-mumbaiites-did-not-undergo-any-health-check-ups-during-pandemic-months-101632848639657.html
29-09-2021||Kolkata||Setback for Mamata Banerjee in high court over plea to disqualify Mukul Roy||Kolkata: West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee should have first decided the petition to disqualify Mukul Roy under the anti-defection law before appointing him as chairman of the assembly’s public accounts committee, the Calcutta high court said on Tuesday as it ordered the speaker to produce the record of the action taken on the disqualification petition filed in June.The verdict, which is seen as a huge setback to the ruling Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress and its leader Mukul Roy, set October 7 as the deadline for the speaker to place the action taken by him before the court. “In case of failure, this court will decide further course of action to be taken in the matter,” the court said.In a 69-page strongly-worded verdict, a bench led by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal rejected the argument that the court did not have jurisdiction over actions of the speaker, underlining that the court would have been debarred from entertaining the petition if it was a case of “procedural irregularities”. But “it is a case of blatant illegality,” the bench also comprising justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj, said. HT has reviewed a copy of the order.The speaker apparently “worked on dictates”, “was caught in the web knitted by him”, and failed to “discharge his constitutional duty coupled with established admitted constitutional conventions, the high court said on a petition by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ambika Roy.Ambika Roy challenged Mukul Roy’s appointment as chairman of the assembly’s public accounts committee (PAC) on July 9. On Monday, leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, also moved the court seeking Mukul Roy’s disqualification as a member of the assembly under the anti-defection law.Mukul Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017, returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on June 11. He, however, did not resign from the BJP. On June 18, Adhikari petitioned the speaker to seek Mukul Roy’s disqualification On July 9, the speaker appointed him as chairman of the PAC, a post which has, by convention, always gone to an opposition party legislator.The court faulted the speaker for appointing Mukul Roy to this position without taking a call on the petition for his disqualification, asserting that the two were connected.“In fact, the respondent No. 1 (the speaker) should have first decided the petition for disqualification of the respondent No. 2 (Mukul Roy) and thereafter, considering his eligibility, should have taken steps to appoint him as the chairman of the committee on public accounts,” the judges said.“Failure on the part of the speaker to adjudicate upon that petition despite the maximum period provided thereof having expired, is creating more trouble as a result of which the interference of this court has been called for”.The judges also cited the Supreme Court verdict in Keisham Meghachandra Singh vs. Speaker of the Manipur Legislative Assembly (2020), where the court held that disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution should be decided either within a reasonable timeframe or within three months.The bench noted that the maximum three-month period prescribed by the Supreme Court for a decision on an anti-defection petition expired on September 16.“It is much more than that (mere irregularity) if seen coupled with the fact that despite judgments of Hon’ble the Supreme Court the speaker is sitting tight on the matter on decision of disqualification of the respondent No. 2 (Mukul Roy).“…rather it is the illegality committed by the Speaker in nominating a person, who had in fact defected from BJP to AITC. In case the petition for his disqualification is allowed, he cannot even be a Member of the House, hence, not eligible to be a Member of the Committee, what to talk of its Chairman,” the bench said.TMC leaders did not comment on the order, saying the matter is sub judice. Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson of the Bengal BJP, said, “This is the first time in the history of parliamentary democracy that a speaker has been reminded by a court that he has acted autocratically. The speaker has clearly been shown his position.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/setback-for-mamata-banerjee-in-high-court-over-plea-to-disqualify-mukul-roy-101632845759493.html
29-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra may become largest sugar production state in India in ensuing season||With the largest area under cultivation because of the satisfactory rainfall in the past three years, Maharashtra is expected to produce the largest-ever sugar in 2021-22. The production is estimated to be 11.2 million tonnes, which is expected to be the highest in the country. Maharashtra’s closest competitor Uttar Pradesh (UP) is expected to produce 11.1 mn tonnes.“Maharashtra had always been the highest producer and ahead of UP, but since 2016-17 the northern state had surpassed Maharashtra for various reasons including varietal development. But this year again, Maharashtra is estimated to surpass UP,” said an official from the commissionerate.According to the estimates, which were presented in a recent meeting held by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, ahead of the crushing season beginning from October 15, the office of sugar commissioner has estimated the bumper production. The presentation has stated that the areas under cultivation have been the largest ever at 1.23 million hectares from 1.14 million hectares in 20-21. This would see the estimated crushing of 1,096 lakh tonnes producing 11.2 million tonnes. Maharashtra’s highest production registered so far is 10.72 million tonnes in 2018-19, when the area under cultivation was 1.16 millon hectares, the highest until now.Pandurang Shelke, joint commissioner, sugar commissionerate, said, “The area under cultivation and the production in Maharashtra in 2021-22 are estimated to be largest ever. We are expected to surpass the production in Uttar Pradesh as well. Uttar Pradesh was leading because of one new variety, over the past few years, but this year we will produce more sugar. They have the advantage of irrigation, almost a fifth less expenditure to water the crops, than in Maharashtra, and their under cultivation is almost double than us. Maharashtra however, has the advantage of high recovery rate over other states.”In 2021-22 more than 190 sugar factories are expected to go for crushing, which is expected to go up to 1,096 lakh tonnes from 1,014 lakh tonnes in the past season.Besides the highest production in its history, Maharashtra is expected to surpass its closest competition state Uttar Pradesh in sugar production. Sanjeev Babar, former managing director, Maharashtra State Cooperative Sugar Factories Federation, said that satisfactory rainfall in the past three years, diversion to sugar production from other crops because of availability of water, has resulted in the rise in the area under cultivation. “With assured irrigation because of rainfall, farmers do not think of any other crop as he is assured of payback through fair and remunerative price (FRP) and losses due to calamities are negligible. UP has, in the past few years, improved its production rate by improving transportation facilities and harvesting patterns. They ensure that the crushing is done at the earliest to earn a good recovery. The area under cultivation in UP is almost double, though their recovery rate is much less and hovers around 10% when ours range between 11.20-11.40%,” said Babar.The high production will help in keeping the retail prices of the sugar under check.Avinash Tiwari, director-general of ISMA said that the sugar industry is trying to reduce the unconsumed stock this year to ensure that the producers are not at the loss, but simultaneously the retail prices too will not go up. “We will increase the diversion of sugar for the production of ethanol in 2021-22 to 3.4 million from two million tonnes in 2020-21. Similarly, by exporting 7.1 million tonnes in 20-21 from just 5.8 million tonnes in 19-20, we have successfully reduced the domestic stock to 7 million tonnes from 14.5 million tons, two years ago. This would help up in keeping the retail as well as the ex-mill price of the sugar constant so that retailers or the producers do not feel any pinch. There would not be a rise in the retail prices because the huge stock remains in the domestic market,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-become-largest-sugar-production-state-in-india-in-ensuing-season-101632842219342.html
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Club owner booked for flouting 12am deadline||The owner of Terminal 7, a nightclub in Chandigarh’s Sector 7, has been booked for continuing operations beyond permissible time. Clubs and restaurants are allowed to remain open only till midnight as per the order of the Chandigarh administration.A case was registered after a police patrolling team on the intervening night of September 26 and September 27 found crowd gathered at the club. The accused is Shubham Ahuja, who has been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The nightclub owner and his six employees were also booked on December 17 last year for flouting the hookah ban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-club-owner-booked-for-flouting-12am-deadline-101632837119183.html
