30-09-2021||Lucknow||As monsoon departs, Uttar Pradesh records normal but scattered season||The monsoon season across Uttar Pradesh concluded on Thursday with the state recording another year of normal rainfall, Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) data read. While the state recorded normal rainfall, the rainy days were fewer and scattered as compared to previous years, the data showed.Uttar Pradesh recorded a total of 758 mm average rainfall between June 1 and September 30 which is 5% less than the normal 790 mm. Considering that the shortfall was only 5%, it was categorised as normal by the IMD.The departure from the normal was more in western UP districts than compared to eastern UP. The eastern UP districts recorded an average of 867 mm rainfall which is 3% more than normal rains of 839 mm this monsoon season. During the same period, western UP districts of the state recorded just 572 mm of average rainfall that is 21% less than normal rainfall of 721mm.“The rainfall data shows that western UP districts received less rainfall as compared to eastern UP districts during the monsoon season this year. This has been a trend in the last few years,” said JP Gupta, director, state MeT department. “In all, 36 districts of UP received normal rainfall, 11 districts received excess rainfall, and the rainfall in two districts was large excess. Close to 70% of these districts are in central or eastern UP. Twenty-six other districts received deficient rainfall this monsoon,” Gupta added.The IMD rain data which is collected with help of daily rain inputs from each of the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh showed that most of the rain was concentrated in the months of June and September with average or deficient rains in the months of July and August. The West UP region recorded deficient rainfall in 12 out of 18 weeks of monsoon season.Experts suggest that this shows the increased fluctuations of monsoon rain which directly impacts the weather and farmers. “The lack of rain in some weeks and excess rain in some weeks during the monsoon should be looked at to understand the quality of the monsoon season. The difference in weeks with excess and deficient rain make it difficult for farmers to plan and sustain their Kharif crop forcing them to rely on groundwater which increases the cost of farming,” said Dinesh Kumawat, a Delhi-based agriculture scientist. “It also causes problems to the administration because excess rain within a few days leads to flooding, bringing life to a standstill especially in the cities,” he added.UP recorded extreme rain on September 16, when the state recorded over 334% excess rain within 24 hours. Several cities including the state capital remained inundated with rainwater for over two days and at least two dozen people were killed in rain-related incidents across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/as-monsoon-departs-uttar-pradesh-records-normal-but-scattered-season-101633026515882.html
30-09-2021||Noida||Abadi land dispute: Noida authority ropes in private agency to leaseback residential land to farmers||Amid a crunch in staff and backlash from farmers, the Noida authority has roped in a private agency to lease residential land back to farmers, officials said on Thursday.“We have roped in an agency to conduct a survey on the cases where the farmers’ abadi (habitation) existed before 2011. Once the agency determines this, we will start leasing residential land back to the farmers,” said Pravin Mishra, the additional chief executive officer of Noida authority.The Noida authority has decided to resolve the leaseback cases after the farmers protested against the authority for not leasing the land back to them.“In view of this, we have leased 80 lands (related to old cases) in five villages back to the farmers. And now, we will also go to other villages and leaseback lands to the farmers... We have hired an agency to study the new cases. wherein the authority and the farmers are in a dispute over land claims. The study is going to be completed in a month. If the farmers claim that the land was used for residential purposes before 2011, we do not have any issue in leasing it back to them,” Mishra added.The authority had acquired agricultural land and houses of the farmers for planned development of industrial, residential, group housing, and commercial projects in the city decades ago. Farmers have been protesting the acquisition, saying that the residential land was meant for their families. The authority, however, has argued that the land was for the development projects in the city. Later, the farmers said that they could let go of the agricultural land, but not the residential land meant for their families.Leaseback means that the authority will give the land acquired for developmental purposes back to farmers.Meanwhile, the farmers said that the authority should resolve the leaseback cases at the earliest instead of delaying it any further. “The Noida authority started acquiring the land from 1976, but the leaseback cases are yet to be resolved. Why is it taking so long? We hope that the authority will not delay the process any further,” said Anil Yadav, a senior farmer leader from Navada village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/abadi-land-dispute-noida-authority-ropes-in-private-agency-to-leaseback-residential-land-to-farmers-101633026151277.html
30-09-2021||Other||Mahant’s death: CBI team returns from Haridwar with Anand Giri’s laptop, mobile||A team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials returned to Prayagraj on Thursday afternoon after seizing the laptop, mobile phone and several documents from Haridwar-based ashram of Anand Giri—one of the accused in the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Narendra Giri. Mahant Narendra Giri’s body was found hanging in his room at the Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on September 20 evening. Later, the UP government recommended a CBI probe and the central government issued a notification.After arriving in Anand ashram situated in Gazivali, Shyampur area of Haridwar on Wednesday evening, the seven-member CBI team interrogated nearly a dozen ashramites, close aides of Anand Giri, some property dealers and seers. Giri was grilled for almost five hours by the CBI team at the ashram. He was taken to Haridwar by CBI officials for recovery of his laptop and mobile.Senior superintendent of police, Haridwar, Yogendra Singh Rawat said though the CBI team had arrived, he could not divulge or say anything as the case was being handled by the central agency.“CBI questioned separately the ashramites and other people associated with Anand Giri. They had sought police deployment which was provided and nothing related with probe or seizure by the CBI team was shared with local police,” a local intelligence police personnel said in Haridwar on condition of anonymity.The CBI team refrained from talking to media in Haridwar and even directed Anand Giri not to say anything to media while he was being taken in the car.The CBI team also asked local (Haridwar) police to check the Digital Video Recording (DVR) of the ashram’s CCTV which had gone missing from the ashram and provide it to them as soon as it was recovered. Police officials said they were looking for the missing DVR from the ashram, which was sealed for the past one week by Haridwar-Roorkee Development Authority, for it being unauthorised, and enquiring from ashramites in this regard.Officials are focusing on establishing the allegations made by Mahant Narendra Giri in his purported suicide note in which he had mentioned that Anand Giri might release a morphed obscene video of him to defame him.The CBI will now scan the laptop and the mobile phone of Anand Giri to search for any morphed obscene video or photograph which could have been used for defaming Mahant Narendra Giri. The officials will also take help of CFSL experts to recover the deleted or formatted data from these gadgets. The CBI investigations are based on abetment of suicide case lodged against Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep. Mahant Narendra Giri in his purported suicide note alleged that he was taking the extreme step following harassment by the trio. On September 24, a senior CBI official had confirmed that a case of abetment of suicide under Indian Penal Code section 306 was registered in connection with the Mahant’s death by the special crime branch of CBI’s Delhi unit. Moreover, the CBI probe also revolves around the possibility of any foul play behind Mahant Narendra Giri’s death. Akhada Parishad has earlier rejected the suicide angle while claiming that suicide note found in Mahant’s room was forged.The CBI investigation recently revealed that CCTV cameras at Baghambari Gaddi Math were not functioning at the time of the incident. The Math authorities had claimed that power was disrupted during that period of time following which the cameras went defunct. However, further probe revealed that although there was power disruption for about 42 minutes, the Math was equipped with a four-kilowatt inverter and a 63 KVA generator. As per the arrangements made many years back, the inverter started functioning soon in case of power disruption while generator was also started after a few minutes. CBI officials are now investigating if inverter and generator connections were made with the CCTV cameras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mahants-death-cbi-team-returns-from-haridwar-with-anand-giri-s-laptop-mobile-101633025971162.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi University cut-offs may go higher this year, say college principals||With around 70,000 students scoring 95% and above in the CBSE Class 12 exams this year, the Delhi University undergraduate cut-offs that will be released on Friday are expected to be higher than last year in some popular courses, principals said, adding that the revised evaluation pattern for Class 12 students are likely to impact the numbers as well.In the absence of final end-term board exams, due to the pandemic, the Class 12 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) results were prepared on the basis of students’ Class 10, 11, and 12 internal scores, with a weightage of 30:30:40, respectively.Miranda House principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said the jump in cut-offs for students in the general category will be higher than for those in the reserved ones.“The cut-offs are likely to be around one percentage point higher [than last year] in popular subjects such as economics, English, history, political science and some combination of BA programme courses. However, since we want to ensure diversity on campus, the jump in cut-offs for reserved categories will be relatively lesser. As a policy matter, we want to focus on inclusivity, especially for students under the people with disabilities category. The intersection of gender and disability is an important one and we need to ensure that the cut-offs there aren’t as high as other courses.”Around 220,000 students scored 90% and above marks in the CBSE Class 12 results this year and 70,000 of them scored around 95% or more. A senior DU official told HT that of the 250,000 paid applicants this year, around 9,600 scored between 99% and 100% this year. Every year, 70-80% of DU applicants are from CBSE-affiliated schools.Institutions such as the Shri Ram College of Commerce, Ramjas College, Hansraj College, and Kirori Mal College are also expected to increase their cut-offs this year.Hindu College is also planning to increase its cut-offs by between 0.25 to two percentage points. Last year, the college kept its highest cut-off at 99.5%, for the political science programme.Hindu College principal Anju Shrivastava said, “All courses will see an increase in cut-offs, particularly in the unreserved category. Last year, the cut-off for some courses was set around 95-96%, which will see a jump of up to two percentage points. Popular courses such as political science, history, and physics also saw over-admissions last year. For a sanctioned strength of around 60 students for political science, we had to admit over 100.”In Delhi University, colleges are required to admit all applicants who meet the announced cut-off criteria, hence often leading to ‘over-admissions’. There is no ‘first-come, first-served’ policy. This is also why colleges tend to keep the first cut-off on the higher side and announce subsequent reductions if seats are available.The cut-offs are expected to be on the higher side in the science programmes as well. Hansraj principal Rama Sharma said the cut-offs will be increased in a few subjects for the college. “We will not keep 100% cut-off in all subjects... we may increase cut-offs in economics and commerce and keep it at around 99.75%. However, we are yet to submit the final cut-offs and so these may change,” she said. Manoj Sinha, general secretary of the DU Principals’ Association and head of Aryabhatta College, said the institution has increased cut-offs by between one and six percentage points. “Depending on the response we receive under the first list, there might be some adjustments in subsequent ones. Since around 70,000 students have scored between 95% and 100% this year in their CBSE results, principals are cautious and may refrain from going below 95% in most popular courses.”Like last year, the admission process is completely online, and students will not have to visit the university campus for the admission process. While students can access the cut-offs on the admissions website on Friday, they can take admission from 10am on October 4 till October 6. Colleges have been asked to complete approvals for admission against the first cut-off by October 7 (5pm). Candidates can pay their fee till October 8 (5pm).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-cut-offs-may-go-higher-this-year-say-college-principals-101633025911355.html
30-09-2021||Noida||Wildlife week in Gautam Budh Nagar: Forest department to educate poor students this year||To break economic barriers around the exploration of wildlife and biodiversity, the Gautam Budh Nagar forest department is gearing up to celebrate wildlife week -- from October 1 (Friday) to October 7 -- by educating students from marginalised sections, officials said on Thursday.According to officials, the department will hold several educational nature walks and tours for school students, and also hold competitions such as debates and photography at the Okhla bird sanctuary.“We are celebrating wildlife week with students after two years. Last year, we marked the week through virtual conferences, and no nature walks were held. This year, we have also decided to introduce topics related to wildlife and biodiversity, such as recognising different species, basic or nature photography, etc., for students from the marginalised sections of the society,” said Gautam Budh Nagar divisional forest officer PK Srivastava. The forest department has organised the seven-day programme in association with different NGOs and corporates, said the officials.“While students from well-off families can easily afford a ticket to places like wildlife sanctuaries, bird sanctuaries or national parks, those from the economically weaker section can hardly think of it. So, this year, we have invited a number of students from slum areas or from schools in slums -- with the help of different NGOs which work with/teach children there -- to participate in wildlife week. With their help, we will make these students participate in different activities, like recognising different species of birds and animals, basics of nature photography, nature walk, birdwatching, among others,” said Arvind Mishra, range forest officer and head, Okhla bird sanctuary in Gautam Budh Nagar.Fifty students are supposed to take part in the events on a daily basis, said Mishra, adding, “Apart from educational tours and briar walks, wildlife week will also include several competitions, and there will also be a prize distribution on the final day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/wildlife-week-in-gautam-budh-nagar-forest-department-to-educate-poor-students-this-year-101633025551598.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Union minister of state for home affairs reviews security situation in Kupwara||Union minister of state for home affairs on Thursday reviewed the security situation in the frontier district of Kupwara and said that efforts were being made for sustainable peace.Nìtyanand Rai, who is currently on a three-day visit to Kupwara, said that the Union government was taking all possible measures to ensure sustainable development and peace in Kashmir. He was addressing block development council chairpersons, PRIs and public deputations at Kupwara.“The minister assured that genuine demands would be resolved on priority and that grievances of every Kashmiri would be resolved in a time-bound manner since the people have shown their interest in peace and development,” a government spokesperson said quoting the MoS.Later, the MoS visited the sector headquarters of Border Security Forces in Kupwara, where he addressed the troops. He was briefed about the present security scenario and duties being performed by the BSF troops on the LoC as well as in hinterland to assist civil administration and to maintain law and order in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/union-minister-of-state-for-home-affairs-reviews-security-situation-in-kupwara-101633025251270.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Go for aggressive campaign, Priyanka tells cadre||Lucknow: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday asked her party leaders and workers to reach out to the people and effectively convey the party’s points, besides strongly countering any vicious propaganda. Though she did not name any political party directly, her reference to the BJP, SP and BSP was obvious as she referred to 32-year rule of non-Congress parties that had taken the state on the path of decline. She said aggressive campaigning for the party and countering the vicious propaganda of non-Congress parties was as important on social media as it was on the ground. “We need to bring out the truth,” she said while pointing out how campaigns based on spreading hatred and lies were launched on social media. Priyanka, who is likely to wind up her five-day visit on Friday, also addressed senior leaders at a meeting of the advisory committee. She said the party’s campaign should be aggressive and sought opinion of members before the campaign was launched in the second week of October in Varanasi, the Lok Sabha seat of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Those aware of developments said the Congress Pratigya Yatras may be launched on four different routes on October 17. Through these yatras, party leaders had been asked to convey the promises the party proposed to make to the people in the 2022 assembly elections. The party proposes to hold a rally at Meerut on October 20 and a mega public rally is likely to be held in Lucknow on November 19. As the Congress has launched micro plans for every assembly constituency, an aggressive campaign to reach out to the people by going door to door is likely to be launched after the Lucknow mega rally. A meeting of the Congress’ screening committee and Pradesh Election Committee was also held here. Senior party leaders Bhanwar Jitendra Singh chaired the meeting that was also attended by Randeep Singh Hooda (MP) and Varsha Gaekwad, MLA. The party has invited applications from aspiring candidates for the 2022 assembly polls by October 10. The Congress leaders pointed out that youths and women should be given preference in distribution of tickets. The party has given indications that the first list of candidates will be out by the second week of October. Speaking to media persons later, Hooda did not share much about the screening committee meeting and said only preliminary discussions about the selection of candidates were held on Thursday. A number of delegations also met Priyanka here on Thursday. A party functionary said the delegations included those from weavers, banjara, Rajbhar and Nishad communities and the discussions focused around the issues concerning them. “This is the time for Congress to set its own house in order. Senior Congress leaders are questioning the party leadership and all this does not send a good message to the people at this juncture. The Congress should strengthen its organization at grassroots level to give a categorical message that the party is there in contention, otherwise no campaign is going to help the party,” said professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/go-for-aggressive-campaign-priyanka-tells-cadre-101633025192461.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Kidnapping case: MP/MLA court acquits Aman Mani, two others||The special judge MP /MLA court (Lucknow) on Thursday acquitted independent MLA Aman Mani Tripathi and two others — Sandeep Tripathi and Ravi Shukla — of all charges in the Rishi Kumar Pandey kidnapping case of August 6, 2014.Aman Mani and the others were present in court when additional district judge Pawan Kumar Rai, who is special judge MP/MLA court, pronounced the order.Aman Mani is an independent MLA from Nautanwa assembly constituency in Maharajganj district of eastern Uttar Pradesh.“The MP/MLA court has discharged Aman Mani Tripathi and two others from all charges in the Rishi Kumar Pandey kidnapping case. The court did not find allegations levelled against them true,” said lawyer Manish Tripathi, who represented all three in court. Rishi Kumar Pandey, a resident of Gorakhpur district, had lodged an FIR at the Cantonment police station in Lucknow on August 6, 2014, accusing Aman Mani, Sandeep Tripathi and Ravi Shukla of kidnapping him at gunpoint from the state capital at around 1am (on August 6, 2014).In the FIR, Pandey had accused the three of taking him hostage when he was on way to New Delhi by a car along with his ailing wife, daughter-in-law and two sons for the treatment of his wife. According to the FIR, the incident took place in front of the Housing Board office in the state capital when Aman Mani and two others forcibly stopped Pandey’s car and dragged him to their vehicle and sped away. Kidnappers had demanded ₹1 lakh ransom and later dumped Pandey in front of the VVIP Guest House in the state capital at around 2.30am the same day, Pandey had claimed in the FIR. The defence argued before the court that all allegations levelled against Aman Mani were politically motivated.“How can you expect a well-off person who drives an expensive car to kidnap a person for ₹1 lakh?” questioned Manish Tripathi. All charges were politically motivated, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kidnapping-case-mp-mla-court-acquits-aman-mani-two-others-101633024891719.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Death sentence awarded for rape, murder of five-month-old||Special judge (Pocso court), Arvind Mishra, awarded the death sentence to Prem Chand ‘Pappu Dixit’ for the rape and murder of a five-month-old child and also imposed a fine of ₹50,000 on the accused, on Thursday. Delivering the order in an open court, additional sessions judge, Arvind Mishra, who is special judge (Pocso Court), awarded the death sentence to Prem Chand, a native of Hardoi district. The incident took place at the SR Marriage Lawn, Dawood Nagar, under Madiaon, on February 16, 2020. The child had accompanied her parents, who had come to Lucknow to attend the marriage of Raj Kumar Mishra’s daughter. Prem Chand, who is related to the child’s mother, took away the child from the mother to cuddle it. However, when he did not return, the victim’s mother got worried and started searching for him.Later, the girl was found lying unconscious in the bushes in an empty plot near the marriage lawn. Family members rushed the child to the KGMU, where she died. During the investigation, all evidence presented by the investigating officer before the court proved Prem Chand guilty of rape and murder. Charges under the Pocso Act were framed against the accused. Cops also submitted forensic evidence against the accused in court which helped to indict the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/death-sentence-awarded-for-rape-murder-of-fivemonthold-101633024772639.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Press Council of India constitutes committee to inquire harassment of journalists in Kashmir||The Press Council of India (PCI) has constituted a three-member fact finding committee to look into the allegations of intimidation and harassment of journalists in Jammu and Kashmir levelled by former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti.PCI, while taking suo motu cognisance of Mufti’s letter, has asked Prakash Dubey, convener and group editor of Dainik Bhaskar, Gurbir Singh, a journalist from The New Indian Express, and Dr Suman Gupta, editor of Jan Morcha, to inquire into the matter.In an order on Wednesday, PCI said that the fact finding committee will regulate its own procedure. “The authorities in Jammu and Kashmir are requested to extend full cooperation and assistance to this fact finding committee for the discharge of its function,” it said.Mufti on Monday had written a letter to the Press Council of India and Editors Guild of India raising the issue of “systematic harassment” of journalists in Kashmir and urged the council to send a fact-finding team to J&K, to independently verify these claims and take remedial action.In the letter titled “Intimidation, snooping and harassment of journalists in Jammu and Kashmir”, Mufti said that raids were conducted by the police at homes of several journalists in Kashmir earlier this month. She also tweeted a questionnaire seeking “personal and bizarre information”, which the journalists were being asked to fill by the administration.“The committee is required to make a thorough probe into the matter holding discussions with the concerned authorities and the affected journalists and collect such information as it deems fit to submit its report to the council at the earliest,” the PCI order said.Mufti took to Twitter to thank PCI for constituting the committee: “Thankful to the @PressCouncil_IN for their decision to constitute a fact finding committee to probe journalists being harassed in J&K. Hope the local administration ensures their full cooperation so that this committee can discharge its duty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/press-council-of-india-constitutes-committee-to-inquire-harassment-of-journalists-in-kashmir-101633024771504.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Measures being taken to eliminate organised crime in Delhi: Asthana||Delhi police chief Rakesh Asthana assured on Thursday that the Delhi Police will crack down on criminals and end gang rivalries in the Capital. He said that criminals operating from jails will be booked under criminal conspiracy.Asthana said that after he took over, the Delhi Police took a firm stand against organised crime in the city. “Those associated with gangs should be busted, and appropriate and tough legal actions should be taken against them,” he told news agency PTI. He said that a large number of gangsters were put under judicial custody after being arrested. Asthana, however, said that some of their associates are outside and continue to commit crimes on instructions given to them by the jailed gangsters.The Delhi top cop’s comments come after it was revealed that the instructions for the Rohini court shootout aimed at the killing of Jitender Gogi was given on phone by rival gangster Tillu Tajpuria. Tajpuria was lodged inside Mandoli Jail, from where he gave his associates instructions to execute his orders.“We have identified a few criminals who have been operating from jails and giving directions to commit offences. They have been taken as accused in such cases. We have applied 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) in such cases and investigations are in progress,” Asthana said.Speaking of recent crackdown on gangsters, Asthana said that four people were arrested in connection with a murder in Dwarka as a part of Delhi Police’s crackdown on organised crime. “We are committed to put a curb on it, to eliminate gang war in the city and make it safer for citizens. It will take some time but I assure you that action will go on continuously till we are satisfied that all the gangsters are neutralized and taken care of,” Asthana said.He also said that police forces of states like Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, where Delhi’s gangsters often go in hiding, will also help Delhi Police in neutralizing the threat posed by these gangsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/measures-being-taken-to-eliminate-organised-crime-in-delhi-asthana-101633024492966.html
30-09-2021||Noida||Covid-related restrictions extended in Gautam Budh Nagar till October 31||In a bid to control the spread of Covid-19 during the upcoming festive season, Gautam Budh Nagar Police on Thursday extended pandemic-related restrictions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) till October 31.Festivals and occasions such as Gandhi Jayanti, Durga Puja, Dussehra or Vijayadashami, Eid-e-Milad, and Valmiki Jayanti will be celebrated in October.According to the order, several restrictions under Section 144 will remain in place till the end of the month, including a cap of 100 guests at a wedding and no religious or social congregations.While extending the restrictions, additional additional deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (law and order) Shraddha Pandey said that unauthorised protests, rallies, and social gatherings remain banned in view of the pandemic.No public activities, except for essential services are allowed between 11pm and 6am, according to the order.“Maximum limit for wedding ceremonies will be 100 guests… no congregation for political support, religious, sports or academic will be held without permission. No agitations shall be allowed,” a statement by Gautam Budh Nagar Police said.Meanwhile, Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner Alok Singh held a meeting with senior officials, asking them to prioritise the curbing of street crimes and ensure women’s security during the festive season.Singh also directed the officers to complete preparations for the Uttar Pradesh assembly election, due early next year.Officers across Noida and Greater Noida have also been directed to monitor social media and take strict action against “anti-social elements who resort to circulating objectionable content or misleading information online with an objective to create tension”, according to an official statement.“A detailed discussion was held on increasing police visibility in public places in order to check street crime,” the police statement added.Singh also directed all officers to dispose of pending cases quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covidrelated-restrictions-extended-in-gautam-budh-nagar-till-october-31-101633024591227.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Two men held, two juveniles detained for gangster’s murder in southwest Delhi||Police on Thursday said they have arrested two men and apprehended two minor boys for the murder of 20-year-old alleged gangster Tinku Kharab, three days after he was gunned down by two men who intercepted his car on south-west Delhi’s Khaira Road, near Najafgarh. The arrests were made following an encounter near Jharoda Kalan village in the early hours of on Thursday, police said. All four belong to the Nandu gang, led by fugitive gangster Kapil Sangwan alias Nandu, which has a longstanding rivalry with jailed gangster Manjeet Mahal’s gang, of which Kharab was a member, police said.Four pistols and nine cartridges were recovered from the four persons. The arrested duo, identified by their first names as Vinay,24, and Sourabh,18, were the two who opened fire at the car being driven by Kharab on the evening of September 27. Eyewitnesses told the police that 8 to 10 rounds were fired by the two men, killing Kharab on the spot. Kharab was involved in three criminal cases, including a case of extortion, police said.Police said that one of the apprehended juveniles was also involved in the murder of a 24-year-old man, who was killed in a firing at a hotel in south-west Delhi’s Chhawla on August 24. That was a case of mistaken identity -- two juveniles had opened fire at the hotel reception where the man was seated in the manager’s chair, though they had come to allegedly kill the hotel owner. One suspect was apprehended in that shooting, while the other was on the run, said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named. On Wednesday, the special staff team from Dwarka district received information that four suspects who were allegedly involved in Kharab’s murder would arrive near Ganda Nala Road in Jharoda Kalan village in the early hours of Thursday. Accordingly, a trap was laid and the suspects were asked to surrender when they turned up, said additional deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Vikram Singh.“Two of them fired at our team with the intention to kill. One bullet hit the bulletproof vest of assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Umesh, who escaped unhurt. Three rounds were fired by police in retaliation, and the four were overpowered,” added the additional DCP. Police said they are questioning the four persons to as certain who had planned the hit on Kharab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-men-held-two-juveniles-detained-for-gangster-s-murder-in-southwest-delhi-101633024472932.html
30-09-2021||Noida||Man falls from auto while resisting phone-snatching bid in Greater Noida; injured||A 25-year-old engineer was injured after he fell from a moving autorickshaw while trying to save his mobile phone from being snatched near Pari Chowk on Wednesday night. Police identified the man as Akash Kumar, a resident of Sector Delta 1 in Greater Noida. He works at a leading mobile company in Ecotech 1 area in Greater Noida. Kumar said that he was working a night shift on Wednesday. “I left home at 8.10pm and reached Pari Chowk in an autorickshaw. I was talking to someone on my phone. Two persons on a motorcycle rode up beside me and tried to snatch my mobile phone,” he said. When Kumar tried to shield his phone, the suspects caught his hand and pulled him out of the autorickshaw. Kumar fell and injured his head and hands. Kumar was trying to get up when the suspects snatched his mobile phone and fled. The incident took place about 100 metres from the Pari Chowk police check post, Kumar said.The autorickshaw driver admitted Kumar to a private hospital for medical treatment. Kumar said he received multiple stitches on his head for the injury.The autorickshaw driver called the police and Kumar’s friends, who then reached the hospital. Rameshwar Kumar, SHO Sector Beta 2 police station, said a case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian penal Code. “A police team reached the spot and launched a search but the suspects managed to escape. We are scanning CCTV camera footage to arrest the suspects,” he said. The Pari Chowk police check post in-charge was suspended for dereliction of duty, Noida Police said in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-falls-from-auto-while-resisting-phone-snatching-bid-in-greater-noida-injured-101633024471599.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||HC unhappy over Delhi govt reply to plea seeking lifting ban on herbal hookahs||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday expressed its displeasure at the Delhi government’s response to pleas seeking lifting the ban on use of herbal hookahs in public places, noting that its affidavit did not make it clear whether the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has reconsidered the prohibition order.“Unfortunately even though the respondent (Delhi government) has filed an affidavit trying to justify why the sale of flavoured hookah is not permissible, there is no whisper if the matter has been reconsidered by the DDMA or not,” said Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing Delhi government’s response filed on the pleas of restaurants seeking the non-interference of the state and police in the sale of herbal flavoured hookahs.The court has now granted a week’s time to the Delhi government and directed it to file an affidavit specifically stating whether the DDMA has reconsidered the August 2020 order, along with the reasons for continuing with the decision. The matter will now be heard on October 8.On September 17, the high court had specifically directed the Delhi government to ask DDMA to reconsider its August 3, 2020, order prohibiting the use of herbal hookah in public places to contain the spread of Covid-19.During the proceedings on Thursday, the court told the petitioners’ counsel that the authorities are not permitting many activities amid Covid, adding that it needs to be seen whether it should force them to allow this activity. While perusing the government’s affidavit, the court said it was not in compliance with the last order and that it was not happy with the response.Delhi government standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi said the situation is very alarming and people need to be disciplined. He said he has apprised the DDMA about the court’s order and sought some more time to get its response.During the last hearing on September 17, the high court had asked the Delhi government why the DDMA has not reconsidered the ban on the use of herbal hookahs in public places when breath analyser tests are allowed now.Separate petitions were filed by Breath Fine Lounge and Bar, TOS, R High Speedbar and Lounge, Verandah Moonshine, and Sixth Empirica Lounge in West Punjabi Bagh, challenging the order of the Joint Commissioner of Police (Licensing Unit) prohibiting and excluding the sale or service of herbal flavoured hookahs in restaurant/bar being run by them.The pleas said the petitioners are serving herbal hookahs for which no licence is required as they do not contain tobacco but pointed out that police are conducting raids, seizing equipment, and issuing challans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hcunhappy-over-delhi-govt-reply-to-plea-seeking-lifting-ban-on-herbal-hookahs-101633023930950.html
30-09-2021||Pune||Dabholkar case: Defence lawyer files contempt application against lawyer alleging conspiracy||PUNE: The special Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) court in Pune was presented with an application for initiating a contempt of court hearing against advocate Nihal Singh Rathod for writing an article about the Narendra Dabholkar court case accusing the court and accused to be hand in glove in a conspiracy to ensure acquittal for those booked in the case. Additional sessions judge SR Navandar had declared in open court during the hearing of a bail application by one of the accused, Virendrasinh Tawade, that his court was specially notified to hear cases under UAPA. Advocate Singh, in his article, claimed that there is no official notification to prove that and the court machinery was gearing up to give this advantage to the accused so they could use the technicality of the matter being out of his jurisdiction in order to get out of the jail. Upon being presented with the application, Judge Navandar said, “I will study it, read it and if it is found to be written with an intention to malign the court, action will be taken. The way it has been done is absolutely improper, especially on the day of the hearing.” The contempt of court application was filed by advocate Prakash Shalsingikar who alleged that the article author-lawyer has vested interests in the matter which has led him to ensure that the article be published on a day when the case was entering its first day of trial. “A reading of the article shows that the same predicts the outcome of the trial and such a prediction is per se an act contemptuous towards the court. Secondly, it claims that this honourable court is conducting a trial without authority. There is apparent possibility that such claim would give an impression to the readers that this court does not have knowledge of law as regards its own jurisdiction. Thirdly, it suggests that the accused are quiet/silent since they want to take advantage of alleged technical loophole. Such a suggestion has an apparent possibility of giving an impression to readers that the court does not have knowledge of law, but the accused have knowledge of law better than the court. Lastly, the article specifically alleges that the technical flaw with regard to jurisdiction is created deliberately and that such a thing would not be tolerated,” reads a part of the application by Shalsingikar. Special public prosecutor Prakash Suryavanshi narrated a similar incident from the time when he was prosecuting a sex scandal from Parbhani and said, “I learned the lesson to take such applications and throw them in the dustbin.” He said that the court acknowledging the article will be giving it undue legitimacy. The defence lawyer, however, also asked for the newspaper and its editors to be prosecuted for allowing Rathod’s article to be published. To this, judge Navandar said, “When they can comment on the fate of the trial, they can certainly predict the fate of their decisions too.” The judge addressed a reporter from the English daily of the same company that publishes the Marathi daily to become a media between the court and the establishment and send a message. The reporter had come to cover the ongoing proceedings. The application has been set aside for the judge’s consideration and a decision will be made on it in later hearings, according to the judge’s claims in open court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dabholkar-case-defence-lawyer-files-contempt-application-against-lawyer-alleging-conspiracy-101633023690917.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Often affected by droughts, 8 Marathwada districts facing agrarian crisis due to floods||Eight districts of central Maharashtra (Marathwada), known for frequent droughts, have been battling with the agrarian crisis due to huge losses of crops in three floods in the ongoing monsoon season. Crops on as much as 2.6 million hectares have sustained damage since the outset of monsoon on June 1, while the recent flooding early this week is expected to increase the figures further as the spot assessment of the losses are still underway. All the eight districts of the central Maharashtra witnessed heavy rainfall resulted out of the remnants of cyclone Gulab since Monday. More than 1.1 mn hectares under cultivation of the agricultural crops has damaged in the downpour, while the consolidated figure of the affected areas since June 1 has touched 25.98 million hectares. 3.56 lakh farmers have been affected in the three floods reported in the region, according to the figures by the divisional commissioner of Aurangbad. The divisional administration has estimated the compensation towards the losses to the crops, roads, government buildings, lives and livestock etc to be worth ₹2254 crore. Of it, ₹1796 crore needs to be disbursed towards the losses of the crops. The region has reported 22 deaths, 12 of which are reported this week. “We have​ started conducting spot assessments in the areas affected this week. Though discharge from some of the rivers is still on, water has receded from flooded areas. Rainfall has stopped. People who were evacuated to safer places have started going back to their homes. The officials are still finding it difficult to reach to the farms because of the water logging and mud filled farms. The estimated losses are expected to go up once the assessment is completed. Central Maharashtra has witnessed highest losses than other parts this monsoon as it was hit in all the three downpours since June,” said a senior official from divisional commissionerate, Aurangabad. Three teams of NDRF and a chopper bound rescue team of Air Force rescued more than 100 people struck in flooding in Latur, Osmanabad and Aurangbad early this week. The teams have now been withdrawn by the respective agencies. District administrations of the respective districts have opened the gates of large dams including Jayakwadi, Purna have opened to enable the discharge. Most of the large dams in central Maharashtra have overflown. In Nashik too, discharge of water from Gangakhed and Girna dams has been increased. According to the report from the disaster management unit of the state government, three more deaths (one each in Nashik, Jalgaon and Buldhana) were reported in last 24 hours. The death toll due to the rains related incidents this monsoon across the state has touched 439, while six people are still missing. Opposition and elected representatives from central Maharashtra have demanded to announced the wet drought in affected districts. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that the decision over the demand will be taken in the state cabinet next week once the figures of the losses are submitted to the state government. Meanwhile, the central team of officials is visiting parts of state affected in the flooding in July from October 3. The team will visit parts of Konkan and Western Maharashtra for three days to assess the losses due to the flooding in third week of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/often-affected-by-droughts-8-marathwada-districts-facing-agrarian-crisis-due-to-floods-101633023151112.html
30-09-2021||Gurugram||Fire in Manesar Sector 3: Two floors of automobile parts warehouse gutted||A major fire broke out in an automobile parts warehouse in Sector 3 of Manesar early Thursday and it took the fire department more than two hours and nine fire tenders to douse the blaze. No injury or casualty was reported.Fire department officials were informed that sparks from electrical wires had resulted in the building catching fire at 3.21am. “The security guards at the warehouse alerted us about the incident. Immediately, two fire tenders each from the Manesar and Sector 29 fire brigades were dispatched. When our firemen reached the spot, they alerted us that the intensity of the blaze was huge and one fire tender each from Bhim Nagar, Udyog Vihar and Sector 37 fire brigades as well as from Honda and Maruti were called upon,” Sukhbir Yadav, assistant fire officer, Haryana Fire Services, said.Yadav said that no workers were present on the premises of AG Industries Private Limited.“Both the hydrants and the water sprinklers were functioning and they helped restrict the blaze to a portion of the building. However, the portion on the ground floor and first floor of the building which were not covered by the sprinklers suffered extensive damage,” Yadav said.Officials of AG Industries Private Limited declined to comment on the matter.Yadav said that with the Manesar fire station located less than four kilometres from the site, the response was swift, failing which it would have taken over six to seven hours to douse the blaze.“By 5.30am, we were able to douse the blaze and by 6.20am, the last fire tender left the spot. We suspect a short circuit was the cause. However, we are investigating to ascertain the exact cause,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fire-in-manesar-sector-3-two-floors-of-automobile-parts-warehouse-gutted-101633022857016.html
30-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Third statewide serological survey results to be released mid-October, says health dept||The results of a third serological survey that was done in the first week of September are likely to be declared only by mid-October due to a high volume of samples collected from across the state, health department officials said.“The results for the third statewide serological survey are likely to be ready by mid-October. This time, our sample size was four to five times more than the previous surveys, and the processing of all these samples takes time. Earlier, samples used to get processed in respective districts, but now, it is being done at a single place at the state level,” a senior health department official said, requesting anonymity.The survey covered 3,000 people in Gurugram, including 1,200 children aged six to 17 years, who are currently not covered under the Covid-19 immunisation programme.Across the state, 36,520 samples were collected, including 3,600 from children aged six to nine years and about 11,000 from those aged 10-17 years. The sample size is considerably higher than the 18,500 samples covered in the second survey held in October 2020.A serological survey finds the level of antibodies that may have been developed either after an infection or being vaccinated. The results will help the department plan strategies and assess their preparedness for the third wave of Covid-19.In the first statewide serological survey, held in August 2020, 18,905 samples, including 844 from Gurugram, were tested, following which a seropositivity rate of 8% was recorded, with the urban population showing a seropositivity rate of 18.5% and the rural population 5.7%.In the second statewide serological survey, held in October 2020, 16,512 samples, including 800 from Gurugram, were tested, following which a seropositivity rate of 14.8% was recorded, with the urban population showing a seropositivity rate of 25.9% and rural population 10.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19third-statewide-serological-survey-results-to-be-released-mid-october-says-health-dept-101633022855911.html
30-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination: Over 50% of mega drive target reached||As part of the ongoing mega Covid-19 vaccination drive, 30,984 people were vaccinated in the district on Thursday across 200 session sites, officials said. The health department has set a target of 60,000 for the mega vaccination drive and managed to achieve over 50% of its target on Thursday.On Thursday, 5,805 people were given the first dose and 25,179 the second dose. With this, over 3.1 million have been vaccinated in the district. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “We have set a target to vaccinate 60,000 people across the district during this three-day mega vaccination drive and we received a good response on Thursday. More sessions have been scheduled at different places to vaccinate a greater number of people.”After the district administration had informed that the mega vaccination drive started on Wednesday, the health department clarified that the mega vaccination drive started on Thursday and will continue till Saturday.Officials said that under the vaccination programme, maximum doses being administered now are for the second dose. First doses are still being administered to a few people, but mostly, vaccination is being done for second dose, according to the records of the health department.On Friday, vaccination will continue at 121 centres across the district, officials said. The first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 114 centres while doses of Covaxin will be available at five primary health centres. Also, the second dose of the Sputnik V vaccine will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic. Over 24,800 slots will be available on Friday. Meanwhile, four new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Thursday along with eight recoveries in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-over-50-of-mega-drive-target-reached-101633022854545.html
30-09-2021||Gurugram||MCG Ward 34 polls: Four candidates set to battle out councillor post||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) Ward 34 will get a new councillor this Sunday, with four candidates filing their nominations for the polls. In the fray are Rama Rathee, a former councillor of Ward 34 and the wife of the late RS Rathee, the incumbent who died of Covid-19 on May 30, following which the seat has been vacant; Jagmohan, an independent candidate and resident of Sikanderpur; Zile Singh, the president of Saraswati Vihar residents’ welfare association (RWA); and Mohit Yadav, an advocate from Sikanderpur.Jagmohan and Singh are second-time contestants, having participated in the 2017 polls, while Yadav is a first-time contestant. Prominent societies of Belvedere Towers in Cyber City, The Ivy apartments in Sector 28; The Magnolias in Sector 42, DLF Phases 1-2 townships, Silver Oaks Apartment in DLF Phase-1, Oakwood Estate in DLF Phase-2, Beverly Park 1 and 2, Heritage City and Essel Towers, all located on MG Road, fall under Ward 34.“Being a former councillor, I am well versed with the problems and demands of residents in Ward 34. My main aim is to bridge the gap between the civic infrastructure deficit in regards to the existing population, due to which there is stress on amenities such as water supply, drainage, and electricity,” Rathee said.Jagmohan comes from a family of local leaders. Before the MCG was formed in 2008, when the panchayati system was abolished, his mother was the sarpanch of Sikanderpur village in 2001. “I have watched the various changes and developments that have taken place over the last two decades closely and will be banking on this experience to expedite future as well as present development projects in ward 34,” Jagmohan said.Singh said, “During my rallies and door-to-door visits, I have been telling residents that by voting for me, they have a year to monitor and see my work as a prospective councillor closely. If they are dissatisfied with my tenure, then they can vote for another candidate in the 2022 MCG elections.”Mohit Yadav, the only first-time contestant, said, “If elected, I would introduce pedestrian-friendly amenities and provide comprehensive CCTV camera coverage in my ward. As the youngest candidate, I am hoping that I appeal to the challenges and concerns of the youth.”On October 3, the poll will be held from 8am to 4.30pm at 12 polling stations and 30 booths, following which counting will be done and results declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-ward-34-polls-four-candidates-set-to-battle-out-councillor-post-101633022853374.html
30-09-2021||Gurugram||Pollution board: Will start night patrols to check open waste burning||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) will start daily night patrolling from Friday to check instances of open waste burning, officials said, amid complaints from residents.Officials said they have formulated action plans with various agencies assigned duties to ensure that pollution levels are under check this winter.Kuldeep Singh, the regional officer of HSPCB for Gurugram (north), said, “We have decided to start night patrolling across the city from October 1 to check open burning of waste, which is one of the primary reasons for air pollution in the city. Directions are also being shared with different agencies to ensure that such activities do not take place in the city and daily action taken reports is submitted to the pollution control board.”Earlier this year, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) directed the board to control fires at landfills and open fires.Residents on Thursday took to social media to complain about persistent open waste burning in Sector 58.Sarika Panda, a resident of Sector 58 said, “Over the past year, I have seen solid waste being burnt every day, either early in the morning or at night. I reported it to the authorities five to six times, but no strict action was taken. At any particular time, waste is being burnt in at least three locations of the area. Over the past week, waste burning has increased.”Residents said that due to the lack of a common helpline number, it is difficult to report such incidents.Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist, said, “There is rampant open waste burning in all urban villages in the city, be it Gwal Pahari, Baliawas or Balola. We raise the issues on social media and by the time the action is taken, waste burning is completed. The authorities should at least have a common helpline number where people can report such issues immediately.”In June, residents, under the banner of Citizens for Clean Air, wrote to the authorities about three different waste burning sites within a one-kilometre radius near South City-2, Emaar housing societies, and Golf Course Extension Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/pollution-board-will-start-night-patrols-to-check-open-waste-burning-101633022852062.html
30-09-2021||Gurugram||Ardee City developer arrested over delay in EWS plot delivery||A senior executive of a realty firm was arrested on Thursday for failing to give possession of plots meant for the economically weaker sections (EWS) for over 26 years in Ardee City residential colony in Sector 52, the police said. The executive, identified as Anil Hasija, the vice-president of Gopal Dass Estates and Housing, was taken on three-day police remand, a week after an FIR was registered on the recommendation of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) for alleged forgery of documents over 45 acres to procure a licence for Ardee City in Sector 52. The police said that action was taken on a complaint filed by Mahender Singh, an EWS plot allottee, at the Sector 53 police station. A case was registered under sections 120B, 406, 420, 467, 468 And 471 of the Indian Penal Code. In his complaint, Singh alleged that even after 26 years since his application, the developer has failed to develop the area earmarked for the EWS category and hand over plots to hundreds of allottees. He alleged that the developers always delayed possession on one pretext or the other and recently, refused to give possession or return the money.Officials of the realty firm could not be reached for comment.It may be noted that the licence of the colony was cancelled by DTCP earlier this month and the department also decided to take over the colony. The developers had obtained a licence for Ardee City colony, on 200 acres, in 1996. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the licence of the colony and occupancy certificates were revoked on September 2. A case was also registered against the developer and its directors on September 17. Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police (ACP), DLF, said that Hasija, an executive of Ardee City Developers was arrested and produced before the court on Thursday and taken on a three-day remand. “The matter is under investigation,” he said.Besides the case filed by Singh, another case in this regard was filed against the developers on a complaint filed by the DTCP on September 14, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ardee-city-developer-arrested-over-delay-in-ews-plot-delivery-101633022850880.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body draws up detailed SOP for restart of schools||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday told all schools that 100% attendance is not mandatory, and parents’ consent is necessary for students to attend school, in its extensive standard operating procedure (SOP). Schools in Mumbai are set to reopen for classes 8 to 12 from October 4 (Monday). The SOP details guidelines across nine parameters, including attendance, safety and Covid-19 hygiene, teaching, seating arrangements in classrooms, for school managements, teachers, students, and parents.The BMC on Wednesday issued a circular that all public and private schools will restart classes from 8 to 12, from October 4, 19 months after they shut down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In its SOP released on Thursday, BMC has mandated that school managements should link their schools with the nearest primary health centres before restarting classes, to better deal with health emergencies among students and staff.As schools restart, a maximum of 15-20 students will be allowed per classroom at a time. If there are more students, the school can conduct classes a two batches, by dividing students in two groups, and calling them on alternative days. Actual classrooms will operate for not more than three-four hours, and there will be no lunch breaks. Air conditioning will not be operated in classrooms.Schools have also been instructed not to give out certificates or awards for 100% attendance owing to the Covid-19 situation. While on campus, masks are mandatory. All teachers attending school for teaching classes 8 to 12 need to be vaccinated with both doses, or need to take an RT-PCR test 48 hours prior, and the school management is required to verify such reports with the laboratory.The guidelines also mandate regular disinfection of premises such as toilets, classrooms, benches, door handles, and other commonly used property on the premises. Thermal screening of all students will be done every day before entering the school premises.In its circular issued on Wednesday, BMC also instructed all assistant commissioners of the 24 administrative wards in Mumbai to shift any existing vaccination or quarantine centres operating from municipal school premises to the nearest feasible locations. Additional municipal commissioner in-charge of the education department in BMC on Thursday held a review meeting with staff of the education department, ward officers, and deputy municipal commissioners on preparations to be completed over the weekend to facilitate reopening of schools on Monday.Presently there are 16 municipal schools that have quarantine centres, and 35 schools that have vaccination centres operating within their premises. There will be shifted to nearest marriage halls, or civic amenities buildings over the weekend, a senior civic officer from BMC’s education department said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-draws-up-detailed-sop-for-restart-of-schools-101633022377451.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai over 3,000mm of rain this monsoon||With the official southwest monsoon period ending on Thursday, Mumbai received over 3,000mm of rainfall in the fourth months between June 1 and September. This is 957.7mm more than the seasonal normal of 2205mm, or 30.27 percent departure from the long-period average.The 2021 monsoon season also marks the third consecutive year in which Mumbai received over 3000mm of rain, and follows 2020’s seasonal total of 3,759.7mm (which was just 70mm short of being the wettest September on record), as per the met department’s monitoring station in Santacruz.In September alone, Mumbai recorded 741.7mm of rain (as against the normal of 341.mm) making it the third-wettest September in a decade. While the average daily rainfall during the month ranged between 40mm and 60mm, a 100mm downpour occurred in the 24-hours ending 8:30am on September 29, making a significant contribution to the monthly total.August was the only month this season which recorded below normal rain, seeing a negative 46% deficit at the end of the month. The highest rainfall recorded was 78.44mm of rain in the nine hours ending 5:30pm on August 31, categorised as ‘heavy rain’ by the IMD. The total amount of rainfall received until 8:30 am on August 31 stood at 338.8mm (against the monthly normal of 531.3mm), making it the fourth-driest August in a decade as per IMD records. This follows last year’s above normal reading, when August recorded a whopping 1,247.7mm of rain.This year, the city saw three ‘extremely heavy’ rainfall days (one in June and two in July), receiving over 204.5mm in 24-hours. The first of these events occurred on June 10 (231.3mm), coinciding with the arrival of the south-west monsoon two days prior to the official onset date of June 11. On the day, Mumbai received 220.6mm rain of between 8.30am and 5.30pm, or 43.6% of the monthly normal in just nine hours. The city witnessed a total of 961.4 mm of rainfall for the month (against the normal of 505mm), making it the third-wettest June in the last decade.The highest amount of rain -- 1222mm -- was received in July. The month also saw two consecutive, atypical thunderstorms which dumped more than 500mm rain over the city, resulting in the second and third ‘extremely heavy rainfall’ events of the season. A convective thunderstorm, described by meteorologists as “monstrous”, deposited a whopping 235mm rain between 12am and 4am on July 18, less than 48 hours after a similar high rainfall event resulted in the season’s highest daily rainfall on July 16 at 253mm. July rains saw a 48% departure from the monthly normal of 822mm.Officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD), including KS Hosalikar (scientist, surface instrument division), did not offer any comments on this year’s monsoon, stating that all notable features will be covered in an upcoming monsoon report by the IMD which is expected within the next day or so. Experts, however, pointed out that despite receiving excess rains, this past season has been marked by very significant “intraseasonal variability” -- a phenomenon which bears a clear signature of climate change.“In terms of high-impact rainfall events in Mumbai-MMR, the second half of the southwest monsoon season has been relatively quiet than the first one. Across India, we have witnessed a very strong intraseasonal rainfall variability between August (sixth driest since 1901) and a very wet September (tenth wettest since 1901), a pattern which is projected to become more robust due to climate change. Such a strong intraseasonal rainfall variability rainfall has a lot of implications for agriculture and flood risk mitigation. Another peculiar feature of the 2021 monsoon is that we got only a single low-pressure system (LPS) in June, 3 in July, 2 in August, but 6 in September. The increased LPS frequency in September did not actually translate to heavy rainfall events in Mumbai, so there’s definitely a lot to investigate meteorologically,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and a PhD candidate at the University of Reading, UK.” A senior meteorologist at IIT-M in Pune, seeking anonymity, said that despite receiving excess rains for three years in a row, monsoon patterns over the Konkan (as with the rest of India) are now showing intermittent dry periods with short spells of heavy rains within the monsoon season, and that the number of extreme rainfall events have increased by at least three times over the city. “This also poses a huge challenge to forecasting, because the IMD and our models are not able to predict such intense bursts early enough. So the time for evacuating vulnerable populations also becomes very less. This year’s monsoon is in keeping with trends that are going to significantly exacerbate climate risk in the foreseeable future,” the scientist said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-over-3-000mm-of-rain-this-monsoon-101633021291115.html
30-09-2021||Other||Allahabad University mulls fee hike as UGC slashes grant||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has slashed the recurring non-salary grant of Allahabad University (AU) by 40%, a move that has now forced the university authorities to think of revising existing fees to meet the shortfall. “Now we have no option left other than to garner our own resources. We will have to start new courses having new fee structures and at the same time revise existing fee structure for various undergraduate and postgraduate courses”, said AU’s vice chancellor professor Sangita Srivastava. For the past many years UGC has been constantly asking universities including AU to raise its own resources to meet the expenses. AU officials admit that the fourth oldest university of the country would now face problems in meeting expenses related to paying electricity bills, house, water tax, while undertaking building repairs and maintenance, housekeeping, security, contractual engagements. “Hiring guest faculty, procuring journals and books in the library etc too could be a problem as expenses for these heads are met by the grant under recurring non-salary head,” AU officials said. The slash in recurring non-salary grant is going to hurt all the more to AU whose annual electricity expenses are pretty high, and it also has electricity dues of around ₹7 crore of past years that it is yet to clear. AU public relations officer (PRO), Jaya Kapoor said, “Now, AU is exploring all avenues in order to meet the shortfall that threatens to cripple the day to day functioning of the university and its associated institutions.” The fees of various courses at AU have not been raised over the past three decades. The annual fee for UG courses at AU ranges from ₹800-1200 and for PG courses, it is from ₹1300-2000. How low the fee of courses at AU are can be gauged from the fact that annual fee at Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Varanasi, also a central university in UP, is more than double than that of AU. For pursuing BA at BHU, a student has to pay ₹2,407 per year while for BSc a student has to shell out ₹3167 per annum. Similarly, for MA, the yearly fee is ₹3,157 while that for MSc is ₹3,557.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-mulls-fee-hike-as-ugc-slashes-grant-101633020991073.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Trial run for Mumbai Metro-3 at Marol Maroshi underground track: CMO||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has decided to hold a trial run for Metro-3 railway line at Marol Maroshi on an underground track. Thackeray asserted that location was outside the Aarey Colony forest and not a single tree at Aarey Colony would be cut for the trials for Metro-3 line which runs between Colaba and SEEPZ.The statement released by the Chief Minister’s office (CMO) said the ramp was being put near Aarey, but it was outside the protected forest. “In order to solve the problem of traffic congestion in South Mumbai, it has been decided to conduct trial run of Colaba-SEEPZ metro line at Marol Maroshi,” said the release. “For the Metro-3, the Alstom company has in Sri City in Andhra Pradesh manufactured a metro train of eight compartments. They have completed the technical tests of this train and will be brought to Mumbai for the trial run for 10,000 kilometres,” it added. It said once the trial runs are successful, 31 trains can run on this corridor.The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) said the decision will provide an impetus to the project. “With 97% of tunnelling and about 70% of civil work completed, start of technical trials of the prototype train is another milestone on the project. The work to set up temporary facility will begin shortly and may take about 2.5 months to complete. Field trials will immediately start post arrival of the trains,” said Ranjit Singh Deol, managing director, MMRC.The ambitious 33.5-km corridor has already been delayed, with a cost escalation of around ₹10,270 crore. In this, 70 % of the work including 95 % of tunnelling is already completed. The project has already been stuck, after the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government ordered a stay on constructing of the depot at Aarey Colony in November 2019. The previous BJP-led government was a strong votary of the Aarey land. Thackeray announced the state’s decision to shift the car shed to Kanjurmarg in October last year. Last December, the Bombay High Court stayed the decision of the suburban collector to hand over the Kanjurmarg plot for car shed. Since then the matter has been pending before the Court.Transport expert Paresh Rawal said the state needs to solve this car shed tangle. “We can have multiple trial runs, but Metro will not be functional till you have a car shed in place. We have already overshot the deadlines and this project may further get delayed till we don’t finalise on the car shed,” said Rawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trial-run-for-mumbai-metro-3-at-marol-maroshi-underground-track-cmo-101633020811145.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||BJP takes on Shiv Sena over potholes on Mumbai roads||As the elections to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation near, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has stepped up its attack against Shiv Sena, now over the potholes on roads in Mumbai and other cities of the state. The BJP has also questioned if the warning of action against the errant contractors was hogwash and accused that the mayor of Mumbai was giving false figures of potholes to facilitate the contractors.BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar, while speaking to the media on Thursday, questioned over the disparity in claims by BMC administration and the mayor. “Mayor has been claiming that they fixed 42,000 potholes, while the civic body portal says, to have fixed 927 potholes. Why has been Sena shielding the contractors? The CM has been warning of the action against the contractors. Has the Sena-led civic body taken action against any contractor, holding him responsible? The BMC has spent Rs21,000 crore in last 25 years on road construction and repairs. The contractors have made a bomb out of it, but the city roads have gone to the dogs,” he said.CM Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting of related departments and state entities and warned to take action against the contractors responsible. Shelar has termed the meeting hogwash. “Neither action was taken against any contractors, nor a probe was announced to check the material used to construct the roads. He did not even invite all agencies responsible for the road construction to the meeting. The meeting was just a hogwash, but it could not resolve the real problem,” he said.Shelar also took a dig at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Supriya Sule, reminding her about her “selfie with potholes” drive during the BJP-led government in the state. Shelar questioned why the NCP MP has disappeared and why is she not taking up the issue again. Party has also made an appeal to the people in Mumbai to participate in their protest against potholes by clicking pictures of potholes and send them for the exhibition announced by the party.Taking a leaf out of Sule’s book, the party’s south-central district ward has organised a competition “Selfie With Potholes”. “We have received good response from the citizens in Mumbai to the competition. We will hold an exhibition in our office at BMC and will award the best selfies. The exhibition will be taken to various parts of the city as a bid to make way to plight of the people. The potholes on the city roads is just because of the corruption in the road construction and it is the failure of the civic body ruled for more than three decades by Shiv Sena,” said Rajesh Shirwadkar, district president of the ward.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Wednesday had said that BMC officials have been directed to fill all potholes by the end of October. Pednekar had also said that engineers have been directed to report, in case of any problem with filling of potholes. Additionally, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has also asked BMC officials to fill all potholes in the city within next 2-3 weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-takes-on-shiv-sena-over-potholes-on-mumbai-roads-101633020512297.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Women RPF constables rescue 48-year-old man at Kalyan station||In a second incident in the last two days, a 48-year-old man who fell in between the railway platform and the footboard of an express train was rescued by two alert women Railway Police Force (RPF) constables at Kalyan railway station on Thursday.According to the Central Railway (CR), the incident occurred at around 11.40am at platform No. 4. Ramashankar Purushottam Pal was trying to give his bag to his uncle who boarded the Godan Express. As the train left the platform, the man lost balance and fell in the gap. The entire incident was caught on CCTV camera.Alert RPF women constables on duty, Radhika Sen and Vaishali Patil, managed to rush to the spot and pull out the man.“He was helping his uncle with the luggage when he lost balance. I saw him fall and ran to help him. I could pull him out with the help of another constable on duty,” said Sen.Earlier in the day, Sen also helped a 22-year-old, eight-month pregnant woman, who suddenly suffered from pain while she was at platform No. 1A. “We helped her to reach the hospital as she complained of pain. She was sent to Rukminibai Civic Hospital,” said Sen. In a similar incident, alert RPF personnel saved the life of a 62-year-old woman passenger at the railway station on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/women-rpf-constables-rescue-48-year-old-man-at-kalyan-station-101633020402773.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Centre gives nod to Mumbai coastal zone management plans||The union ministry for environment and climate change has given its nod to the Coastal Zone Management Plans (CZMPs) for Mumbai city and suburban districts, to the relief of developers and sparking ire among environmentalists. The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) had green-lit revised draft CZMPs for Mumbai in March this year. State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, in January, had written to former Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar seeking inclusion of Coastal Zone Management Plans (CZMP) under the Coastal Regulation Zones (CRZ) Notification, 2019 for the districts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg. The draft CZMP maps were prepared by the NCSCM under the Union environment ministry in 2019 for all coastal districts in Maharashtra based on the 2019 Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms. They were published on January 22, 2020. These maps use distinct colour codes to demarcate CRZ areas (I to IV), high tide and hazard line, fishing zones, intertidal areas, mangrove forests and buffer areas, turtle nesting sites, cyclone shelters, koliwadas and gaothans. These maps also identify coastal areas that can be opened up for infrastructural development. “Public hearings were held in February to receive objections and suggestions on the previous iteration of the CZMP, which was published in January 2020. It was learnt that the main objection is with regards to the coastal mapping in which regulatory zones have been delineated. The maps were revised keeping in mind public feedback. The MCZMA gave a go ahead on these changes, and the revised plans have now received the MoEFCC’s nod,” said an official privy to the development. “It is astonishing that the plans have been approved on the basis of 1:25000 scale maps. The MCZMA and the Maharashtra Environment Department have confirmed in writing that they do not have 1:4000 scale maps, without which no planning agency can consider proposals within the CRZ. Secondly, the demarcation of the hazard line is one crucial component of the CZMPs, to prevent construction on their seaward side. In view of the recent admission by the Municipal Commissioner of Mumbai that 80% of Mumbai city will be underwater by 2050, it will be very interesting to see how the hazard line has been demarcated in these CZMPs. Fortunately, it seems that they have been approved subject to certain conditions and that this is not a final approval,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust (CAT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-gives-nod-to-mumbai-coastal-zone-management-plans-101633020155083.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police chief directs SSPs to step up security along Pakistan border||Punjab DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota on Thursday directed SSPs of districts along the India-Pakistan border to step up surveillance by starting "night domination operations".The districts for which the security measure has been ordered every night from 9 pm to 4 am are Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Batala, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Fazilka.The DGP directed them to divide their districts into sectors and depute a gazetted officer for every sector, who will be personally out on the "night domination operation".The SSPs will maintain a duty roster of gazetted officers and rotate them for supervision, he added, as per an official statement.Sahota said all "nakas" and other sensitive locations will be manned at night under the supervision of a non-gazetted officer, while additional check-posts should be put up on ancillary roads for checking of vehicles."Inter-state 'nakas', especially on the J-K border, should also be strengthened and all vehicles coming from J-K should be thoroughly checked," directed the DGP.SSPs have also been told to prepare a weekly deployment plan, showing the "nakas" and patrolling, which will be approved by the Range Inspector General of police.Such weekly plans will be flexible and based on the current internal security situation, he said.DGP Sahota asked SSPs to give special attention to drones and suspicious persons moving in vulnerable areas.He also ordered SSPs to utilise all police control room vehicles and bullet proof material to cover vulnerable places besides activating all control rooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-chief-directs-ssps-to-step-up-security-along-pakistan-border-101633018363687.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||SGPGI docs oppose proposal to increase retirement age to 70 yrs||LUCKNOW The SGPGI’s faculty forum opposed the state government’s proposal to increase the retirement age of doctors from 65 to 70 years during a general body meeting of the forum on Thursday. “The UP government had recently taken a decision to raise the retirement age to 70 years. The SGPGI faculty forum disagrees with this decision, which will stop development of second line of doctors and hamper patient care, as older faculty members are not able to serve patients professionally. They lack the required energy levels,” said Sandeep Sahu, secretary, SGPGIMS Faculty Forum and Dr PK Pradhan, president of the forum. Pradhan said, “Nowhere in the country are people forced to work till 70 years.”“If doctors don’t retire, then new posts will not be created, new medical students will not get a chance for faculty jobs. The PGI Faculty Forum will request the state government to reconsider the proposal in the wider interest of public and future of young doctors. The forum will also call for implementation of rotary headship of each department so that all faculty members get administrative experience,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sgpgi-docs-oppose-proposal-to-increase-retirement-age-to-70-yrs-101633019974623.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to decide on lifting remaining Covid-19 restrictions after a week||With the Covid-19 cases on a declining trend in the state, the Maharashtra government is considering lifting the remaining restrictions after reviewing the situation after the first week of October. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday said state authorities will meet after October 8 and if the cases continue to decline, the government will lift the remaining restrictions that are still in force in the state.Barring a few districts, the daily caseload across the state is on a downward trend. The Covid-19 cases in September has seen a 46.64% decline from the previous month. The state has logged 85,980 cases in September. In August, the state had recorded 161,161 Covid-19 cases. In terms of fatalities, the state has registered a 61.21% drop. In August, Maharashtra had reported 4,522 fatalities due to Covid-19, which dropped to 1,754 in September.Pawar, while speaking to mediapersons on Thursday, said that “gradually” the situation is getting better and the state is looking at reopening all remaining restrictions in the state. The state government started its graded unlocking of restrictions since August.“We will have a meeting after October 8, in which, we will decide whether to allow other activities as well... The chief minister has decided to reopen all activities gradually, like theatres, etc, which were not allowed so far. We are taking stock of the situation and taking steps [to reopen] and if the situation keeps improving then definitely we will see a different picture in Maharashtra,” Pawar said.Last week, the state government announced reopening of schools and places of worship from October 4 and October 7, respectively. Later, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that the state will allow cinema halls, auditoriums to reopen from October 22. The state government, which is yet to issue guidelines for reopen theatres and cinema halls, is expected to allow it with 50% capacity and also keep it open only for double-vaccinated citizens.Senior officials said that the state will evaluate the situation after October first week to reopen the remaining activities that haven either partial or complete restrictions. Although the situation is improving, festive season is a concern, the official said. Activities such as religious, political, social gatherings are still not allowed in the state. Weddings and funerals are allowed only with limited number of people in venues at half the capacity. Officials said that relief in these activities could be given by mid-October in a graded manner.Pawar, however, cautioned people that although the state is seeing an overall downward trend in Covid cases, the people must continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and must ensure proper masking in public places. “Last year, we had experience that Covid-19 cases have increased after eight to 10 days after Ganpati festival. In the last state cabinet meeting, held on Tuesday, we saw the figures that showed a downward trend. However, people must continue to follow all Covid-19 protocol, including wearing masks. People do get lax in following basic Covid-appropriate behaviour. It is not only bad for the person, but it will also become a factor in increasing the spread. Everybody needs to take all precautions,” the deputy chief minister said.On Thursday, the state reported 3,063 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 6,550,856. It reported 56 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 139,067. A day after crossing 500 cases on Wednesday, Mumbai reported 451 fresh Covid-19 infections in the city. It also reported seven fatalities, taking the toll to 16,110.Ahmednagar, Pune, Sindhudurg, Palghar, Nashik, Osmanabad, Sangli, Satara, and Ratnagiri districts continue to report a chunk of the daily cases in the state. The weekly positivity rate in these districts is higher than the state’s overall weekly ratio, state health department’s data showed. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 144,845 samples, and had a positivity rate of 2.11%. Overall, the state has tested 58,739,974 samples, while its overall positivity rate is 11.15%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-decide-on-lifting-remaining-covid-19-restrictions-after-a-week-101633019969883.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Jitin Prasada takes charge, to focus on quality of technical education in UP||LUCKNOW Jitin Prasada took charge as UP’s technical education minister at the Secretariat here on Thursday and said his focus would be to improve the quality of technical education in the state.“The responsibility given to me by the state government will be discharged with full dedication, hard work and honesty,” Jitin told mediapersons. “New technologies are constantly evolving. Therefore, it is necessary to provide quality technical education to the students of the state,” he added.The minister reiterated that efforts will be made to connect students of deprived sections with technical education and new courses will be conducted as per the demand and need of the present time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jitin-prasada-takes-charge-to-focus-on-quality-of-technical-education-in-up-101633019370955.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||New species of eel discovered by Maha CM’s son||A new species of swamp eel was discovered from a well in Mumbai by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s younger son Tejas Thackeray and the team at Thackeray Wildlife Foundation. Found in a 40-feet deep well located on the premises of a blind school at Jogeshwari West, the eel is named Rakthamichthys Mumba– the Mumbai blind eel. It belongs to genus Rakthamicthys that is endemic to India.Besides Thackeray, scientists including Jayasimhan Praveenraj, Anil Mohapatra, Annam Pavan-Kumar collaborated in making this discovery. Thackeray’s younger son is a wildlife enthusiast and has been involved in discovering other species in the past, including of gecko, snake and crab.Unlike other species of its genus, the mumba lacks eyes, fins and scales, has jaws equal in forward extent, different gill aperture, crescentic-shaped cephalic. This is the first completely blind subterranean freshwater fish species to be described from Maharashtra and the Northern western Ghats. The species name ‘mumba’ refers to the locality in Mumbai. The word ‘mumba’ derives its roots from the Marathi language, which honours Mumba Aai, a deity worshipped by the inhabitants of this city.‘Rakthamichthys Mumba, a new species of Hypogean eel (Teleostei: Synbranchidae) from Mumbai, Maharashtra, India’ was published in September 2021 in Aqua International Journal of Ichthyology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-species-of-eel-discovered-by-maha-cm-s-son-101633019190746.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena leader Anandrao Adsul moves HC against ED||Shiv Sena leader and former MP Anandrao Adsul has moved the Bombay high court seeking relief against the Enforcement Directorate, which has been conducting raids at his residence and office in connection with a money laundering case wherein he is alleged to be the beneficiary of the misappropriated funds of City Cooperative Bank. The petition has sought quashing of the ECIR, the investigation report filed by ED in connection with the June 2020 FIR relating to fraudulent loans wherein Adsul was alleged to have been the beneficiary of loans worth ₹98 crore. The petition also seeks protection against the summons being issued by the ED and the possible arrest in the case. On Thursday, the petition was mentioned before a division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar. Advocate Abhinav Chandrachud appeared for Adsul and informed the bench that the ED had been questioning Adsul regarding the fraudulent loans and during the questioning his health had deteriorated and had to be admitted to a private hospital. In light of this, he sought protection. However, additional solicitor general Anil Singh for ED opposed the petition and informed the bench that Adsul was in good health and hence the petition should not be entertained. The court was also informed that Adsul had been shifted to another hospital as a precautionary measure. After the bench heard the submissions sought the health report of Adsul and posted hearing of the petition on Friday. The ED had gone to Adsul’s house on Monday and questioned him when his health had deteriorated after which his family moved him to a private hospital. Adsul had lodged a complaint in June 2020 pertaining to the alleged ₹980 crore worth financial irregularities in disbursement of loan funds and other financial transactions in the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-leader-anandrao-adsul-moves-hc-against-ed-101633018771926.html
30-09-2021||Ranchi||Dhanbad judge death: We have got certain leads, CBI tells Ranchi HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed the Jharkhand High Court (HC) on Thursday that they have got “certain leads” in the Dhanbad judge death case, and they are investigating further on those lines, a lawyer participating in the proceedings said.Forty nine-year-old district judge Uttam Anand died on July 28 this year after he was run over by an auto-rickshaw when he was out for a morning walk in Dhanbad. The two occupants of the three-wheeler, Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma, were later arrested. The CCTV footage from the location had showed that the three-wheeler swerved abruptly to hit the judge from behind. The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand HC had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident, with the HC directing the CBI to file probe status report every week. Last week, the central agency had informed the court that the district judge was “apparently hit intentionally”. However, the agency said that it was yet to get any concrete evidence to prove the case as that of murder.Appearing before a division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad on Thursday, the CBI said it is interrogating the accused afresh, said the aforementioned lawyer. Earlier on Tuesday, the CBI had again taken custody of the two arrested accused, who have been in judicial custody in Dhanbad central jail since they were arrested on July 29. They have already got scientific tests such as brain mapping and narcotics test conducted of the two accused. Bench unhappy with state govt reply on FSLThe bench, meanwhile, expressed unhappiness over the state government’s reply on modernising and upgradation of forensic science laboratories (FSL) in the state. The government, in its reply, had submitted that it would release funds for upgradation in six months. “The bench took exception to it and directed the state government to submit a detailed upgradation plan by next week and also directed the state home secretary and FSL director to be present in person during the hearing next week,” a lawyer involved in the proceedings said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dhanbad-judge-death-we-have-got-certain-leads-cbi-tells-ranchi-hc-101633018350863.html
30-09-2021||Patna||Patna saw over 300 road mishaps in last 9 months: Traffic police dept||Fear gripped commuters in the capital city after a horrific car accident took place near Ramakrishna Nagar on NH 30, which claimed two lives and injured seven people on Tuesday morning.As per the traffic police department, the capital city has registered over 300 road accidents claiming more than 150 lives between January to September this year. In September, at least 23 road accidents were registered so far while the highest number of accidents occurred in January, which saw 42 mishaps and 24 fatalities.Residents shared that the increasing number of flyovers and road expansion in the capital city has made transportation easy but they have also emerged as accidents spots due to reckless driving and poor traffic monitoring system.Meanwhile, the state transport department shared that several measures are being taken to achieve the set target of minimising road accidents by 50% by 2030.Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said, “The department has asked every district to identify highly sensitive stretches. After compilation of data, we would prepare action plans, including educating locals, engineering innervations and emergency care services, for bringing down accidents and fatalities.” “There are 115 black spots in the state mainly identified on national highways and state highways,” he added.“Flyovers have reduced travel time but there is no traffic regulation on them. Over speeding, reckless driving and craze among people for shooting photos and videos on flyovers are the major cause behind road accidents,” said Deepak Kumar, a school teacher near Bypass Road.As per transport officials, several safety measures have been adopted to minimise road accidents.“Intense helmet and seatbelt checking drive, encouragement to good Samaritans for helping accident victims have yielded positive results. The department has also established automated driving schools for proper training of drivers while other hi-tech projects are in pipeline, which will bring a significant decline in road mishaps in coming years”, said a senior official of the transport department. The transport department claimed an 8% fall in road accidents during January to June this year in comparison to the corresponding period in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-saw-over-300-road-mishaps-in-last-9-months-traffic-police-dept-101633018291746.html
30-09-2021||Patna||Bhagalpur: Criminals loot ₹29 lakh from Cooperative bank||Six armed miscreants allegedly looted ₹29 lakh from The Bhagalpur Central Cooperative Bank’s Sultanganj branch and assaulted the staff here on Thursday evening, said police.Bhagalpur SSP Nitasha Gudiya said that police detained three persons for interrogation following the incident. The borders of the districts have been sealed and raids are on to arrest the robbers. Six men barged into the bank around 4.20 pm and held the manager, cashier, employees and a customer captive at gunpoint. When cashier Ajay Kumar Jha tried to resist their attempt, the criminals assaulted him with revolvers. The robbers forced the cashier to hand over the keys to the strong room where cash was stored. The cashier said that the criminals locked up the employees in the strong room before escaping. They were unlocked after a few Jeevika self-help workers reached the bank to deposit money. On getting information, Bhagalpur SSP Nitasha Gudiya rushed to the site. “The robbers had fled by the time police reached there,” said an employee Sanjay Kumar. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bhagalpur-criminals-loot-29-lakh-from-cooperative-bank-101633018290423.html
30-09-2021||Other||VTR can accommodate 60-65 tigers, says chief||Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in Bihar’s West Champaran district is equipped to accommodate 60-65 big cats given its available infrastructure, forest officials said. As per 2018 tiger census, VTR had 31 tigers and eight cubs, of which three tigers have died.Speaking to reporters on Thursday on the occasion of “India for Tiger — A rally on wheels”, being organised by National Tiger Conservation Authority across the country, HK Rai, wildlife conservator and field director of VTR said, “The increase in grassland coverage and water holes has resulted in a sharp surge in the population of herbivores and carnivores in the VTR. Since tiger is at the apex of the biological pyramid, VTR could well be a home to close to 65 tigers or so, according to our assessment.”VTR is country’s 18th tiger reserve, declared in March 1994.Spread over an area of 900 square kilometres of forest area and divided into eight ranges, it has 22 water holes and grassland on eight per cent of the total forest area. Officials put the total number of bears between 400 and 450, leopards at 98 and gaur (indian bison) at 250-300.Earlier in the day, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, BJP MP from West Champaran and the party’s Bihar unit president, flagged off a rally on wheels from Bettiah, the district headquarters, as part of NTCA’s plan to spread the message of biodiversity conservation under the ambit of Project Tiger and Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats (IDWH) programme of ministry of environment forest and climate change (MoEFCC). The rally on wheel from Bettiah would terminate at Palamau tiger reserve in Jharkhand after passing through over half a dozen districts of the two states, officials said.Forest officials here said rally on wheels is scheduled to be taken out from 42 of the existing 51 tiger reserves of the country which would cover a distance of over 7500 kilometres across the country and terminate at designated focal points of celebration after following assigned routes. “First nine tiger reserve designated during the inception of tiger project in 1973 have been made focal points of celebration. The rallies from 42 reserve would terminate at one of the first nine reserves between October 2 and October 8, 2021,” said Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vtr-can-accommodate-60-65-tigers-says-chief-101633017930695.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC appeals for online darshan for navratri, says no to garba events in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday issued guidelines for the upcoming navratri (October 7-14) festival, in which it directed the sarvajanik (community) mandals in the city to arrange for online darshan of idols for public in view of Covid-19, similar to last year. The BMC has said navratri will be celebrated low key, on the lines of Ganesh festival, wherein organising garba is restricted and not more than five people will be allowed inside pandals. The BMC, in a circular, has appealed organisations to hold blood donation camps or create public awareness regarding vector-borne diseases like malaria and dengue, instead of organising garba events. The BMC in a circular said, “Conducting any religious ritual of worship there should not be any kind of crowd gathered around the pandal. No distribution of ‘prasad, flowers has been allowed and so has the setting up of stalls around it been restricted.” “The organising of garba is restricted as that brings people in close contact with each other. There will also be no artificial immersion sites and all idols will be immersed in natural immersion sites only,” said deputy municipal commissioner Harshal Kale in the circular. The BMC has also restricted the height of the idol to 4 feet in case of public mandals and two feel for home like that during Ganesh festival. Meanwhile, during immersion and during bringing the idol, not more than 10 people will be allowed, who should be preferably fully vaccinated and not more than five people, in case of those taking the idol at home. Further, those coming to take physical darshan at pandals should be screened for their temperature. The main area of the pandal should be sanitised three times in a day, said the BMC in a circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-appeals-for-online-darshan-for-navratri-says-no-to-garba-events-in-mumbai-101633017873428.html
30-09-2021||Patna||Bihar likely to get heavy rain till Oct 4, MeT issues red alert for today||Bihar is likely to experience widespread rain at many places till October 4, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Thursday.The MeT centre has also issued red colour warning for extremely heavy rainfall at a few places for Friday.On Thursday, light to moderate rain occurred at many places over south-central, south-east and northern parts of the state.As per daily bulletin, Chandan in Banka received 61.2 mm of rainfall, Jhajha in Jamui 57.6 mm, Sono in Jamui 52.6 mm, Rajauli in Nawada 48.5 mm and Katoria in Banka 35.8 mm during past 24 hours.Meteorologists said the intensity of rain is likely to enhance from Friday owing to favourable weather mechanisms.Duty officer Arti Gupta, said, “As per current numerical model and radar observation, a well-marked low-pressure and cyclonic circulation which were lying over northwest Jharkhand has shifted to north Jharkhand and adjoining areas of Bihar. Besides, a trough line is passing south-east Bay of Bengal to south Andhra Pradesh coast. Under the influence, Bihar is likely to receive widespread to fairly widespread rain till October 4.”Patna Meteorological Centre also issued a special bulletin forecasting heavy to extremely rain in the state on Friday. The MeT centre has issued red alert predicting extremely heavy rain at one or two places in Vaishali, Samastipur and Khagaria district while orange alert for heavy to very heavy rain over Patna, Nalanda, Sheikhpura and Begusarai districts.Ananda Shankar, director in-charge of Patna Meteorological Centre, said, “Strong winds at the speed of 35-45 km per hour are likely to gust in the state for two days. Incessant rain in the state may cause waterlogging in some areas. The intensity of rain is likely to reduce from October 3.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-likely-to-get-heavy-rain-till-oct-4-met-issues-red-alert-for-today-101633017871429.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's ex-top cop in Russia? Maha home minister says lookout circular issued||Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil on Thursday said the state government or the investigative agencies are not aware of the whereabouts of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who is accused in an alleged money laundering case.Speaking to the media on rumours that the former top cop has fled to Russia, Patil said a lookout circular has been issued after Singh failed to report before the investigative authorities despite multiple notices served to him, and the government is looking for him.“Along with the Union home ministry, we're also searching for his (Param Bir Singh) whereabouts. I've heard something like that but as a government officer, he can't go abroad without government clearance,” the Maharashtra home minister. “We've issued a Lookout Circular (LOC) and if he went away, then it is not good,” Patil added.Singh is wanted in an investigation into an allegation of corruption that he levelled against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, in which the former Mumbai Police claimed that the minister was involved in an extortion racket and asked police officials to collect money from bars and restaurant owners. He also named disgraced encounter specialist Sachin Waze in his complaint.Deshmukh resigned in April after the Bombay high court asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to carry out a preliminary enquiry.Earlier this month, a probe panel led by retired Bombay high court judge Justice Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal issued a bailable warrant against Param Bir Singh after he failed to appear before the investigative authorities. The state government had formed the single-member commission to probe the allegations levelled by Singh. But, the former top cop moved the Bombay high court in August requesting it to disband the Chandiwal commission on the grounds that the issues referred to the commission were already adjudicated on by the Bombay HC and the Supreme Court and thus there was no need for the Chandiwal probe.Last week, the Bombay high court dismissed a petition filed by Singh for quashing the two preliminary inquiries against him by the state government.The Mumbai Police had in June lodged four FIRs against the former commissioner over alleged charges of extortion, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy after a builder complained against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-ex-top-cop-in-russia-maha-home-minister-says-lookout-circular-issued-101633012063825.html
30-09-2021||Dehradun||Senior AAP leader and former state president’s son found dead at Dehradun hotel||Senior Aam Aadmi Party leader and former president of the state unit SS Kaler’s 24-year-old son was found dead in a hotel room in Dehradun on Friday, police said. Abhinay Chaudhary, in-charge of Rajpur Road police station said Sikander Kaler, the son of AAP leader SS Kaler was found dead at a hotel on Rajpur Road on Friday. “In the morning when he didn’t respond to the calls of his family members and the knocking on his hotel room door by the hotel staff went unanswered, the police was called. When we went there, we found him lying dead in the room,” he said. Chaudhary said that in the preliminary investigation it was been revealed that he had checked into the hotel on Thursday. “He had a transport-related business. On Thursday evening, he had gone out to drink with his friend. After returning, he entered his room and locked it from inside. It is likely he had drunk a lot as he had vomited a lot in the room, including on his own clothes,” he said. Chaudhary said the body had been sent for a post-mortem examination. “The exact cause of death will be known after the post mortem result is received. We have started an investigation into the matter. We are taking statements of the hotel staff,” he said. SS Kaler, the father of the deceased had resigned from the post of state president of the AAP Uttarakhand unit earlier this month. At that time, he had said that he was resigning from the post of state president as the party had decided that he would be contesting the assembly polls from Khatima, the home turf of Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/senior-aap-leader-and-former-state-president-s-son-found-dead-at-dehradun-hotel-101633016730446.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai schools in prep mode to welcome students back on campus on October 4||Classrooms and playgrounds across schools in Mumbai will be welcoming their students back to campus for the first time in more than 18 months. The recent decision of reopening schools for Class 8 to Class 12 students has invited mixed reactions from educational institutes as well as parents, but for the time being, schools are gearing up for October 4.While several schools and colleges have for some time now toyed with the idea of hybrid classrooms, many feel that the actual implementation of the hybrid model might be more difficult than it seems. “We plan to start classes in the hybrid mode starting Monday (October 4) but are still unclear how it will work out. We are expecting a teacher to conduct a split classroom, where they are expected to pay attention to students who are online as well as those present physically in a classroom. Practically, this option sounds difficult,” said Rupa Roy, principal of Balmohan Vidyamandir, Dadar.She added that as 70% of their staff is young, most teachers are yet to get their second vaccination dose. “It would be difficult for those not fully vaccinated to travel as not all live in the vicinity. Moreover, we hardly had any time in hand to implement all the measures as it was a sudden decision by the government. However, we have started taking consent from parents to send their children to school,” said Roy.While lectures are one part of the situation, many are unsure how their children will travel every day, as public transport is still not safe, especially for children. “We outsource school buses, and while we can maintain sanitisation within our premises, we cannot guarantee the same outside the school premises. We’ve requested parents to find alternative ways to travel to school,” said the principal of a school in Colaba.A group of 50 principals, part of Mumbai International Schools’ Association (MISA), got together on Thursday to discuss the future plan of action and unanimously agreed to first start physical classes in order to lend emotional support and ease students into eventual physical classes. “Most international schools are conducting their end-of-term exams currently, so we have decided to bring not more than 45-50% of the class strength back to campus for a session of non-academic activities and to lend emotional and mental support to those who have been personally affected by Covid-19,” said one of the participating principals, on the condition of anonymity.While physical classes will be for interaction among students and teachers, the academic work will still continue online, said the principal. “We will gauge the situation first by inviting students for non-academic activities and only once we are sure of the safety of staff and students will we start physical classes in a staggered manner,” added the principal.Jyotsna Mayadas, principal of Euro School, said, “We have set up a system wherein there will be a proper mechanism to check the temperature of staff and students. We have mask disposal provisions and are also leaving markings on the floor for students to follow social distancing. We have trained the staff to manage the isolation rooms in case anyone feels unwell.”Parent groups, have for some time now, not appreciated the efforts of the state government and local municipal corporation to restart physical classes, especially for school students, from the past few months. “Why is the most vulnerable section of the society being expected to start attending physical classes first? None of the students studying in Class 8 to Class 12 are vaccinated yet. So we suggest that the government delay this move for a few months,” said Anubha Sahai, president of Indiawide Parents’ Association.Maitreye Dutta, parent of a 14-year-old studying in Holy Family School, Ghatkopar, said, “Even if social distancing is followed within the school, staff and students come from different areas and use various modes of transport. Sending my daughter to school would be compromising her safety. I would prefer online classes instead.”Junior colleges unclear about rules Most city colleges have decided to call students in a staggered manner to first start practical classes only. “As a pilot, we will call our students who require practical classes, especially those who are struggling with understanding concepts in virtual classes. We’ve also sought consent of parents and plan to decide the next step based on what parents have to say. As some of our students as well as staff are still in their respective native towns, we will consider the time they will take to get back, and unless we are comfortable with this process, we will not start hybrid classrooms,” said Neha Jagtiani, (in-charge) principal, RD National College, Bandra.Most schools and colleges have already started sanitising their classrooms and common areas. Many plan to sanitise a classroom after a batch leaves and before a new batch arrives. “There’s no way of finding out how students will react to and follow Covid-19 protocols, including wearing masks and social distancing on campus. Once the practical sessions begin, we will understand how strict our rules need to be and accordingly then start bringing students back in a staggered manner,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal, KC College.Some await clear directions One of the major concerns for most junior colleges at present is travel, both for staff and students. “BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) circular specifically mentions schools, and unless we receive a circular from the office of the deputy director of education (DYDE), we can’t decide whether to start physical classes or not,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal of St Xavier’s College, Dhobi Talao.Most students are currently planning to travel by school buses to and from school, however, there is no standard operating procedure (SOP) announced for it yet. “We need compensation from the government for the losses we have faced and also as part of maintenance. Umpteen letters to the authorities have received no response. Moreover, there is no mention of school bus in the reopening protocols shared by various authorities. With the hike in diesel and petrol prices, we shall have to increase our fees by 30% as well,” said Anil Garg, president, School Bus Owners Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-schools-in-prep-mode-to-welcome-students-back-on-campus-on-october-4-101633016670301.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||PIL filed in Bombay High Court against potholes and bad state of roads of Thane||BJP’s Thane city vice-president, Sachin More, filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Bombay High Court on Thursday against the bad state of roads in Thane. He has demanded relief from potholes for the commuters. He stated that the concerned government agencies should follow the directives given by the High Court in 2015 regarding potholes.He also stated that when senior BJP Leaders visited some of these potholes, they realised that the material used was of inferior quality. In the PIL, More mentions that the government should take the filling of potholes and road repair work on a war footing basis and relieve the commuters of the hassles.“These potholes have caused traffic snarls in the city, inconveniencing many, making it difficult for ambulances as well to pass through,” added More in his PIL. He has also made the MMRDA, the State Government, Thane Municipal Corporation, Thane Guardian Minister and Thane Mayor a party to the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-filed-in-bombay-high-court-against-potholes-and-bad-state-of-roads-of-thane-101633015954937.html
30-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal relaxes night curfew during Durga Puja, extends Covid-19 norms till October 30||The West Bengal government on Thursday announced that it would relax the night curfew in the state between 11pm and 5am in view of the Durga Puja celebrations. However, the state government also said that the existing restrictions in place to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have been extended till October 30.In its latest circular, the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government said the existing restrictions on the movement of people and vehicles between 11pm and 5am will be relaxed for 10 days — from October 10 to October 20 — when the state celebrates Durga Puja. “In view of the ensuing festive period the said restriction relating to movement of people and vehicles between 11pm and 5am is relaxed during 10th October 2021 to 20th October 2021,” the government said in its order.However, on other days the night curfew would continue except for “health services, law and order, essential commodities including agricultural produce and other emergency services," the government announced.Also read | No Chhat puja at public places, river banks in Delhi: DDMAFurther, the state also stressed the need for wearing of face masks and maintaining physical distancing and other health and hygiene protocols at all times. It also said that work from home should be encouraged as much as possible. “Employers/ management bodies/ owners / supervisors of all offices, establishments and work places shall be responsible for provisioning of all COVID safety measures including regular sanitization of work places, vaccination of employees and for compliance of stated directives and COVID appropriate norms. Work from home must be encouraged as far as possible and practical,” the order said.Warning of legal action against any violations of the Covid-19 norms, the state also asked district administration, the police and the local authorities to ensure strict compliance of the rules.The new guidelines have been issued by the state as the existing Covid-19 rules are set to end on Thursday, according to an earlier order on September 15.The orders came even as the Centre directed the states to enforce adherence to Covid-related guidelines especially during the festive season."With the decline in the Covid-19 cases, there is a possibility that Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) is not adhered to strictly, especially during the upcoming festivals. It is therefore critical to enforce adherence to guidelines which allows regular festivities in a cautious, safe and Covid-appropriate manner. Utmost vigil has to be maintained in respect of mass gathering events, so as to avoid any possibility of surge in Covid-19 cases. Consequently, large scale gatherings in fairs, festivals and religious events and functions may lead to afresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the country," the Union home ministry on Tuesday wrote to state chief secretaries.Meanwhile, 749 people tested positive for the disease on the day as the state’s total caseload reached 1,569,070, a bulletin from the state government showed. Also 15 people succumbed to their infection and the death toll climbed to 18,793. The state currently has 7,570 active cases of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-relaxes-night-curfew-during-durga-puja-extends-covid-19-norms-till-october-30-101633014213384.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai residents in home isolation more than double in a month||Over the past month, the number of citizens in home quarantine across Mumbai has more than doubled, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). At the same time, the bed availability in the city rose from 86% to 89% even as the city reported a minor spike in the number of cases being reported daily.According to protocol, those in home isolation are Covid-19 patients with mild or no symptoms or are high-risk and low-risk contacts. According to the data, in the last week of August, the city was reporting cases between 300 and 350 that has now gone up to 450-550 cases. The data revealed that on August 23, 31,382 citizens were under home quarantine, which has now gone up to 72,460 , as of September 28.Civic officials attributed the spike in the number of citizens under home quarantine to various factors — increase in contact tracing owing to fear of third wave followed by partially vaccinated citizens getting infected, but having mild symptoms due to which they are eligible for home quarantine. Lastly, the 14-days home quarantine rule for international passengers are some of the reasons for the doubling of the number of citizens in home isolation.Earlier, in the first week of September, the BMC had ruled that all international passengers must give a self-declaration form with an undertaking to undergo home quarantine for 14 days.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, ‘We increased contact tracing to 1:20 from the 1:10, wherein we are tracing 20 people behind every positive case, which may have resulted in an increase in the number of citizens under home isolation. Also, another reason is quarantining incoming international passengers starting September.”According to BMC officials, many partially vaccinating citizens are also getting infected, but are not requiring hospitalisation due to mild symptoms. Out of the 9.2 million eligible adult population, close to 90% have got at least one dose. Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC’s D ward, that covers areas like Malabar Hill, Chowpatty and Girgaon said, “In our ward, there was always high demand of home isolation considering there are citizens residing in big houses. In the case of slums and chawls, we are seeing almost no cases. However, in the past one month the number of home isolation cases has increased in our ward due to increased contact tracing.” Gaikwad added, “Also, another reason for increase in home isolation is that those infected are young and can manage symptoms at home. Earlier, those who were immuno-compromised got infected and hence there was huge demand for hospitals. But now we have vaccinated such citizens on priority.”Meanwhile, Dr Vasant Nagvekar, infectious disease consultant at Global Hospital, who is also a member of the state Covid-19 task-force, said, “ The reason why we are seeing more people under home isolation is because many those who are infected are young, say in the age group of 18 or 20 years. They are able to manage symptoms at home. The contact tracing has definitely increased along with it the 85% of the cases are having very mild symptoms due to maybe say at least one dose of vaccination. Alongside this, many people are also undergoing cocktail therapy, which has a shorter stay at hospitals leading to more bed availability. These are the factors resulting in fewer hospitalisations and more home isolations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/home-isolation-cases-in-mumbai-more-than-double-in-a-month-101633014997782.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Pandemic effect: Hybrid learning for students||Two teachers, including the head of the life sciences department at Churchgate’s KC College took a stroll through the Sagar Upvan Botanical Garden in Colaba last October as Covid engulfed the city. The garden was closed to public, but the professors were here on work. As they started to record their walkthrough using a smartphone, 300-odd students watched the livestream from their respective homes. “We had visited this garden as part of our first year syllabus and seen the various medicinal plants and trees there. So the virtual visit refreshed our memories,” said Aryaman Tulpule (21), a third year student who viewed the recording. The difference was that this time around, when they had a question, they could raise it immediately during the livestream – either their professor, or a staff of the garden present during the recording, answered it. Students from various departments of KC College, for instance, participated in virtual industrial visits, including the Embryology Academy for Research and Training (EART) in Dahisar through such virtual walkthroughs. “This year, we approached different companies and organisations to allow virtual tours. Surprisingly, everyone welcomed the move,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal of KC College. It has been well over a year since students set foot in their classroom. During this time, teaching media, tools, pedagogy and assessment—everything that defines a classroom has metamorphosed to bridge the physical gap between the student and the classroom. Many of these changes may well be permanent in nature. Bridging a gap Not all sciences lend themselves to virtual learning methods and physical experiments are necessary. “Final year students of Biology are supposed to know how to use a photospectometer to measure the amount of photons absorbed by plants. But because of the pandemic, they had to watch their instructors explain the apparatus during online lectures,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal, St Xavier’s College, Mumbai. But virtual labs allow students to simulate experiments, and serve as a useful study aid. Almost all major Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) have set up virtual labs under the Virtual Labs Initiative of government of India. Though the initiative has been around since 2012, it was brought it into the spotlight by the pandemic. Here’s how it works. The virtual lab offered by IIT Bombay, for instance, is a website that allows students to simulate an actual lab experiment on their device. For example, if a student is trying to verify the Beer-Lambert’s Law in molecular chemistry, they start by turning on a spectrophotometer. Students then pour the aqueous solution to measure into a beaker and place it on the experiment table (i.e they use their mouse to drag the beaker and place it on the experiment table). Using a micropipette, they draw small amounts of the solution and pour them as samples in conical flasks and cuvettes. They place these flasks and cuvettes in the spectrophotometer. Scan results pop up almost instantly on the computer screen. Kannan Moudgalya, professor and associate faculty at the Interdisciplinary Programme in Educational Technology, IIT Bombay, said, “We are continuously working on bettering the experience for students. Now, using the virtual lab a student can simulate a chemical experiment and take recordings. These tools are becoming increasingly popular in schools.” Part of the reason is that these tools make it easy to learn concepts: instructions have become multi-pronged and immediate, and students -- all digital natives -- are primed for it. Education technology (ed-tech) platforms have figured that out. According to one study released by a venture capitalist firm that invests in ed-tech startups, the market in India saw a nearly 200% increase in funding in 2020. Welcoming phones in classrooms “During lectures, while a concept was behind taught by the teacher, students would receive links to YouTube videos to see live demonstration of the subject matter. Similarly, we were also allowed to virtually perform experiments where one got real-time feel of how the experiment is conducted including handling of pipettes, chemicals, cultures etc; precautions were discussed and explained as well,” said Chitra Lahoti, a recently graduated student from the microbiology department of KC College, Churchgate. Teachers also shared quizzes with students to gauge how much of the concept was understood by students, Lahoti said. “We usually discourage students from using mobile phones in classrooms but in the online classes, I realised it helped to encourage students to use their mobiles to research for the trending new topic on Twitter, or check out the latest photo story uploaded by a famous photographer. I’ve decided to continue this teaching method even once physical classrooms commence,” said Lokesh Tardalkar, assistant professor, Mass Media & Film Making course, UPG College. During the pandemic, the institute started hybrid classes where a small number of students would attend college and the same lecture was [simultaneously made available online for those attending lecture from their respective homes, Tardalkar said. “For subjects like photography and cinematography… teachers have made use of videos and online content to explain concepts more creatively. Many teachers have started creating their own content which we plan to continue using in classrooms even once physical lectures commence,” said Anju Kapoor, principal of UPG College, Vile Parle. “Last year the pandemic was new and everyone was unaware of how long it’ll last, it was necessary to reduce the portion to give teachers and students ample time to complete the required portion and at the same time, also adjust to online learning,” said Vasant Kalpande, former chairman of state education board who was part of the committee to reduce the state board syllabus by 25% across all classes in the Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE). He said that the need of the hour is for the schools and teachers to focus on using technology better in classrooms and changing pedagogy. “With technology at their disposal, teachers can work wonders and ensure regular classrooms are filled with innovative methods to teach the same subject. However, most schools in the state are still using technology just to conduct lectures, and not to make their lectures interesting for students,” said Kalpande. An opportunity and challenge For ed-tech platforms, the hybrid model is a nod to the future. Cuemath, an ed-tech startup that provides online Math and coding classes for K-12 students, conducted physical classes before the pandemic. “As soon as the pandemic broke out, we trained all our instructors and brought them online. For us, our growth trajectory is going to be skewed towards more online,” said Mannan Khurma, founder, Cuemath. But this would mean developing a new kind of classroom ethics, he said: “Unless online classes are evolved into a very personalised monitoring, tracking and helping out students, the online format will not achieve its full potential.” Other challenges in the hybrid mode of education persist. The primary concern for schools is smartphone penetration. “Based on my own experience with students and my conversations with other educationists, I can say that hybrid education may not necessarily work, especially in tier 2 and tier 3 cities. First and foremost, unless teachers are trained en masse on how to use the latest technology, we won’t see a major revolution. Most teachers simply replicate what they would do in a physical classroom on a video call. Many are not aware of the latest tools. Then there is the question of infrastructure,” said Aniket Sule, associate professor, Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Mumbai. “In rural Maharashtra, many families have a single device on which all their children are studying. Many students have fallen out of the education system because of this digital divide,” Sule added. Teachers also said that learning outcomes were difficult to measure online. “Learning outcomes and effectiveness are difficult to track. Effectiveness is a bigger problem with respect to K-12, given the amount of engagement and handholding involved. Test prep, upskilling, and reskilling startups would showcase a lower delta in terms of learning effectiveness between online and traditional channels,” said Pearl Agarwal, founder and managing director, Exemius Ventures, a venture capitalist firm which invests in ed-tech companies and in May, released an analysis of the COVID-19 induced growth of India’s ed-tech sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandemic-effect-hybrid-learning-for-students-101633014693715.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh meets family of Kanpur-based bizman,seeks judicial probe into death||KANPUR Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, who met the family members of Kanpur-based businessman Manish Gupta, 36, at their Barra residence on Thursday, said the state government should provide ₹2 crore financial assistance to the victim’s family and demanded a probe by a sitting judge of the high court.“We demand a probe by sitting judge of the high court. All evidence was removed. The state government should provide ₹2 crore financial assistance to the victim’s family. Our party will also provide ₹20 lakh to them,” said Yadav. Earlier, high voltage drama unfolded at Barra as the police took away Gupta’s family just before the SP chief’s arrival, said locals. They returned to the house only after SP workers protested. The Kanpur-based businessman had died on September 28 during a raid at a hotel room in Gorakhpur, following which six policemen were suspended.“The police, under the BJP rule, are taking lives than protecting them. The way cops have behaved in the last four and a half years is unprecedented. Such incidents have become a norm in the state,” alleged Yadav.Uttar Pradesh topped in custodial deaths, which happened under the current dispensation. The National Human Rights Commission issued maximum notices to the UP police in this regard, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-meets-family-of-kanpur-based-bizman-seeks-judicial-probe-into-death-101633014691901.html
30-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad doctor loses cellphone in Noida, then loses ₹11 lakh to online fraud||A doctor working at the Ghaziabad district hospital allegedly lost her mobile phone last week and was defrauded of almost ₹11 lakh via online transactions. According to the police, Archana Singh, a resident of Noida’s Sector 76, said that on September 22 she attended a meeting in Noida’s Sector 39. “Later, I went to Sector 116 to see the construction site where we are building a new house. I returned home in the evening and found my mobile phone missing. The mobile phone had two SIM cards and one of them was linked to my bank account,” she said. She visited the nearest police check post and the officers on duty asked her to file a complaint with the Sector 49 police. She said she filed a complaint at the police station the same evening. Singh said that she was confused after the loss of the mobile phone and could not immediately get the SIM cards blocked. “On September 23, I visited my bank and found that someone had fraudulently shopped online for ₹10.96 lakh from my bank account via three transactions,” she said.Singh then filed a complaint with the cyber cell. Baljeet Singh, inspector, cyber cell, Noida, said that the police swiftly investigated the matter and talked to the management of the e-commerce company where the perpetrator had shopped. “We managed to reverse the transaction worth ₹7.5 lakh and returned the money to Singh’s account. We are working to recover the remaining amount and also arrest the suspects involved in the fraud,” he said. The cyber cell directed the Sector 49 police to register a case in this regard. Vinod Kumar, station house officer, Sector 49 police station, said a case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 420 (cheating) and Section 66-D of IT Act. The inspector of the cyber cell said that from January to October 2021, Noida Police’s cyber cell investigated several cases and recovered ₹1.43 crore, and returned the money to the victims’ bank accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gzb-doctor-loses-mobile-phone-in-noida-gets-robbed-of-11-lakh-101633013550194.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Oriental Dwarf Kingfisher given pride of place in Raigad to boost tourism||In order to boost the tourism of Raigad district, the district guardian minister, Aditi Tatkare, on the occasion of World Tourism Day, announced Oriental Dwarf Kingfisher bird to be declared as the district’s bird.The unique beauty of the bird and the fact that it comes to the Konkan belt, especially to Raigad district, with the onset of south west monsoon, made it the district bird of Raigad.The Maharashtra Forest Department had also filmed a documentary on the bird last year and it was shown to Tatkare during her visit to Karnala Bird Sanctuary.“In an earlier meeting with the district forest officers and experts in tourism, it was proposed that we need to have a bird for our district to promote tourism, which was approved in a planning committee meeting held this week. In Raigad, we have these birds coming in from the month of May to October at various places. One of the popular spots for the birds to migrate is Karnala Bird Sanctuary, wherein the forest officials had also shot a documentary,” Tatkare said. This tiniest migratory bird, only 13cm in length, visits the sanctuary every year for two-three months and attracts bird watchers in large numbers. “To spread more information on this bird and create awareness to save this species, a documentary titled ‘The Life Journey of a Forest Jewel’ was made by Maharashtra Forest Department. The documentary got nominated in the Natural History category among a hundred-plus wildlife movies from India and other countries in Nature in Focus, an International Film Festival of Bengaluru. The documentary finally bagged the fourth position,” a forest official said.“This bird is a breeding visitor here. Also known as ‘Flying Jewel’, the vibrant colours of the bird is the major attraction. They migrate to the places near the forest stream as they need fresh flowing water,” Nikhil Bhople, a wildlife expert and conservationist from Navi Mumbai, said. The bird builds its nest in the radius of one metre in the forest, near the streams and humus land. Known as ‘Tiboti Khandya’ in Marathi, it has black spots on forehead, blue and white colour on neck, dark blue and black colour on feathers. The neck is yellowish saffron, the beak is yellowish orange and the tail is orange pink of the bird. The legs of the bird seem to have three fingers and hence it is called ‘Tiboti’ (three fingers) in Marathi. According to district officials, there is no record maintained on the number of birds in the district as it is a migratory bird and is found here only for four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/oriental-dwarf-kingfisher-given-pride-of-place-in-raigad-to-boost-tourism-101633012234416.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur realtor hurt while trying to escape, died in hospital: ADG||LUCKNOW Kanpur businessman, Manish Gupta, 36, died of a head injury caused by a fall as he tried to escape during police checking at a hotel where he was staying in Gorakhpur, said Prashant Kumar, ADG (law and order),while talking to media persons in Lucknow. He also said that Gupta died in a hospital during treatment. The ADG’s statement came at a time when six policemen had been booked on murder charge and chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the guilty won’t be spared.Gupta had died on Monday night after he was allegedly thrashed by some policemen, who raided the hotel. Initially too, the cops had maintained that he had died of a head injury after falling on the ground. Later, the authorities suspended six policemen and booked them in a murder case. The ADG told reporters that the Gorakhpur SSP had ordered for checking everywhere. “In this regard, a checking was done at the hotel where three people were in a room. Two had identity cards while one did not have it. When questioned, he (Manish) tried to escape,” said Kumar.Kumar claimed that Manish was hurt due to a fall and died when he was taken to a hospital for treatment. He, however, stated that the post-mortem examination of the deceased had been conducted by a panel of doctors and the investigation was being done as per its findings. The post-mortem report on Wednesday night revealed the death of Manish Gupta was caused due to grave injuries on his body, including the skull, eye, limb and back. Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-trader-hurt-while-trying-to-escape-died-in-hospital-adg-101633011870078.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Vashi police book man for sexually abusing 6-year-old girl||The Vashi police have booked a man on Thursday for sexually abusing a six-year-old girl of Sector 31 hutment area in Vashi.According to police, the accused, identified as Pappu, has been absconding since the incident occurred on September 23.According to the victim’s 31-year-old mother, she was not entertained by police when she first went to the police station after the incident to register a complaint. She then approached an NGO and with their help, a case was registered.Meanwhile, police inspector (crime), Pramod Toradmal of Vashi Police Station has denied the allegation and said, “We registered the case immediately after she approached us which was in the wee hours of Thursday.”According to the complainant, she earned a living by doing house help jobs and on September 23, when she reached back home from work, she saw the accused sexually abusing her daughter. On being questioned, he said that he was just applying some ointment on her private parts and fled. The accused has been booked under sections of rape and molestation of the Indian Penal Code and sections under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vashi-police-book-man-for-sexually-abusing-6-year-old-girl-101633011209785.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Car falls into Bhatsa river after colliding with another on bridge in Shahpur accident||A head-on collision between two vehicles sent one of them hurtling into the Bhatsa river in Shahpur on Thursday.According to the Shahpur police, the incident occurred at around 2.30pm on the Sapgaon Bridge over the river. Officials said that a WagonR and a Ford Eco travelling in opposite directions collided hard and the impact of the collision caused the WagonR to crash through the concrete railing of the bridge and fall into the river. “Some local residents who had witnessed the accident immediately jumped into the river. They pulled out the driver of the WagonR and rushed him to the Rural Hospital in Shahpur. He was later shifted to a private hospital in Kalyan,” police inspector Rajkumar Upase, Shahpur police station said.According to the Regional Disaster Management Cell of the Thane Municipal Corporation, the victim has been identified as Vikas Shirke. “We haven’t been able to record a statement from the victim as yet. An FIR in the matter will be registered after the necessary inquiries are conducted,” Upase said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/car-falls-into-bhatsa-river-after-colliding-with-another-on-bridge-in-shahpur-accident-101633010370076.html
30-09-2021||Kolkata||TMC, BJP workers clash in Bhabanipur during assembly bypoll||As polling for the Bhabanipur by-poll continues, a clash broke out between workers of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The police reached the spot to take control of the situation.Earlier, BJP candidate for Bhabanipur by-poll, Priyanka Tibrewal at polling booth of ward number 72 alleged booth capturing in the area. Speaking to ANI, she said, "Madan Mitra, a TMC MLA, has purposely shut the voting machine here as he wants to capture the booth.""A man confessed to me that TMC paid him ₹500 to cast vote. He was from Bansdroni. I have informed the authorities," she added.Meanwhile, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC candidate for Bhabanipur bypoll has departed from Mitra Institution - a polling booth in the assembly constituency - after casting her vote.Till 3 PM today, a voter turnout of 72.45 per cent, 68.17 per cent and 48.08 per cent was recorded till 3 pm in Samserganj, Jangipur polls and Bhabanipur bypoll, respectively.By-polls are being conducted today in three assembly constituencies in West Bengal - Bhabanipur, Samserganj and Jangipur.Bhabanipur by-poll has become a prestige battle for West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is presently not an MLA.Notably, Mamata Banerjee was defeated by BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in the Nandigram constituency in the Assembly elections held earlier this year.Following this, the Bhabanipur Assembly seat was vacated by the West Bengal Agriculture Minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May, making way for Mamata Banerjee to contest from Bhabanipur seat as a move to continue to hold her post.Bharatiya Janata Party fielded 41-year-old Priyanka Tibrewal against the TMC supremo.The Mamata Banerjee-led TMC registered a landslide victory in polls winning 213 seats in the 294-member West Bengal assembly. The BJP lost the polls but emerged as the second-largest party with 77 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-bjp-workers-clash-in-bhabanipur-during-assembly-bypoll-101633008772770.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Ayushman Bharat scheme: Patients in UP may soon get kidney transplant facility||LUCKNOW Poor patients enrolled for medical care under the Ayushman Bharat scheme may soon get financial assistance for kidney transplant and other major procedures, under the central government’s flagship scheme. “A recommendation has been sent to the National Health Authority (NHA) and soon facilities such as kidney transplant and cornea transplant will be available along with 1,500 other packages already available,” said Sangeeta Singh, CEO, State Agency for Comprehensive Health Insurance and Integrated Services (SACHIS), the nodal agency for Ayushman Bharat scheme in Uttar Pradesh. The state has 1.75 crore families (approximately over 8 crore individuals) covered under the scheme and 1.60 crore Ayushman cards have been made against a target of 6 crore. UP has 2,775 hospitals, including government and private, empanelled to give treatment under the scheme. “During the pandemic, a new category of infectious diseases, including mucormycosis, was added and there is a pre-existing unspecified package for providing treatment for diseases that are not included in the list of diseases,” said Singh at a function organised on Thursday to mark three years of the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Apart from kidney transplant, cornea transplant and a few terminal illness conditions have been recommended by Uttar Pradesh for inclusion in Ayushman Bharat scheme. “We inform the NHA when we get repeated requests for treatment of certain ailments that are not in the existing package,” said Singh. Doctors said transplant facility will be a major relief. “Kidney transplant facility under the Ayushman Bharat scheme will mean that the waiting list of hundreds of patients at government centres will be reduced. This because more options (hospitals) will then be available in private sector for poor patients,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. A lesser known benefit of the Ayushman Bharat scheme is portability. This enables beneficiaries of Uttar Pradesh get treatment in other states’ empanelled hospitals in case they need hospital care. “So, if a resident beneficiary of UP takes ill in Madhya Pradesh, the person may contact an empanelled hospital there,” said Singh. According to statistics, 8,58,296 lakh beneficiaries have got treatment since the scheme started on September 23, 2018. Among them 43% (3,69,067) patients were females and the remaining 57% (4,89,229) males. “UP has an assurance model to take care of medical expenses up to a certain level unlike insurance services where they (insurance companies) deduct payment citing different reasons when a claim arises,” she said. In UP, 51000 eligible patients got treatment despite not having Ayushman cards made. This was possible as their names were on the list of beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayushman-bharat-scheme-patients-in-up-may-soon-get-kidney-transplant-facility-101633009949745.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Central Railway, Thane Municipal Corporation to sign MoU on SATIS for Thane (E)||The Central Railway authorities have claimed that the Station Area Traffic Improvement Scheme (SATIS) for Thane East will soon inch ahead as a Memorandum of Understanding will be signed within a week between the railways and Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).A meeting of the newly-appointed Central Railway general manager, Anil Kumar Lahoti, with Thane MP, Rajan Vichare, was held to discuss several stalled projects in Thane and Navi Mumbai recently.Vichare said, “TMC officials have assured that they will sign a MoU within a week with the Indian Railway Station Development Corporation Authority for Thane East SATIS detailing the responsibilities of railway and Thane Smart City. A meeting will also be held between these two authorities to finalise the plan for the extended Thane station on Thane Mental Hospital land.”On the work on fifth and sixth lines to cater to increase the services on Central Railway routes, MRVC officials informed that the work would be completed by January 2022. Vichare demanded that the 15-rake trains services also be started at the earliest. He was informed that the permission for work on stations beyond Kalyan has been received recently and the services could not be started until those works were completed.Vichare added, “I have submitted a letter and given MP funds to ensure that the historic Thane station is transformed into a modern station with a museum and amenities that will make commuting a pleasant experience for all.”He also checked on the Navi Mumbai Airoli-Kalwa elevated railway project status and was informed by MRVC officials that the Digha railway station work would be completed in November 2022. The second phase work would begin after the project affected persons are rehabilitated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/central-railway-thane-municipal-corporation-to-sign-mou-on-satis-for-thane-e-101633009412715.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cinnamon cultivation introduced in Himachal||The CSIR’s institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT) has introduced cinnamon cultivation in Himachal Pradesh on pilot basis.If successful, it will be launched on a commercial scale, eventually cutting down India’s import of cinnamon that amounts to a whooping ₹909 crores per annum.The cultivation was launched on Wednesday with state agriculture minister Virender Kanwar planting the first sapling in Una district.Cinnamon, popularly known as dalchini, is an evergreen bushy tree whose bark is primarily used as a spice, said IHBT director Dr Sanjay Kumar.In addition to its culinary uses in Asian and European recipes, cinnamon has critical applications in medicine and in boosting immunity. The true cinnamon is derived from Cinnamomumverum.Cinnamomum cassia is yet another species used in place of true cinnamon, but has high coumarin content which is not good for health and the variety is banned in the United States of America, Ireland and the European Union.True cinnamon or Cinnamomumverum is grown mainly in Sri Lanka, while minor producing countries include Seychelles, Madagascar, and India, said Kumar, adding that India imports 45,318 tonnes of cinnamon annually from China, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Indonesia and Nepal.No organised cultivation in IndiaOf the total imports, 37,166 tonnes of C cassia are imported from Vietnam, China and Indonesia. There is no organised cultivation and processing of cinnamon in the country.“Realising the large import of cinnamon in the country and that the one imported in India is C cassia and not C verum, it was envisioned to extend its production after identifying the potential areas for cultivation,” said Kumar.Our data suggested, he said, districts of Una, Bilaspur, Kangra, Hamirpur and Sirmour in Himachal Pradesh that have potential areas for cinnamon cultivation.“Accordingly, we made efforts for introduction and processing of C verum in Himachal Pradesh. This project has been conceived by CSIR-IHBT and is being implemented in association with ICAR’s Indian Institute of Spice Research, Calicut, Kerala and Department of Agriculture, Himachal Pradesh,” said he.Earlier this year, the IHBT had successfully launched cultivation of monk fruit in Kullu of Himachal for the first time in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cinnamon-cultivation-introduced-in-himachal-101633008632348.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body plans to map mosquito breeding spots to prevent dengue from spreading||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) is planning to map the mosquito breeding spots on Google Maps in order to let people know which area has more breeding of mosquitoes.Also, NMMC is planning to develop an application that will have all the information on the activities done by the corporation for the prevention of dengue and elimination of breeding spots.“Our health workers, while visiting the spots to check breeding, have started mapping the longitudes and latitudes of the location. The app, too, is in the process of being developed,” assistant municipal commissioner, Sanjay Kakade, said.The corporation has also planned to fine housing societies of ₹50,000 if they denied entry to the hotspot areas for dengue and malaria for investigation and preventive action.“The cooperation of housing societies and people is very important in the prevention of dengue and malaria and if any housing society denies us entry, it will be fined ₹50,000 and in repeated offence, an FIR too would be registered,” NMMC medical health officer, Dr Pramod Patil, said.Recently, the corporation had found breeding spots in the vicinity of a mall in Turbhe and at a car shed area in Sanpada. In both the places, there were suspected cases in its vicinity. “Every time a breeding spot is identified, it is eliminated and the people around are made aware of the consequences of such breeding spots and the measures to be taken to make sure that such breeding spots are not formed again,” Dr Patil said.Currently, Navi Mumbai has nine positive dengue cases. “In addition to the patients coming to the municipal health centre, the corporation also needs to know the total number of patients going to the private medical professionals. Hence, the health officials have been asked to keep a tab of all suspicious cases going to the private hospitals as well. The officials have also been asked to visit the hotspots for dengue and malaria,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.The commissioner also directed the medical officers of the civic health centre to pay close attention to the preventive work being done by the contractor’s staff and to submit a daily report regarding the same. The commissioner also said that if the contractor or his workers are found to have committed negligence, punitive action will be taken against them and if no improvement is seen, strict action will be taken to cancel his contract and blacklist them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-plans-to-map-mosquito-breeding-spots-to-prevent-dengue-from-spreading-101633007974256.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Ridiculous that Kejriwal has to come to Punjab': Badal takes jibe at AAP||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief on Thursday criticised Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal after the latter made six promises to the people of Punjab ahead of the polls next year. While Kejriwal is trying to project the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as a serious contender in the Punjab legislative assembly elections which are due next year, SAD president ‘ridiculed’ that the AAP has to send a major leader from Delhi to promise better reforms and questioned if there is a ‘lack’ of local AAP leaders.“Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal announced his second guarantee today for Punjab. I find it ridiculous that he comes to Punjab and says that these are guarantees given by the Delhi chief minister. Is there no leader left in the AAP here, someone who can say that they're Punjabi, live in Punjab and it is their guarantee?” the former Punjab chief minister Badal said at a press conference.Kejriwal announced a set of measures related to the healthcare sector that his party would implement if voted to power in Punjab. “The condition in Punjab’s government hospitals is so bad that people are forced to go to private hospitals where they are looted. In the government hospitals of the state, people are facing problems with regard to medicines, availability of doctors and better equipment,” Kejriwal said.He said that people in Punjab will be given free and better treatment in government hospitals and the hospitals will also be brought at par with private hospitals. He also said that people incurring expenses on operations up to ₹10-15 lakh will also avail the services free of cost. He also said that citizens will receive a health card containing all health-related information of that particular individual and ‘Pind Clinics’, which are modelled after Delhi’s Mohalla Clinics, will be set up across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ridiculous-that-kejriwal-has-to-come-to-punjab-badal-takes-jibe-at-aap-101633006434451.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Show cause notice to 19 KDMC officials for not picking up garbage from Kalyan roads||In the wake of failing to impose proper waste management in their specific wards, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has served a show cause notice to 19 of its chief health inspectors and health inspectors.The notice was served by the deputy commissioner of solid waste management department, Ramdas Kokre, after he found that the officers were not doing their job effectively, leading to garbage littered on streets in several parts of the city.“We have found that even after informing, waste lying on roads for several days has not been lifted. We have served a show cause notice to them asking to explain why there was no effective waste management in their specific areas. We will wait for the explanation from the officials and based on that, action will be taken against the concerned officers,” said Kokre.On Monday, the residents of New Pinky Housing Society in Tisgaon Naka, which falls on the Pune Link Road , Kalyan (E), wrote to the KDMC asking it to take action against the waste dumped at the entrance of their building by the nearby slum dwellers.Dattatray Thorat, secretary of the society, said, “The entrance of the building is littered with waste dumped there on a regular basis and no action is taken by the civic body. The civic body is going garbage bin-free city. However, the spot where the residents used to dump waste in the bins for years continues to dump at the same place despite having no bin. There are garbage vans coming twice a day but they only stop at the main road as there is no way to reach the slum. Many people skip dumping into the vehicle and tend to dump it on the road during late evening hours.”Under the Smart City mission, KDMC has installed CCTVs across the city to keep a watch on waste management. Earlier, the civic body had levied a fine on the contractor for failing to lift the garbage on time. The officials are now under the watch for not doing their job on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/show-cause-notice-to-19-kdmc-officials-for-not-picking-up-garbage-from-kalyan-roads-101633005271078.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Dismiss cops involved in very serious offences, says UP CM||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said illegal activities by police personnel were not acceptable and those found involved in “very serious offences” would be dismissed. He also said that no important field postings be given to any tainted police officers and personnel.Yogi Adityanath issued these police-specific instructions at the Covid-19 review meeting. The CM’s statement came following the death of a Kanpur businessman at a hotel in his home district Gorakhpur. Manish Gupta, 36, died on Monday night after he was allegedly beaten up by some policemen, prompting the authorities to register a murder case against them. “Of late, there have been complaints of involvement of police officers, personnel in unauthorised activities. This is just not acceptable. The police department has no place for any such persons. Identify all such personnel, make a list along with the evidence against them and act against them as per the rules and regulations. Dismiss from the police services all such officers and personnel who are found involved in serious crimes. Do not post those with tainted images on any important field postings,” Yogi said, according to the statement issued by the chief minister’s office. Unauthorised hootersThe chief minister also asked officials to penalise and seize all such vehicles that blare hooters in an unauthorised manner. “Such vehicles spoil the atmosphere on the roads. Act tough against them,” said Yogi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dismiss-cops-involved-in-very-serious-offences-says-up-cm-101633004130724.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pompous pamphlets and their many practical uses||As I picked up the Sunday newspaper on a dewy morning, a cascade of pamphlets slithered out. Two-toned, multi-coloured, matte and glossy, the eye-catching elves demanded attention as I gathered them and skimmed through the content. Aesthetically designed, full of pomposity, these may broadly be put into three categories: First, the academic oriented that included school/college/coaching institute advertisements or the super/multi-speciality hospitals; second, the market-oriented ones, including offers from grocery stores, supermarkets, salons, parlours; and third, the shady ones, including quacks and healers of varied kinds. The bright pamphlets catch immediate attention, and these are generally institutional ones. A hackneyed language runs through them: Qualified faculty, congenial atmosphere, spacious playgrounds etc or there will be a page full of photos of toppers and achievers. The coaching institutes lure you with their promises as if one only needs to enrol and a lucrative future would unfold. The ones of hospitals promise what not with the names of doctors followed by a string of abbreviations, accentuating their status. At times, I wonder if I should grab an offer of multiple tests just on merit of being pocket-friendly? The foodie in me finds it hard to resist the jingling offers accompanying photos of delectable, luscious dishes. I always succumb to the ‘buy one get one free’ or ‘combo’ offers. Similarly, the shopaholic in me blatantly gives in to multiple offers, the glossy sales announcement and the reduction offers. It’s difficult to control the urge to forget morning household chores and rush to shop lest the best bargains are taken up. The freebies are the hardest to combat. I may not savour a particular item/brand, but the free container is simply irresistible. Similarly, where a meagre service would suffice, one tends to splurge for the ‘savings offer’. The shady black and white dubious pamphlets trouble me the most. Visiting healers and ‘godmen’, the least said the better. Monday here, Tuesday there. How many gullible fall prey! History is witness that pamphlets came into existence with the invention of printing. In the 16th century, they were widely distributed to garner support for religious doctrines. They were used for romantic fiction and social criticism in the Elizabethan age. As political weapons, they garnered a powerful influence. This formative function was put in use during the recent farmers’ agitation when point-wise policy matters were circulated through newspapers. Not to digress, over the years, pamphlets have been used as agents of publicity. As a publicist genre, the pamphlet, “is designed to influence public opinion directly and is characterised by pungent aphorisms, rhetorical intonations, vivid epithets, and expressiveness”. Nevertheless, in our family, they are called ‘causality warriors’ and are strategically saved under the mattress. They can be pulled out in a jiffy to mop an accidental spit/sneeze droplet or for an emergency throw-up when kiddos gobble too many goodies or even as wrappers to dispose of. My mom prefers them over kitchen napkins to drain excessive oil as they are excellent absorbents. I love using the bright, glossy ones as placemats. They not only look attractive but can be easily replaced and also give a sense of utilising than discarding. And I’m comforted in doing my bit towards conservation. kalrasuruchi@yahoo.com The writer teaches English at Hindu Girls College, Jagadhri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pompous-pamphlets-and-their-many-practical-uses-101633004129504.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar NGO comes to rescue of 58 students who lost one or both parents to Covid||Meera Jodgand, 35, a mother of three girls, lost her husband to Covid in April this year. She was clueless until recently as to how to fund for education of her three daughters, aged 14, 13 and 11 years. Even though she works in a private firm, her income alone would not be sufficient to educate them.Jodgand, a resident of Mharal near Ulhasnagar, said, “The Soham Foundation in Ulhasnagar came to my rescue. They approached me and assured me to provide monetary help to fund the education of my daughters. They provided money to pay their school fees. The help came as a major relief for us.”The foundation has, so far, helped 58 such students with their school or college fees after one or both parents died due to Covid.In a programme held recently at the Maharashtra Mitra Mandal School, Ulhasnagar, the financial help was given to the students.Shreya G, a 21-year-old resident of Bengaluru, said, “Through my friend, I came to know about this initiative and we approached the Foundation. They helped me with ₹2 lakh for my 15-year-old brother’s education. My mother, who was a teacher, passed away due to Covid. My father, who is a heart patient, is not earning much. I completed my graduation but things were very difficult after my mother’s demise.“The Foundation paid the fees to my brother’s institution. We had missed several deadlines for paying the fees and this help came as blessing to us.” In May, Soham Foundation posted a message on the social media to collect information of such students who have lost their parents during the pandemic. Through the post, they received several inquiries and finalised 58 students from Ulhasnagar, Kalyan, Mumbai and different parts of Maharashtra and Bengaluru.“We learnt that there are several such students who are unable to continue with their education after the demise of their parents. We managed to raise the funds and then finalised the students,” said Rajendra Dethe, founder of Soham Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-ngo-comes-to-rescue-of-58-students-who-lost-one-or-both-parents-to-covid-101633003889444.html
30-09-2021||Dehradun||Nainital’s Gandhi Mandir to be developed as Gandhian study centre||Rudrapur: The Uttarakhand government has granted ₹77 lakh to develop Gandhi Mandir in Takula village, 4 km from Nainital district headquarters, as a Gandhian study centre and archives, a tourism department official said.“The government has granted ₹77 lakh to our department. We have renovated Gandhi Mandir structure and will set up a Gandhian study centre and archives there to attract tourists as well as researchers”, said Arvind Gaur, Nainital tourism officer.Gaur said Mahatma Gandhi visited Takula village in 1929 and 1932 and stayed there for three and ten days, respectively.“Mahatma Gandhi was to address a public rally in Nainital but Britishers stopped him 3 km from the venue and didn’t let him proceed. In such a situation, local people arranged his stay at Takula village for three days. He not only addressed a rally at Takula but also laid the foundation stone for a temple and it was known as ‘Gandhi Mandir,” he said.Gandhi returned to the village in 1932 along with Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant, Jamnalal Bajaj, when the construction of the temple was completed and stayed there for 10 days. Local villagers used to organise programmes on national festivals but this monument failed to attract tourists”, said Gaur.Last year, the tourism department took initiative and renovated the dilapidated Gandhi Mandir structure under the heritage circuit scheme for ₹1.96 crore through Asian Development Bank funding.Gaur said after renovation, the tourism department decided to turn it into a Gandhian study centre and archive. “With a ₹77 lakh budget, we will arrange Gandhi-related books in multiple languages, furniture for fifty visitors and other historical items related to the Mahatma’s life and teachings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/nainitals-gandhi-mandir-to-be-developed-as-gandhian-study-centre-101633001969300.html
30-09-2021||Other||Byelections in two wards in Gurugram, Karnal on October 3||The Haryana government on Thursday said polling for byelections in ward number 34 of Gurugram Municipal Corporation (MC) and ward number 7 of the Karnal MC will be held on October 3. In view of the byelections, a holiday has been declared for all shops and commercial establishments falling under the jurisdiction of the two wards so that voters can exercise their franchise. A notification to this effect was issued by the labour department, an official spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/byelections-in-two-wards-in-gurugram-karnal-on-october-3-101632999869085.html
30-09-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Food for thought... business, caste and taste, all in this serving||It’s been almost 25 years since I had my first meal cooked by Chavan mami. She ran a khanaval in a two-room apartment in the famous Khandke chawl in Dadar. Most of her clients were students from my college. They knew where to head to after they could no longer endure the food served in the college mess. Mami was always smiling, and she never counted the rotis her customers, mostly young men with enormous appetites, ate. The chicken curry she cooked on Fridays and Sundays was loved by all.Mami’s husband was 70 and diabetic. He used to work in a mill in Parel and was forced to sit at home after he lost his right foot several years ago. Since Mami found him useless in the kitchen, he would often sit with the diners and regaled them with stories that had local goons and famous gangsters, cricketers, politicians, and union leaders as heroes.Mami’s father-in-law had come to Mumbai to earn a living in the last decade of the 19th century with his wife and a toddler from a village in Konkan. Proletarian Mumbai had then been flourishing in Parel. The textile mills always needed workers, and migrants from Konkan and Marathwada regions ensured a steady supply. They worked together in the mills and lived together in newly constructed chawls nearby. When it came to food, caste decided who cooked for whom, and who ate with whom.Most of the workers would come to Mumbai without their wives. When they moved to Mumbai to earn a livelihood, they carried with them the deep-rooted ills of the caste system. They would mostly eat in khanavals owned by men or women of their own castes. A person risked “pollution” if he accepted food from the hands of people of so-called “lower castes” than his own. Eating in a khanaval ran by a person of “higher caste” was sometimes allowed. There were separate seating arrangements for customers of the so-called “lower castes”. They were supposed to eat in separate utensils, too.As the number of workers increased, khanavals prospered too, but not all could afford to eat in a khanaval. An ingenious system emerged for such people. Families looking for extra income welcomed workers who did not wish to eat in khanavals, to their homes. Each family would take two to three diners at the max. The diners would eat whatever was cooked for the family and paid a fixed amount for the food each month. The monthly charges would be typically 25% less than what they would pay in a khanaval. The women of the families offering food did not mind cooking for a couple of people extra every day since the arrangement was extremely profitable.The customers not only saved money but also did not worry about dining with people from “lower castes”. There would always be rumours about food being cooked in a khanaval by someone from a “lower caste”, or a diner lying about his caste to gain entry into a khanaval. This deep-rooted mistrust involving food followed everyone everywhere. The families offering food would always know the caste of their customers because admission was strictly based on references provided. This eliminated the risk of “pollution”.Since some khanavals were “strictly vegetarian”, thus bolstering the notion of “purity” associated with caste, customers had a choice of selecting families which served non-vegetarian food.Mami’s mother-in-law too fed a couple of workers from their village in Konkan all through her life. This institution and the arrangement have unfortunately not been documented properly to date. It finds a fleeting mention in the Marathi novel “Godu Gokhale”, written by BV Varerkar, in 1932. A friend of the protagonist Godu dines at her neighbour’s house with her husband because she has no time to cook, and wants to save money.I had often wondered if this system existed in Pune too. There were families who fed students daily, but that arrangement did not involve any monetary transactions. Since Pune did not have a vast proletariat population, and the caste system dominated and controlled by the “upper castes” being rigid, it was highly unlikely that such a system would exist in the city. While documenting khanavals from the 19th and 20th centuries, I had never come across families who offered food to only two or three people for money. Until, Induaji Nalawade introduced me to Tarabai Mahadik.Nalawade claimed to be 104-years old when I met her five years ago. She sold flowers outside the Kasba Ganpati Temple. Talking to her was delightful. Her memory was razor-sharp, as was her wit. She knew Pune like the back of her hand, and would always answer my questions in detail.Mahadik was her distant relative who lived in Ganesh peth in Pune. She had come to Pune from a village in Satara district in 1930 at the age of ten, after being married to a vegetable vendor. Mahadik had 14 members in her family, who lived in a three-room block in a dilapidated wada. Her husband and his elder brother were the only earning members of the family. Mahadik started working at the age of 15 after giving birth to a boy. She was employed to wash utensils in a nearby khanaval.Two years, and another baby later, one of her neighbours asked her if she would cook for a friend of his who worked at the Ammunition Factory in Khadkee. Her husband agreed. Since Mahadik would not go to his place and cook, the gentleman started having his dinner at Mahadik’s house.Mahadik would cook for the entire family, and the guest, while her husband served food to him in the living room. She soon had two more customers. Mahadik continued this till the 1980s, after which her family forced her to retire.Mahadik never spoke to her customers. She never ventured into the living room while they had their dinner. They all belonged to her caste.Maintaining caste integrity was, and unfortunately still is, greatly dependent on who cooked or handled the food. It also depended on who you dined with. What you ate decided your social status, your economic worth, whom you marry, and where you live. Women like Chavan mami’s mother-in-law, and Tarabai Mahadik, earned for their families and maintained the “sanctity of the caste system”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-food-for-thought-business-caste-and-taste-all-in-this-serving-101632999519650.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Restaurant in saree controversy shut down||South Delhi restaurant, Aquila in Khel Gaon Marg that sparked controversy for barring entry to a guest as she was dressed in a saree has shut down. The incident that received severe criticism on social media, involved a city resident, Anita Choudhary who was allegedly refused entry at the restaurant. As per the closure notice issued by South Delhi Municipal Corporation, the restaurant is now shut. However, the notice has no mention of the saree incident. It states that it was operating without a proper trade license.In a statement to PTI, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) mayor Mukesh Suryan said, “The Aquila restaurant was operating without a proper licence. It has now been shut after we issued a closure notice. We are also exploring other actions including imposing a penalty in accordance with the DMC (Delhi Municipal Corporation) Act against the eatery as it was functioning without approval from the civic body.”During the investigation, a public health inspector also found out that the restaurant was running under unhygienic conditions. Moreover, there was also a case of encroachment on public land.The dinerAnita Choudhary is pleased with the decision and how the incident gained momentum with the social media outrage. She says, “I am thankful to social media the kind of the support I received. I never thought itna momentum create hoga. I felt very insulted. Inki sirf ek galti nahi hui. Irregularities kaafi thi. The norms were not followed. Rules and regulations were against the Indian culture and costume.The rules will be as per the laws of the land, not of personal choice. I am happy with the decision.”Restaurant ownerThe owners do not wish to issue an official statement on the occurrence. However, one of the owners said, “I am very disturbed with the incident. I don’t want to issue any statement. What has happened, has happened. I don’t want to make any comment. I want to apologise for the incident.” Furthermore, according to the PR official, “The restaurant is shut temporarily for two weeks. The protocols were not being followed, the incident has nothing to do with saree episode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/restaurant-in-saree-controversy-shut-down-101632999278739.html
30-09-2021||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav attacks Nitish Kumar for saying he didn’t get his letter||Tejashwi Yadav, the leader of the opposition in the Bihar assembly, on Thursday attacked Nitish Kumar saying it was surprising how the chief minister can live in the dark. This came after Kumar denied having received a letter from Yadav on the need for flood management and river interlinking.Yadav released the letter with the acknowledgment receipt from Kumar’s office. “Not only the chief minister but the chief minister secretariat seems to have got tired, which is a reason why it did not forward the letter written by the opposition leader to the chief minister. How can a chief minister of a state be so ignorant, disillusioned, and live in the dark that he publicly says that he has not received a letter from the opposition leader about issues of public importance.”Also Read: Four held for raping girl in Bihar, recording assault Yadav has asked Kumar to lead an all-party delegation to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi for demanding that all projects in the state of inter-linking of rivers and strengthening of canals and embankments be categorised national projects.Kumar said it is the media that gets such letters first. “I can read the letter if only I get it first,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-yadav-attacks-nitish-kumar-for-saying-he-didn-t-get-his-letter-101632998009046.html
30-09-2021||Noida||'Need helicopter': Noida residents' group writes to UP fire chief over safety issues in highrises||Concerned over fire safety-related issues, a group of citizens in Noida has demanded a helicopter and a fire tender that can reach beyond 12 floors in the city's 7X sectors. The group wrote to the Uttar Pradesh Fire Service and demanded the facilities for the city's 7X area where lakhs of people reside in hundreds of highrise apartment towers.In a letter addressed to Uttar Pradesh's director general of fire services Anand Kumar, the group brought to his notice various fire safety-related issues, including the lack of a fire station in Noida's 7X area, comprising housing societies in sectors 74 to 79.The letter, penned by the Progressive Community Foundation (PCF), also reminded the top officer of his online meeting with residents of Noida in June last year that he had held to review the fire safety situation in housing societies."There was a lot of discussion on the topics and problems related to group housing societies, but even after one year, nothing has been done on most of these topics except fire inspection," the PCF wrote in the letter sent earlier this week.Emphasising on the lack of a fire station in the area, the group requested the officer to at least set up one unit to cater to over 50,000 flats in the area."In Noida, there is no fire tender system which can access above the 12th floor of a tower. Requests have been made for providing a fire tender system which can access floors beyond the 12th storey and for a helicopter to meet any emergency fire situation in high-rise towers," the letter added.Lastly, the group went on to allege that fire-related no-objection certificates (NOC) have been given to most societies without due investigation while many didn't even have essential fire safety items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/need-helicopter-noida-residents-group-writes-to-up-fire-chief-over-safety-issues-in-highrises-101632990753750.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||29 students from Mumbai's KEM medical college test positive for Covid-19||At least 29 MBBS students from Mumbai's King Edward Memorial (KEM) medical college, 27 of them with at least one shot of the vaccine, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Thursday said that it is still unclear as to how the students contracted the viral disease.“A total of 29 students have tested positive. Of these 27 were vaccinated with at least one dose,” confirmed KEM medical college dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh.“Some of them have mild symptoms. It may have spread due to some cultural or sports event held in the college,” said Pednekar.Reports of the infection have raised an alarm in Mumbai is a serious concern, Maharashtra Chief Minister has been regularly asking people to follow Covid-19 protocols appropriately even if the person is fully vaccinated but people seem to be ignoring it, she told ANI.According to reports, at least two people have been admitted to Seven Hills Hospital, while the others have been quarantined. An investigation is underway.This comes a day after the Mumbai mayor announced standard operation procedures (SOPs) for reopening of schools in the city from October 4.Mumbai reported 527 new coronavirus cases and six deaths in the past 24 hours. The daily rise in infections exceeded 500 once again after falling below 400 during the previous two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/23-students-from-mumbai-s-kem-medical-college-test-positive-for-covid19-101632992428452.html
30-09-2021||Patna||Four held for raping girl in Bihar, recording assault||Four men have been arrested for allegedly raping a girl and recording the sexual assault in Bihar’s Kaimur district while she was with a friend late on Tuesday. The friend has also been booked for sexually abusing her.Police superintendent Rakesh Kumar said raids were being conducted to arrest the two absconding accused while the rest have been arrested. He added the girl has been sent to a district hospital for medical examination and her statement has been recorded. The girl has alleged the friend had been sexually abusing her on the pretext of marriage for three years. Also Read: Bihar panchayat polls: 55.02% turnout in 2nd phase Two of the accused made a video clip of the two together before sexually assaulting her along with the other accused. The accused also abused, assaulted, and threatened to make the video clip viral when she resisted while her friend fled. The girl later named her friend for sexually abusing her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/four-held-for-raping-girl-in-bihar-recording-assault-101632992068463.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Here's another Amrinder in Twitter goof-up, former CM Amarinder wishes him luck||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh took to Twitter on Thursday to empathise with a fellow namesake with a slightly different spelling but who seemed to be troubled just as much despite having nothing to do with the state’s politics. The namesake is none other than the goalkeeper of the Indian football team, Amrinder Singh.The footballer urged those with the media and journalists to stop tagging him in posts that may be connected to the current political crisis that has engulfed the border state with the exit of the veteran politician as chief minister, followed by Navjot Singh Sidhu’s resignation from the post of Punjab Congress president.I empathise with you, my young friend. Good luck for your games ahead. https://t.co/MRy4aodJMxAmrinder, who also plays for ATK-Mohun Bagan, wrote, “Dear News Media, Journalists, I am Amrinder Singh, Goalkeeper of Indian Football Team and not the Former Chief Minister of the State Punjab. Please stop tagging me.”Also read | Congress Punjab crisis: Ripples felt in Delhi as Amarinder meets Amit ShahTaking note of the goalkeeper’s troubles, Singh wrote, “I empathise with you, my young friend. Good luck for your games ahead.”Meanwhile, on the political front, the former chief minister met national security advisor Ajit Doval, a day after holding talks with Union home minister Amit Shah amid a strong buzz that he may leave the grand old party with which he has been associated for decades. Singh has, however, maintained all his meetings had to do with farm laws and national security. While resigning from the Congress, he had specifically said that he could not anymore take the months-long humiliation meted out to him by a section of party leaders loyal to Sidhu. Moments after Sidhu shared his resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Twitter, Singh took to the microblogging site to state the cricketer-turned-politician was not fit to be given charge of a border state like Punjab.Sidhu is scheduled to meet chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who became the first Dalit Sikh to head the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heres-another-amrinder-in-twitter-goof-up-former-cm-amarinder-wishes-him-luck-101632991247978.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath orders FIRs against suspended policemen in Gorakhpur raid case||Uttar Pradesh law minister Brajesh Pathak on Thursday said Chief Minister Yogi Adiyanath has instructed that FIRs be filed against the six suspended policemen in the Gorakhpur raid case, in which a Kanpur based businessman died.Also Read | Gorakhpur incident: Priyanka, Mayawati, Akhilesh attack Uttar Pradesh govtSpeaking to ANI, Pathak said the government has taken the matter seriously."It is an unfortunate incident. The government has taken the matter seriously. Chief Minister Yogi Adiyanath instructed to file FIRs against the six suspended policemen and we will ensure strict action against them," said UP law minister.He further said assured that the matter will be taken to a fast-track court."No one has the authority to take law in their own hands, be it a policeman or other persons in higher posts. The matter will be taken to a fast-track court. The government stands in support of the victim's family. We will listen to their demands," added Pathak.As per the post mortem report, businessman Manish Gupta sustained injuries on the face, head and several other parts of the body.Gupta died during a raid conducted at a hotel in Gorakhpur on September 28.Earlier, Kanpur District Magistrate Vishakh Aiyar had said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath would be meeting the victim's family members during his visit to Kanpur today.An ex gratia of ₹10 lakh has been given to the family of the businessman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-orders-firs-against-suspended-policemen-in-gorakhpur-raid-case-101632987101253.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress crisis: Sidhu meets Channi today to iron out differences||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has raised questions over the selection of the advocate general, director general of police and certain “tainted leaders”, reciprocated to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s offer on Thursday, agreeing to meet him to resolve their differences over the appointments through talks. Also read: Amarinder Singh meets NSA Ajit Doval day after talks with Amit ShahSidhu, who had sent his resignation as state unit chief to Congress president Sonia Gandhi two days ago, said that he will reach Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh for any discussions. “The chief minister has invited me for talks…will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh, at 3pm today, he is welcome for any discussions,” he tweeted a day after putting out a video to raise questions over key appointments by the chief minister. Channi battles first major political crisis as CMBattling his first major political crisis created by Sidhu’s resignation just 10 days after he took over as the chief minister, Channi struck a conciliatory note on Wednesday and offered to sit down and iron out differences. “Whoever is party president is head of the family. I had told him (Sidhu) that the party is supreme, and the government follows its ideology. I spoke to him over phone and told him to come, sit and talk to resolve issues,” Channi said on grievances voiced by Sidhu in his four-and-a-half-minute video message. The cricketer-turned-politician’s abrupt resignation on Tuesday, barely 72 days after he was appointed the state unit chief, has pushed the Congress into a fresh crisis in poll-bound Punjab before it could recover from months of turmoil due to a bitter tussle between Sidhu and his bête noire, former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Sidhu is peeved at not having his way in the cabinet appointments and other key official picks as those recommended by him for the post of AG and DGP got overlooked. The induction of former minister Rana Gurjit Singh into the cabinet is also learnt to have upset him. Before his meeting with the chief minister, Sidhu posted another tweet, taking a dig at Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota’s appointment as the Punjab Police chief. “DGP IPS Sahota was head f the SIT investigating the Beadbi case under the Badal government, he wrongfully indicted two Sikh youth for sacrilege and gave a clean chit to the Badals. In 2018, I along with INC (Congress) ministers, then PCCC Pres and present home minister assured them of our support in the fight for justice,” he tweeted, making public his displeasure over the appointment. Jakhar guns for Sidhu, says enough is enoughSidhu’s stand has not gone down well with his predecessor Sunil Jakhar. Taking to social media, Jakhar tweeted: “Enough is enough. Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of the CM time and again. Aspersions being cast on selection of AG and DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of the CM and home minister to deliver results. It’s time to put the foot down and clear the air.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-crisis-sidhu-meets-channi-today-to-iron-out-differences-101632985948087.html
30-09-2021||Jaipur||‘A rapidly developing industry...’: PM Modi inaugurates Institute of Petrochemicals Technology, Rajasthan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday virtually dedicated to the nation the Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering and Technology (CIPET), located in Rajasthan's Jaipur. The occasion also saw PM Modi lay foundation stone of a medical college each in Banswara, Dausa, Hanumangarh and Sirohi districts of the state.Also Read: PM Modi to inaugurate petrochem institute, lay foundation of 4 medical collegesPM Modi described petrochemical industry as one of the most rapidly developing industries, for which, he said, a lot of skilled manpower is needed. “Rajasthan's new institute of petrochemicals will bring new opportunities in this field for hundreds of youngsters every year,” Prime Minister Modi said, adding that the use of petrochemicals is increasing in all aspects of our lives.Therefore, plenty of employment opportunities will come up for skilled youth in this field in the coming years, he said.PM Modi then recalled his time as the chief minister of Gujarat, talking about the establishment of Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU) in Gandhinagar. “Many people laughed at us when we were working on the concept of a petroleum university in Gujarat. But we didn't drop this idea. In very less time, PDPU has shown what it is capable of. Students from all over the country want to study here. Now, t has become Pandit Deendayal Energy University (PDEU),” he said.He also talked about various policy initiative undertaken by his government to improve the state of medical infratsrcture in the country, talking about schemes such as Swachch Bharat, Ayushman Bharat and the recently launched Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission. Under Ayushman Bharat mission, till now, more than 350,000 people in Rajasthan received free medical treatment, while more than 2500 health and welfare centres have been set up in the state, and are currently operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/a-rapidly-developing-industry-pm-modi-inaugurates-institute-of-petrochemicals-technology-rajasthan-101632979410802.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Poll-bound Punjab’s new transport minister takes bus route to reach out||Punjab’s new transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring boarded a state roadways bus from Rajpura to Patiala in a bid to listen to the grievances of daily commuters on Thursday morning. Warring was on his way to his constituency, Gidderbaha, when he stopped his motorcade near Rajpura town and boarded an air-conditioned bus of the Punjab Road Transport Corporation headed to Bathinda from Chandigarh for a 20-km journey to Patiala. Also read: Amarinder Singh meets NSA Ajit Doval day after talks with Amit ShahLater, Warring said that his aim was to listen to the grievances of passengers travelling on a daily basis in state transport undertaking (STU) buses. “All efforts will be made to streamline the working of state buses so that people don’t face any hassle commuting,” he said. Tough stand against transport mafia With elections four months away, Warring, who has taken a tough stand against the transport mafia, is looking to promote STUs, such as PRTC, Punbus and Punjab Roadways, which are running in loss at present. Nearly, 8,200 contractual and outsourced roadways employees have been protesting in support of their demand to regularise their services and want more than 1,000 new buses introduced in the STUs. Warring has been critical of the private bus services, particularly those run by high-profile politicians in Punjab. Even during his election speeches in the 2017 assembly elections and 2019 general election, he demanded the Punjab government act against the transport mafia so that public transport network can be strengthened. Increase frequency during peak hours: Commuter The few passengers on board the bus from Rajpura to Patiala were surprised to find the minister amid them and warmly interacted with Warring, while his security personnel accompanied him throughout the journey. Ajaydeep Singh, who travels from Patiala to Chandigarh on daily, said the government should add buses in the PRTC fleet and increase the frequency, particularly in the morning and evening, for the convenience of commuters. “Due to the rush of passengers during peak office hours, people have to wait longer to board a bus and get a seat,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pollbound-punjab-s-new-transport-minister-takes-bus-route-to-reach-out-101632984507945.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Leopard attacks woman in Mumbai's Aarey Colony. Here's how she defends herself | watch video||An elderly woman barely managed to survive a sudden and unexpected attack by a leopard in Mumbai's Aarey Colony area on Wednesday evening. The woman was later rushed to a hospital as she received minor injuries. This was the third incident of leopard attack in the area--which borders the Sanjay Gandhi National Park--within a week, news agency PTI quoted an official as saying.The incident was recorded in a CCTV camera. As seen in the video, the 60-year-old woman was sitting on an elevated platform, outside her shanty when the leopard made a sudden attack from behind. However, the woman managed to shoo the animal away with her walking stick.Later, other members of her family rushed to her rescue upon hearing her cry for help.#WATCH | Mumbai: A woman barely survived an attack by a leopard in Goregaon area yesterday. The woman has been hospitalised with minor injuries. (Visuals from CCTV footage of the incident) pic.twitter.com/c1Yx1xQNV8The woman, identified as Nirmaladevi Rambadan Singh, was later provided medical assistance, the official further told PTI. She suffered attack marks on her face, chest and back.Before this, in a similar incident, a four-year-old boy had to be rescued by the locals when a leopard tried to drag him away from near his house.In a previous incident, a three-year-old boy had been attacked by a leopard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/leopard-attacks-woman-in-mumbai-s-aarey-colony-here-s-how-she-defends-herself-watch-video-101632981086012.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt extends validity of driving license, other documents till Nov 30||The Delhi government on Wednesday further extended validity of documents related to fitness, permit, driving license, registration that expired between February 2020 and September 30, 2021 till November 30.The current deadline was September 30.Delhi's transport department took the decision keeping in view the huge crowd at its offices for renewal of these documents during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) time.This is the eighth extension given by the government for renewal of these documents during Covid-19 period. The first such extension was given on March 30, 2020. The dates were subsequently extended on June 9, 2020; August 24, 2020; December 27, 2020; March 26, 2021; June 17, 2021 and September 30, 2021.The government notification has, however, made it clear that vehicle owners must have updated insurance and pollution under check (PUC) certificates. Since insurance can be renewed online, and there are many PUC centres, these documents can be renewed easily, it further said.Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported that Delhi government is also integrating its transport system with banks after which the hypothecation mark will automatically be removed from registration certificates of vehicles whose owners have repaid the loan amount. This will end the need to go to banks to get hypothecation removed.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Wednesday that the integration work will be completed by November 1.Gahlot reviewed the progress of the faceless service launched by the Delhi government in August. He said that more than 92 per cent of driving license-related applications and 80 per cent of other requests were cleared under the faceless services.The minister instructed the officers present in the meeting to expedite the process of resolving the technical issues, pendencies and grievances related to faceless services.More than 78 per cent applicants of e-learning license service successfully received their learner's license at their home, the transport department said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-extends-validity-of-driving-license-other-documents-till-november-30-101632974721570.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||40% of Delhi private liquor vends to shut from Oct 1 due to new excise policy: 10 points||Around 40 per cent of liquor vends in Delhi that are run privately will shut down for one-and-half months from October 1 since businesses will have to transition to a new excise regime introduced by a policy announced by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government. As per the new liquor policy, all the 850 liquor vends, including 260 outlets run privately, have been given to private firms through open tender.The shutdown will be in place till November 16, and the new licence holders will be able to start retail sale of liquor in the city from November 17.In the transition period of nearly one-and-half months, only government-run liquor vends will remain open. They will close down on November 16.Here are 10 points on Delhi's new excise policy and shutdown of vends:• An excise department official said on Wednesday that government vends have been asked to stock up in view of an expected surge in demand due to the closure.• There are 26 municipal wards in the city where no liquor shops will open after September 30 as they were catered to by private vends only. There are already 80 wards where there is no liquor vends.• The new excise policy, for the first time, will mark the exit of the Delhi government from the retail business of liquor.• Under its new excise policy, the Delhi government has divided the city into 32 zones. Each zone comprising 8-10 wards will have around 27 vends.• The new policy has been introduced with an aim to provide equitable distribution of retail liquor business across Delhi, said the government.• It also seeks to improve user experience, clean up the liquor mafia and eradicate pilferage. The new liquor policy was implemented on June 11.• The policy also states that the retailers will be free to decide the selling prices in a competitive environment, rather than an MRP being mandated by the government.• With the new policy, the government plans to keep the total number of vends intact, reshuffling them into 32 zones to ensure a more equitable distribution across 272 municipal wards in the city, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area and the airport.• The newly appointed retail licensees will have to build bigger and modern liquor vends from November 17. Customers will get the facility to walk in and choose their preferred liquor brands.• With the new policy, liquor shops in Delhi will also be able to offer discounts, enabling festive season offers of the kind that are usually seen around Diwali on vehicles, electronics, and gift items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/40-of-delhi-private-liquor-vends-to-shut-from-oct-1-due-to-new-excise-policy-101632971319436.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal in Punjab: Delhi CM to address ‘important’ press conference in Ludhiana today||Delhi chief minister and national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Arvind Kejriwal, will address an “important” press conference on Thursday, the second and final day of his ongoing Punjab visit, the party said. “Honourable CM of Delhi Shri Arvind Kejriwal will address an important press conference in Ludhiana, at 11:30am,” the AAP informed in a tweet. Hon'ble Chief Minister of Delhi and AAP National Convenor Shri @ArvindKejriwal will address an important Press Conference in Ludhiana, Punjab tomorrow at 11:30 AMWatch Live- 👇 ➡️ https://t.co/RURHm7DQWR➡️ https://t.co/QPIoH2dicA➡️ https://t.co/0671kSdDiT pic.twitter.com/hrn7cdAG8xThe Delhi CM arrived in the city on Wednesday itself after landing at the Chandigarh airport from the national capital. Addressing industrialists later in the day, he promised to fulfil their long-standing dream of making Ludhiana “Manchester of the world.” Kejriwal also laid out his five-point agenda for industrialists: peaceful atmosphere with law and order, industry representatives to decide what all should be implemented, ending “inspector raj” and corruption, 24-hour helpline for industrialists and cheap electricity round the clock.Also Read | Will make Ludhiana ‘Manchester of the world’, Arvind Kejriwal tells industrialists in LudhianaKejriwal, whose AAP is the largest opposition party in the border state, also took a jibe at the ruling Congress, whose now-former state unit chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu, in a sudden development, resigned from the post on Tuesday, bringing to an end his stint after just 72 days. Sidhu's resignation came just 10 days after Captain Amarinder Singh stepped down as the chief minister, and was succeeded by Charanjit Singh Channi, the incumbent and first Dalit CM of Punjab.Also Read | Government in Punjab reduced to ‘tamasha’, people feeling helpless: Arvind KejriwalAssembly elections in Punjab are likely to take place early next year, along with those in four other states: Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. Besides Punjab, the AAP is contesting in UP, Uttarakhand and Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arvind-kejriwal-in-punjab-delhi-cm-to-address-important-press-conference-today-101632961960794.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||KMSC's ‘rail roko’ agitation against farm laws from today||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) will hold a “rail roko” agitation in Punjab from Thursday, September 30, over a host of demands, including repeal of the three contentious central agricultural laws, passed by the Union government in September last year. Other demands raised by the outfit include a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for 23 crops, implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report, full waiver of farmers’ debt, and government jobs and a financial compensation of ₹5 lakh each to the families of farmers who lost their lives while protesting against the farm laws on the outskirts of Delhi.Also Read | KMSC announces ‘rail roko’ stir in Punjab from Sept 30On September 19, the KMSC had announced its plan to organise this rail blockade. “We have planned to hold protests outside deputy commissioner offices in Punjab from September 28. If our demands are not met by then, we will be forced to protest on the railway tracks from September 30,” Satnam Singh Pannu, who heads its Punjab unit, had said, also extending support to the Bharat Bandh, which took place on Monday.This is not for the first time when the KMSC will hold a “rail roko” against the farm laws. Previously, its members blocked the Amritsar-Delhi and Tarn Taran-Ferozepur railway tracks for 169 days, from September 2020 till March this year.On Delhi borders, protests against these laws have been going on since last November. While the central government has described the legislation as a “major agriculture reform,” farmers believe that it will do away with the MSP, thus leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre’s repeated assurance that the support price will not cease to exist has failed to convince the farmers, who want the laws to be withdrawn, a demand rejected by the government.Total 11 rounds of talks have failed to resolve the impasse between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kmscs-rail-roko-agitation-against-farm-laws-from-today-101632960531950.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The Jurassic Netflix||When icons fall out of use, what shall we turn them into?Named after a centuries-old ruin, the iconic Siri Fort Auditorium is lying in ruins, metaphorically speaking. This afternoon, most gates are locked. Entry is forbidden without a prior appointment. An empty water tank is lying forlorn in the middle of a driveway.Opened in 1982, Siri Fort Auditorium in south Delhi used to be our window to the world cinema. It hosted the international film festivals. The history-minded millennials might decipher the landmark as a kind of ancient Netflix site, the only place then in the city where one could get the chance to experience globally renowned movies (Priya Cinema in Basant Lok screened only the American blockbusters). Desperate cinema fanatics would scheme and plot to get passes for the festival, an impossibility if a film was lucky enough to be tainted with even a whiff of sensational controversy. Indeed, memorialising the subculture of Capital’s film festivals in one of her Hindustan Times columns, critic Anupama Chopra recalls “the madness around the Maya Memsaab screening in 1993—it felt like Siri Fort might collapse under the weight of the rushing crowds.”Today, Siri Fort has fallen as subdued as a cemetery (though some offices inside are open). It hasn’t hosted a single screening, or any other event, since the pandemic—a staffer confirms. One wonders if the auditorium can ever regain its exclusivity. Why would you any longer brave the traffic to Siri Fort to watch an Iranian art house hit when it is so easy to curate personalised international film fest on your mobile phone screen.This sunny afternoon, despite its gleaming white facade and clipped lawns, the sprawling complex feels deserted. The pavement outside is littered with rotting leaves. The fences are barely holding onto signages of the past—“Eatables, drinks, helmets, briefcases and cameras not allowed inside the auditorium.” A faded blue board explains that Gate 1 is for VIPs/Stars/ Artists and Gate 2 is for the rest. (A hawker is lying flat in front of this board, her eyes closed. She must be asleep.)One winter evening, Siri Fort Auditorium was packed with a great number of people. Author Dan Brown, of the best selling Da Vinci Code, was to give a lecture on ‘Codes, Science and Religion’. As the celebrity novelist appeared on the stage, the entire auditorium 1 (full capacity: 1,865 seats) broke into a thundering applause. The year was 2014. That evening now looks as far removed as 1914.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-jurassic-netflix-101632960585718.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Cantt rape case: Cops to file extra charge sheet by Oct 15, court told||The Delhi Police on Wednesday informed a local court that it is likely to file a supplementary charge sheet by October 15 in the alleged gang rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl at a crematorium near Delhi Cantonment on August 1.The investigating officer (IO) in the case informed additional sessions judge Ashutosh Kumar that forensic reports were likely to arrive by October 15 upon which the supplementary charge sheet will be filed. The judge directed the director of Rohini FSL (forensic science laboratory) to expedite the process and posted the matter for hearing on October 21.The girl who lived in a nearby village was found dead by her parents at the crematorium, triggering protests by activists and politicians in the Capital.Police filed a charge sheet on August 28, formally accusing four people—Radhey Shyam (a priest who worked at the crematorium), Kuldeep Singh, Salim Ahmed and Laxmi Narayan—for rape, wrongful confinement, murder, destruction of evidence under Indian Penal Code sections, and under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989.The judge took cognisance of the charge sheet on September 9 and asked the accused to appear before it on September 29.On Wednesday, they were produced through video conferencing from jail where they are incarcerated pending trial. The victim’s parents were present in the courtroom with their counsel from the Delhi State Legal Services Authority.During the proceedings, the judge was informed that the previous IO Richhpal Singh has been replaced by Mayank Bansal, who was also present in the court.Meanwhile, the court sought the IO’s reply on an application by Radhey Shyam through his counsel LK Verma, seeking the preservation of CCTV footage of the crime scene on the day of the incident and the day after—August 1 and 2 — saying that it would add to a fair trial.The accused had also applied for protection, claiming that they faced a threat to life in prison and were beaten up in a police van while being brought to court. The court dismissed it after the jail authorities submitted that they were completely safe in prison.“It is not possible to provide a separate van for their court production. However, directions have been given to all the officials to ensure their safety during court production and in jail,” the judge said.During the hearing, Laxmi Narayan’s counsel claimed that a case of murder was not made out against his client and there was a delay of 10 hours in the registration of the FIR. He also said that the girl was cremated only after her mother had given her consent and signed the crematorium register.However, the judge said that they should wait for the FSL reports. He also said that there were extra-judicial confessions and even the victim’s mother had said that all the accused together burnt her daughter.Police said in their chargesheet that Radhey Shyam and Kuldeep Singh made extra-judicial confessions to two witnesses when the public had barged into the Shamshan Ghat, nabbed the accused, asked them questions about the pyre on which the girl was allegedly cremated.“How can you say it now that such a case is not made out against the accused? There are extra-judicial confessions. An extra-judicial confession is admissible although it is a weak piece of evidence,” the court said. The police earlier told the court that the girl died due to “suffocation” while she was being sexually assaulted, but the accused tried to dress up the crime scene to show that she died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler. For this, they even threw water on the body. The court will now hear arguments on the framing of charges against the accused on October 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cantt-rape-case-cops-to-file-extra-charge-sheet-by-oct-15-court-told-101632959100755.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||2 women assaulted with iron rods in Ludhiana||Three men assaulted an elderly woman and her daughter-in-law with iron rods in Transport Nagar after they objected to their lewd comments, police said on Wednesday. The victims, Darshana Kaur, 60, and her daughter-in-law Sukhwinder Kaur, 40, of Bhukhri Kalan village run a tea stall in Transport Nagar. The accused, Toti, Sanjay and Vicky Tanda, would trouble Sukhwinder every day. In the attack,which took place on September 27, Darshana, suffered multiple injuries, while the skull and jaw bones of her daughter in-law were fractured. They were rushed to the hospital. Sub-inspector Rachhpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Sections 307 (intention to kill) , 326 (grievous hurt) , 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) , 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting) and 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence commit­ted in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-women-assaulted-with-iron-rods-in-ludhiana-101632950724306.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Murder case lodged 14 days after teen’s charred body found in Ludhiana||Fourteen days after a woman’s charred body was found outside a park art Focal Point, police registered a murder case against unidentified accused on Tuesday. The postmortem report had revealed that the victim had been strangled to death and later set on fire to conceal her identity. Commuters had found the dead woman outside the park and alerted the police on September 15. A board of three doctors including Sheetal, Dr Lakhwinder Kaur and Forensic expert Dr Charankamal had conducted a postmortem on the body. Inspector Davinder Sharma, Focal Point station house officer said doctors say the victim was 17 to 19 years old. She has not been identified so far, but the police are looking through missing person’s reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-case-lodged-14-days-after-teen-s-charred-body-found-in-ludhiana-101632950124267.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Milkman poisoned by sweetmeat shop owner in Ludhiana||A sweetmeat shop owner murdered a milkman, whom he owed ₹2.5 lakh, by offering him a dish laced with poison, police said on Wednesday. The complainant, Sukhwinder Singh, a friend of the victim, Baljeet Singh, 40, said, “The accused, Uma Dutt, who bought milk from Baljeet was not clearing his dues. Baljeet had also raised the matter before the panchayat, and Uma had promised to pay the money he owed.” “On September 25, Uma Dutt had called Baljeet to his shop to collect the money. However, later I received a call from Baljeet saying that Uma had not cleared the dues and he was feeling uneasy after having cholle bhature offered by Uma,” he said. “My nephew and I picked up Baljeet, who was vomiting continuously. We rushed him to a hospital at Doraha, where he died on September 27,”he added.Inspector Rohit Sharma, an SHO at the Daba police station said the police had launched a manhunt for the arrest of the accused and a case of murder had been lodged against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkman-poisoned-by-sweetmeat-shop-owner-in-ludhiana-101632949524044.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Free all bus stands of encroachments in Punjab, transport minister Warring tells officials||Newly inducted Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Wednesday asked the department officials to ensure that all the bus stands across the state are free of encroachments in the next 48 hours. Chairing his first meeting with the officials as minister, Warring said encroachments at the bus stands not only inconvenienced people but were also causing a huge loss to the state exchequer. “This needs to be checked at the earliest. Every encroachment — whether big or small — has to be removed or strict action will be taken,” he added. The minister also asked the general managers to make efforts for enhancing revenue of the department. “Officials indulging in fraudulent activities will not be spared at any cost. Ensure speedy recovery of arrears from willful defaulting transporters. Also, due taxes must be collected from the transporters and anyone who defaults should be dealt with sternly,” he added. He called upon the employees to perform their duties fearlessly and meticulously as per the laid down policy. Warring also asked them to ensure checking of government and private buses. Proper cleanliness should be ensured at the bus stands and that general managers will be responsible for the upkeep of buses under their jurisdiction, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-all-bus-stands-of-encroachments-in-punjab-transport-minister-warring-tells-officials-101632948924350.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Online admissions to Chandigarh’s engineering colleges begin today||The joint admission committee (JAC) will start online registrations for admission to engineering courses in various institutes of Chandigarh from September 30.The registrations will close on October 13. The admissions will be given on the basis of JEE Main 2021 scores.The admissions for bachelors of engineering, bachelors of architecture and integrated BE (chemical) and MBA courses for the 2021-22 academic session will also be conducted.Like other states, Chandigarh also accepts JEE (Main) scores for engineering courses at five institutes—Dr SSB University Institute of Chemical Engineering (Dr SSBUICET), University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Panjab University Campus, UIET at PU’s Hoshiarpur regional centre, Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology (CCET) and Chandigarh College of Architecture (CCA).There will be three rounds of online counselling, followed by a spot round. The candidates need to register online at chdenggadmissions.nic.in and pay the registration fee, which is refundable. Students are required to upload requisite documents with the application. The details regarding eligibility conditions, documents to be uploaded and fee details can be seen on the website. The online mode of admissions has been extended to all the categories this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/online-admissions-to-chandigarh-s-engineering-colleges-begin-today-101632948444057.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Protest over land compensation: Sukhbir Badal, other Akali leaders marching to CM’s residence detained in Mohali||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal along with other party leaders and workers was detained in Mohali on Wednesday during a tractor march to the Punjab chief minister’s official residence in Chandigarh against “low compensation” offered to farmers for the land acquired under the central government’s Bharat Mala project. The Akali leaders, including Prem Singh Chandumajra, Bikram Singh Majithia, Daljit Singh Cheema and NK Sharma besides Sukhbir, were taken to the Mataur police station but were later released on submitting bail bonds. Earlier, they staged a dharna at the border of Chandigarh where they were stopped. The representatives of the Road Sangarsh Committee seeking higher compensation for 25,000 acres of land acquired under the road project in 19 districts also joined the protest. Sukhbir said, “The Congress government in Punjab was not accepting the demand of nearly 2 lakh farmers for fair compensation. The farmers have been duped by the government by offering a compensation of ₹30-70 lakh per acre against the market value of ₹2-3 crore.” On the other hand, the Akali government gave compensation to the tune of crores of rupees to farmers, he claimed. “Besides, tubewells were dug up free of cost and registration of land they purchased elsewhere was done free of cost,” he added. Claiming contradictions in CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s statement that anyone linked with the mafia should not approach him, Sukhbir said he had inducted tainted MLAs, including one accused of rape and another named in a murder case, in his cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protest-over-land-compensation-sukhbir-badal-other-akali-leaders-marching-to-cm-s-residence-detained-in-mohali-101632948325945.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 16 new cases surface in tricity area, active cases cross 100 again||With 16 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, the single-day fresh Covid-19 infection tally further climbed in the tricity from the 14 cases reported on September 28.The last hike in cases was witnessed on September 21 at 17. Of the 16 cases, eight surfaced in Mohali, five in Chandigarh and three in Panchkula. However, no fresh casualty was reported in the tricity area on Wednesday as well.In Chandigarh, the infected patients are residents of Sectors 28, 33, Mauli Jagran and Palsora. In Mohali, four cases were reported from Mohali, three surfaced in Kharar and one in Boothgarh. In Panchkula, two cases were reported from MDC-4 and one from Sector 16.The active case tally in the tricity area again crossed the 100-mark with 103 cases on Wednesday, against the 94 on Tuesday: Chandigarh has 42 positive patients, Mohali 40 and Panchkula 21.Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,224 with 64,363 recoveries and 819 deaths. As many as 68,735 people have been found infected in Mohali so far. Among them, 67,631 have recovered and 1,064 have died.In Panchkula, of the 30,738 total cases, 30,340 patients have been cured and 377 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-16-new-cases-surface-in-tricity-area-active-cases-cross-100-again-101632948143933.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Will make Ludhiana ‘Manchester of the world’, Arvind Kejriwal tells industrialists in Ludhiana||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday promised five-point agenda to the industrialists, assuring that he will realise their long-pending dream of making Ludhiana the ‘Manchester of the world’ come true. Seeking their support of the industry to the party in the forthcoming assembly elections, the AAP chief said, “You have already voted for other parties over the years and seen the outcome. Give us an opportunity and you will forget all other parties,” he said. Kejriwal said the the five-point agenda included peaceful atmosphere with law and order, an effective mechanism wherein the industry representatives get to decide what is needed to be implemented, an end to ‘inspector raj’ and corruption, a 24-hour helpline for industrialists and cheap electricity round the clock. The AAP leader, who addressed nearly 200-odd traders said just like Arjuna of the Mahabharata he wanted the business fraternity in the state to be on his side. “Unlike other parties, I do not want your money. I want you,” he said. Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, Chamber of Commercial and Industrial Undertakings (CICU) who attended the meeting, said, “We were hoping that Kejriwal will announce tax reforms which will benefit the industry, but nothing of that sort happened. Even electricity rebates promised are not enough as the power tariff for industry in Punjab is almost same as that of industry in Delhi,” said. Delhi CM’s security breached, inquiry ordered Ludhiana police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar marked an inquiry into an incident of security breach when Kejriwal’s car was about to enter Hotel Park Plaza at around 4pm. Two persons raised slogans against Kejriwal and showed him black flags despite a huge posse of police force deployed there. “I have directed the joint commissioner of police (Headquarters) to look into the matter and take necessary action,” said Bhullar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-make-ludhiana-manchester-of-the-world-arvind-kejriwal-tells-industrialists-in-ludhiana-101632948024638.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Nigerian woman sentenced to 10-year RI in drugs case||Mohali: A district court of Mohali on Wednesday sentenced a Nigerian woman to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) for smuggling heroin.The court of district and sessions judge Harreet Kaur Kaleka also slapped a fine of ₹1 lakh on the accused, Mariam Wanoe.Wanoe is the fourth Nigerian national to be sentenced to 10-year RI for smuggling heroin in Mohali this year.Wanoe was arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) in May 2018 near the old barrier in Phase 1. STF had recovered 280 gram of heroin from her possession.Residing at Krishna Puri in New Delhi, the accused woman was on her way to Mohali to supply the drugs to her customers. Wanoe had confessed that she had come to India on a medical visa in 2016, but never returned to her country.Later she had started working at a salon in Delhi and then turned into a drug runner to earn extra money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-nigerian-woman-sentenced-to-10-year-ri-in-drugs-case-101632947903863.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 4.4mm rain, more likely tomorrow||The city witnessed a light spell of rain on Wednesday, and the India Meteorological Department is predicting more on Thursday and Friday.The department recorded 4.4 mm of rain on Wednesday between 8.30am and 5.30pm.The IMD had said that there were less chances of intense rains in Chandigarh due to no low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal.The maximum temperature in the city went down from 35.8 degrees on Tuesday to 35 degrees on Wednesday. The minimum temperature, however, went up from 25.1 degrees on Tuesday to 25.5 degrees on Wednesday.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 33 degrees and 34 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 24 degrees and 25 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-4-4mm-rain-more-likely-tomorrow-101632947668846.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress crisis: Frantic mediation on as ministers, MLAs reach out to Navjot Sidhu||Amid a deepened political crisis in the Congress’s Punjab unit triggered by the resignation of Navjot Singh Sidhu from the post of the party’s state chief, two ministers and at least five MLAs on Wednesday visited the cricketer-turned-politician at his Patiala residence to pacify him. Newly inducted cabinet ministers Pargat Singh and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, who had visited Sidhu a day before, met him again on Wednesday morning before leaving for Chandigarh to attend a cabinet meeting. Sidhu reportedly told them that he won’t budge and they should not insist for a patch-up. Later, he posted a video on social media, claiming that he was fighting for issues, and not for his personal gain. The Congress high command had on Tuesday rejected his resignation. Congress MLA Fatehjung Singh Bajwa, who had previously sided with former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh during his turf war with Sidhu, also met the Punjab Congress chief along with fellow legislator Balwinder Singh Laddi. Also, MLA Surjit Singh Dhiman, who was miffed over being not being given a cabinet berth, had a marathon meeting with Sidhu. MLAs Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Satkar Kaur along with state Congress working president Sukhwinder Danny also held a spate meeting with the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president. Dhiman, Danny and Bolaria had visited the PPCC chief on Tuesday as well. “Sidhu has decided not to budge under any pressure and fight for the issues flagged by all, including CM Charanjit Singh Channi, during a meeting with the Congress high command. How can they make appointments of people who worked against the promises made by the Congress?” a key aide of the former cricketer questioned. The appointment of APS Deol as advocate general only added fuel to fire as Sidhu was already upset with giving charge of the director general of police (DGP) to IPS Sahota, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-crisis-frantic-mediation-on-as-ministers-mlas-reach-out-to-navjot-sidhu-101632947604775.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Government in Punjab reduced to ‘tamasha’, people feeling helpless: Arvind Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that government in Punjab had unfortunately been reduced to a ‘tamasha’ and the people of the state were feeling helpless. Kejriwal, who landed at the Chandigarh international airport in the afternoon for his Punjab visit, said, “It is nothing but greed for power and chair. People do not know where to go. I request them to wait for just three months as we will give them a stable government.The AAP chief congratulated Charanjit Singh Channi on his elevation as chief minister and asked him to act against the tainted ministers, MLAs and officers inducted in his cabinet. “I urge him to fulfill all the promises made by his predecessor Captain Amarinder Singh before the 2017 polls. People of Punjab are looking at five things. First, they want removal of tainted ministers and officers with an immediate effect. Second, they are unhappy over inaction in the 2015 sacrilege cases even as everyone knows who was the mastermind behind those incidents. Then, there is the issue of unemployment allowance which the state government has not given in the past four-and-a-half years. Also, the waiver of farm loans must be expedited,” he said. Whether this was achievable, the AAP supremo said, “It’s still four months to go the polls. We had a government for only 49 days in Delhi when we first came to power. In those 49 days, we slashed electricity bills by half and provided water for free. Besides, we finished corruption in Delhi. If we can do these things in 49 days, then CM Channi should be able to do the same in four months.”On the issue of the chief ministerial face in Punjab, Kejriwal said the party will soon make an announcement in this regard and “you will be proud of that person”.Among those present on the occasion were AAP Punjab president Bhagwant Mann, party’s state affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha, MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Amarjit Singh Sandoa, Baljinder Pal Kaur, Aman Arora and Meet Hayer.Later, Kejriwal left for Ludhiana to meet industrialists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/government-in-punjab-reduced-to-tamasha-people-feeling-helpless-arvind-kejriwal-101632947304981.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar launches adventure sports at Tikkar Taal in Morni Hills||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khatar launched water and aero sports activities at Tikkar Taal in Morni Hills besides laying the foundation stone of the first tourist facilitation centre in Panchkula on Wednesday. Khattar said tourism is a great tool for youth to change ideology as well as culture. He said by introducing sports and other adventure activities, Panchkula can be developed as a tourism hub. “Panchkula being gateway to Himachal Pradesh and Delhi, visiting Morni will now be delight for nature lovers,” he said.The chief minister (CM) also released a brochure for home stay, farm tourism and bus tour packages at Tikkar Taal, and said all necessary arrangements will be made to promote tourism activities in the area. The CM said the home stays will increase employment and income opportunities for locals, for which a policy has been formulated. Arrangements are also being made for better mobile and road connectivity in the area.He also launched a city tour bus service — Scenic Tour Package. This bus will run twice a week and cover Panchkula, Kalka, Mansa Devi and Nada Sahib. A hot air balloon will also be started from Pinjore, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-launches-adventure-sports-at-tikkar-taal-in-morni-hills-101632947184352.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||In brief: RSS chief’s 4-day visit to Jammu begins on September 30||The head of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Mohan Bhagwat, will be on a four-day visit to Jammu beginning Thursday. He will take stock of the organisational activities of the RSS in the UT. Earlier in 2016, he had come to Jammu on a short visit. He will address a seminar in Jammu University on October 2. Shaurya Chakra awardee Amit Kumar posted as DIG NIASenior police officer Amit Kumar, who had sustained bullet injuries two years ago, has been posted as DIG, National Investigation Agency, on deputation of five years. He was currently posted as DIG (Central Kashmir). In 2019, Kumar had a narrow escape when he got injured during an encounter at Pulwama. Kumar was then the DIG (South Kashmir). He had remained in hospital for about nine months. Last year, Kumar was awarded Shaurya Chakra.IG of BSF Jammu frontier promoted to ADG rankThe inspector general of BSF Jammu Frontier, NS Jamwal, has been promoted to the rank of ADG of the BSF and posted to the strategic Western Command at Chandigarh. Jamwal had joined the BSF in 1984 as assistant commandant and served in eastern and western frontiers of the BSF such as Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, and J&K.66.32% polling in 13 Spiti panchayats Polling was conducted at 38 stations in Spiti for 13 panchayats and three zila parishad seats, returning officer Mahender Pratap Singh said on Wednesday. A total of 5,858 voters cast their votes and the turnout was 66.32%. The counting of votes will take place on October 4. 62-year-old PoJK man likely to be repatriated today A 62-year-old man from Pakistan-occupied J&K, who had inadvertently crossed the LoC in Keri sector of Rajouri on Tuesday, is likely to be repatriated on Thursday. “The intruder is in the custody of the army and being questioned. However, it seems to be a case of inadvertent crossing,” said officials. The man hailed from Khuiratta area in Kotli district of PoJK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-brief-rss-chief-s-4-day-visit-to-jammu-begins-on-september-30-101632947004921.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Appointments of 2 officers at the centre of Punjab Congress crisis||The appointments of Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the director general of police (DGP) and APS Deol as the advocate general (AG) were the final straw leading to the resignation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress president. In both the appointments, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi straightway ignored Sidhu’s choices. For the advocate general’s post, Sidhu’s first choice was senior lawyer DS Patwalia, who had defended the former cricketer in a 1988 road rage case. A day after Channi took oath as CM, Sidhu even met Patwalia and promised him the state’s top law officer’s job, it is learnt. But a section of lawyers told Channi that the Patwalia family had close links with the BJP as his elder brother Paramjit Singh Patwalia had served as additional solicitor general in the previous Narendra Modi government.Senior leaders claimed that advocate Anmol Ratan Sidhu emerged as the unanimous choice for the job because of his old associations with the Congress but Channi prevailed and appointed Deol. Sidhu objected to Deol’s appointment as he had represented former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the cases of 2015 police firing during protests against the Bargari sacrilege. Deol recently managed to get blanket bail for Saini from the Punjab and Haryana High Court stating that the ex-DGP will not be arrested in any case until elections in Punjab are over. The court had also stayed all investigations against Saini.According to some senior lawyers linked with the Bargari sacrilege cases, just before change in the guard in the Congress, the state government was preparing to challenge the high court orders related to FIRs 11 and 13 registered by the vigilance bureau in which Saini was granted blanket bail. “But now, if the government wants to challenge the blanket bail orders in the apex court, consent has to be given by Deol as AG. Can you expect a lawyer to challenge the same order which he himself secured? What can be more apt case of conflict of interest?” asked a senior lawyer.Deol, on the other hand, has claimed that he has sent back all files related to cases linked with Saini. “My priority now is to serve the interests of the state. As a professional lawyer, we get cases of all sorts of clients,” he told some news channels the day he was appointed as AG.Channi preferred Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, a 1988-batch IPS officer, for the DGP’s post over 1986-batch IPS officer S Chattopadhyaya, Sidhu’s first choice.The orders to give charge to Chattopadhyaya were about to be issued but Channi put his foot down after getting feedback that his case for the regular appointment for the post may not get approval of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) due to some controversies surrounding him.The Channi camp claims that the CM was apprehensive that Chattopadhya, who was head of the SIT probing drug charges against a senior police official, may use his position to settle personal scores. But the CM was not in mood to let a turf war restart in the police force, they said. Sahota led-SIT had blamed 2 Sikh youths for sacrilegeWhen the sacrilege cases and police action Sikh protesters rocked the state in 2015, Sahota (then ADGP, law and order) was appointed head of the first SIT constituted by the then Akali government to probe the cases.Sahota claimed to have crack the case and even addressed a press conference, claiming that the Bargari sacrilege incident was “a handiwork of some foreign handlers”. The SIT also arrested two brothers, Rupinder and Jaswinder Singh, both Sikhs and residents of Panjgrain village in Faridkot, saying they were in touch with their Australia-based handlers who were funding them. But his theory fell flat soon when the media busted the claims of purported “foreign handlers”. The government released the two brothers on November 2, 2015, and handed over the probe to the CBI. The two brothers had refused to undergo lie-detector test in subsequent probes.“Those who tortured our kids to give clean chits to the Badals are now being given plum posts…,” Sidhu said in a video released on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/appointments-of-2-officers-at-the-centre-of-punjab-congress-crisis-101632946887984.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Close shave for workers as hosiery unit catches fire in Ludhiana||Panic gripped the Wait Ganj area, which is one of the busiest and most congested markets in the city, after fire broke out at a hosiery unit on Wednesday. As thick black smoke engulfed the area, shops surrounding the burning unit, AK Knitwear, started vacating their premises. The workmen present in the unit were able to leave the building in the nick of time. While no casualty was reported, goods and materials amounting to lakhs that had been kept on the ground floor of the four-storey building were gutted. A short-circuit in the compressor or air vent of the air conditioner on the outer side of the building is said to have caused the fire incident, as the hosiery material caught fire due to a spark. Neighbours and workmen tried to douse the flames using fire extinguishers and water buckets, but to no avail. Wait Ganj Vyapar Mandal Association president Arun Kapoor said, “It is fortunate that the fire did not break out at night, otherwise the flames may have also engulfed the neighbouring units.” Firefighters said that the unit was lacking in fire safety arrangements and they found it difficult to enter the unit due to the thick black smoke emanating from the unit. They used a ladder to douse the flames from the outside and then entered the unit. Sub-fire officer (SFO) Atish Rai said that the owner of the unit was near the Sundar Nagar fire station when blaze broke out and approached the fire brigade at around 11:35am. “Two fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the firefighting operation lasted an hour.” Traffic, encroachments slow down fire fighters In the wake of the ongoing winter apparel sale, the firefighters had a tough time reaching the hosiery unit due to traffic jams and narrow openings as shopkeepers had lined their hosiery goods on the roads. “Shopkeepers and their labour immediately cleared the way for the fire tenders, due to which we were able to reach the spot,” a firefighter said. Shopkeepers seek installation of fire hydrants Members of Wait Ganj Vyapar Mandal Association demanded that the administration and municipal corporation install fire hydrants in the old hosiery markets of the city. Kapoor said, “Having fire hydrants in the market, will help douse fires immediately. The same demand had been raised by us after a three-storeyed hosiery unit on Lal Masjid Road in Wait Ganj area went up in flames in November 2019.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/close-shave-for-workers-as-hosiery-unit-catches-fire-in-ludhiana-101632946883837.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Delivery of 19 electric buses to Chandigarh Transport Undertaking delayed||The delivery of 19 electric buses to the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) has been delayed by at least 10 days.CTU was to receive the buses on September 30. On August 11, one electric bus was received, which was run on a trial basis for around 20 days. “After the trial run, we shared the shortcomings and improvements required by CTU with the manufacturer. These are being incorporated in the new buses,” said a senior transport department official.The trial bus was to be put under operations for city residents from the first week of September, but wasn’t. “The delay in delivery of the 19 buses will further reschedule the entire bus delivery process. In addition to the 19 buses, the department was to receive 20 more by mid-October. These are also expected to get delayed,” said the official.The procurement of another 40 electric buses is under process and expected to be received next year.The UT department of heavy industries under the Union ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises, sanctioned 80 electric buses for Chandigarh under Phase-ll of the FAME India scheme.For the first lot of 40 buses, an agreement was signed with M/s Ashok Leyland for 10 years. The scope of the contract entails procurement of buses, installation of adequate number of chargers for charging of buses, maintenance and provision of drivers. The fare collection will be done by CTU. The transport department plans on replacing all the 358 diesel buses in tricity with electric ones by 2027-2028.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delivery-of-19-electric-buses-to-chandigarh-transport-undertaking-delayed-101632946823767.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Political parties drove a wedge between Jammu, Kashmir: Altaf Bukhari||The Apni Party president, Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari, on Wednesday said political parties were responsible for driving a wedge between the people of Jammu and Kashmir for political gains. However, the Apni Party will continue its fight against such divisive politics for the unity and equality of the two regions, he added. He was speaking at programme where nearly 100 youths and student leaders led by Partpal Singh Jamwal joined the Apni Party. Bukhari said the joining of youths shows that the party has won the trust of the people, especially youth and students in Jammu. “We believe in the equality of both the regions. The issues and aspirations of youths across J&K are the same with regard to employment, development, peace and prosperity.” He said that it was Apni Party’s Jammu leadership which raised the public’s concerns the most and worked to address the issues being faced by traders, transporters, youth and students in Jammu. He said that when other parties failed to address issues of Jammu and Kashmir, they resorted to spreading hatred against Kashmir in Jammu, and vice versa. “This politics of hate will end,” he said and added that ‘Darbar Move’ had provided an opportunity to the people of both the regions to come close to each other and share cultural values. He said, “The Darbar Move not only increased business, but mutual respect too. An attempt has been made to hurt the relations again with the ending of Darbar Move practice.” He said that if the Apni Party comes to power, it will restore the Darbar Move practice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-parties-drove-a-wedge-between-jammu-kashmir-altaf-bukhari-101632946643991.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||52 days on, two booked for grievously hurting Dera Bassi man||After nearly two months, two persons were booked for attacking a Dera Bassi resident with a sharp-edged weapon in Kajheri, the police said on Wednesday. In his complaint, Chandan Singh, 35, of Dera Bassi, told the police that on August 7, he had come to his sister’s house in Kajheri. Just as he stepped out of the house for a while, accused Lallu and one other attacked him with a sharp weapon and injured him.Chandan was taken to PGIMER where he underwent surgery after his nerve had got pressed due to the attack, the police said.The case was registered late because the medico legal opinion from the hospital that termed the injury as grievous was delayed, the police added.The accused duo was booked under Section 325 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code. No arrests have been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/52-days-on-two-booked-for-grievously-hurting-dera-bassi-man-101632946523792.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 205 Covid cases, 100 test positive in Jammu, Kashmir||Himachal Pradesh logged 205 fresh Covid cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,18,898 while the death toll mounted to 3,659 after three more patients died of the contagion. Among the fresh cases, 51 were reported from Kangra, 45 in Hamirpur, 39 in Shimla, 27 in Bilaspur, 16 in Una, 15 from Mandi, five from Solan, four from Kullu, two from Chamba and one from Kinnaur. The active cases have gone up to 1,793 while recoveries reached 2,13,430 after 92 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,930 cases reported till date, followed by 30,918 in Mandi and 27,216 in Shimla. Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 100 fresh coronavirus infections on Wednesday. Of the total, 76 cases were reported in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 24 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 132 with active cases reaching 1,388.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 596 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 160 and 130 active cases, respectively.Officials said with 49 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by nine cases in Baramulla district. As many as 19 districts had no or single-digit cases.The total number of people who have recovered reached 3,23,510, prompting the recovery rate to mount to 98.23%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,29,320 and the death toll stands at 4,422. The officials said that 46,333 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,144 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 839 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-205-covid-cases-100-test-positive-in-jammu-kashmir-101632946403954.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cop hurt in hit-and-run at Matka Chowk||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Chandigarh Police was injured in a case of hit-and-run on Tuesday night.In his complaint, ASI Harmesh Kumar, who is posted at the DGP office, said that an unidentified car sped away after hitting his motorcycle near Matka Chowk. Since it was dark, the cop could not note the number of the car.The ASI was rushed to Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16. Meanwhile, the police are trying to trace the vehicle with the help of CCTV cameras installed at the roundabout and nearby areas.A case under Section 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.College student held for hurting copFive days after a constable was injured after being hit by a bike, police have arrested the pillion rider. The person who was riding the bike is still absconding.The pillion rider has been identified as Chirag, who lives in Sector 47 and studies in a college in Sector 26. He was produced in court and sent to one-day police remand. The constable, Harish, who is posted with the cycle squad, was on duty when he signalled the bike to stop for using cycle tracks at the Sector 32/46 road on September 24. Instead, the accused rammed the bike into him and fled leaving it behind. Harish had to be hospitalised. Police said the duo had borrowed the bike from another friend. They have been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cop-hurt-in-hit-and-run-at-matka-chowk-101632946285340.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Now, unregistered electric rickshaws can be challaned in Ludhiana||Realising that authorities have no data pertaining to e-rickshaws plying in the city, it has now become mandatory for owners of the three-wheelers to register their vehicle, which will allow the traffic cops to challan and fine them. At a meeting of the road safety council, cops said that at times the three-wheelers are a menace on the roads and are also misused by miscreants. However, as they are unregistered the drivers often escape action. Acting on the cops’ complaint, the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has started registering the e-rickshaws, which will allow the police to challan e-autos without a number plate or seize them.A traffic cop, who did not wish to be named, said, “The drivers deliberately violate traffic rules as they know that we cannot issue a challan to them.” Joint commissioner of police (JCP, city and traffic) Deepak Pareek said registeration of e-rickshaws had also started in Amritsar. “We have started issuing special codes to autos to identify three-wheelers without proper documents. We will issue special stickers to autos that possess all documents,”he said.Narinder Singh, secretary, Regional Transport authority, said, “We have started registration and the police can now issue challans or impound the autos plying without number plates.” Traffic missionary Rahul Verma said registered electric vehicles are issued a green number plate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-unregistered-electric-rickshaws-can-be-challaned-in-ludhiana-101632946284012.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP: Kolkata trekkers rescued, brought to Kaza||Twelve members of a trekkers’ group who were stranded at Khemengar glacier were on Wednesday brought to Kaza. They were then taken to the community health centre for medical check-up. Two of them had frostbites. Those rescued included a sherpa, six porters and three trekkers. Four porters along with two bodies are being brought down from the Khemenger glacier. Lahaul and Spiti DC Neeraj Kumar said that on reaching Kaza, the team members were given first aid and all of them are healthy. He thanked the ITBP, Dogra Scouts and porters for successfully completing the rescue operation. An 18-member team had left from Batal on September 15 for the Khemengar glacier. It had six trekkers, one sherpa and 11 porters. The group stayed at seven places before reaching the Khemenger glacier. Members Sandeep Thakurta and Bhaskerdeep decided to stay at the eighth point on September 24. They were, however, found dead when other group members went back to check on them on September 25. The team then decided to seek help from the Kaza administration. A porter, Jeevan, along with another group member Abhijeet undertook a two-day trek to reach Kaza. On September 27, the local administration formed a 32-member rescue team and sent it to Kah village in Pin valley. The rescue team’s advance party found the group members on their way the next day. Two of these members were suffering from frostbite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-kolkata-trekkers-rescued-brought-to-kaza-101632945923744.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||18-year-old woman escapes from abductors, 2 booked in Ludhiana||Exhibiting a keen presence of mind, an 18-year-old woman, who had been abducted by two bike-borne men, managed to steal the phone of one of her captors and call a relative for help, police said on Wednesday. One of the accused men has been identified as Jagdeep Singh of Haibowal, while his accomplice is yet to be identified. The Delhi-based victim said she had come to meet one of her relatives at Inder Vihar Colony on Phambran Road on September 26. However, the relative had gone to pay obeisance at a shrine and asked her to meet at the Jalandhar Bypass. Victim was waiting for her relativeWhile the victim was waiting for her relative, two bike-borne men turned up and used a drug-soaked piece of cloth to render her unconscious. They made her sit on the bike and started going towards Jalandhar, she alleged. When the victim came to her senses, she tried to use her mobile phone to call for help, but the captors snatched and damaged her phone. However, she was able to pick the pocket of the man who was driving the bike and called her relative using his phone. However, the accused snatched the phone from her again. When the woman and her captors reached Mehsampur village in Jalandhar district, the victim raised the alarm and some commuters rushed to her aid. The accused let her get off the bike and fled. Later, she called the relative using the phone of the people who had come to her rescue. Victim says she was molested The victim alleged that the men had molested her. Inspector Gopal Krishan, station house officer, said the police have identified one of the accused by tracing her mobile phone. A case has been registered under Sections 365 (non-bailable offence), 354 (use of criminal force to outrage woman’s modesty), 323 (cause hurt or provocation), and 34 (acts done by several persons) of the Indian Penal Code, against the accused who are on the run. CCTV cameras captured incident Different CCTV cameras also captured the incident. “The accused and victim were captured at a petrol pump. The accused were buying fuel for their vehicle, while the victim was standing on one side. Later, she herself sat on the bike. However, the girls said she was not in control of her actions as she had been drugged and did what the accused asked her to do,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18yearold-woman-escapes-from-abductors-2-booked-in-ludhiana-101632945863805.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh begins health infra upgrade with ₹5.6-crore central funds||Amid the possibility of a third Covid wave, the UT health department has started ramping up medical services and facilities at government healthcare institutions, as approved by the central government under the Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package (ECRP-II package).Under the scheme, the UT health department was sanctioned ₹5.6 crore by the Centre in August this year, of which ₹3.61 crore are dedicated for ramping up health infrastructure with focus on paediatric units, keeping in view the possibility of surge in infection among children.For the implementation of other preparatory activities, ₹1.6 crore have been allocated for procurement of essential Covid-related drugs (like Tocilzumab and Enoxaparin injections) and diagnostics. Besides, ₹45 lakh have been specially allocated for IT hubs in hospitals to enhance tele-consultation. All the projects have to be completed before March 2022.“We had proposed a list of projects for providing better facilities to residents of Chandigarh. With the funds sanctioned under the ECRP scheme, the UT health department has now started implementing the projects. After completing designs and engineering works, we have started floating tenders for construction of the paediatric units,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, adding that the infrastructure will be made available before another surge.“Orders are being placed for procurement of essential drugs and diagnostics for starting RT-PCR testing at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector16,” added Dr Kang, who is set to retire on Thursday.Major projects: IT-hub, paediatric unitUnder the IT-hub project, all health and wellness centres (HWCs) will be connected to civil hospitals for tele-consultation, which will further be linked with GMSH-16 and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.These two hospitals will be linked to the paediatric department of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), which will provide consultation to patients and help doctors with referral cases.This project will also help in linking details and medical conditions of each paediatric patient, so that help can be sought from PGIMER.Meanwhile, a 32-bed dedicated paediatric ICU centre will come up at GMSH-16, which will have 12 ventilator beds and 20 beds with medical oxygen facility. The ICU centre will be built at the hospital’s vacant nursing hostel.Further, proposals have been approved to set up 20 additional ICU beds, each at the two civil hospitals in Sector 22 and Manimajra. All these beds will have a medical oxygen facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/preparing-for-third-covid-wave-chandigarh-begins-health-infra-upgrade-with-5-6-cr-central-funds-101632945810790.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Sahota-led SIT never gave clean chit to Ram Rahim in sacrilege case’||The Punjab Police on Wednesday termed as “bogus and baseless” the reports that Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim was given a clean chit in the 2015 sacrilege cases by the special investigation team (SIT) led by now acting police chief Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, who was director, Bureau of Investigation, then. It is learnt that Sahota was asked to clarify what directions came from the chief minister’s office after a section of the media and Congress leaders from Navjot Sidhu camp targeted him for conducting the “controversial probe”. The Sahota-led SIT had arrested two Sikh youths from Panjgrain of Faridkot to conclude the sacrilege as a handiwork of foreign hands to create communal tension in Punjab. However, the theory had fallen flat with the media busting the police claims the next day. The two arrested youths had to be freed under pressure of the Sikh organisations. After Sahota’s appointment as the acting DGP, a few Sikh bodies even alleged that under pressure from Badals, the probe by Sahota-led SIT spared Ram Rahim and falsely implicated the two youths. However, the police spokesperson clarified that the Sahota-led SIT had functioned only for 20 days (October 14, 2015 to November 2, 2015), after which the case was transferred to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “Entire investigation was conducted by the CBI not the SIT headed by Sahota,” said the spokesperson, adding no clean chit was given to Ram Rahim or any other person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sahotaled-sit-never-gave-clean-chit-to-ram-rahim-in-sacrilege-case-101632945807627.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU: Month on, four students booked for heckling VC||Almost a month after Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar was heckled by students during his visit to the Law Auditorium during senate elections, Chandigarh Police have registered a case against four.Rahul, Pargat Singh and Sarvottam Rana of the National Students Union of India (NSUI), and Amandeep, a woman member of Punjab Students Union (PSU)-Lalkar, have been named in the FIR registered at the police station in Sector 11.The case has been registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. If convicted, the students face up to one-year imprisonment.What had happenedRaj Kumar had gone to vote for the law faculty polls when the incident took place on September 1. After he came out of the auditorium, the students raised slogans against him and interrupted him while he tried to enter into his vehicle. He even tried to sit on the motorcycle with a security guard before he managed to enter his vehicle. The students were on an indefinite protest, demanding the reopening of campus and immediate conduct of polling for the senate’s registered graduate constituency. A day earlier, they had also locked the main entrance of the varsity’s administration block. According to the complaint submitted by PU’s chief of security Vikram Singh, students tried to restrain the V-C when he stepped out of the auditorium and kept banging on his vehicle. ‘We did not hurt V-C’Amandeep, who has been booked, said: “We had been protesting peacefully for 25 days, and did not hurt the V-C in any way. He didn’t even stop to talk to us at the protest site. Instead of fulfilling our demands, the university is trying to terrify students by pressing criminal charges. The authorities could have resolved the matter internally.” Nikhil Narmeta, president, NSUI, said: “The university authorities should not have allowed police interference in internal matters. Pressing criminal charges against students, who were just protesting for their rights, is unjust. The students only wanted to talk to the V-C regarding their demands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-month-on-four-students-booked-for-heckling-vc-101632945753236.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adviser for timely promotions to keep morale high||UT adviser Dharam Pal on Wednesday directed the officials concerned to ensure that promotion cases of employees working in various government departments in Chandigarh are taken up on time. “There were several complaints of undue delay in promotions. This is causing demoralisation among the staff. All heads of departments will be directed by the personnel and finance departments to enforce timely promotions. The performance evaluation of heads will be linked to it,” said Dharam Pal. Similar directions have been given for student stipends and scholarships. “In my experience, this is not being done properly. It will also be rectified,” he said.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSEx-DGP’s house case: Court issues notice to DC The additional and sessions judge, Mohali, Parminder Singh Grewal, on Wednesday issued a notice to the Mohali deputy commissioner to submit a compliance report on whether former Punjab director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini is depositing ₹2.5 lakh rent per month for the house in Sector 20, Chandigarh, that had been provisionally attached. The house is question, where Saini has been residing, had allegedly been purchased with tainted money, resulting in loss to the government exchequer. The DC has been asked to submit the compliance report by October 22. The court had sought a compliance report on July 16 too. On Wednesday, the court said no report had been submitted by DC, who was appointed to collect the rent from Saini and deposit it in the district treasury.A kidnapping that wasn’t Chandigarh Police registered a kidnapping case after a 13-year-old girl went missing from her house in Sector 25 on Tuesday afternoon. She was later traced to a relative’s house. The girl had reportedly left the house after being rebuked by her mother for watching television. Symposium on gender-inclusive cities Alliance Francaise de Chandigarh and Institut Francais Jaipur, in collaboration with the Social Design Collaborative, organised a series of online events around the theme of gender-inclusive cities, which culminated with a public symposium on Wednesday. Experts and students of design and architecture deliberated upon on ways to make public spaces more accessible and safer for all genders, class, caste, age and abilities. Plantation drive heldDirect Taxes Regional Training Institute (DTRTI) organised a plantation drive at its office in Sector 34A to celebrate Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. Over 50 saplings were planted in earthen pots by officers and officials of the institute. The drive was also simultaneously run at different ministerial staff training units under the DTRTI located at Panchkula, Patiala, Shimla, Ludhiana and Amritsar.Walkathon marks World Heart DayTo commemorate World Heart Day, a walkathon was organised at Fortis Hospital, Mohali. Nearly 30 patients treated for various cardiac complications by Dr RK Jaswal, director of cardiology and director, Cath Lab, participated in the event and were felicitated. The group was led by five survivors of cardiac arrest, who were treated by Dr Jaswal with effective stenting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-adviser-for-timely-promotions-to-keep-morale-high-101632945751979.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kharar: Robbery at gunpoint in Sunny Enclave||Three masked men wielding pistols robbed a departmental store at Sunny Enclave in Kharar on Tuesday night. Investigating officer Kulwinder Singh said the robbers struck at the store, named Bhanka Bihari, in Sector 124 when the owner, Pardeep Singla, was present there along with a helper around 9pm. The robbers entered the store one after the other, and took away ₹30,000 in cash, grocery items worth around of ₹10,000, and the owner’s gold chain at gunpoint. According to the complainant, the trio filled grocery items of their choice in two carry bags before fleeing with the loot on a Bajaj Pulsar bike.Even as the store and a neighbouring chemist shop have CCTV cameras, the footage was found to be grainy due to darkness, said police. A case has been registered under Sections 392 (robbery), 448 (house-trespass), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides under the Arms Act at the Kharar Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kharar-robbery-at-gunpoint-in-sunny-enclave-101632945750969.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Vinoo Mankad Trophy: Iqbal, Bawa set up Chandigarh win||Chandigarh tasted its first win of the season by defeating Himachal Pradesh by five wickets with Arbab Iqbal’s all-round performance and captain Rajangad Bawa’s half-century in a Vinoo Mankad Trophy (Under -19) league match being played at New Delhi on Wednesday.Earlier, Chandigarh won the toss and decided to field first. HP had a decent start till Mohit Mehra took the first blood in the form of Atul Jaswal (25) with 61 runs on the board in the 20th over. Thereafter, HP lost two quick wickets resulting in a score of 79 for three wickets. Mridul Surroch and Vaibhav Kalta paired for 60 runs stand steered the inning till 139 for four in the 39th over. Later, the trio of Paras Amarjit (3/28), Arbab Iqbal (3/35) and Mohit Mehra (2/16) curbed run machines and reduced HP to just 170 runs in stipulated 50 overs.Chasing the target, Chandigarh got off to a dismal start when Mohit Mehra (7) was run out cheaply in the ninth over. Harnoor Singh and Pratham Sodhi took the charge with a 54-run partnership to stabilise the inning at 54 for two in the 20th over. Pratham Sodhi (21) lost his wicket followed by Harnoor (21) in consecutive overs resulting in 55 for three on the board. Later, with the contribution of Paras Amarjit (14) and Alam Bakshi (6), Chandigarh once struggled for 96 runs for five wickets in 34th over. Captain Raj Angad Bawa (55 not out) and Arbab Iqbal (42 not out) formed a 75-run partnership to achieve the target in the 48th over.MORE SPORT NEWS IN BRIEFSPunjab eves log winPunjab beat Karnataka by 22 runs in their match played during the ongoing women U-19 one-day cricket tournament at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium, Jaipur, on Wednesday. Pragati Singh scored 65 runs for Punjab. Punjab will play their next match on October 1 against Tripura.CBA honours shuttlers Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) honoured 12 masters’ badminton players, who bagged laurels at the National Championships in Goa. The players, Varun Sharma, Pankaj Nathani, Ashish Sharma, Rajneesh Bhatia, Deepak Saxena, Col Rajiv Mehta, Akash Sethi, Paras Gupta, Raj Pal, Mandeep Kang, Seema Saini and Bhavna Sharma, were awarded by Tejdeep Singh Saini, director sports, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vinoo-mankad-trophy-iqbal-bawa-set-up-chandigarh-win-101632945749991.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC zeroes in on 8 localities not giving segregated garbage||For achieving 100% segregation of garbage at source, the Chandigarh municipal corporation has zeroed in on eight areas across the city where the compliance has been found poor. All these are semi-urban or rural and situated on the city’s periphery: Hallomajra, Bapu Dham Colony, Sanjay Colony (Industrial Area), Indira Colony (Manimajra), Maloya, EWS Colony (Maloya), Mauli Jagran, and Vikas Nagar (Mauli Jagran). The municipal corporation (MC) on Wednesday started an awareness drive at Vikas Nagar and EWS Colony besides Ram Darbar under the theme of Kachra Alag Karo Amrit Divas as part of the Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav. At the other five places, including Hallomajra, Bapu Dham Colony and parts on Manimajra, awareness drives will be conducted in the coming days. “We will extend the awareness drive in other parts to encourage people to segregate waste. This will be continued beyond the Mahotsav,” said MC commissioner Anindita Mitra. Mitra on September 8 had directed the officials concerned to find out that how much segregated waste is being collected currently, and how various areas are performing. The MC had taken over door-to-door garbage collection in December last year, and has deployed around 525 two-bin vehicles to collect segregated waste. Nearly 80% localities have been covered with these vehicles, but the civic body is still receiving mixed waste from most areas. Though no exact figure is available, MC officials have estimated that around 25% households are still giving mixed wet and dry waste. The collection of mixed waste is also affecting the working of two material recovery facilities at the Industrial Area. These facilities have a dedicated space for sorting recoverable dry waste into different categories, including paper, card, recyclable plastic, glass bottles and metal. The leftover dry waste is moved to the compost plant at Dadumajra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-zeroes-in-on-8-localities-not-giving-segregated-garbage-101632945748827.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ramlila organisers raring to make a comeback in Chandigarh||After a hiatus last year, when most Ramlila organisers called off the performance or went online amid the pandemic, the annual affair is set to return to around 40 venues across Chandigarh next week, with the first scheduled to begin on October 4. “All 46 Ramlila organisers in the city are willing to perform this year. We will follow all Covid-19 guidelines issued by the authorities,” said BP Gour, chief patron of the Chandigarh Kendriya Ramlila Mahasabha. Gour said the Mahasabha has got permissions from the fire department and municipal corporation, while the administration’s nod is expected soon. It is learnt that the MC has given the approval to only 36 organisers so far, while other applications are being processed. As far as the UT administration is concerned, approvals and detailed guidelines are likely before the scheduled beginning of Ramlilas.New scenes to attract peopleWith the pandemic still not over, the Azaad Dramatic Club, Sector 20, plans to showcase new scenes to attract people. It was one of the few Ramlilas that performed live last year with 200 seats, which remained occupied on most days.“The new scenes will focus on the virtue of loyalty. For example, how Laxman’s wife Urmila made sacrifices for his and Lord Rama’s sake, and how Kumbhkaran remained loyal to his brother Ravana till the end,” said Ashok Choudhary, senior vice president of the club.The club will begin the Ramlila on October 4, a day before most other organisers, to incorporate the increased number of scenes. Cash crunch to have impactMeanwhile, the financial impact of successive lockdowns is expected to leave a mark on Ramlilas this year. Many artistes have lost their regular jobs while donations have also been affected. “We will have the simplest of arrangements this year due to financial constraints,” said Jyoti Bhardwaj, a veteran Ramlila artiste from the OCF Sanskritic Manch, Sector 29. However, the enthusiasm has not dipped. ”Out troupe is busy with the rehearsals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ramlila-organisers-raring-to-make-a-comeback-in-chandigarh-101632945747808.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Home ministry’s advisory panel to get overhaul||The home ministry’s advisory committee, the apex institution for direct interface between Chandigarh’s elected representatives and the Union government, is set to get an overhaul.UT administrator Banwari Lal Purohit on Wednesday approved the draft of the revamped advisory committee. It will now be submitted with the ministry of home affairs (MHA) for approval.“The committee was lying dormant for a long time. I took up the issue with the MHA. It suggested we should rework the composition of the committee to make it more compact,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal.According to the draft, the major change is the reduction in the number of nominated members. The previous committee constituted in 2016 had 12 members, with eight of them being nominated. “Now, the suggestion is to have the Member of Parliament, mayor and leader of opposition in the MC House as ex officio members besides two to four nominated members,” said Pal, adding that a smaller committee will allow more regular meetings and streamline its working. Currently, it is considered to be too unwieldy, he said. The MHA will also decide who will nominate these members – UT administration or Union government. After the MHA nod, the members will be appointed. At present, the tenure of the nominated members is three years, and they can get extension. Chandigarh is represented by the UT administrator, and in his absence the UT adviser, besides the ex officio and nominated members.No meeting since 2017The last meeting of the panel was held in 2017, the first and last meeting of the committee constituted in November 2016.Earlier, too, the committee’s meetings have been put on the back burner. The meeting in 2017 was held after 12 years. The previous one in 2005 was held after 20 years, said a senior UT official.The committee addresses general questions of policy relating to the administration and all legislative proposals concerning the territory in regard to matters in the state list besides such matters relating to the annual financial statement of the Union so far as it concerns the UT. Also, all development issues concerning the UT can be put forward before the MHA besides other matters deemed fit by the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhhome-ministry-s-advisory-panel-to-get-overhaul-101632945746287.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Foetus recovered from dustbin at hospital||A male foetus was found in a dustbin at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, police said on Wednesday.This is third such incident that an abandoned foetus has been recovered at a government hospital in Chandigarh in the past two monthsPolice said they received information about a foetus lying in a dustbin at GMCH on Tuesday evening. A sanitation worker, Inderpal, had spotted the foetus while on duty in the hospital’s emergency wing. Police are scanning records of the hospital and CCTV footage to trace the person who abandoned the foetus. A case under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the police station in Sector 34, Chandigarh. Another foetus was found at GMCH about three weeks back, while in August a foetus was found dumped in a dustbin at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-foetus-recovered-from-dustbin-at-hospital-101632945744913.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn objects to plea allowing repair works in Kansal||The Chandigarh administration on Wednesday objected to a plea of Kansal Enclave Residents Welfare Association, Mohali, that demands repair and maintenance of basic amenities be allowed in the area.The plea came in view of the Punjab and Haryana high court’s stay on demolition and construction activity in the Sukhna catchment area.UT’s counsel Jaiveer Chandel told the high court (HC) bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice HS Sidhu that if the plea is allowed, it would affect Sukhna Lake as a major portion of Kansal comes under its “zone of influence”.Urging the court to defer hearing and not pass any interim order, Chandel sought more time for a detailed reply, following which the matter has been adjourned for November 17. Punjab and other parties have also not responded to the plea yet.The residents welfare association, in the plea filed on September 24, said that they are facing difficulties and inconvenience due to the deteriorating condition of roads and other amenities, and should be allowed to carry out repair, maintenance and improvement of basic amenities, such as electricity, sewerage, roads and drainage. The fresh application has been filed in a matter in which suo motu proceedings were initiated by the HC to save the lake in 2009. In March 2020, the court while disposing of this matter had directed Punjab and Haryana to pay ₹100 crore each as fine for allowing constructions and ordered that all structures in the catchment area, as demarcated by the Survey of India in 2004, be demolished. However, later, the court had agreed to re-examine the boundaries while staying demolition and construction activity in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-objects-to-plea-allowing-repair-works-in-kansal-101632945743695.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||₹40,000 compensation to student: High court junks Himachal Pradesh University’s appeal||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Wednesday dismissed the appeal filed by Himachal Pradesh University challenging the order to pay ₹40,000 as compensation to a student, who had alleged that irreparable loss was caused to his career due to delay in issuance of the consolidated mark sheet of MA (economics) to him. A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewa Dua, while dismissing the appeal, upheld the decision of the single judge and observed that a larger amount of compensation was liable to be imposed in this matter. Naveen Kumar had filed a writ petition alleging that the HPU was not issuing the consolidated mark sheet for MA (economics) to him despite the fact that he had passed all the papers in 2005. He was shown absent in one of the courses. He made several representations to HPU authorities to settle the result, stating that he was not absent in any of the paper.Later, the university officials verified from the attendance sheet that he was present in the paper, and he was assured that the matter would be settled soon. However, when he applied for the consolidated mark sheet, his application was rejected. He again visited HPU with a proof of his attendance, but the authorities refused to entertain stating that they had no time to look for old records. The petitioner had alleged that in the entire process, he spent thousands of rupees and was subjected to the ill-behaviour of officials. He alleged that those were his career-defining years, but he was deprived of weightage for want of a PG degree and even from appearing in various exams. He had prayed to direct HPU to issue his consolidated mark sheet and pay compensation of ₹ 5 lakh.During the hearing, HPU authorities admitted that the petitioner had appeared in course and scored 19 marks.The single bench had allowed the petition, directing the university to grant at least three chances to the petitioner to pass the course and to pay compensation of ₹40,000 to him. The order was challenged by the HPU by way of appeal.Dismissing the appeal, the court observed that learned single judge has been very magnanimous in ordering such a meagre amount against the appellant. The court also observed that for the error committed, a larger amount of compensation was liable to be imposed. The court observed that it finds no ground to interfere with the impugned order passed by the learned single judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/40000-compensation-to-student-high-court-junks-himachal-pradesh-university-s-appeal-101632945206384.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress crisis: Sidhu raises appointments; let’s talk, says CM Channi||A day after shooting off his resignation letter, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu kept his party’s government on tenterhooks on Wednesday, putting out a video to raise questions over the appointments of the advocate general, director general of police and “tainted leaders”, even as chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi invited him for a talk. Channi, who is battling his first major political crisis just 10 days after taking over as the chief minister, offered to sit down and iron out differences, if any. “Whoever is party president is head of the family. I had told him (Sidhu) that the party is supreme and the government follows its ideology. I spoke to him over the phone and told him to come, sit and talk to resolve issues,” he said at a press conference here after the cabinet meeting, terming the response as “affirmative”. However, there was no indication when the two leaders would meet. The chief minister had reached out to a sulking Sidhu after he broke his silence by posting a video message on Twitter with the caption, “I will fight for truth till my last breath”. Punjab cabinet ministers Pargat Singh and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring were tasked by Channi to convince Sidhu to withdraw his resignation to end the standoff. Both ministers met the PPCC chief, whose resignation has not been accepted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, at his Patiala residence in the morning. “There are definitely some issues. We went to talk to him. I am sure these will be sorted out,” Pargat, a close confident of Sidhu, said after meeting him. Two state unit working presidents and half-a-dozen legislators also met him. The cricketer-turned-politician’s abrupt resignation, barely 72 days after he was appointed the state unit chief, pushed the Congress into a fresh crisis in poll-bound Punjab before it could recover from months of turmoil caused by a bitter tussle between Sidhu and his bête noire, then chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, left the party divided. Sidhu, in his four-and-a-half minute video, said he was ready to make any sacrifice but would always stand by his principles. “My first priority is to fight for justice that people have been waiting for,” he said, griping against some senior appointments made by the government in the past week without directly naming anyone. In an apparent reference to the 2015 sacrilege incidents in Faridkot, Sidhu said those who gave clean chits to the Badals six years ago had been given the responsibility of delivering justice. DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota was the head of a special investigation team (SIT) formed in 2015 by the then Akali government to probe the sacrilege incidents. He also apparently questioned the appointment of senior advocate APS Deol as the new advocate general of Punjab. “My soul jitters when I see those who secured blanket bails, they are advocate general. What is the agenda here?” he asked. Deol was a counsel for former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and had represented him in cases related to police firing on Sikhs protesting against the Bargari sacrilege. The Congress leader said that a system that included “tainted” leaders and officials, was being brought back after being dismantled, adding that he would oppose it. His remark is being viewed as an oblique reference to former minister Rana Gurjit Singh’s return to the state cabinet. Rana’s induction was also opposed by several party MLAs from Doaba region. Sidhu said that he had no personal grudge against anyone, nor had fought personal battles and his fight was always on issues and a pro-Punjab agenda. “I will not misguide the high command or let anyone do so,” he said, adding that he will take a stand and fight. The party circles had been agog with speculations about Sidhu being miffed at not being allowed more say in cabinet expansion and appointments as some of his choices were overlooked. However, Channi struck a conciliatory note on these issues at his press conference, stating that these appointments were based on feedback received from various quarters. “If there is a feeling that someone has to be changed, I have no objection, no ego,” he said. He said that as sought by the party high command, the government would appoint a dedicated team of public prosecutors and lawyers to handle sensitive cases like the desecration incident and the subsequent police firing. He later held a meeting with the DGP and advocate general in the evening. While the Congress high command, which had backed Sidhu to the hilt till now, is showing no urgency, opinion is divided on efforts to placate him with some party ministers, MLAs and other leaders, feeling that this crisis would be “detrimental to interests” of the party. Cabinet minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli said these kinds of situations ahead of the elections hurt. “He is a strong leader and should work to strengthen the party,” he told reporters. Ferozepur City MLA Parminder Singh Pinky also voiced his concern, whereas Amritsar South legislator Inderbir Singh Bolaria felt that when such a senior leader had raised all these issues, the high command should take note and address them. Party leader Anish Sidana termed it as an unfortunate and impulsive decision. “A party can never be run by outsourcing democratic system…egoism has no place. Congress should learn from Punjab episode,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, the party has also started preparing for an eventuality where Sidhu does not take back his resignation. Rajasthan leader Harish Chaudhary, who was deployed as central observer for the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting held on September 18, is learnt to have reached Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-crisis-sidhu-raises-appointments-let-s-talk-says-cm-channi-101632945204849.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||25-year-old man booked for killing aunt in Sunam||SANGRURThe Sunam police booked a man for allegedly murdering his aunt with a sharp-edged weapon at Bharur village of the district on Wednesday.According to the first information report, Rajveer Singh, alias Raju, 25, attacked Jasvir Kaur, 40, on her neck. She was rushed to the Sunam government hospital from where she was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. But she died during treatment, the police said. In his complaint to the police, Kaur’s husband Sukhwinder Singh said his nephew had bad intentions for his aunt.Sunam deputy superintendent of police Dalbir Singh Grewal said a case was registered under Sections 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrong­ful restraint) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the city police station, Sunam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25yearold-man-booked-for-killing-aunt-in-sunam-101632945203630.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bail granted to ex-Delhi cop held for providing firearm to BKI operative||MumbaiThe Bombay high court on Wednesday granted bail to retired Delhi Police ACP Sunderlal Parashar, who was arrested by the NIA for allegedly providing a firearm to a man linked to a group attempting to revive Sikh militancy for a separate Khalistan.Parashar, a Delhi resident who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in 2019, had approached the high court after a special court in Mumbai rejected his bail plea.A division bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar on Wednesday allowed Parashar’s appeal against the special court order.The HC bench quashed and set aside the special court’s decision and granted bail to Parashar till the conclusion of trial in the case.The bench further directed him to appear before the NIA office in Mumbai once a month for the next six months.In his plea filed through advocate Mubin Solkar, Parashar had said there was no evidence against him and that the NIA failed to establish his involvement in the case.The NIA had said in its charge sheet that Parashar provided a pistol and live rounds to one Harpal Singh, an alleged pro-Khalistan militant who had links with the radical group Babbar Khalsa International (BKI).A detailed order of the high court in the case is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bail-granted-to-ex-delhi-cop-held-for-providing-firearm-to-bki-operative-101632945023678.html
30-09-2021||Bhopal||BJP deputes 42 MLAs, 12 ministers for Madhya Pradesh by-elections on 4 seats||BHOPAL: The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has deputed 12 ministers and 42 party lawmakers for by-elections in three assembly seats and a Lok Sabha seat in different regions of the state to win these seats, people familiar with the matter said. Voting is scheduled to take place on October 30, according to an Election Commission announcement on Tuesday.The BJP, which lost the Damoh assembly election in March this year reportedly due to an internal feud, has formed at least 14 committees to deal with internal differences, ticket distribution, identification of local issues and other important issues to win by-elections on assembly seats in Raigaon in Satna district, Jobat in Alirajpur, Prithvipur in Nimar district and the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held a meeting with the ministers on Wednesday night to discuss issues related to the by-polls.Out of four seats, the Raigaon and Khandwa seats fell vacant after the death of BJP MLA Jugal Kishor Bagri and MP Nandkumar Singh, respectively while Jobat and Prithvipur seats have been vacant after the death of Congress MLAs Kalawati Bhuria and Brijendra Pratap Singh, respectively. “The BJP will not take any risk because it is more of a test of sentiments in different parts of the state,” a senior party leader in Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal said.“The leaders have been told to ensure the implementation of all the central and state government schemes and popularise it. They have also given a task of settling all the internal differences and to send a stern message that they all should support the candidates to be given the party tickets,” the leader.A second BJP leader said the local leadership is particularly focused on winning Jobat, a tribal seat that has stayed with the Congress for years. “The party is making extra efforts to win the trust of trials who are not happy with their inclusion among Hindu population… We have announced many schemes for the tribal population including health camps and door-to-door distribution of ration,” said the second leader cited above said.BJP leaders acknowledge that there may be some resentment over the large number of deaths during the second wave of Covid 19.“The state government’s image was dented after the second wave of Covid 19,” a third BJP leader said.BJP state president VD Sharma, said he was confident of the party’s performance. “The BJP will win all the seats as Congress is facing an existential crisis and there is no third option here in MP… The BJP-led state government is trying to bring good governance in the state by improving the system.”Congress leaders, however, claim that the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was clearly nervous about the outcome.“We are not facing any crisis but the BJP is surely facing one. More than 10 candidates of BJP are fighting for tickets in all four constituencies. They will lose the election due to internal feud and dissatisfaction of voters,” said MP Congress Committee Spokesperson JP Dhanopia. Political analyst Girja Shankar said the by-elections were important ahead of the 2023 state elections but emphasized that an emotional factor will also play a major role. “All the seats are vacant due to deaths of the elected representatives so the ticket to family members of the deceased will help the party in winning the seats,” Shankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bjp-deputes-42-mlas-12-ministers-for-madhya-pradesh-by-elections-on-4-seats-101632944964720.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||SBS Nagar: Cases older than 5 years to be cleared during Lok Adalat||Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district and sessions judge Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa has directed that all cases which have been pending for over five years be cleared during the Lok Adalat scheduled for December 11. He said this during a meeting with Lok Adalat chairman Satwinder Singh Chahal and district legal services secretary Harpreet Kaur. He also said the district legal services authority will organise a free legal camp in all villages from October 2 to November 14 to generate awareness. Protest against Jallianwala Bagh renovation enters Day 2
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP shocker: Chamba woman charged with murder of husband, 3 kids||Chamba police have cracked the case of deaths of a 25-year-old man and his three children, who were believed to have succumbed in a house fire earlier this month. The police have charged his wife and a neighbour for the murder. The accused have been identified as Nura and Jamaat Ali. Rafi Mohammed, his two daughters Jaitun, 6, Julkha, 2, and son Samir, 4, were killed in the wee hours of September 14 after a fire broke out in their house at Karatosh village of Churah subdivision. Rafi’s wife Nura had also suffered injuries in the fire, which initially seemed to be an accident. Chamba superintendent of police (SP) S Arul Kumar said Rafi’s father Noordin had submitted a complaint to the police alleging that death of his son and grandchildren was not accidental but a “well-planned murder” by his daughter-in-law and a neighbour. Rafi’s postmortem report had also confirmed that he was hit on the back of his head with a sharp-edged weapon. Thereafter, the police detained the accused for questioning and they were later arrested. “They have confessed to their crime. An axe used in the crime has also been recovered,” said the SP. Three children were chocked to the death due to smoke caused by fire started by the accused. A local court has sent the accused to 15-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-shocker-chamba-woman-charged-with-murder-of-husband-3-kids-101632944903951.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Security cover to Capt’s advisers, OSDs withdrawn||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Wednesday withdrew more than 300 security personnel deployed with advisers and officers on special duty (OSDs) of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The order signed by the ADGP, security, has names of 20 advisers and OSDs to Amarinder who had been provided positional security under his tenure. The orders read that the government has withdrawn all men from the security cover of Captain’s advisers --- T S Shergill, Raveen Thukral, Khubi Ram, Suresh Kumar, BIS Chahal, Atul Nanda, political secretary Major Amardeep Singh, OSDs Sandeep Singh Brar, Damanjit Singh Mohi, Sandeep Singh Bawa Sandhu, Ankit Bansal, Jagdeep Singh Sidhu, Gurmehar Singh Sekhon, Honey Sekhon, Vimal Sumbli, Karanbir Singh, Parmdiner Pal Singh Maan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/security-cover-to-capt-s-advisers-osds-withdrawn-101632944843535.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab orders inquiry into seed quality after bollworm attack||The Punjab government on Wednesday ordered an inquiry into the quality of seed distributed for cotton farming following the pink bollworm attack on the crop in the Malwa region of the state.The order for the probe was given by deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa after meeting a delegation of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee.At the meeting, attended by state’s Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha, various other issues of farmers were discussed, a government statement said on Wednesday.Criminal proceedings would be initiated against the guilty with the attachment of properties and levying of fines, Randhawa said.The agriculture minister said to save the cotton crop from further damage, the state government would provide free spray.A few days back, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his deputy Randhawa had gone to Bathinda to assess the loss caused to cotton by the pest attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-orders-inquiry-into-seed-quality-after-bollworm-attack-101632944723616.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Electricity tower damaged after truck rams into it||A 66 KV electricity tower on Gill Road was damaged in the wee hours of Tuesday after a truck, whose driver hasn’t been identified, rammed into it.Officials said the truck was going at high speed and following the accident, there were power outages in nearby areas. Surjit Singh, executive engineer of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), said that the power supply resumed within a few hours after the incident.“Our teams were rushed to the spot and the supply was taken from the Dholewal sub-station, following which the power returned to the affected areas soon,” said Singh.However, residents of nearby areas complained of low voltage or no electricity. An official said the repair work will continue for at least three days as the tower will have to be reinstalled after repairing its foundation.“The damage is severe and repair will take time. There might be a few complaints of low voltage, but we have still managed to resume electricity supply from the sub-station,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-electricity-tower-damaged-after-truck-rams-into-it-101632944485021.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Notice served on Moga village for helping NRI encroach common land||The state rural development and panchayats department has issued a show-cause notice to the panchayat of Samadh Bhai village of Moga for allegedly helping an NRI encroach upon a prime common land of the village. The NRI has allegedly encroached upon four kanal common land and blocked the entry of other villagers by installing a gate on it.The department’s action comes after the local rural development and panchayat department submitted an inquiry report, stating that instead of removing the encroachment, the panchayat was helping the NRI. It recommended strict action against the panchayat.The department has given the panchayat 15 days to file a report. Jaswinder Singh, who is the complainant in the case, said that he is facing a case of house-trespass for stepping into the encroached land, which is a common land.“How can stepping onto a government-owned space be considered trespass?” he askedVillage sarpanch Nirmal Singh did not respond to repeated calls and messages.Confirming the development, Jagjit Singh Bal, district development and panchayat officer, said, “The state department has issued a notice to Samadh Bhai village and now further action will be taken as per law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/notice-served-on-moga-village-for-helping-nri-encroach-common-land-101632944483552.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 26 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Wednesday reported 26 fresh Covid cases that took the infection tally to 6,01,600, according to a medical bulletin.With one coronavirus-related fatality, the death toll reached 16,513 in the state. Among fresh cases, eight were reported in Mohali, four in Gurdaspur and three in Jalandhar. The number of active cases stood at 290.Twenty-seven people recovered from the infection, taking the recovery count to 5,84,797 in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-26-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101632944364860.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu’s resignation is Congress’ internal matter: Alka Lamba||Congress national spokesperson Alka Lamba on Wednesday said the resignation of Punjab Pradesh Congress Chief (PPCC) Navjot Singh Sidhu was an internal matter of the party and would be dealt with accordingly. While addressing a press conference at Shimla, she avoided commenting on the issue that has kicked off a political turmoil. However, she said Sidhu lacked political understanding even after 17 years in the field. “Sidhu is trying to step back from his responsibility which was given to him by the party high command. The Congress changed the leadership on his demand. I don’t understand which fight he is going to fight this way on the social media platforms, while there are other channels open for talks and resolving issues,” she added. She said both KC Venugopal and Harish Rawat were in touch with all leaders and the issue will soon be resolved in Punjab. Meanwhile, slamming the central government over the seizure of drugs at a Gujarat port, Lamba sought a judicial probe into the matter. The Congress leader said that under Modi regime, drug trade was flourishing in the country as well as Himachal.Unemployment is increasing in the state, she said, so jobless people are being made “victims of drugs”. Lamba said the people will give a befitting reply to the BJP in the byelections. She alleged that “double-engine” government has encouraged drugs instead of providing employment. Shimla police alone have registered 187 cases under the NDPS Act since January this year, she added.She said that the Modi government had promised to give employment to two crore youths every year, but instead “is pushing them into drugs so that they are distracted and do not ask for their right”. She also hit out at the central and state governments over the issues of inflation, unemployment and law and order. She termed both the governments a “complete failure”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhus-resignation-is-congress-internal-matter-alka-lamba-101632944363537.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: Congress election committee to meet in October 2||With the election commission setting the ball rolling for the bypolls for three assembly segments and one parliamentary seat in Himachal, political parties across the state have begun preparations. The state election committee of the Congress will meet on October 2 to finalise its strategy for the polls.“We will meet shortly to finalise the candidates for the three assembly and one parliamentary seat,” said HP Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore. The Congress is likely to field former CM Virbhadra Singh’s wife Pratibha Singh from Mandi seat that fell vacant after the death of MP Ramswaroop Sharma. Pratibha was elected to the Lok Sabha for the first time in 2004 from Mandi and again in 2013.Ramswaroop had defeated Pratibha in 2014 elections and won against Congress’ Ashray Sharma in 2017. She is being seen as the strongest candidate from Mandi. Pratibha and her son, Shimla (Rural) MLA, had recently met AICC general secretary organisation KC Venugopal in Delhi. Ashray, grandson of former Union minister Sukhram, too is vying for a ticket. One section of the party had persuaded senior Congress leader and former health minister Kaul Singh Thakur to contest elections, but so far he has shown reluctance. Kullu MLA Sunder Thakur’s name had cropped up too.The Congress’ poll panel comprises Kuldeep Singh Rathore, former state chief and MP Viplove Thakur, Kaul Singh Thakur, Kuldeep Kumar, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, former ministers Sudhir Sharma, GS Bali and deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma besides Asha Kumari, Dhani Ram Shandhil, Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, Ram Lal Thakur, Rajesh Dharmani, Harsh Mahajan and Rajneesh Kimta. The panel will deliberate on names for Arki seat that was earlier represented by Virbhadra Singh. The party is likely to make its choice between local leaders Sanjay Awasthi and Rajender Thakur. HP’s Mahila Congress chief Jenab Chandel is also a contender. Awasthi is being backed by a strong section of Congress frontline leaders, including former state party chief Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu.From Jubbal and Kotkhai, former CPS Rohit Thakur is the lone contender so far. Grandson of former CM Ram Lal Thakur, Rohit was first elected in 2003. He was re-elected in 2012 and was later appointed CPS. He lost to former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta in 2017.On the Fatehpur seat, Bhawani Singh Pathania, son of former power minister Sujan Singh Pathania, is the lone contender though some locals had already opposed his candidature. Both Bhawani and Rohit had been campaigning for long now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-congress-election-committee-to-meet-in-october-2-101632944183851.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab eases Covid restrictions on public gatherings||The Punjab government on Wednesday decided to ease restrictions on public gatherings in the wake of improvement in the Covid situation in the state.According to the decision, the government has allowed an indoor gathering of 300 people and outdoor gathering of 500 people.Earlier, it was 150 for indoor and 300 for outdoor gatherings.While reviewing the Covid situation in the state, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi asked the school education department to encourage students to attend classes by following necessary health protocols, according to a government release.Likewise, he also asked the social security, women and child development department to reopen anganwadi centres while strictly following the prescribed Covid safety norms.Expressing satisfaction over the decline in positivity rate of Covid cases, the chief minister also asked the health department to ensure strict compliance to Covid safety protocols including wearing of face masks and maintaining social distancing.He also asked the department to ramp up the testing capacity up to 50,000 per day as a precautionary measure in view of the coming festive season.While making a brief presentation on the current Covid scenario, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Alok Shekhar said a total 232 cases were reported in past one week with an average of 33 positive cases per day, the release said.He further said that from September 14 to 20, only one case of mucormycosis was reported, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-eases-covid-restrictions-on-public-gatherings-101632944123567.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Jammu man held for theft at mobile shop||Police have nabbed a Jammu resident for stealing several mobile phones and cash from a shop in Sahnewal on September 7. They have recovered 21 stolen mobile phones and a scooter from his possession.The accused has been identified as Rajinder Kumar alias Sunny alias ammu of Darsopur in Jammu district of Jammu and Kashmir. He was presently residing at Bhola Colony on Tajpur Road.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, rural) Sachin Gupta said that Sahnewal police had procured CCTV footage in which he was caught entering the shop, stealing the mobile phones and then fleeing on his scooter. The police then launched a manhunt and nabbed the accused.Police said the accused used to execute thefts at mobile shops and sold them to meet his need for drugs.The JCP added that he is already facing trial in 10 such cases lodged against him at different police stations and more recoveries are expected during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-jammu-man-held-for-theft-at-mobile-shop-101632944003534.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 17 dengue cases reported in 24 hours||As many as 17 new dengue cases were reported from Ludhiana in the last 24 hours, district health department officials said on Wednesday.With this, the total number of cases has reached 166 in the district. Of these, 138 have been reported from city areas, while others are from Payal, Khanna, Sudhar and Sahnewal among other areas.As many as 120 patients have been discharged and 46 are undergoing treatment. Also, 128 confirmed dengue patients from other districts/states are also admitted to Ludhiana hospitals.Meanwhile, 1,328 suspected cases have been detected in the district as of now.No confirmed dengue death has been reported from the district this season, as per the health department officials. However, a suspected dengue death was reported on August 25, when a 65-year-old resident of Balloke village died after testing positive for disease at DMC hospital, as per the kin of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-17-dengue-cases-reported-in-24-hours-101632943945745.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin man jailed in Singapore for illegally subletting residential unit||SingaporeA 23-year-old Indian national has been jailed for 25 days after pleading guilty to two charges under the Official Secrets Act for illegally subletting a Singapore public housing estate residential unit to multiple tenants and later passing on alerts to the occupants prior to the inspection raids to ensure they don’t get caught, a media report said on Wednesday.A third charge was taken into consideration against Damandeep Singh, who had managed to evade detection this way at least twice before his own tenancy was terminated, The Straits Times reported.In 2017, Singh met Housing and Development Board (HDB) enforcement officer Kalayarasan Karuppaya, 55, while the officer was conducting an inspection on a unit that Singh was living in.They became friends and would occasionally contact each other over the phone. Singh later moved to another unit, which he illegally sublet to others.Some 12 or 13 people ended up living in the unit, against the set rule for the maximum number of occupants in a residential unit, and about 200 Singaporean dollars was collected monthly from each of the illegal subtenants.The HDB, as managers of the housing estate, received complaints from members of the public about suspected overcrowding and noise at the unit.It also received similar information from the police which had raided the unit on complaints from neighbours.But Singh received an alert from his friend Kalayarasan about surprise checks of the unit planned by HDB for May 8, 2019, and September 10, 2019.Singh told the illegal subtenants to quickly move out prior to the inspections, which then found no observable signs of overcrowding or illegal subletting, the report said.But after HDB enforcement officers informed the unit’s owner about the information from police, Singh’s tenancy was terminated and the unit was vacated the same month, September 2019.The offences came to light after the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau received information in January last year about Kalayarasan’s tip-offs to Singh.The HDB officer was also jailed for 25 days last month for offences under the OSA.For each OSA charge of wrongful communication of information, Singh could have been jailed for up to two years and fined 2,000 Singaporean dollars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-man-jailed-in-singapore-for-illegally-subletting-residential-unit-101632943944301.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Channi govt starts process to appoint new PSPCL chief||The state government has started the process to appoint a new chairperson-cum-managing director of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). The department of power, held by the newly appointed chief minister (CM) Charanit Singh Channi who took charge nine days ago, has invited applications for the post. Those with experience of working in power boards and corporations for 25 years, with a two-year stint as chief engineer, are eligible for the position. The CM, as sources revealed, is keen for a change and wants the power department to process his decisions without delay. On Wednesday, he announced to waive off the entire defaulting arrears of domestic electricity bills upto 2 KW load. This will add ₹1,000 to 1,200 crore additional burden on the state exchequer.The government’s hurry to appoint a new chairperson is apparent from the fact that it has preponed the last date for receiving applications by four days. While earlier the deadline was October 18, candidates now have time till October 14 to apply.Confirming the development, a senior official in the department said on the condition of anonymity said that it’s the prerogative of the CM to take a call on the matter. Sources revealed that Channi wants to select a person of his choice as he is keen on implementing some populist measures ahead of the 2022 state polls. The post is currently held by a senior bureaucrat, A Venu Prasad, who was made the head of the corporation last June, for a second stint. Earlier, he was appointed on the post immediately after Capt Amarinder Singh took over as CM in March 2017 and continued for over a year, until June 2018. In the intervening two years, Baldev Singh Sra, a technocrat from within the PSPCL, served on the post. It is expected that the new dispensation under Channi may take a call on cancelling power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the previous Akali-BJP government with privately run thermal plants. Cancellation of PPAs was part of the pre-poll promises made by Congress party ahead of the 2017 state polls but it never saw the light of the day. The failure to keep this promise was one of the reasons why a section of the cabinet held a grouse against the previous CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Navjot Singh Sidhu, who resigned from the post of Punjab Congress chief on Tuesday, had also been raising the matter repeatedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-govt-starts-process-to-appoint-new-pspcl-chief-101632943643411.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Property tax: Ludhiana residents rush to suvidha kendras to avail 10% rebate||Long queues were witnessed at the municipal corporation’s (MC) zonal suvidha kendras on Wednesday, a day before the last day to avail 10% rebate on submission of property tax for the current financial year (2021-22). As per the officials, over 5,100 property tax returns were submitted by residents on Wednesday evening and the civic body recovered over ₹5.3 crores. Over 1.30 lakh property owners have not submitted tax for the current year so far.No rebate will be provided and no penalty will be imposed on payment of tax from October 1 to December 31. However, a 10% penalty will be imposed on payment from January 1, 2022 till March 31. The penalty will increase to 20% along with 18% annual interest on payment after March 31. MC superintendent Vivek Verma said that there are around 2.20 lakh taxable properties in the city, but only around 88,200 had submitted tax till Wednesday evening. Verma stated that there is confusion among the residents that 10% rebate can be availed till November-end under the one-time settlement policy floated by state government for property tax. However, there is no extension in the rebate period for the current year.Apart from submitting tax returns at suvidha kendras, residents can also pay online at mcludhiana.gov.in, said Verma, while adding that residents should adopt the option for virtual payment rather than rushing to MC offices. The suvidha kendra staff has been restricted from doing any other work to cater to the rush of visitors on Thursday. Till now, MC has recovered ₹42 crore as property tax for the current financial year, which is ₹7 crore more than last year till September 29. A large number of residents are also expected to submit the tax on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-tax-ludhiana-residents-rush-to-suvidha-kendras-to-avail-10-rebate-101632943405289.html
30-09-2021||Bangalore||Engineering will be taught in Kannada: Karnataka minister||Karnataka higher education minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday said engineering will be taught in Kannada in four colleges from the current year.“Teaching engineering in Kannada will begin in four colleges from the current year itself. Bheemanna Khandre Institute of Technology, Bhalki (Civil), BLDAE VP Dr P G Halakatti College of Engineering, Vijayapura (Civil), SJC Institute of Technology, Chikkaballapura (Mechanical), and Maharaja Institute of Technology, Mysuru (Mechanical) will start to teach in Kannada,” he said.National Board of Accreditation (NBA) accredited colleges have been permitted to teach engineering in Kannada, he said, adding that upto 30 students can be admitted.The Minister also said a consensual agreement has been reached between the government and private colleges not to hike the fees of engineering courses in private colleges.The fees for the engineering courses in private colleges for students who secure admission this year under government quota will continue as earlier in two different slabs of ₹65,340 and ₹58,806, he said.“While private colleges had pressed to increase the fee by 30 per cent, the committee headed by Prof. Karisiddappa, Vice-Chancellor of Vishweshwaraiah Technological University (VTU), had recommended a hike of 15-25 per cent. But, in view of the Covid-19 situation, representatives of private colleges were convinced not to go for a hike,” the Minister was quoted as saying by his office in a release.This decision was taken at a meeting held with private college representatives at Vikasa Soudha here, it said.The other important decisions taken at the meeting include fixing a maximum cap of ₹20,000 each for fees collected in the form of ‘miscellaneous fees’ and ‘skill fees’.Also miscellaneous and skill fees, along with admission fees should not be remitted at colleges, but at the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA), it said.This decision has been taken as per the recommendations of a committee headed by Prof Karisiddappa, the Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/engineering-will-be-taught-in-kannada-karnataka-minister-101632943285899.html
30-09-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka continues to see drop in Covid numbers, logs 539 new cases, 17 deaths||Karnataka logged 539 fresh Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections to 2,975,067 and the toll to 37,780.The day also saw 591 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 2,924,693. Bengaluru Urban accounted for most number of infections (239) as the city saw 141 discharges and seven deaths.The total number of active cases in the state stood at 12,565.While the positivity rate for the day was 0.48 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 3.15 per cent.Dakshina Kannada was behind Bengaluru Urban in number of deaths (3), followed by others.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 239, Dakshina Kannada 75, Kodagu 36, Mysuru 31, Tumakuru 22, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,246,139, followed by Mysuru 177,905 and Tumakuru 120,162.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 1,222,479, followed by Mysuru 174,892 and Tumakuru 118,724.Cumulatively a total of 47,504,490 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 111,538 were on Wednesday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-continues-to-see-drop-in-covid-numbers-logs-539-new-cases-17-deaths-101632943284889.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Gorakhpur incident: Priyanka, Mayawati, Akhilesh attack Uttar Pradesh govt||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav have criticised the Uttar Pradesh government over the death of a Kanpur-based businessman following a police raid on his hotel room in Gorakhpur.In a tweet in Hindi, Priyanka said the incident has led to the creation of an atmosphere of fear in the state. She alleged that in the “prevailing jungle rule”, the police were soft towards criminals and barbaric with the common man.A Congress spokesperson said that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke with the family members of the victim Manish Gupta over the phone.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) spokesman Pankaj Tiwari, in a press statement, said the Congress would fight to get justice to the family of the Kanpur businessman. He said a high-level probe should be conducted.Mayawati demanded justice for the family of Manish Gupta. In a series of tweets, the BSP chief said the incident exposes the BJP government’s claims about law and order. The state government should take such incidents seriously and ensure effective measures to check their recurrence, she said.Akhilesh Yadav, in a tweet, flayed the incident and said that it was an outcome of the “police encounter culture” that the BJP government gave birth to. He demanded that all the accused be tried for murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gorakhpur-incident-priyanka-mayawati-akhilesh-attack-uttar-pradesh-govt-101632943231618.html
30-09-2021||Bangalore||Marijuana, LSD worth ₹1 crore seized, 2 Iranians among 4 held in B’luru: Police||Days after unearthing a synthetic drug manufacturing unit, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) has raided another similar facility. According to police, ₹1 crore worth of hydroponic marijuana and LSD were seized during the raid. Police have also arrested four men, including two Iranian nationals during the raid. “CCB arrested four drug peddlers, including two Iranians, overstaying on a student visa. They procured hybrid cannabis seeds through dark net and grew the plants at home using UV lights. A case has been booked under NDPS and Foreigners Act,” tweeted Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police, (crime). Hydroponic marijuana is cannabis that is grown without the use of soil and an artificial lab is used for its production. The investigation of the case revealed that the suspects had rented a villa in Bidadi on the outskirts of the city. During the raid, police have recovered UV lights, LED lamps, vacuum packing containers, and an electrical weighing machine, which was used to cultivate around 130 Hydroponic marijuana plants. “During the interrogation, one of the accused in our custody -- Javad Aldin – said that he used it while he was going through some mental health-related issues. Later he decided to cultivate it himself and imported seeds from Europe using the darknet,” said a CCB official. The police raided the house on Sunday afternoon based on a tip-off. Police were told that a group of people was selling drugs from a car. They tracked the vehicles around 1.30 pm and arrested the occupants, who led the cops to the manufacturing unit. Aldin, according to CCB, had come from Tehran to Bengaluru in 2010. After completing his MBA from college in east Bengaluru, he remained in the city. After using the drug in 2010, he was addicted to it and it was one of the reasons for staying back in India since drug peddling would attract severe punishment in Iran. “Once he began cultivating the drug at home successfully, he began selling it outside. The client lists include some city-based celebrities as well,” said police. To help with sales of the drugs, he recruited Mohammadi Barogh, another Iranian, and two Indians -- Mohammed Mohsin Uz Zaman and Mohsin Khan. Even Barogh came to India on a student visa and overstayed in the country, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/marijuana-lsd-worth-1-crore-seized-2-iranians-among-4-held-in-b-luru-police-101632943226071.html
30-09-2021||Bangalore||Will discuss reopening of more classes: Karnataka government||The Karnataka government on Wednesday said that it will discuss the reopening of schools for students below class 5 after the Dasara festival to bring back students after nearly 18 months of Covid-19 related lockdowns.BC Nagesh, Karnataka’s minister for primary and secondary education said that after the festival the chief minister and the technical advisory committee (TAC) and other experts will hold a meeting on the subject and will only then decide the next course of action.“The technical committee has allowed full capacity for classes 6 to 12 from October 1. After Dasara, the (Covid) task force will meet again then decide on reopening classes from 1 to 5. Since there are viral infections going on there are some delays,” Nagesh said on Wednesday.The statements come days before further relaxations come into effect from Friday including schools, cinema halls and pubs among other establishments.The TAC had suggested against any hurrying up of reopening of schools for children below class 5 since they were too small to follow Covid protocols like wearing masks and social distancing.People aware of the developments said that the government is willing to follow its phase-wise opening and was willing to suggest that classes be reopened for students between classes 3 to 5.The relaxations will come into effect even as 60 students from a residential school in the outskirts of Bengaluru have tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday with two of them being hospitalised.J Manjunath, deputy commissioner of Bengaluru Urban on Wednesday said that out of 480 students in the school only 60 have tested positive.“We have tested every one of them. We are going to test on the 7th day. The school has been closed till October 20, there is no cause for worry,” Manjunath said on Wednesday.He said that the measures taken so far were “proactive” and this early detection has helped contain the crisis.He said that out of the 60 students, 14 are from Tamil Nadu and 46 of them have come from different parts of the state.“We are keeping a constant watch,” he said, adding that the state government has directed district administrations to do random testing.After a gap of nearly four months, the Karnataka government has decided to reopen physical classes for students in classes 9, 10 and 12 in August, that allowed children to be back in their schools for the first time since the second wave of Covid-19 infections.People aware of the developments said that there was requests from parents and guardians to reopen schools as students in rural areas have been closed for over a year now.Many students from rural areas with no access to internet and other devices have lost out on classes and many of them are dependent on reopening of schools for mid-day meals.In July, S Suresh Kumar, the then primary and secondary education minister had stated that around 9.3 million students out of the total 10.05 million across private and public schools in Karnataka, have been accounted for in terms of access to devices, internet, TV, radio and even email.Of the 9.3 million who have been accounted for, only 5,859,907 have smartphones/tablets and around 3,127,524 without any access to such devices. Further, there are just 5,134,386 students who have access to the internet while 3,779,965 students do not have access to the internet, rendering the exercise of online classes as a redundant practice for these children, mostly from rural and backward regions of the state, Hindustan Times reported on July 2.The restarting of schools has been a contentious one, especially at a time when there appears to be a resurgence of new Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-discuss-reopening-of-more-classes-karnataka-government-101632943223709.html
30-09-2021||Pune||State-of-the-art city to come up around Shirdi airport||PUNE The Maharashtra state government has decided to set up a state-of-the-art city around Shirdi airport.The decision was taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at the 76th meeting of the Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC), held at CM’s residence in Mumbai on Wednesday.The office of the chief minister of Maharashtra tweeted: “In the Shirdi Airport premises, the area will be developed to make a state-of-the-art city with all the facilities. The name of the city will be Area around Shirdi hub Airport ‘Asha’. The project was approved during the meeting held with the Directors of Maharashtra Airport Development Company.”The airport is located at Kakadi in Kopargaon on 350 hectares, 14-km from Shirdi. The airport will soon be able to handle flight operations at night.Work on a new passenger terminal to handle rising footfall and a cargo terminal, which will increase exports of horticultural produce like flowers and fruits from the region to locations across India, will also begin at the facility.The runway length of the airport was increased to 3,200 metres from 2,500 metres.The present terminal building can handle 10,000 to 12,000 passengers daily, and the MADC is planning a new passenger terminal that can cater to 20,000 to 25,000 passengers per day.It has sought ₹230 crore from the state for the new terminal building. The capacity expansion will ensure the airport can handle around 35,000 passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/stateoftheart-city-to-come-up-around-shirdi-airport-101632943044685.html
30-09-2021||Other||Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma asks for MDU, PGIMS staff details, employees raise concerns||In an unprecedented move, the deputy registrar of Maharshi Dayanand University’s (MDU, Rohtak) teaching branch on Wednesday asked the heads of departments to provide details of their employees by Thursday morning.In a letter, the deputy registrar, reportedly on behalf of Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma, of the establishment branch sought employees’ designation, name of the department, permanent and postal addresses, names of the Lok Sabha constituencies from where the staffers cast their vote, etc.As per the letter, a copy of which is with the Hindustan Times, on September 28, Arvind Sharma had written to deputy commissioner Manoj Sheoran to provide data regarding employment of local population (permanent and contractual) from Rohtak Lok Sabha constituency at Maruti Industry, Asian Paints, MDU and Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak, for Disha meeting on September 30.Sharma, however, said he had just asked for details of contractual employees working at PGIMS. “Why would I seek employees’ addresses and for which parliamentary seat they vote?” the MP said.Vikas Siwach, president of MDU’s teaching association, said it is surprising that the MP has sought details of employees, their designation and parliamentary constituency data.“He should clarify for what reason he wants these details. It is disgusting if he has asked for the details for political purposes,” he added.Two head of departments at MDU, who had shared their staff members’ information in the given format, said they fear that their personal information will be misused.“The university authorities have failed to secure our personal information. We have no option but to sharing the details in the given format,” they added.The officials concerned of MDU’s establishment branch confirmed that they have asked the employees to share their details as asked for by Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma.“We received a letter from the Rohtak DC office to provide details of employees, their designation, address and Lok Sabha area,” the officials said.Jannayak Janata Party’s student wing Indian National Student Organisation (INSO) national president Pradeep Deswal said voting is a legal right and the vice-chancellor cannot share employees’ details with anyone in this way.“It is surprising that the MDU V-C has directed the staff to share their information as asked by the local MP,” he added.Rohtak MLA BB Batra, of Congress, said such practices are illegal and unethical.“How can an MP seek personal details of employees of MDU, PGIMS and the two private companies? The V-Cs are not authorised to provide such details. We will fight a legal battle in this case,” the MLA added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rohtak-mp-arvind-sharma-asks-for-mdu-pgims-staff-details-employees-raise-concerns-101632942923423.html
30-09-2021||Pune||PCOS cases rise due to inactivity; women complain of irregular periods||PUNE: The last one year or so has seen an uptick in the number of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) cases, mostly due to factors such as being confined at home, decreased physical activity, higher consumption of junk and restaurant-cooked food, binge-watching television and other screens, and irregular sleep patterns, according to city doctors.Polycystic Ovary Syndrome is a commonly found endocrine disorder in women of reproductive age. Women with PCOS have higher production of male hormones and become resistant to insulin, leading to weight gain, unwanted hair growth and eventual irregularities in the menstrual cycle. Other prominent symptoms of this condition are acne and dark patches on the skin. Polycystic Ovary Syndrome can invite lifelong complications like hypertension, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and infertility. While there is limited awareness of this condition, it can be handled via early detection, medication, weight management, exercise, nutritious food and using assisted reproductive technology for conception.Dr Rajeshwari Pawar, consultant, obstetrics and gynaecology at Motherhood hospital, said, “Due to the lack of mobility, a large number of women experienced irregular menstruation, hormonal disturbance, stress and weight gain which led to an increase in PCOS cases. Women also tend to neglect irregular or heavy menstrual cycles, dismissing them as a normal occurrence and that too led to increased PCOS cases. Women with PCOS who are obese and have diabetes are more susceptible to Covid-19 than those who do not have PCOS. We have seen an almost 30% increase in PCOS cases among women in the age group of 25 to 30 years over the past few months. Girls in their early 20s are also being diagnosed with PCOS due to a sedentary lifestyle during the lockdown.”“The common issues in older women with PCOS are glucose intolerance and higher blood pressure. Women who already have PCOS are also facing difficulties. Those who had managed to control their symptoms before lockdown are experiencing the symptoms again owing to a sedentary lifestyle. Many teenagers too are reporting PCOS symptoms like acne and facial hair,” Dr Pawar said.Dr Bhupinder Singh Duggal, obstetrician and gynaecologist from Noble hospital, also said that there has been a rise in the number of PCOS cases. “We have seen a worrisome trend of increase in the number of PCOS cases during the recent one year period. During lockdown, a lot of junk and restaurant-cooked food was consumed. This could have led to irregular menstrual cycles. According to medical literature, around 10 to 15 per cent of Indian women suffer from PCOS but now, we are seeing an increase in the number of cases,” Dr Duggal said.Dr Karishma Dafle, fertility consultant, Nova IVF Fertility, said that PCOS can also cause female infertility and ovulatory disorder however women with PCOS do manage to get pregnant with assisted reproductive technology. “PCOS prevents the release of eggs on a regular basis and one will not be able to achieve pregnancy. In almost six out of 10 couples seeking fertility treatment, PCOS is the cause of infertility. PCOS also takes a toll on one’s mental and emotional health, including mood swings, stress, and poor body image. Depression, frustration, irritation, stress, and anxiety are common occurrences in women with PCOS. Women with PCOS are often stressed and suffer in silence as they neglect their condition,” Dr Dafle said.Lifestyle management is very important for PCOS patients which includes eating healthy and homemade food and doing regular exercise. “To control PCOS, eat a well-balanced diet, exercise daily, and monitor your blood sugar levels and hypertension. Include fresh fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, and pulses in the diet. Avoid processed and junk food which causes weight gain,” Dr Pawar said.Meanwhile, Dr Sunita Tandulwadkar, president of the Poona Obstetricians and Gynaecologists Society, said that the rise in PCOS cases can also be attributed to the fact that while younger women are now more aware of their health, they care less about it. “The lockdown has undoubtedly changed our lifestyles and has forced us to stay inside longer. However it cannot be the only contributing factor for increased PCOS. I have younger women in the age group of 18 to 22 years walking into my clinic and complaining about irregular periods, so awareness has definitely gone up. In this lockdown, I know of many couples who took the opportunity to lose weight and I know of an equal number of couples if not more that put on incredible amounts of weight. Also the fact that more women are now delaying pregnancy and marriage could also be another factor for the rise in PCOS cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcos-cases-rise-due-to-inactivity-women-complain-of-irregular-periods-101632942868253.html
30-09-2021||Other||Nipah antibodies detectedin bat samples: Kerala government||Kerala health minister Veena George on Wednesday said the antibodies against the Nipah virus were found in samples collected from bats after the death of a 12-year-old boy in Kozhikode.The minister said after the death of the boy, a team from the National Institute of Virology (NIV) had taken samples of many species of bats from the area, and samples indicated the presence of antibodies against the virus in two varieties. She said the latest results give credence to the theory that bats are the carriers of the Nipah virus. “The NIV has conveyed to us about the presence of IgG antibody in some. We are expecting more results in coming days,” the minister said. She said different studies conducted by NIV, the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases would continue. She said though the 21-day incubation period was over, the department would observe a double incubation period of 42 days to declare the area Nipah free. The health department was on high alert after the third outbreak of Nipa, first in 2018 in Kozhikode and second in Ernakulam in 2019. It cordoned off the entire area, and samples were collected from all houses. Around 800 samples were checked in two days, and all turned positive on September 8. Like earlier outbreaks, it was localised and contained effectively. After the death of the boy, his parents said he had eaten rambutan fruit before taking ill and authorities have asked people not to eat fruits picked from the ground. But samples of half-eaten fruits did not show any signs of contamination during initial tests. Later authorities have warned people not to disturb the bat habitat in panic. Reeling under high Covid-9 cases, the state contributed more than 60 per cent of the country’s total cases for about four months. The expert said strict protocol in place due to Covid-19, like masking, physical distancing and no overcrowding, helped the state to blunt the impact of the zoonotic disease again. Kozhikode reported Nipah infection for the second time in three years. In 2018, it claimed 17 lives in the district. Two persons also survived the infection. And in 2019, a youth tested positive for the zoonotic disease in Ernakulam, but he was also nursed back to life after a long hospitalization. After the first outbreak in 2018, the state government promised the setting up of a high-end animal testing lab, virology institute, a scientific study on bats (characterology) and a treatment protocol for separate zoonotic diseases. Experts say most of those remained only promises. “Since zoonotic diseases recur frequently in the state, it needed an integrated approach and team of experts from all fields to study it,” said Dr N M Arun, an internal medicine expert. Experts like Arun suggested a proactive strategy to face the increasing threat of recurring zoonotic diseases and not wait for the outbreak to act. The state needs to strengthen its surveillance system backed by enough scientific studies, they say. Zoonotic diseases recur at regular intervals in the state, in the last three years, several cases of Kyasnur forest disease (monkey fever), avian influenza, swine flu and anthrax were reported. Thousands of ducks were culled in Alapuzha two years ago to check the spread of avian influenza. “We need a permanent mechanism for early detection of such diseases and early warning to the people. More research is also needed in the area,” said Dr Prejit Nambiar, a teacher at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, who is specialised in zoonoses and food safety. He said a close interaction is necessary between medical experts, veterinary professionals, environmental scientists and wildlife professionals to tackle zoonotic diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nipah-antibodies-detectedin-bat-samples-kerala-government-101632942750115.html
30-09-2021||Other||Kerala cabinet approves plans to conduct a socio-economic survey in state||The Left government in Kerala will soon conduct a socio-economic survey to identify the economically backward persons among the forward community members in the state, a long pending demand of the latter.A cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Wednesday gave its nod to conduct the survey of the Kerala State Commission for Economically Backward Classes among Forward Communities, through Kudumbashree, the state’s all-women poverty eradication mission, a official statement said here.Five most economically backward families, belonging to forward caste communities, would be identified in each ward of the local bodies including village, municipality and corporation across the state as part of the survey.Sanction was accorded to allot a total of ₹75.67 lakh for collecting information for the same, it added.The meeting also decided to make police verification mandatory for the appointments in aided educational institutions, public sector undertakings welfare boards, development authorities, co-operative institutions and devaswom boards in the state. The cabinet directed concerned agencies to complete the procedure within one month after the employee joining the office and the relevant institutions should make necessary amendments in this regard within three months, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-cabinet-approves-plans-to-conduct-a-socio-economic-survey-in-state-101632942744715.html
30-09-2021||Other||Malayalam to get its own sign language alphabet: Kerala minister||The first uniform sign language alphabet in Malayalam, developed by deaf Indian Sign Language (ISL) experts, was released here on Wednesday by Kerala’s higher education minister Dr R Bindu, who said it would help bring about a qualitative change in the lives of those who are hearing impaired.The minister, speaking at the event held for release of the alphabet, promised to consider implementing it in special schools.“Discussions will be initiated with the General Education Department regarding the use of Malayalam alphabet in sign language in special schools across the state,” Dr Bindu said while releasing the sign language alphabet developed by the National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH), in collaboration with All Kerala Association of the Deaf.The minister said the development of the sign language alphabet in Malayalam was a proud achievement of the Social Justice Department and NISH and the result of the dedicated effort of NISH.“Currently, English and Hindi have alphabets in sign language. The newly developed alphabet in Malayalam will open up immense possibilities for the hearing impaired community,” she said.The minister also said that the government will also make use of technology to ensure physical and mental support to the hearing-impaired and extend all support to NISH to help it become a global institution.The Malayalam alphabet, consisting of vowels and consonants, is finger spelled in sign language and its primary phase has been designed exclusively for the deaf schools across Kerala, a release issued by the Social Justice department said.“The new sign language alphabet in Malayalam will eliminate the challenge of teachers in conveying messages through lip movement,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/malayalam-to-get-its-own-sign-language-alphabet-kerala-minister-101632942743297.html
30-09-2021||Other||Tiger trapped in Tamil Nadu city; efforts on to catch other||A tiger, on the prowl in Valparai in the district for the last couple of days, has been trapped by forest officials, Tamil Nadu police said on Wednesday.As it was injured, the tiger fell into the trap late Tuesday, the police said. The people, particularly estate workers, were alerted after noticing the animal moving in Muthumudi and a cage was placed, the police said.The workers heaved a sigh of relief after learning that the big cat was caught.Also, efforts are on to trap another tiger moving around in an estate area in Gudalur in Nilgiris district.Three days ago, a tiger killed a shepherd, the third victim in recent times prompting the efforts to catch the animal with tranquillisers.The help of a special task force from Wayanad in neighbouring Kerala was sought to trap the tiger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tiger-trapped-in-tamil-nadu-city-efforts-on-to-catch-other-101632942688750.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||LMC plans to charge licence fee from commercial vehicle operators||LUCKNOW Plying a commercial vehicle on city roads may now require operators to procure trade licence and pay fees to the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC). As per a government order, civic officials have prepared byelaws for charging licence fee from vehicle operators, said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi.He said the by-laws prepared after discussions with public representatives, representatives of trader bodies and transport unions would be presented before the executive committee members who are expected to give the nod on Thursday. “Tempo taxi, mini bus, bus, rickshaw and trolley operators will have to pay trade licence fee to the LMC for plying their vehicles. This will not only regulate the trade of transport in the state capital but also increase the earnings of the corporation,” added Dwivedi.These licences would be issued from April 1 to June 30 every year. Anyone not taking the licence would have to dole out a fine of ₹10 per day or ₹300 per month, besides a fine of ₹500 for not producing the licence when demanded by LMC officials.The LMC’s executive committee will also discuss the proposal of selling 327 shops of Mohan Market in Aminabad and 48 shops in Guru Nanak market in Charbagh to its tenants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lmc-plans-to-charge-licence-fee-from-commercial-vehicle-operators-101632942687600.html
30-09-2021||Other||‘Geared up for battle’: Kalyan attacks Andhra CM Jagan||Andhra Pradesh is still in the mid-course to a general election, but Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan on Wednesday ignited political heat, tearing into the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy regime and saying the “time has come” for it to be driven out (of power).“That man is causing destruction of Andhra Pradesh. It’s time to show him his place,” he said in a direct attack on Jagan and, in a way, setting the tone for the 2024 electoral battle.“You have called us out for war. We are ready for the battle and will fight it to the end. The time has come for you to be driven out,” Kalyan said.The Jana Sena president addressed the general body of his party at its headquarters in Mangalagiri here on Wednesday evening.“I have so far worked as a social activist. I have not behaved like a political leader. But now I will start the politicking. I am fully geared up for the battle,” Kalyan said.Attacking the Jagan government on various issues, Kalyan sought to know where development was in the state.While the state’s income was over ₹1.25 lakh crore per annum, the government was not in a position to pay even the staff salaries on time. Pensions were also inordinately delayed, he alleged.Kalyan pointed out that not a single road has been repaired or laid in the last two years.“That is the financial condition of the state. But when we are questioning this, they (YSRC leaders) are resorting to personal attacks,” Kalyan said.What’s there about my personal life? It’s all black and white. But you are living a colourful dream,” the Jana Sena chief remarked, lashing out at the YSRC leadership.Referring to the various freebie schemes named after the Chief Minister, he questioned whose money was being distributed.“Is it your hard-earned money? It is people’s tax money. It has to be distributed equitably. But the government is doing it in a pick and choose manner,” he said.Kalyan said he would alter his strategies based on (political) need.“I aligned with BJP after it agreed to retain Amaravati as the state capital. It also promised development of parched Rayalaseema and backward north coastal Andhra regions. So we have forged an alliance,” he noted.Talking about his political journey and objectives, the actor-politician stressed that he was in politics to stand by people in trouble.“I may win or lose (elections), that’s okay. I am not a beggar. If you have confidence in me, elect me. Then I will show what development will be,” he said. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/geared-up-for-battle-kalyan-attacks-andhra-cmjagan-101632942686405.html
30-09-2021||Other||Karnal’s geographic information system lab becomes operational||Taking a big step to digitise the data of all departments through satellite images, the geographic information system (GIS) lab has been made operational in Karnal.Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav inaugurated the lab here on Wednesday. He said the facility has been set up by the Haryana Space Application Centre (HARSAC). GIS mapping will help all government departments to get satellite-based data for transparent and better planning.The lab will also help the authorities keep a check on stubble burning in district as this lab will help them detect active fire locations.Project fellow Rohit Pandey said HARSAC will monitor the lab and will provide map-based solutions to government departments, especially the revenue, agriculture, disaster management, and the police.The DC has asked officials to provide digital mapping of all parks under Karnal municipal corporation. A meeting of officials of the departments concerned was called to gather the information available for this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnals-geographic-information-system-lab-becomes-operational-101632942685375.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Supreme Court seeks TTD response over ‘irregularities’ in ceremonies||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanam (TTD) to respond to allegations of irregularities in the conduct of ‘sevas’ and rituals at the Tirupati temple.A Bench headed by the Chief Justice of India NV Ramana while posting the matter for hearing on October 6 sought to know about the representation filed by the petitioner before the Devasthanam and asked the counsel of TTD to apprise it on what happened to the representation.The Bench noted that the issue may not be a matter of legal right but expects that all rituals will be conducted according to the traditions.“He is bringing to notice of you (TTD) and the court that there are some irregularities in the conduct of ceremonies and puja. It’s not about legal rights. I am a devotee of Balaji, also my brother and sister Judges,” said CJI.“We are all devotees of Balaji and expect that all rituals will be conducted according to the traditions,” CJI Ramana added.The bench said that the apex court may not be able to interfere in the manner, in which puja is conducted or the number of people who conduct it.The Bench was hearing an appeal filed by one Srivari Daadaa challenging the order of Andhra Pradesh High Court, which had dismissed his Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking directions to TTD to rectify the method of performing rituals and ‘seva’ to Lord Sri Venkateshwara Swamy at the Temple.CJI Ramama also interacted with the petitioner in Telugu for a while.The plea of Daadaa, a devotee of Lord Venkateshwara Swamy, alleged irregularities in the conduct of ‘sevas’ and rituals at the Tirupathi Temple.The High Court had dismissed his plea and said that the PIL was not maintainable since the procedure of conducting rituals is the exclusive domain of the Devasthanam and cannot be a matter of adjudication unless it impacts secular or civil rights of others. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supreme-court-seeks-ttd-response-over-irregularities-in-ceremonies-101632942683396.html
30-09-2021||Other||Ex-AIADMK minister, husband jailed for five years in Tamil Nadu fund scam||A special court here on Wednesday convicted AIADMK former Minister R Indira Kumari and her husband A Babu in a case of misappropriation of Tamil Nadu government funds to the tune of ₹15 lakh and sentenced them to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment (RI) for five years each.N Alicia, the presiding officer of the Special Court for Hearing Cases Against MPs and MLAs, awarded the sentence after finding them guilty of offences under various sections of the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act. Kumari,who served as social welfare minister from 1991-96 when J Jayalalithaa was the chief minister, later joined the DMK in 2006.The court also awarded three years imprisonment to retired IAS officer P Shanmugam, who had then served as the Director of Rehabiliatation of the Disabled and acquitted the ex-minister’s former Personal Assistant (PA) Venkatakrishnan, after imposing a fine of ₹10,000 on him.Immediately on pronouncement of the sentence, Kumari, who was present in the court hall, complained of breathing problems and was later admitted to the Government Royapettah Hospital here.The charges against another IAS officer Kirubakaran, the then secretary of the Social Welfare department, were abated since he died during the trial.According to the prosecution, the accused had connived with each other and misappropriated government funds of ₹15.45 lakh allotted for floating two trusts-- Mercy Mother India Charitable Trust for running a special school for hearing impaired children in the then North Arcot Ambedkar district and an institution for severely orthopedically handicapped children by another organisation, Bharani Swathi Educational Trust, here. The accused committed criminal misconduct, it was alleged.The case was registered in 1997, a year after the DMK came to power in 1996 and the chargesheet was filed in 2004.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exaiadmkminister-husband-jailed-for-five-years-in-tamil-nadu-fund-scam-101632942624645.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||17 people stuck at Navi Mumbai’s Pandavkada Waterfall due to heavy rain, rescued||Seventeen people including nine women, who had been visiting the Pandavakada Waterfall at Kharghar in Navi Mumbai for a picnic, were stuck in the hills as the water level of a stream increased due to heavy rainfall on Tuesday. Officials from Kharghar and Kalamboli fire brigades later rescued them using iron ladders. According to the police, the visitors who were from Dharavi and Chembur had entered the waterfall by crossing a stream in the morning. However, due to incessant rains that stream got swollen by afternoon making it impossible for them to return to the city. Among the rescued people, seven were minors. The forest department had banned entry to the Pandavkada Waterfall and Kharghar Hills in June in view of the numerous accidents that took place in the past few years. An officer from Kharghar fire station said, “We along with the officials from Kalamboli fire station reached the spot within a few minutes of receiving the call and rescued the people using iron ladders. The rescue operation continued for three hours and no one suffered injuries. The visitors belonged to the 16-27 age group except for a woman who was 48.” Sandipan Shinde, senior inspector of Kharghar police station said, “We allowed them to go home in the evening requesting them not to repeat the same mistake in future. We have not registered any case against them yet.” In a similar incident, as many as 116 people, including 78 women and 5 children were stuck at Kharghar Hills on July 18. The local police and the fire brigade officials rescued them safely after a few hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/17-people-stuck-at-navi-mumbai-s-pandavkada-waterfall-due-to-heavy-rain-rescued-101632942623364.html
30-09-2021||Pune||57% of cremations in past 5 years took place at Vaikunth in Pune: RTI||PUNE: Nearly 57% of the total number of cremations in the city over the last five years took place at Vaikunth crematorium, as per information procured by RTI activist Vivek Velankar. The large number of cremations at the same place led to increased pollution and a stench around it, Velankar alleged. So much so that locals residing in and around Vaikunth complained of high levels of air pollution and bad odour, he said.There are a total 28 crematoriums across 15 ward office areas including the 11 villages that were recently merged. As per PMC health department statistics over the period from 2015 to 2020, a total 89,593 cremations were carried out at the 28 crematoriums, of which 51,421 cremations (57%) took place at Vaikunth crematorium alone.Velankar said, “Residents around Vaikunth crematorium are experiencing pollution and bad odour. Therefore, the PMC should create awareness among people about performing last rites at other crematoriums as well so as to minimise the burden on Vaikunth.”Shrinivas Kandul, additional chief engineer of the electrical department of PMC, said, “It is true that most people prefer to cremate their relatives at Vaikunth. It is their choice and a sensitive issue at that. The corporation has made available the provision of a crematorium in every part of the city, and people can cremate their near and dear ones anywhere in the city as we have set up 28 crematoriums.”As for controlling the pollution around Vaikunth crematorium, Kandul said that the PMC has already started taking precautionary measures. “The PMC has appointed the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), to check pollution levels around Vaikunth,” he said.Why only Vaikunth?The Vaikunth crematorium is one of the oldest and most well-known crematoriums. It was developed by the PMC on 8 acre land in 1958. It is located in a residential space in Navi peth adjoining the river Mutha. There are three electrical, one gas and 24 payers and four sheds fitted with an air pollution control system. It is located in the heart of the city and is easily accessible by most people. Most of the big hospitals are located within five to six kilometre of Vaikunth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/57-of-cremations-in-past-5-years-took-place-at-vaikunth-in-pune-rti-101632942563367.html
30-09-2021||Pune||Bharat Biotech submits plan for Manjri Covid vaccine plant to FDA Pune||PUNE The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in Pune, on Wednesday, received an application from Bharat Biotech for approval of its plan for the new Manjri Covid vaccine manufacturing plant .The said site in Manjri was handed over by the Bombay High Court to Biovet, an associate firm of Bharat Biotech, to manufacture Covid vaccines. The land belongs to the forest department.The Pune Manjri unit is one of four units expected to scale production of Covaxin doses.“After several reminders from FDA, Bharat Biotech today (Wednesday) finally sent an application for the approval of the plan. Till now, Bharat Biotech had not made any applications (needed for functioning of Manjri plant). First we approve a layout map and then approve a licence,” said a senior Food and Drug Administration official on condition of anonymity.“I feel that making the vaccine available will take more time as the pace of completing all the work is very slow from Bharat Biotech,” the official added.Trial runs are expected to start in October, but there is no confirmation by the company. Queries by HT to Bharat Biotech’s corporate team went unanswered.In May, collector Rajesh Deshmukh and district administrator Saurabh Rao had detailed discussions with Bharti Biotech officials, with the plant expected to play a big role in the Covid vaccination drive in Pune district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bharat-biotech-submits-plan-for-manjri-covid-vaccine-plant-to-fda-pune-101632942384389.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Post-Covid loneliness, depression pose a greater risk for elderly: Doctors||Life changed for the elderly during the pandemic and many now are suffering from loneliness and depression along with rapid memory loss, said doctors.“Loss of one of the partners, prolonged post-covid trouble like weak chest and memory loss are some of the key factors that the virus gave to the elderly. They are facing trouble even today, even as the second wave peak is gone and new cases in the state are less than 10 per day,” said Prof Kauser Usman, HoD geriatric medicine at the King George’s Medical University.According to the health department data, of the total 2.38 lakh cases in Lucknow, 33% (79,099) were people above 50 years of age. In all 42,649 people between the age of 50 and 60 years and 36,450 above 60 years tested positive for Covid. Since January 01, 2020, 723 people between 50 and 60 years of age and 1378 above 60 years of age died after testing positive for Covid. Lucknow has over 5 lakh elderly population.Apart from age-related issues, elderly, post-covid, are facing increased bouts of depression and joint pain due to inaccessibility to the outside world and in some cases weak lungs. “Sudden loss of a spouse and that too in a situation where the other partner is unable to meet their spouse during their last days (due to covid restrictions) is a great emotional trauma and causes loss of physical strength too,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors.“Many elderly patients come to OPD. Some do not have anyone at home as their children live in other cities. Loneliness is the biggest risk for these elderly,” said Prof Usman.Doctors said that children or even neighbours should ensure that the elderly are not left alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/postcovid-loneliness-depression-pose-a-greater-risk-for-elderly-doctors-101632942323245.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Puja organisers prep for muted celebrations||Durga Puja, which will be celebrated between October 11 and 15 this year, is likely to be a low-key affair, with most pandal organisers planning to follow the rituals without the associated grandiose such as large idols and cultural programmes, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) met on Wednesday and decided to allow Durga Puja celebrations this year but with several riders. Unlike last year, when no visitors were allowed at pandals, this year, organisers will have to ensure that venues do not have visitors beyond the seating capacity and there can be no stalls of any kind. “The chief secretary is chalking out a formal standard operating procedure (SOP) for festival celebrations,” said a government official who attended the DDMA meeting, asking not to be named.The puja organisers are now awaiting the SOP to get more clarity on specific restrictions and relaxations regarding cultural events, idol immersion, pandals, eateries, stalls, and crowd management both inside and outside venues.“We welcome the decision. We will ensure strict adherence to all regulations. Safety of people is paramount,” said Swapan Ganguly, convener of Kalibari temple in New Delhi’s Mandir Marg, which organises one of the most prominent Durga Puja pandals in the city.Every year, the police and revenue department issue no-objection certificates (NOC) to around 550 Durga Puja pandals in the city. Hindustan Times spoke with several of them on Wednesday and most of them said they are left with too little time now to make grand arrangements.“We plan to have a decent pandal but there will be no idol or cultural programme,” member of the Durga Puja committee at Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave.Robin Bose, general secretary of the Durga Puja committee in Kashmere Gate, said, “We welcome the decision but the government has taken too long to make it. We hope the NOC and approval process is expedited.”Between the last Durga Puja and the upcoming one, Delhi has witnessed two major waves of the viral disease -- in November 2020 and April 2021. While the first one peaked at a weekly average of around 7,600 new cases a day, the April wave peaked at a weekly average of around 25,000 new cases a day.“We will follow all Covid-19 protocols. However, it is going to be a low-key affair this time with no idol or stalls,” said Narayan Dey, general secretary of the Durga Puja committee at CR Park’s Mela Ground.Till Covid struck in 2020, the five days of Durga Puja are marked by decorated streets, carnivals, pandal hopping, shopping, neighbourhoods festooned with flowers and lamps, and a wide range of cuisines -- offered not only by restaurants, which stretch their working hours during those days, but also makeshift eateries that come up inside and outside venues.“I am happy that some celebration is happening this time. People will socialise but with adequate precautions. But it is quite impossible to think of Durga Puja without food stalls and cultural programmes,” said Shinjini Bose, a resident of Mayur Vihar.Alok Karmakar, a resident of Kalkaji, said, “I am happy that we will get to see Durga Puja this year. However, precautions against the viral disease are also necessary. Hopefully, we will be in a better shape next year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-puja-organisers-prep-for-muted-celebrations-101632942044041.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||CICU organises event to promote India as export hub||The Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) in association with department of industries and commerce on Tuesday organised an event on export promotion, ‘Vanijya Utsav”, to showcase India as a rising economic force under Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma was the chief guest on the occasion. Presentations were made and lectures were delivered to encourage exports. The event was attended by more than 150 members and an exhibition was organised during which exporters showcase their products.Joint director general of foreign trade, Ludhiana, Suvidh Shah, gave a presentation on how to become an exporter.He apprised the participants regarding products, market, customer, data analysis, DGFT and its scheme under Foreign Trade Policy and Punjab state export program.Bal Mukund from Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) of India also spoke on the policies being offered by ECGC and the benefits.President of CICU, Upkar Singh Ahuja, appreciated the work being done by government agencies in promoting exporters in the region. He also urged the participants to avail the benefits of government schemes and expand their business at international level, which will help the country’s economy to grow. Joint secretary of CICU, SB Singh, discussed the potential of opportunities in exports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cicu-organises-event-to-promote-india-as-export-hub-101632942263363.html
30-09-2021||Pune||School teacher in Pune gets 3-year jail for sexual harassment of student||PUNE: A school teacher gets convicted and sentenced to three years of rigorous imprisonment by a court in Pune in a case of sexual harassment of a student in 2018. Additional sessions judge SR Navander with special public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal passed the order on Tuesday. The convicted man was identified as Nivrutti Devram Kalbhor (53) of Chinchwad. The girl had complained that the man had repeatedly made sexual advances and when she resisted saying he is her teacher, he had told her that love can blossom between a teacher and his pupil. He was arrested on October 12, 2018 and released from police custody on October 22, 2018 and has not faced any jail term so far. “The accused is hereby convicted vide Section 235 of CrPC for the offence punishable under Section 7 and 8 of the Protection of children from sexual offences (Pocso) Act and is hereby sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for the period of three years and to pay fine of ₹35,000 in default to suffer simple imprisonment for the period of four months,” read a part of the judgement by Judge Navander. He was booked under Sections 7, 8, 11, and 12 of Pocso Act and Sections 354(a) of Indian Penal Code in 2018 based on a complaint by a teenage student at the school in Nigdi, Pimpri-Chinchwad. The girl recorded her statement as a primary witness in the case and will be given the fine amount that the man has to pay - ₹50,000 in total. The conviction was, however, temporarily suspended as Kalbhor’s lawyer asked for time to approach the Bombay High Court in the matter. The court has granted suspension, but Kalbhor will have to pay the fine and submit money for personal bond to the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/school-teacher-in-pune-gets-3-year-jail-for-sexual-harassment-of-student-101632942143182.html
30-09-2021||Pune||Pune city likely to be fully vaccinated against Covid by January 2022: PMC official||PUNE Pune city is likely to be fully vaccinated by January 2022, if the current supply of vaccine continues and the 84-day gap between two doses stays mandated, says the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) immunisation officer, Dr Suryakant Deokar. Dr Deokar said, “The city’s eligible beneficiary population is estimated to be 3.48 million, of which 1.46 million have been fully vaccinated and 2.98 million have got their first dose. Since the past few weeks the supply of vaccines has been quite steady and we have got enough vaccines to run all our planned sessions.”“Even if we vaccinate the entire eligible population with their first dose, we will have to wait for 84 days at least to give them the second dose and so the vaccination drive in the city is likely to continue till January next year. We also received over 100,000 doses from the Bajaj Group on Monday which will further push our drive.”“With a number of people vaccinated against Covid-19 we are seeing that the rate of hospitalisation and deaths is going down, despite the fact that most commercial activities have opened up.” The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Pune began on January 16, 2021. As of now, 42% of the eligible beneficiaries, that is those aged above 18, have been fully vaccinated, and 85.72% have received the first dose. The civic body aims to fully vaccinate all beneficiaries in the next four months if the vaccine supply continues, as is now.As of September 29, 2.98 million people have got at least one shot of the vaccine. Half the city’s eligible population is likely to be fully vaccinated by mid- October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-likely-to-be-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-by-january-2022-pmc-official-101632942023567.html
30-09-2021||Pune||Residents call Taljai ‘Pune’s Aarey’; urge Aaditya Thackeray to save hill||PUNE Local residents and activists on Wednesday met environment minister Aaditya Thackeray demanding cancellation of proposed development at Taljai hill, which they termed as another “Aarey” and needs to be saved. Aaditya and his party Shiv Sena was instrumental in shifting Metro car shed from Aarey in Mumbai after environmentalists opposed the work undertaken by Devendra Fadnavis government. Thackeray was in the city when a group of environment lovers and some NGO’s met him and handed letters of protest against the proposed development plan by Pune Municipal Corporation saying it poses “great danger to the bio diversity of the tekdi.” Anant Gharat, of My Earth Foundation said, “The proposed development plan involves beautification of the hill poses a great danger to the ecology of the hill, there will be massive deforestation and leveling of the land and destruction of the natural habitat of many animals and birds.”When Thackeray was asked about growing opposition to Taljai Hill development plan, the minister while speaking in press conference said he was not aware about the issue.“Let them give the memorandum to me about why its being opposed,” Thackeray said.The detailed project plan (DPR) of the planned biodiversity project on 107 (one hundred and seven acres) land on Taljai hill in Sahakarnagar area has been submitted to the Standing Committee for approval by the Pune Municipal Administration and the project will cost Rs. 120 crore. The proposed development includes theme bases gardens, park and a stadium on Taljai hill.There have been protest from nature lovers and enivronmentalists alike against the project as it is clear that there will be massive deforestation and leveling of the land and destruction of the natural habitat of many animals and birds.Congress leader Aba Bagul, who has proposed the plan said, “Taljai Tekdi is still safe and no work has begun. People are misunderstood and misguided between the work undertaken by forest on 600 acres of land, and the PMC plan, which is proposed for the beautification of the acquired land which will have no concretisation and only trees will be planted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-call-taljai-pune-s-aarey-urge-aaditya-thackeray-to-save-hill-101632941844840.html
30-09-2021||Pune||Rickshaw driver on the run after running over policeman in Pune||PUNE: The police are on a lookout for an autorickshaw driver for the attempted murder of a policeman who tried to stop him after he stole something from a house at a residential building in Dhanori area of Pune. The injured officials were identified as Deepak Rajmane and Ganesh Shirsath. The incident occurred on Tuesday around 5:30pm near the vegetable market in Gokulnagar area of Dhanori. Rajmane is undergoing surgery and treatment for a severe spinal injury while Shirsath has sustained blunt injuries on his right leg. “He came out of the building and headed towards his rickshaw. The people around the area told the police on duty that he probably stole something from the building where he came out of. Rajmane took a lift from a civilian on a vehicle and stopped in front of his rickshaw while Shirsath followed him on the duty vehicle. The suspect hit Rajmane head on and ran over him and rammed into the vehicle Shirsath was riding and fled,” said assistant inspector PS Nikam of Vishrantwadi police station who is investigating the case. The police station officials and crime branch officials have deployed multiple teams to nab the accused. Rajmane is undergoing treatment at the Command Hospital in Wanowrie. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the absconding rickshaw driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rickshaw-driver-on-the-run-after-running-over-policeman-in-pune-101632941843371.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||NAS preparations: Education dept faces flak from parents for pressuring kids||The education department is facing criticism for its tactics to prepare students for the National Achievement Survey (NAS), with parents saying their children are being put under extreme pressure.Parents were on Wednesday asked to fill an online form pertaining to how their children are preparing for NAS at home during parent-teacher meetings organised at government schools in the district.Arvind Kumar, whose ward is a student of Class 8, termed it an intrusion into their child’s privacy and blamed schools for putting them under extreme pressure.“Schools are monitoring kids rigorously. Now, we have been asked every detail of our child‘s routine at home through form. We have been asked to answer questions like the time our children wakes up and goes to bed; how much time they study using mobile phones, if they are preparing for NAS or not and how they are preparing. Students are already studying hard for NAS at schools and the education department now wants to monitor them at home. This can affect their physical and mental health,” he said.While many parents didn’t have smartphones, a few were reluctant to fill those forms, as they either didn’t know the online process or had to return to work.In that case, teachers were seen directing the students to fill the form for their parents, which eventually defeated the purpose. After filling the form, the students were asked to submit it and to share the screen shot of the submission with the teacher concerned .A school principal, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Teachers are also getting overburdened now. We get lots of material related to NAS every week and teachers get confused about how to make children study the NAS modules along with the main syllabus. This meeting with parents is aimed towards encouraging them to send their children to school, so that they can prepare for NAS and also to request them to motivate and monitor the child’s preparations at home”, said principal.In order to increase the participation of the students in NAS preparations, district education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra chaired an online video conference with school heads and the principals on Saturday and directed them to motivate the parents to regularly talk with their children about the ongoing preparations at schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/naspreparations-education-dept-faces-flak-from-parents-for-pressuring-kids-101632941784749.html
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana : GADVASU organises lecture on rabies awareness||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) organised a lecture at Government Senior Secondary Smart School in Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Tuesday evening to spread awareness among students regarding the rabies.The lecture was organised by the vet varsity’s centre for one health. Director of the centre, Dr Jasbir Singh Bedi, spoke to the students about the relevance of World Rabies Day and explained why spreading awareness plays an important role in tackling the disease.Assistant professor at the centre, Dr Pankaj Dhaka, delivered a lecture where he emphasised on prevention and control strategies. Experts stated that rabies remains a deadly zoonosis worldwide and causes 59,000 deaths per year of which around 20,000 are reported in India.Further, a national level online colloquium on rabies was organised for students and faculty across the nation.Organising secretary of the programme, Dr Randhir Singh, briefed the participants about the importance of Rabies Day. Lectures were delivered by Dr Ashish Bhalla, professor at PGIMER and Dr Shrikrishna Isloor, professor at Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (KVAFSUU).Vice-chancellor of GADVASU Dr Inderjeet Singh said he is hopeful that these awareness activities will help them achieve the mission of “Elimination of dog mediated rabies in India by 2030”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gadvasu-organises-lecture-on-rabies-awareness-101632941487046.html
30-09-2021||Pune||Farmer duped of ₹45 lakh in loan fraud in Pune; relatives, former bank manager booked||PUNE: A former manager at a bank in Pune and three others were booked for using a customer’s details to get a loan sanctioned in his name, without his knowledge, according to the police. The complaint was lodged by Vikas Patil (42), a farmer from Bambavade in Palus, Sangli. The complainant told the police that the loan was sanctioned in his name in October 2019 when he was trying to secure a loan for ₹10 lakh. The men allegedly used the documents, including a blank cheque, provided by the complainant and got a loan sanctioned. “The three accused are relatives of the man and the bank manager is suspected to have helped them. One of the accused was the guarantor in the loan application by the complainant. The complainant applied for a loan and he never got it. Two years later, for some financial work he got his cibil score checked and found that it was low. That is when he realised that there is an unpaid loan worth ₹45 lakh in his name,” said assistant inspector Mohan Salvi of Khadki police station who is investigating the case. The man had asked for a loan of ₹10 lakh and the men used the documents to get a loan of ₹45 lakh and did not give the original loan amount to the complainant, according to the police. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/farmer-duped-of-rs-45-lakh-in-loan-fraud-in-pune-relatives-former-bank-manager-booked-101632941483357.html
30-09-2021||Pune||From April 22, all new cars at government offices will be e-vehicles: Aaditya Thackeray||After April 2022, all state government offices when purchasing a new car or hiring a four-wheeler, will have to choose an electric vehicle, Aaditya Thackeray, environment and tourism minister of Maharashtra, said in Pune on Wednesday. Thackeray visited Tata Motors and the Kinetic Green companies on Wednesday. Later he held a meeting on climate change and its impact on Pune. Thackeray said, “As a government we decided that after April 2022, all government offices will need to procure e-vehicles, when purchasing any new vehicle or hiring a car. This does not mean that the existing fleet will get replaced immediately, but whenever any government office starts the process to procure a new car they need to buy an e-car, or even while hiring vehicles the same principle should apply.” Thackeray added, “For various reasons like funds, it is not possible to change it in a single phase, but step by step electric vehicles will increase. I am also appealing to people from Mumbai and Pune to shift this mode of transport.” Addressing some challenges that the electric-vehicle industry faces Thackeray said, “Now electric batteries have improved and citizens can travel upto 300km in one charge. Government is also promoting charging stations and citizens can erect the same at their homes and in housing societies.” The state environment minister underline the threat climate change posed to the city and the state, citing huge losses in agriculture as well as urban infrastructure, with Rs4,500 crore paid out in compensation in last year for the same. No politics, please With Aaditya Thackeray in Pune and Pimpri -Chinchwad on Wednesday, it was expected that, given the municipal elections are on the horizon, some political statement would emerged. Thackeray said, “I met Sena office bearers, but today my priority is only climate-change related issues, so I will not make any political comment. Now as the number of Covid cases is lower, we are planning to visit all the divisions in Maharashtra where local self-government elections are scheduled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/from-april-22-all-new-cars-at-government-offices-will-be-e-vehicles-aaditya-thackeray-101632941423575.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi: Government working for development sans bias||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated and laid the foundation of projects worth ₹484.41 crore in Sitapur on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion, Yogi said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh was working without discrimination. Sitapur or Rampur, all places as well as people of all communities were benefiting from the schemes launched by the state government, he said. Hitting out at the opposition for neglecting development and working for its own benefits, Adityanath said the BJP government worked for the development of all without any discrimination and did not indulge in appeasement like others. “Those who accused us of discrimination must introspect. Had they worked for the development of all sections of society without any discrimination, the scenario in UP would have been different,” he said.. The chief minister said the BJP government worked in contrast to the previous governments’ ‘political agendas’, which were limited to caste, faith, religion, place, language and family. “People of all classes are getting the benefits of development schemes launched by the BJP government. The state government’s working mantra is development of everyone and appeasement of none. The opposition parties, when in power, worked through the politics of appeasement. There wasn’t development but riots, corruption, anarchy, terrorism, oppression and injustice,” he said. The chief minister handed over the symbolic keys of the houses to the beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. He also distributed certificates and documents to the beneficiaries selected under welfare schemes like Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana, Kanya Sumangala Yojana, Vishwakarma Shram Samman Yojana, Mukhyamantri Yuva Swarozgar Yojana and Ayushman Bharat Yojana. Highlighting the work done in four and a half years, the CM expressed his gratitude to the public for showing faith in the government. He also assured the people that the government would ensure the safety, respect and self-reliance of every citizen. Paying homage to Naimish Dham, the CM highlighted that Sitapur was at number one position among the districts in getting benefits of government’s schemes. In four-and-a-half years, 2.25 lakh families got their ‘Apna Ghar’ and through Ujjwala Yojana, nearly 5 lakh families had been given free LPG connections, he said. Slamming the opposition for neglecting development in Sitapur, the CM said that even after being so close to the state capital, no development was done here. Referring to the problem of floods in the district, he said that earlier when there were floods or outbreak of any disease, the governments used to turn a blind eye to the sufferings of the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-government-working-for-development-sans-bias-101632941303625.html
30-09-2021||Pune||Despite ducts on roads, pvt firms seek permission to dig stretches for laying service lines in Pune||PUNE: Private companies are not using the ducts provided on roads mainly in Smart City areas and seeking permission for digging roads to lay cables. Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL) has developed some roads in Aundh, Baner, Pashan and Balewadi areas. While developing these roads, the firm provided ducts on both sides of the stretches to facilitate service providers to lay their cables instead of digging roads. The authorities have observed that private companies are not using these ducts. PMC road department head VJ Kulkarni admitted of receiving permission application from private firms. Kulkarni said, “While constructing the roads, PSCDCL built the ducts. Even the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) erected ducts for new roads but the private agencies are claiming that it is tough task to lay the lines through ducts and are taking permission to dig roads. PMC laid its service lines in the ducts.” Kulkarni said, “We have planned to construct ducts on the newly proposed roads in 23 merged villages.” PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “While constructing the roads, I would instruct the administration to discuss their requirement for duct size to facilitate its maximum usage. Will ask the municipal administration to put pressure on agencies to use ducts wherever available instead of digging roads.” A road department official on condition of anonymity said, “Roads will remain in good condition for a longer period if service lines are placed in ducts. We receive many complaints of public inconvenience from residents over repeated digging of roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/despite-ducts-on-roads-pvt-firms-seek-permission-to-dig-stretches-for-laying-service-lines-in-pune-101632941183352.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks police response on bail plea filed by accused in hate slogan case||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought a response from the Delhi Police on a bail application filed by Sushil Kumar Tiwari, chief of “Hindu Army”, who is accused of alleged communal sloganeering at an event at Jantar Mantar last month.Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice to the police on the bail plea by Tiwari and also sought a status report. Tiwari was arrested from Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, on August 20 and has been in judicial custody since.On September 23, a trial court dismissed his bail plea, saying that the investigation was at a crucial juncture and that there was a strong possibility of him interfering in the investigation of the case and/or influencing and threatening the witnesses.Police had earlier opposed Tiwari’s bail on the grounds that the video clips clearly showed that he was delivering the allegedly inflammatory speech at the event held on August 8.It was claimed that the objectionable slogans and inflammatory speeches were delivered by the accused against a particular community as part of a well-planned conspiracy.The accused had contended before the trial court that the video of the alleged incident was an “edited record” that was prepared to intentionally and deliberately book him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-police-response-on-bail-plea-filed-by-accused-in-hate-slogan-case-101632941124420.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi court seeks status report on ‘undue favours’ claim against minister||A city court has sought a status report from the city police on a complaint filed by Bharatiya Janata Party leader Manoj Tiwari, alleging that the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain gave undue favours to a company by awarding it the tenders to set up seven temporary hospitals in the city.On Tuesday, additional chief metropolitan magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey passed the order directing the in-charge/director of the Anti-Corruption Branch to file the status report on October 9.Jain did not comment on the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-seeks-status-report-on-undue-favours-claim-against-minister-101632941123233.html
30-09-2021||Other||Kurukshetra farmers protest delay in paddy procurement||A high drama was witnessed at the Kurukshetra mini-secretariat as hundreds of farmers and mandi labourers protested against delay in paddy procurement by government agencies.The farmers and labourers reached the mini-secretariat, carrying their unsold paddy in tractor-trailers, alleging that they are facing problems of storage and harvesting due to unnecessary delay in procurement by the Harryana government.Police were deployed and security officials locked the main gate of the mini-secretariat to stop the farmers from entering the deputy commissioner’s office.The protesting farmers said their crop is ready for harvest and thousands of quintals of the unsold paddy is lying in the mandis for past one week but the government has not started the procurement process.Farmers slammed deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who had earlier announced that paddy procurement will start from September 25. The mandi labourers also demanded the government to start procurement without any further delay as they are sitting idle in lack of work in mandis.After a drama of over an hour, Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar, accompanied by other officials, reached the protesters and assured of taking up their issues with the higher authorities.The DC said farmers ended their protest as the government will start procurement from October 1 and officials of the departments concerned have been asked to redress other issues.Charuni alleges flaws in ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portalAlleging flaws in the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal, Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Charuni has demanded the government to immediately close the portal and allow farmers to sell their produce in mandi openly.The government had introduced the portal making it mandatory for all farmers to sell their produce on minimum support price (MSP) to the government agencies.In a letter written to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Charuni alleged that farmers are facing problems in registration and are forced by officials to make rounds of government offices as most landholdings in the state are owned by joint families.Charuni also demanded Khattar to at least set up help centres for farmers as officials are unable to address their issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kurukshetra-farmers-protest-delay-in-paddy-procurement-101632941063529.html
30-09-2021||Other||Amid protest from farmers, BJP leaders postpone programme in Karnal||Amid protest by farmers, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders reportedly cancelled their programme in Karnal at the eleventh hour on Wednesday.BJP’s Karnal district president Yogendra Rana, and former chief parliamentary secretary and ex-MLA from Assandh assembly segment Bakshish Singh Virk were scheduled to attend ‘Tridev Sammelan’ programme at a marriage palace in Jundla village here. They had even called party workers to attend the programme.Soon after getting information about the programme, farmers associated with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) reached the Jundla grain market and later staged a protest at the main entrance of the venue.The protesters also burnt effigies of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and ex-MLA Virk.The protesters said they will not allow BJP-JJP leaders in state to hold any programmes till the agitation against three agriculture laws is on in Delhi. “Once again, we have forced the BJP leaders to cancel their programme. This is a victory of the farmers,” they said.BKU (Charuni) Karnal district president Jagdip Singh Aulakh said they got confirmed information that BJP was to hold a programme in Jundla and urged farmers to reach there and protest.Reacting to the farmers’ protest, BJP Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia said farmers are being instigated by Opposition leaders and they are not allowing BJP leaders to hold meetings or make farmers aware of the benefits of three laws enacted by the Centre.However, BJP’s Yogendra Rana said the programme was not cancelled due to farmers’ protest but for some technical reasons in uploading details of booth-level party workers on the official portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-protest-from-farmers-bjp-leaders-postpone-programme-in-karnal-101632940883242.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Owaisi, Rajbhar meet Shivpal, urge him to join alliance||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar met Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) chief Shivpal Yadav on Wednesday to discuss an alliance for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election.The development comes even as Shivpal Yadav has urged Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav to take a final decision on a pre-poll alliance between the two parties soon.For their part, Owaisi and Rajbhar urged Shivpal to join the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha (BSM), an alliance of nine smaller political parties, said a leader of Pragtisheel Samajwadi Party familiar with the developments in the meeting.Besides AIMIM and SBSP, BSM includes Jan Adhikar Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, Rashtriya Uday Party president Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party of Premchanda Prajapati and Janata Kranti Party led by Anil Singh Chauhan.Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad has already given his consent to joining the alliance. He was present in the meeting with Shivpal to discuss the pre-poll alliance. The Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha leaders urged Shivpal to finalise the alliance in order to discuss seat-sharing for the assembly election.People familiar with the issue said Shivpal told the leaders that he was waiting for communication from SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. He will take a final decision on joining the morcha once the SP chief makes his stand clear.Owaisi will address a public meeting at Nanpara in Bahraich district on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/owaisi-rajbhar-meet-shivpal-urge-him-to-join-alliance-101632940764611.html
30-09-2021||Lucknow||Tokyo Paralympics: Uttar Pradesh government to felicitate medallists in Meerut next month||The Uttar Pradesh government is set to felicitate all 17 of India’s Tokyo Paralympics medallists with cash awards at a function in Meerut next month before Dussehra.India won 19 medals at the Tokyo Paralympics – five gold, eight silver and six bronze. Since two of the athletes won two medals each, they would be felicitated for their best one. Para-athletes from all 75 districts across the state would also attend the ceremony and the UP Sports Directorate would make arrangements in this connection.The gold medallists will be richer by ₹2 crore each whereas silver and bronze medallists will get ₹1.5 crore and ₹1 crore each, respectively, people familiar with the matter said.Eight athletes from Uttar Pradesh took part in the Tokyo Paralympics. Among them, high jumper Praveen Kumar of Gautam Buddha Nagar and Noida (Gautam Buddha Nagar) district magistrate and para-shuttler Suhas LY would get ₹4 crore each for winning silver medals. The other six athletes from Uttar Pradesh would get ₹10 lakh each as participation money. They are: Jyoti Baliyan (archery), Ajeet Singh (javelin), Varun Singh Bhati (high jump), Akash (shooting), Deepender (shooting) and Vivek Chikara (archery).“Yes, Meerut is going to be the place where the Tokyo Paralympics medallists would be felicitated with cash awards, but the venue and the date are yet to be finalised as we are waiting for the rainy season to end before Dusshera,” an official, who is aware of the development, said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday.In August, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had distributed ₹43.03 crore to all the seven medallists from India who excelled at the Tokyo Olympics, including the Indian men’s hockey team, which achieved a historic bronze medal after 41 years. That function was held at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium in Lucknow.The Uttar Pradesh government also felicitated the Indian women’s hockey team, which secured a historic fourth position in the Olympics. The bronze-medal winning men’s hockey team got ₹1 crore for each member. The women hockey team was given ₹50 lakh for each member. The chief minister also gave cash awards of ₹50 lakh each to golfer Aditi Ashok and wrestler Deepak Punia.“It was the best felicitation of Tokyo Olympics medallists in India, and we will have almost a similar felicitation for Paralympians in Meerut the next month,” said another official.UP Para Sports Association (UPPSA) president Kavinder Chaudhary, while lauding the UP government’s support to sports and sportspersons, said the sporting body would honour UP’s Paralympians at a function in New Delhi soon.“The state government has been doing great for sports and sportspersons of the country and the state. UPPSA is ready to support the government for more facilities for para-athletes of the state in the future,” said Chaudhary.He said that equipment, diet and coaching were the need of the hour for para-athletes of the state, and if the government extended support, UP athletes would win 8-10 medals at the 2022 Asian Para Games in China.“UPPSA wishes to have the country’s first Para University, where para-athletes of the country, including those from Uttar Pradesh too, can have their own set-up for lodging, food, training etc,” he said, adding, “For this, we are ready to give 30 acres of land.”MEDALLISTS AT TOKYO PARALYMPICSGold: Avani Lekhara (shooting); Sumit Antil (javelin); Manish Narwal (shooting); Pramod Bhagat (badminton) and Krishna Nagar (badminton).Silver: Bhavina Patel (table tennis); Nishad Kumar (high jump); Devendra Jhajharia (javelin); Yogesh Kathuniya (discus); Mariyappan Thangavelu (high jump); Praveen Kumar (high jump); Singhraj Adhana (shooting) and Suhas Yathiraj (badminton).Bronze: Sundar Singh Gurjar (javelin); Singhraj Adhana (shooting); Sharad Kumar (high jump); Avani Lekhara (shooting); Harvinder Singh (archery); Manoj Sarkar (badminton).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tokyo-paralympics-uttar-pradesh-government-to-felicitate-medallists-in-meerut-next-month-101632940763269.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||South Delhi restaurant that denied entry to woman asked to shut over licence||A restaurant in south Delhi, which recently received flak on the social media for allegedly refusing to allow a woman entry because she was dressed in a saree, has shut down following a closure notice by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) for operating without a valid health trade licence, officials aware of the development said.The owner of the establishment, located in Ansal Plaza, told SDMC in a written undertaking that he has shut down the eatery, the officials said.Abhishek Dutt, municipal councillor from Andrews Ganj, moved a private member resolution on the issue on the controversy in the SDMC House meeting on Wednesday. A senior SDMC official from the public health department informed the House that the owner of the restaurant was served a closure notice on September 24.According to the closure notice which HT has seen, the area public health inspector found that the restaurant was running without a valid licence. The notice also mentioned encroachment on public land for which, it said, action was taken on September 21.A senior corporation official said the inspector visited the eatery again on September 24, and found that no corrective measures were taken. Subsequently, a closure notice was served and the restaurant owner was warned that the premises will be sealed, if the unit was not shut within 48 hours.In his response on September 27, the owner submitted an affidavit stating, “I have closed down the above said trade immediately and I shall not run the same trade without SDMC trade licence under insanitary condition from health point of view and create nuisance. The eatery has applied for a new health trade licence.”A copy of the affidavit was submitted to the House on Wednesday.Leader of the House, Inderjeet Sehrawat said the restaurant owner has himself closed the establishment after the closure notice was issued. “Denying entry to people for wearing traditional Indian attire is outrageous. Such bans cannot be imposed and ideally an FIR should have been filed. Sari is a dignified attire. Movement of people cannot be stopped based on such whimsical rules,” Sehrawat said.Last week, a woman alleged that she was refused entry to a south Delhi restaurant because she was wearing a saree. She also posted a short video of her argument with the restaurant staff.Dutt demanded that the civic body should issue directions to all the restaurants and hotels that a fine of ₹5 lakh will be levied for discrimination against women wearing traditional Indian attire. Dutt also demanded a probe into how the eatery was running without a valid licence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/south-delhi-restaurant-that-denied-entry-to-woman-shuts-101632940705165.html
30-09-2021||Mumbai||Crops on 1.1 mn hectares in central Maharashtra damaged in torrential rain||The downpour in central Maharashtra and other parts of the state has caused heavy damage to standing crops of Kharif season. The crops on 1.1 million hectares in central Maharashtra have been damaged in the past two days, while the consolidated damage to the crops in this monsoon this year is expected to go up to 2.2 million hectares, according to the state government’s figures. The state government is expected to take a call over the relief to affected farmers in the cabinet meeting next week. The death toll of the heavy rainfall in the last three days stand at 17, while the consolidated figure of loss of lives in the monsoon since June 1 has reached 436. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that the spot assessment of the losses suffered by the farmers will begin soon. “As per the preliminary estimates, the losses due to the rainfall in the past two days due to cyclone Gulab is worth Rs8,000 crore. We have directed all collectors to complete the spot assessment at the earliest so that the compensation is distributed at the earliest,” he said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took a review of the situation of the heavy rainfall in the state over last three days. CM was apprised that the state received 26mm rain in 24 hours, leading to flooding in parts of the state. Many districts recorded more than 100 mm rainfall in 24 hours. Shirdhon in Latur, Govindpur in Aurangabad and Dhoki Jakachi received 171, 107 and 140mm respectively in 24 hours. “The discharge of the water from various dams led to the flooding in villages near the dam. One team each of NDRF was deployed in Osmanabad, Beed and Aurangbad have rescued more than 100 people in these and other districts in central Maharashtra. 16 villagers stranded in submerged villages were airlifted by the Air Force rescue team, while 20 were rescued in boats.50 people in Latur and 26 in Aurangabad were rescued safely,” statement issued by CM office has stated. CM Thackeray has also asked the district administration to ensure that the students who could not reach the exam centres for the common entrance test (CET) because of the flooding in their respective districts, should be given the opportunity to reappear for the exams. The district authorities have also been asked to ensure that the information about the new dates of exams should be properly disseminated to the students. Meanwhile, higher and technical eduation minister later announced that the CET for the flood affected students will be conducted on October 9 and 10.Wadettiwar has slammed the central government for the inadequate financial assistance for the natural calamities the state faced in the last two years. “We asked for Rs1,065.58 crore for the losses in Nisarg cyclone in the monsoon last year, against which we received Rs268.59 crore. Similarly, against the demand of Rs999.64 crore for the losses in downpour in eastern Vidharbha last year, we were given merely Rs151.53 crore. We received only Rs701 crore for the losses due to the flooding in October last year, against the actual losses of Rs3,821.29 crore. We have sent the memorandums of Rs1,679 crore for the losses in July this year and Rs203 crore for the losses in cyclone Tauktae, but there is no response from the centre to the demand, as yet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/crops-on-1-1-mn-hectares-in-central-maha-damaged-in-torrential-rain-in-three-days-101632940643235.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Preparations begin as Ramlila groups greet green light for festivities||With the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday giving the nod to hold Ramlila celebrations, a few organising committees said they were quite ready and happy to hold the Ramlila this year, and compensate for the loss of festivities last year. Others said the celebrations this year, too, will be muted, as the pandemic threat is yet to abate.According to the DDMA, Ramlila organisers will have to ensure that the number of people does not exceed the venue’s total seating capacity, and that no stalls or fairs are set up. They should also ensure 100% mask compliance, and have separate entry/exit points for visitors. These conditions are similar to those laid down for Durga Puja pandals, which were also allowed by the DDMA on Wednesday. A few other restrictions are likely, and the DDMA is expected to notify these in the coming days.Arjun Kumar, secretary, Luv Kush Ramlila Committee, which organises the Ramlila on the Red Fort grounds, said they are fully prepared for the celebrations. “Our tents have reached the ground and we will start work on the light and sound arrangements on Thursday. Artistes from Mumbai will start arriving soon...,” said Kumar.He said the preparations are more this year, as festivities could not take place last year due to Covid-19. “Dance groups will put up special performances and the stage theme will be changed daily,” said Kumar.He said after discussions with officials, it was decided that there will be six-feet space between chairs for the audience, and only 50% of the ground capacity will be allowed. “We will aim for 25-30% occupancy to ensure compliance with Covid-19 protocols,” said Kumar.Also, only vaccinated individuals and artistes will be allowed to enter the premises, the committee said. The committee has tied up with television channels and a few media outlets for live streaming the Ramlila.Dhiraj Dhar Gupta, general secretary, Shri Dharmik Lila Committee, Lal Qila Maidan, among the oldest committees in Delhi, said, “We are planning to hold the Ramlila in a single day at an auditorium and not on the grounds. Our committee has almost decided not to perform Ramlila itself. In a day or two, we will tale a final call,” said Gupta.Harish Rawat, general secretary, Shri Ramlila Samiti, GTB Enclave, said while the committee was ready with preparations, it was waiting for the release of the SOP. “The festivities will be held in a new place as a Covid hospital has come up on the grounds where Ramlila used to be held earlier. Our preparations are done and we plan to call artistes from Moradabad for the Ramlila,” said Rawat.Some organisers said the permission came too late and they did not have sufficient time for the preparations. Suresh Bindal, president of Sri Ramlila Committee Indraprastha Vistar, said, “A grand Ramlila will not take place this year. Had the government given permission 15 days ago, we would have organised the Ramlila at the ground. Instead, we will hold a five-day Ramlila at IPAX Bhawan in IP Extension.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-preparations-begin-as-ramlila-groups-greet-green-light-for-festivities-101632940403245.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Over 92% DL applications cleared through ‘faceless services’: Delhi govt||The Delhi government’s transport department has managed to clear over 92% of driving licence-related applications through “faceless services” since February this year, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Wednesday.Data shared by the minister showed that between February 19 and September 27, the department received 216,835 applications for vehicle-related services, of which 173,165 (80%) were approved. During the same period, the department also received 208,224 DL applications, of which 193,645 (92%) were cleared.The learner’s DL facility, which was added to the list of faceless services offered on August 7, saw 57,755 applications of which 45,495 (78.77%) received it without stepping out of their homes.“More than a month ago, it was a huge leap of faith that the Delhi government took in the direction of public service delivery. We acknowledge that there are still challenges that a project of such a large scale are throwing at us, but I assure you that we are constantly striving to make this process seamless, and it is heartening to see other states moving towards faceless service delivery,” said Gahlot, who held a review meeting on Wednesday.During the meeting, the minister instructed officers to expedite the process of resolving the technical issues, pendency and grievances related to faceless services. He also asked them to ensure that the user experience of transport services be pleasant so that a benchmark in public service delivery is established in the entire country.To keep track of the faceless system, the transport department has set up three hubs at deputy commissioner’s offices in Dwarka, Sheikh Sarai and Surajmal Vihar. A grievance redressal mechanism has also been set up to address the grievances of the applicants through a central grievance control room at transport headquarters in Civil Lines, in addition to a helpline (1076) and a WhatsApp chatbot (8588820000). People can also visit www.transport.delhi.gov.in for grievances.The transport department has also further extended the validity of documents related to fitness, permit, DL and registration that expired between February 2020 and September 30, 2021, till November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-92-dl-applications-cleared-through-faceless-services-delhi-govt-101632940344371.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt has power to implement its new excise policy, says high court||Observing that the state government has the power, jurisdiction and authority to float a new excise policy, the Delhi high court on Wednesday refused to stay the closure of retail vends with L7 licenses, which are valid till September 30.“Prima facie, the respondent (Delhi government) has all the powers and jurisdiction to float a new excise policy under the Delhi Excise Act, 2009 and its rules,” a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said.The court, while hearing an application by an L7 licence holder — Rattan Singh — asking for a stay on the closure of 260 retail vends with L7 and L10 licenses out of 849 private vends, said “change is inevitable” and the new excise policy is no exception to this rule.The application was part of a petition seeking to extend the license in parity with other categories under the provisions of the Delhi Excise Act. There are a total 35 categories of licenses for liquor traders.“Something is being stopped so that new things are created in a systematic manner as per the policy. Whenever, any new policy comes, there is bound to be changes…It is never the intention of the government that 260 places in malls or commercial places, will be closed but they will be restarted as per new policy.“Temporarily you may feel that you have been closed down but it’s a policy decision. Today you are closed down, but immediately somebody will open. The person may not be important, but the place is..,” the bench remarked during the hearing.Delhi has 849 liquor stores, of which 276 are privately run. The rest are run by the Delhi government. The private vends have to shut shop from October 1 to ensure a smooth transition to the new excise regime, which kicks in from November 17.The state government is trying to pave the way for a range of sweeping reforms to boost the city’s revenue, crack down on the liquor mafia and improve user experience under the new state excise policy.The city has been divided into 32 zones and allotment of licenses is now being done on a zonal basis.Only about 408 liquor vends in Delhi will be operational for 46 days starting Friday, as the city transitions to a new excise regime from November 17.The court noted, “It ought to be kept in mind that change is inevitable. The excise policy is no exception to this rule. New experiments are always being permitted as a matter of a policy. Prima facie we do not want to prejudge the resultant effect of the new policy.”The bench, in an interim order, said that the new mechanism did not violate any of the petitioner’s rights.Senior counsels Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, informed the court that with effect from November 16, even the government vends will shut, and so it is important that the transition to the new policy is “peaceful and harmonious”.Supply shortage forces customers to Noida, GgmHowever, the closure of private liquor vends for 46 days from Friday, however, has led to a severe supply shortage in the city, with shelves in Delhi stores nearly empty, forcing customers to head to neighbouring Noida and Gurugram to procure their stock.Animesh Sinha, a resident of Ashok Vihar Phase 4 in North Delhi, wrapped up his work early at around 5pm on Wednesday so he could go to Madhushala, a private liquor vend in the area, to stock up for the next few weeks. On reaching the shop, he was welcomed by a board stuck on the store’s shutter that read “permanently closed”. “This is heartbreaking. This shop was just walking distance from my house. It has been my go-to place for buying alcohol for about five years now,” he said.The ongoing transition phase has also forced manufacturers to postpone their supply schedules. For instance, American spirits major Brown-Forman, the maker of popular liquor brand Jack Daniel’s, has pushed the Delhi launch of its new Tennessee Apple flavoured whiskey by about three months.“We launched Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Apple in Gurugram last month... But, we will be able to launch the product in the Delhi market only by late November or early December, once the city’s new excise policy comes into effect and new retail stores become operational,” said Siddharth Wadia, Director and general manager, IMENA, Brown-Forman.(With inputs from Sweta Goswami)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-has-power-to-implement-its-new-excise-policy-says-hc-101632939804223.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi top cop begins probe into Unitech promoters’ violation of prison rules, visits Tihar||Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana has recorded the statements of at least three Tihar jail superintendents, four deputy superintendents and other prison officers in connection with the investigation into allegations that jailed Unitech ex-promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra violated prison rules and ran a “secret underground office” in south Delhi from inside Tihar jail with the help of jail officers, officials aware of the development said.The Supreme Court on August 26 ordered the Delhi Police commissioner to personally look into the role of prison officials in the case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) which is probing cases against the former Unitech bosses told the apex court about alleged irregularities.On the orders of the court, one of the Chandra brothers has been shifted to the Arthur Road Jail and the other to Taloja jail in Maharashtra.Last week, the jail officials were called to the Delhi Police headquarters and questioned by Asthana.Officials privy to the matter also said that Asthana visited the prison complex a few days ago for a spot visit to jail number 7, where the Chandra brothers were lodged until August 28 morning.To be sure, the officers questioned are yet to be named as an accused in the case. Their statements were recorded as part of the inquiry, officials quoted above said.A prison officer, who asked not to be named, said, “Two weeks ago, a team of officers came to jail number 7 where the Unitech brothers were lodged. The officers took records of the two men’s stay inside the prison. Before the team came to Tihar, the commissioner’s office also wrote to the prison’s director-general seeking details of officers posted in jail number 7. After gathering the relevant documents, the superintendents were called to police headquarters. Each one of them was questioned by the commissioner. After that, he came to inspect jail 7, where they were lodged.”Delhi Police are likely to submit the findings of the inquiry to the Supreme Court on Friday.The Chandra brothers were arrested in April 2017 for duping homebuyers in 74 Unitech projects.The two were also being probed by the ED. In a report to the apex court last month, the ED said the two men used the prison complex to transfer the “proceeds of crime”, and were instructing their people outside to dispose of their properties. The ED said that it also unearthed a secret underground office’ in Delhi, which was being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra, and was visited by his two sons – Sanjay and Ajay – when they were on parole or bail.A second prison officer, who too asked not to be named, said, “The police chief wanted details of how Sanjay and Ajay Chandra got access to cell phones and a desktop in prison. The officials from jail 7 have submitted the court orders on the basis of which the facility was given to them so that they could sell their property and return money to the homebuyers.”Jail officials said that the facility was stopped by the courts in May 2019. Police are checking if the two men provided fake court orders to the prison department post-May 2019, and are also probing if jail officers were negligent in checking the authenticity of the papers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-top-cop-begins-probe-into-unitech-promoters-violation-of-prison-rules-101632939503067.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||DDMA gives nod for Durga Puja, Dussehra celebrations in Delhi, but with curbs||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday decided to allow Ramlila, Dussehra and Durga Puja celebrations this year in public places but with a set of restrictions. However, the authority is yet to issue an order regarding the decisions taken at Wednesday’s meeting.Organisers will have to ensure the number of people in a venue does not exceed the number of seats, DDMA said, even as it disallowed stalls and fairs. Additionally, organisers have also been asked to ensure there is 100% mask compliance, and separate entry and exit points are provided for, apart from a few other restrictions that the authority will soon notify in a standard operating procedure (SOP) document, said three officials aware of the matter.Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday said that DDMA will consider allowing schools in the city to resume in-person classes for students of classes 6 to 8 after the festive season.Baijal said in a series of tweets: “Chaired the 25th meeting of DDMA to review the COVID19 situation in Delhi... As suggested by the experts, it was decided to consider opening middle school classes 6-8, after the festive season. All the stakeholders were called upon to work in a coordinated manner towards ensuring adequate preparedness for tackling any future challenges.”Currently schools are allowed to conduct in-person sessions for students in Class 9 and above.This year Dussehra will be celebrated on October 15, Diwali on November 4 and Chhath Puja on November 10.Baijal is the chairperson of DDMA, and CM Arvind Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson.“In the wake of the upcoming festive season, Delhi Police and the district administration will ensure Vividh (various) appropriate behaviour enforcement and take care that gatherings during the festive season are strictly in compliance with the laid down SOPs that include no standing crowds, separate entry and exit points, appropriate social distancing for seating, no activities (like fares, stalls and giant wheel etc) that attract crowds in violation of social distancing and onus on organisers for ensuring SOPs are followed,” said a senior official in Raj Niwas who was present in Wednesday’s meeting.The decisions come as the Capital’s Covid-19 caseload is at its lowest levels since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year. Delhi on Wednesday added 41 Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 0.06%, and no deaths.The city added an average of 34 cases each day over the past seven days, even as the test positivity rate continued to remain below the 0.10% mark consistently since mid-August. The city has added just five deaths of the infection so far this month.Last year, the DDMA prohibited Durga Puja committees from organising public celebrations, and Ramlila committees were asked to opt for live streaming. Burning of effigies in Dussehra was allowed in a few locations, with restrictions on the size of crowds.Arjun Kumar, general secretary of Luv Kush Ramleela committee, said: “We met government officials several times in the past few week and assured them that we will ensure all safety regulations are followed. We are happy that the government has trusted us. However, we will continue to live stream the Ramleela on social media and we have tied up with cable operators too.”Robin Bose, general secretary of the Durga Puja committee in Kashmere Gate, said: “We will ensure that all regulations are strictly adhered to. Safety of people comes first. We hope that the process of taking permission from the police and sub-divisional magistrate’s office is expedited too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-gives-nod-for-durga-puja-dussehra-celebrations-in-delhi-but-with-curbs-101632938903390.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Rohini court shootout: Gangster Tillu interrogated in Mandoli jail||The Delhi Police on Wednesday evening visited the Mandoli jail complex and questioned jailed gangster Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuria in connection with the murder of Jitender Maan alias Gogi in a shootout on Friday inside a courtroom at Rohini courts complex, officials privy to the information said.This is the first time that police have questioned Tillu, who has emerged as the prime conspirator in the case.Gogi, 30, who was in Tihar jail, had come to court for a hearing on Friday afternoon (September 24). Within minutes of Gogi’s entering the court, two gunmen, who were in lawyers’s attire shot Gogi dead. The two gunmen, who are members of Tillu gang, were shot dead by the police team. Until his arrest in March 2020, Gogi, a resident of Alipur in outer Delhi was the most wanted gangster in Delhi. He had at least 19 cases of murder, robbery, extortion.A senior police officer, who asked not to be named, said, “The crime branch team reached Mandoli jail in the evening and questioned Tillu. He is our primary suspect in the case. The information we have is that he had planned the conspiracy of getting people to pose as lawyers and shooting at Gogi inside the court. He was actively in touch with all the gunmen and other accomplices for over a week before the shootout on Friday.”The officer quoted above said police questioned Tillu to find out about the people who were involved in the shooting.“After Tillu there are other prisoners such as Sunil Rathi and Naveen Bali, who too are suspected to have helped Tillu in hiring the gunmen. Rathi is lodged in Baghpat jail. He knew one of the gunmen Rahul Tyagi alias Nitin. They met in Baghpat jail,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rohini-court-shootout-police-question-tillu-tajpuriya-in-mandoli-jail-101632938784265.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC rolls back tax hikes for commercial properties||With just months left for the Delhi municipal polls, which are likely to be held early next year, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to reduce the property tax rates for several non-residential and commercial categories.According to the proposal passed by the corporation’s standing committee on Tuesday, the tax rate hikes — these came into effect in July 2020 — will now be rolled back, leading to a reduction of 20-50% in tax for properties such as guest houses, banquet halls, recreational clubs, and telecom towers, among others.According to the revision, the property tax for educational institutions, colleges and schools will now be calculated based on the fee structure of the establishment.The property tax in the city is calculated based on six factors — the total covered area, the unit area values (per square metre (sqm)), age of the property, occupancy, structural factor and use factor.Most of the changes have been made in use factor and occupancy factor, south civic body officials said. The tax rates in these categories were increased on July 27, 2020, through the implementation of the recommendations of the third Municipal Valuation Committee (MVC) report.Col (retd) BK Oberoi, the standing committee chairman, SDMC, said changes will be reflected in eight categories. “The property taxes of schools and educational institutions will now be based on the tuition fee being charged by the institute. For schools charging a fee less than ₹600 per month, the use factor will be 1; for the ₹600-1,200 fee category, use factor will be 2; and for educational institutes charging ₹1,200 or more as monthly fee, the use factor will be 3,” he said.A senior municipal corporation official said the biggest change will be for the properties where telecom towers have been installed as the use-factor for such properties has been brought down from 4 to 2. “For example, if property tax for such a property was ₹1,000, after the application of use factor 4, the owner had to pay ₹4,000. Now as per the use factor 2, the owner need only pay ₹2,000,” the official said, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sdmc-rolls-back-tax-rate-hikes-for-several-commercial-properties-101632938722933.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC cuts size of new landfill site planned in Okhla||To speed up setting up of an engineered landfill site at Tehkhand near Okhla, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to cut the size of the project from the planned 27.34 acres to 24 acres, officials aware of the matter said.They said that 7.34 acres of land identified for the project was deemed forest for which the civic body could not get the environment ministry’s approval.Now, it has been decided that instead of waiting for an approval, the civic body will drop the deemed forest land, and add 4 acres from another nearby land parcel, the officials said.The SDMC standing committee approved the plan modifications and cleared the proposal for setting up the landfill site, the fourth in Delhi, on Tuesday. According to the revised plan, the engineered landfill will come up at a cost of ₹53.89 crore.“In one of the review meetings of DEMS (department of environment management services) by the municipal commissioner, it has been decided that the area of deemed forest, which is approximately 7.3 acres and which was included in the initial proposal, will not be considered because it may take time for cutting of trees,” said the proposal cleared by the SDMC standing committee.A senior municipal official overseeing the project stated that the green area has been de-linked from the engineered landfill project site to avoid further delays.“We will keep pursuing the environment ministry to obtain the clearance and necessary permissions for 7.3 acre land,” the official stated.A senior official from DEMS department said that the new engineered landfill will have a life span of 12 years, and it will be made operational in 18 months.An engineered landfill will follow scientific systems for storing waste and have measures to prevent leachate from polluting groundwater.Landfills in the national capital are currently open dumping grounds and does not have specific systems to avoid leachate or follow other scientific methods of waste management.Standing committee chairman Col (retd) BK Oberoi said, “...we will not face solid waste disposal related problems at the landfill.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sdmc-to-drop-7-acres-of-deemed-forest-land-from-landfill-project-101632937717493.html
30-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan man throws infant daughter to death, arrested||A six-month-old died after her father allegedly threw her on the floor while quarrelling with his wife in Rajasthan’s Baran district, police said on Wednesday, adding the 35-year-old accused has been arrested and charged with murder.According to police, the incident took place in Atru on Tuesday night when the accused’s wife, who had already left for her parents’ home following an argument a day before, returned to take their two children with her. A fresh quarrel between the two ensued during which the man snatched the infant from his wife’s hand and threw her on the floor, Ramkishan Godara, station house officer, Atru police station, said. The baby suffered a fracture on her head and died on the spot, he added.The man was later arrested on the basis of his wife’s complaint, the officer said.In a separate incident, a couple, believed to be in their 40s, allegedly died by suicide in Nagaur district. The duo was found hanging from two trees on Tuesday night, Rajendra Singh, SHO, Ladnun police station, said, adding further probe is on.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/baby-dies-after-father-throws-her-on-floor-101632908061234.html
30-09-2021||Delhi||Rajasthan cop shoots himself dead at Delhi high court||A 30-year-old Rajasthan Police constable posted at the Delhi high court shot himself on Wednesday morning inside the court premises, Delhi Police said after a preliminary probe. Following the incident, senior police officers visited the HC premises.In the backdrop of a city gangster getting shot to death inside Rohini court by a rival gang only a few days ago, courts in Delhi are on high alert.The police have increased security across all the courts in the national capital. At the seven district courts across the city, police are setting up a security plan, similar to one in operation at the Delhi high court.Deputy commissioner of police(New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said police received information about the constable’s death by suicide at around 9.30am.“A constable of Rajasthan Armed Constabulary deployed in high court security has reportedly died by suicide using his service weapon. Today morning he came on duty around 9.30 am. He had joined duty today after coming back from leave,” said Yadav.Police said there was no foul play behind the constable’s death. Police are speaking to his colleagues and family to probe what may have prompted the man to take his own life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rajasthan-cop-shoots-himself-dead-at-delhi-high-court-101632898339865.html
