01-01-2022||India||At least 10 Maharashtra ministers, 20 MLAs test positive for Covid: Ajit Pawar||Mumbai: At least 10 ministers and 20 legislators in Maharashtra have tested positive for Covid-19, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday, adding that strict restrictions might be clamped if the cases continue to rise in the state.The senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader said that despite the winter session of the state legislature, which ended on December 28, being curtailed to just five days, many legislators have tested positive for coronavirus.Also Read | Maharashtra reports 9,170 Covid cases, Mumbai logs 6,347 infections“We cut short the assembly session recently. So far, over 10 ministers and over 20 MLAs have tested positive for coronavirus. Everybody wants to be part of the celebrations of New Year, birthdays and other occasions. Keep in mind that the new variant (Omicron) spreads fast and hence caution is needed,” Pawar told reporters after visiting the Jaystambh monument in Perne village in the Pune district on the occasion of the 204th anniversary of the Battle of Koregaon Bhima.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has appealed and some states have announced a night curfew. In Maharashtra, cases are increasing (particularly) in Mumbai and Pune,” he added.Among the infected ministers include revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur and minister of state for urban development Prajakt Tanpure. All of them took to twitter to inform about being Covid-19 positive over the past one week.Other ministers and legislators who have tested positive for coronavirus include tribal development minister KC Padvi, MLAs Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, Sameer Meghe and Madhuri Misal.Notably, Maharashtra on Friday reported 8,067 fresh coronavirus cases, nearly 50% more than the previous day.Earlier, more than 2,300 people, who accessed the state legislature building during the five-day winter session, were tested for Covid-19, of which results of 54 came out positive. These exclude the ministers and MLAs mentioned above. Several House staffers, police personnel and journalists who covered the legislative proceedings were found to be infected.The secretariat had made it mandatory for all participating members to undergo Covid-19 tests twice during the assembly session — first at the beginning of the session and then after a gap of three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-10-maharashtra-ministers-20-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19-ajit-pawar-101641060600809.html
01-01-2022||India||India donates 500,000 Covid vaccine doses to Afghanistan||New Delhi: India on Saturday donated 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to the Indira Gandhi children’s hospital in Kabul, and pledged to send another 500,000 jabs in the coming weeks as part of humanitarian aid for the people of Afghanistan.The vaccines were sent to Kabul via a flight of Iran’s Mahan Air, as there are currently no direct flights between India and Afghanistan. India had earlier sent 1.6 tonnes of life-saving medicines to the same hospital, drawing praise from the Taliban.“Today, India supplied the next batch of humanitarian assistance consisting of 500,000 doses of COVID vaccine (Covaxin) to Afghanistan. The same was handed over to the Indira Gandhi Hospital, Kabul,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “Another batch of additional 500,000 doses would be supplied in (the) coming weeks.”On December 11, the Indian government sent 1.6 tonnes of medicines to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Kabul on a special charter flight that also ferried 85 Afghan nationals who were stuck in India after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The same flight had brought 104 people, mostly Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Kabul to New Delhi a day earlier.The medicines were routed through the World Health Organization.India’s offer to provide 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Pakistani land routes, however, has been held up because of conditions attached by Pakistan. On December 3, Pakistan said it would allow wheat and medicines to be shipped via the Wagah land border crossing in Afghan trucks, but it is yet to finalise modalities.India is committed to provide humanitarian aid to Afghan people consisting of food grains, one million doses of Covid-19 vaccines and essential life-saving drugs, the external affairs ministry said.India will undertake the supply of wheat and the remaining medical assistance in the coming weeks, the ministry said. “In this regard, we are in touch with UN agencies and others for finalising the modalities for transportation,” it added.An estimated 98% of Afghans are starving because of a spiralling economic crisis, conflict and drought, and this figure has increased 17% since August, according to the World Food Programme.“Afghanistan is facing an avalanche of hunger and destitution the likes of which I have never seen in my 20 plus years with the World Food Programme,” said Mary-Ellen McGroarty, the agency’s country director for Afghanistan. “We urgently need $220 million a month in 2022 to assist 23 million Afghans.”
01-01-2022||India||At least 12 killed during Vaishno Devi stampede||Jammu: Stampede at the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir early on Saturday, officials said, as hundreds of thousands of pilgrims rushed to offer prayers on the first day of 2022.The Jammu and Kashmir administration has constituted a three-member panel, headed by principal secretary (home), to probe the incident and submit its report within a week, an official said.Also Read | Mismanagement, huge rush caused stampede in Vaishno Devi: EyewitnessesWhile an official said the stampede likely occurred after an altercation between some boys among the pilgrims, witnesses alleged mismanagement on part of the shrine board. The pilgrimage, however, was not disrupted as registrations resumed an hour after the stampede, the official quoted above said, asking not to be named.The stampede occurred between 2.30am and 2.45am, near a relatively narrow passage at Gate 3 outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine. There were nearly 80,000 pilgrims in the area at the time of the incident, according to estimates.“Twelve pilgrims died and 14 others were injured in the stampede in the market area near a body scanner,” duty officer Jagdev Singh said.Those injured were rushed to the Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Kakryal, he said.A statement from the Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board said nine of the injured were discharged after first aid and the rest were undergoing treatment.J&K director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh, who visited the shrine after the stampede, told reporters that preliminary information suggested there was a minor altercation among some boys, and within seconds, there was a stampede.“Police and officials of the civil administration were quick to respond, and the order within the crowd was immediately restored, but by that time, the damage had been done,” he said.Witnesses, however, alleged that the number of devotees was beyond the permitted level with flagrant violation of Covid-19 norms. Some survivors also accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of “mismanagement”.“The Shrine Board said they were following Covid protocols and have imposed a cap of 25,000 devotees per day. How were there 200,000 people in the area at the time of the incident?” a pilgrim from Delhi asked.A shopkeeper in the area also blamed overcrowding for the stampede. “The Bhawan area in Trikuta Hills cannot cater to the heavy rush of pilgrims but the Shrine Board allowed a large number of pilgrims, which led to chaos and subsequent stampede,” he said.The pilgrims staged a protest in the area and sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged lapses.The Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, however, denied the charges saying all necessary arrangements were made in view of the expected rush.“An unfortunate stampede happened near Gate No. 3 at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Rescue and evacuation operations were immediately launched by the Shrine Board authorities, District Administration and Police,” an official statement from the board said.The Board also said that on Friday and Saturday, only 35,000 pilgrims were allowed to proceed for the yatra against the normal capacity of 50,000 in view of the pandemic.“It is pertinent to mention here that the National Green Tribunal has capped the normal capacity of Yatra per day to 50000. Pertinently, keeping in view the COVID-19 Pandemic, 35000 pilgrims were allowed to proceed for yatra on 31st December 2021 and for 1st Jan. 2022,” the Board said in its statement.Officials present at the scene said that 12 people died on spot and their bodies were taken to a hospital in the Katra base camp.Condolences poured in from all quarters and Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and Union minister Jitendra Singh to take stock of the situationThe central government is in constant touch with the J&K administration to assist the affected people, the PM said.Speaking at an event in Delhi, Modi said he was “extremely saddened by the loss of lives due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon”.
01-01-2022||India||SP chief Akhilesh promises 300 units of free electricity||Households in Uttar Pradesh will get 300 units of electricity for free if people return Samajwadi Party to power in the upcoming assembly elections to be held early this year, party president Akhilesh Yadav promised on Saturday. Farmers will also get free electricity to drive pumps to irrigate their fields, he said.“This will be the first promise in the SP’s manifesto,” the former chief minister said. “And everyone knows that what SP promises, it delivers.”The Bharatiya Janata Party made every effort to ruin 2021, Yadav said at the party’s office in Lucknow. He also attacked the BJP government over tax raids in Kannauj and Kanpur.“I came to the conclusion that it was a snag in Digital India. Accidentally, the raid revealed tonnes of cash at the house of a person who is a BJP person,” he said. “And all the money that came out was not of the SP, but it might be of the BJP.” Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was quick to slam Yadav over his poll promise of free electricity. “Now when elections are near, they are promising free electricity, but did not give electricity to people when they governed the state,” Adityanath said. “It was our government that provided electricity and constructed toilets.” Similar promises have been made by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of the Aam Aadmi Party at election rallies in Goa, Punjab and Uttarakhand, states that are headed to the polls with Uttar Pradesh.Last week, during his Vijay Rath Yatra in Unnao, Yadav had promised ₹5 lakh compensation to cyclists in a road accident and ₹5 lakh for death in a bull attack. He also promised an extension of the Kanpur metro to Unnao, and an expressway from Lucknow to Saharanpur.
01-01-2022||India||₹1.29L-cr GST kitty in Dec indicates robust economic activity||New Delhi: The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in December last year was ₹1,29,780 crore, marginally lower than the ₹1.30 lakh crore figure achieved in the two preceding months, but a 12.7% increase on an annual basis, official data showed on Saturday.The indirect tax revenue, a weathervane of economic health, in November surged to ₹1,31,526 crore, the second highest since the new tax regime was launched in July 2017 on robust recovery of business activities after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and increased compliance.Also Read | GST Council defers tax hike on textilesDecember was the sixth straight month when levies from goods sold and services rendered stood at over ₹1 lakh crore.The December collections were marginally lower than ₹1.31 lakh crore in November, government data showed, but were 25.8% higher than the revenues collected in December 2019, before the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted economic activity.As the December number shows the volume of business transactions in November, there was no impact of the recent surge in cases of the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus, experts said. Some impact was expected in the next two months, depending on the extent of mobility curbs and restrictions on business activities, said MS Mani, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India.Mani said the GST revenue in December was marginally lower by less than ₹2,000 crore, which is normal and doesn’t indicate anything amiss. “The GST collections reflect the continuing improvement in various macroeconomic parameters and appear to have now established a consistent trend over the past few months,” the analyst said.“The GST collection in the month is close to ₹1.30 lakh crore despite reduction of 17% in the number of e-way bills generated in the month of November, 2021 (6.1 crore) as compared to the month of October, 2021 (7.4 crore) due to improved tax compliance and better tax administration by both central and state tax authorities,” the finance ministry said in a statement. Electronic waybills are a digital compliance mechanism under the GST regime to track movement of goods.Despite the lower number of e-way bills, GST revenue is robust mainly because of increased contributions from services, experts said. “It is also accompanied by a continuing focus on implementation of technology based anti-evasion measures,” Mani said.The GST collections in December were “certainly impressive” given the “sequential drop in GST e-way bills” that had been seen during the festive month of November, said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA Ltd.“This performance can be attributed both to anti-evasion activities as well as the sharp growth in revenue from imports,” she said. During the month, revenues from import of goods were 36% higher compared to the same period last year.Notwithstanding the current increase in Omicron cases, the finance ministry expects “the positive trend in the revenues will continue” in the fourth financial quarter to March due to increased compliance.Average quarterly GST collection has been robust in the third quarter ended December at ₹1.3 lakh crore, compared to ₹1.1 lakh crore average in the first quarter and ₹1.15 lakh crore in the three months ended September.Out of the ₹1,29,780 crore gross GST revenue collected in December, ₹22,578 crore is central GST (CGST), ₹28,658 crore is state GST (SGST), and ₹69,155 crore is integrated GST (IGST) that include ₹37,527 crore collected on import of goods, and ₹9,389 crore cess on luxury items and sin goods, according to the finance ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/129lcr-gst-kitty-in-dec-indicates-robust-economic-activity-101641059760088.html
01-01-2022||India||Set up makeshift hospitals: Centre to states as Covid cases surge||With India witnessing a continuous rise in Covid-19 cases in the past 70 days, the Centre on Saturday advised states to start setting up makeshift hospitals to increase availability of beds, and create special teams to monitor home isolation cases.“To address a potential surge in cases and ensure preparedness, states are advised to initiate creation of field/makeshift hospitals to augment availability of health infrastructure,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a letter addressed to all the states and Union territories.Also Read | Registration opens for children’s vaccination“The state administrations can take help from private sector, corporations and NGOs. This can be done in coordination with organisations like Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). This will aid the process of rapid creation of field hospitals or temporary hospital set-ups,” the letter read.India on Saturday reported 26,663 Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 34,887,184.States have also been advised to consider using hotel rooms and other accommodations in sync with Covid-dedicated hospitals to cater to patients showing mild to moderate symptoms, as was done in some states earlier.“It is imperative to re-emphasize the significance of timely upgrade in health infrastructure as with the sudden spike in Covid infections, we might witness increase in stress on health infrastructure,” Bhushan said.It is important for the states to monitor their home isolation protocol and its implementation at the field level, he said.“Special teams should be constituted to monitor all home isolation cases. Call centres and control rooms should also aid in the outbound calling while monitoring such patients and ensure that such cases are shifted to an appropriate health facility via dedicated ambulances,” he added.“A mechanism wherein citizen can call and get ambulance and a bed in a transparent manner needs to be operationalised. The call centres, district or state level dashboards/portals can also help in organizing the same.”Bhushan said that the states are also requested to ensure that the existing Covid-dedicated health infrastructure is revisited and necessary action to ensure its operational readiness is taken.“Focus should be maintained on rural areas and paediatric cases. States need to regularly review the availability of required logistics, oxygen availability and buffer stock of drugs across all health facilities,” he said.“Effective contact tracing coupled with quarantine of contacts, including facility quarantine for high risk and comorbid contacts, should be taken up at the earliest,” the health secretary said.“For a country like ours, even a small percentage would mean large numbers when talking in absolute terms,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, stressing on preparedness. “It is good to remain prepared.”
01-01-2022||India||Registration opens for children’s vaccination||New Delhi: Nearly 300,000 children between 15 and 18 years of age registered to receive Covid-19 vaccination on the government’s CoWIN portal on Saturday, the first day they became eligible in India’s expanded inoculation programme that begins from January 3.“When children are safe, country’s future is safe. On the occasion of New Year, from today (Saturday) onwards registration of 15-18 years for Covid vaccination on CoWIN is being started,” health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted on Saturday. “It’s my request to parents that they should register their eligible children for vaccination.”
01-01-2022||India||4 dead, several feared trapped in Haryana mine landslide||Rohtak: Four people were killed and many feared trapped after a landslide at Dadam mine in Haryana’s Bhiwani district on Saturday, police said.A rescue operation by district administration was underway and several rescue teams, including from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), have been pressed into service, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said.“I am deeply saddened by the accident that happened at the mining site in Haryana’s Bhiwani district. Rescue operation is being carried out by the administration. NDRF team has been called from Ghaziabad, SDRF team from Madhuban and an army unit from Hisar have been called. So far, four people have died,” Vij said in a tweet.
01-01-2022||India||Abdullahs, Mufti placed in house arrest ahead of stir on redrawing J&K assembly seats||Srinagar: Political leaders in Kashmir, including former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, were placed under house arrest on Saturday, ahead of a sit-in protest against the government’s intention of redrawing assembly constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir governed by New Delhi.The top leadership of the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an alliance of five political parties, have been placed under house arrest, according to PAGD spokesperson Muhammad Yousuf Tarigami of the Communist Party of India (Marxist).
01-01-2022||India||Yati Narsinghanand and another seer named in U’khand hate speech FIR||Dehradun: Hindu seers Yati Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj were named on Saturday as accused in the hate speech case in Haridwar earlier this month being investigated by police in Uttarakhand.“Haridwar police, after verifying the videos of the hate speech incident in the three-day event, has added the names of two more accused, Yati Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj,” said Ashok Kumar, director-general of police.Also Read | Forces’ ex-chiefs write to President, PM Modi on Haridwar, Delhi hate speechesThe number of people accused of giving hate speeches at a three-day religious congregation rose to five in the complaint filed at the Kotwali police station in Haridwar. The other three named are Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, formerly known as Waseem Rizwi, Annapurna Maa alias Pooja Shakun Pandey, and Dharamdas Maharaj, a general secretary of the Hindu Mahasabha.Police have added section 295(a) of the Indian Penal Code (insulting a religion with deliberate and malicious acts) to the complaint, Kumar said.“As assured earlier, police are taking all necessary action in the case as the probe is progressing,” he said.Police had on December 23 registered a case under section 153 (a) of IPC (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred) against Tyagi and other unidentified accused at the Kotwali police station after videos of the event held on December 17-19 caused a furore on social media as there were calls for violence against minorities from the podium.On December 25, police added the names of Pandey and Dharamdas Maharaj, both hailing from Haridwar. The case is being investigated by a sub-inspector of police at the Kotwali police precinct.Experts, however, questioned the “delay” in police action in the case.“In such incidents, police should be very very active as communal issues are always very sensitive in our country. But here it seems to be the opposite, don’t know why. It should not have happened at all,” said senior advocate in Nainital high court, Kartikeya Gupta.Citing the sections of Indian Penal Code used in the case, Gupta added, “No section of IPC bars arresting. If the accused is not cooperating in the probe, then he/she could be arrested...”Army officer Lt Gen Gambhir Singh Negi (retd), too, criticised the “delayed” action. “What happened in the Dharma Sansad was completely against the principles of secularism which is the core of our constitution. How can anyone call for violence against a particular community that too by dragging army in it which is the foremost secular institution of India. The delay in action by police against the accused is definitely questionable,” said Negi.
01-01-2022||India||Vaishno Devi stampede: Probe panel directed to submit report within a week||The panel set up by the Jammu and Kashmir administration to investigate the stampede in Vaishno Devi shrine has been directed to submit its report within a week, according to the official order.Earlier in the day, Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha ordered an inquiry into the stampede and constituted a panel for the same after the incident killed as many as 12 people and left 15 others injured.  The panel will be headed by the Union territory's principal secretary (home) Shaleen Kabra, and will also comprise additional director general (ADG) of police Mukesh Singh and Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer.As per the order, the committee will examine in detail the causes or reasons behind the stampede, point out the lapses and fix them thereafter, and suggest measures to prevent similar accidents from occurring in the future.
01-01-2022||India||UK may offer cheaper, easier visas to clinch trade deal with India: Report||The UK is planning to relax immigration rules by offering cheaper and easier visas for Indian tourists, students and professionals, in an attempt to clinch a trade deal with India, a media report said on Saturday. UK International Trade Secretary Anne-Marie Trevelyan is expected to travel to New Delhi this month, when formal negotiations on a proposed India-UK free trade agreement (FTA) are expected to begin.Trevelyan is expected to use this visit to open the prospect of relaxing immigration rules for Indian citizens, a key demand from New Delhi, The Times newspaper reported.While she has the backing of Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, who has put securing closer ties with India on top of the government’s agenda to counter the growing influence of China, Home Secretary Priti Patel is opposed to this move, the report said.In May last year, Patel had signed a ‘bespoke’ and reciprocal Migration and Mobility Partnership (MMP) with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to have around 3,000 students and professionals a year access work experience benefits in either country.Under the MMP, both sides have agreed to work towards an April 2022 timeline to bring the new system in place, with work underway in the High Commission in London and the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi.However, under further immigration plans reportedly in the works, one option being looked at is a scheme similar to that agreed as part of the UK’s FTA with Australia, which would allow young Indians the chance to come and work in the UK for up to three years.Another option would be to cut visa fees for students, thereby allowing them to stay in the UK for a period after they graduate, possibly building upon the Graduate Route visa under the points-based immigration rules currently in place, the report said.There could also be reductions in the fees for work and tourism visas.At present, it can cost an Indian citizen up to GBP 1,400 for a work visa, while students pay GBP 348 and tourists GBP 95 respectively.These are in sharp contrast with visa fees for countries such as China, who have to pay significantly less.Indian-origin peer Lord Karan Bilimoria, the president of the Confederation of British Industry, has been among the most vocal advocates for lowering visa fees for Indians.“That FTA, I hope, will benefit in enhancing bilateral trade and be as comprehensive as possible. Movement of people; reduction of duties and tariffs – the tariff on Scotch whisky is 150 per cent, that’s got to be reduced drastically; academic collaborations and cross-border research is going to be huge between our countries and partnering on a Green industrial revolution. There is a vast array to really ramp up business and trade between our two countries,” he had said.A senior government source told 'The Times' that there was an acceptance by ministers that the price of a trade deal with India would be to make a “generous” offer on visas.“The tech and digital space in India are still hugely protectionist and if we could open up even a slither of access, it would put us ahead in the game,” a government official was quoted as saying.The UK government has repeatedly said it wants a deal that slashes barriers for doing business with India.According to the Department for International Trade, preparations for the launch of negotiations for the UK-India FTA ‘remains underway’ since the conclusion of bilateral working groups.Trevelyan and her Indian counterpart, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, had also held talks during the G-20 trade ministers meeting in Sorrento, Italy, last October to discuss “final preparations” for the launch of India-UK FTA negotiations this year.“We look forward to launching negotiations early this year. India is projected to become the world’s third-largest economy by 2050, and a trade deal will open huge opportunities for UK businesses to trade with India’s GBP 2 trillion economy,” a UK government spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-may-offer-cheaper-easier-visas-to-clinch-trade-deal-with-india-report-101641055703929.html
01-01-2022||India||Omicron fears dampen New Year celebrations in India as third wave warning surfaces | 10 points||Restrictions continue to exist at public places across the country as India’s Covid-19 curve maintains its upward trajectory amid a third wave warning. Experts even believe that the third wave of the pandemic is already here as the Omicron variant has started replacing Delta across states. Earlier today, the Centre urged states and union territories to take immediate steps to ensure enough beds in hospitals, oxygen availability and ramp up health care facilities.India registered 16,764 cases on December 31, including 1,431 Omicron cases, as per the health bulletin. This is the highest ever single-day rise in the past 70 days.Here are the latest developments on India’s coronavirus cases:1. The registration process for vaccination of children of the age group 15-18 years has begun today on the Centre’s Co-WIN app. Launching the same, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, “If the children are safe, then the future of the country is safe!” Covid-19 vaccination for children begins on January 3, 2021.2. Delhi and Mumbai continue to remain on the top of the chart in terms of coronavirus infections, with the Maharashtra capital leading the way. Mumbai on Saturday recorded 6,347 cases (including 454 Omicron cases) while Delhi logged a huge surge of 2,716 fresh Covid-19 cases (including 351 Omicron cases), as many as 920 more than yesterday's 1,796, the health bulletin data showed.3. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a letter to states and union territories, said that due to the spread of Omicron cases, “the world is currently reporting the highest ever surge in Covid-19 cases”.4. In Maharashtra, 10 ministers and at least 20 MLAs were found to have been infected with Covid. Meanwhile, the national capital confirmed the first death due to coronavirus in 2022, thereby taking its death toll to 25,108, according to the state’s health department.5. On the other hand, several reports have suggested that West Bengal may be pulled under a lockdown due to the doubling of daily cases. The reports, however, could not be confirmed by Hindustan Times.6. Experts and scientists continue to have different projections regarding the peak of the third wave of the pandemic, speculating the severity of a possible surge of Omicron cases. Several projections have said that it will not be severe but the infections will spread faster than before and the number of cases is likely to be high.7. Experts have predicted a third wave peak likely to arrive by February- March.8. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted that India will fight the pandemic with full caution and vigilance, and protect its national interests. “Corona cannot stop India’s pace,” he said.9. At the same time, New Year celebrations stayed muted across the country amid night curfews and restrictions on large gatherings.10. Festivities fell around the world, too, with Paris cancelling its fireworks show, London relegating to television, and New York City scaling down its famous ball drop celebration in Times Square.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-fears-dampen-new-year-celebrations-in-india-as-third-wave-warning-surfaces-10-points-101641054989484.html
01-01-2022||India||Omicron lockdown: New restrictions for 10 days in Gurugram, 4 Haryana districts||The Haryana government on Saturday announced several restrictions in five districts including Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Panchkula and Sonipat which will come into effect from tomorrow 5am. The restrictions will be in place till 5am, January 12. All cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes in these five districts will remain closed for these 10 days. Sports complexes, swimming pools will also remain closed. Offices in these five districts will function with 50% sraff attendance while malls and markets are allowed to open till 5pm. Bars and restaurants are allowed to operate with 50% seating capacity, the government order said.Only fully vaccinated persons are allowed to enter public places like sabzi mandi, grain markets, public transport, parks, religious places, bars, restaurants, hotels, departmental stores, ration shops, liquor and wine shops.More waves will come, Omicron fortunately less severe: Virologist Gagandeep KangIn other districts of the state, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, gyms, spas and clubhouses are allowed to open with 50% seating capacity with adherence to requisite social distancing. Schools, colleges, polytechnics, ITIs will remain closed. No mask, no service will strictly be observed in the state.The restrictions come a day after Haryana reported the biggest single-day jump of 26 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus pushing the tally to 63. Officials said that majority of the Omicron cases were being reported from districts under the NCR and hence the restrictions are applicable to only these five districts.Omicron has cast a shadow of apprehension as the infection is spreading faster than the previous variants. Delhi has imposed a mini lockdown shutting schools and limiting the number of people in public transport, bars and restaurants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-lockdown-malls-cinema-halls-closed-in-gurugram-4-haryana-districts-101641053441430.html
01-01-2022||India||How many Covid cases India may see daily if a surge hits. What experts said||Maharashtra additional chief secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas has recently predicted that Maharashtra may report a total of two lakh active COVID-19 cases by the third week of January. "Based on the current trend of rising Covid cases in the state, it is expected that we will have about two lakh active cases by the third week of January 2022," he told ANI.Dr Vyas said the narrative that Omicron is mild and not fatal might be misleading. "It's equally fatal for those who are not vaccinated and have comorbidities," he said.According to IIT-Kanpur professor Manindra Agarwal, the peak will be in early March with around 1.8 lakh cases per day. One in 10 cases will require hospitalisation, he said. Another IIT-Kanpur study Statistical Forecasting : Third Wave of COVID-19-With an Application to India said India's third wave of Covid-19 was about to start around mid-December, 2021 and the peak will be at the beginning of February 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-many-covid-cases-india-may-see-daily-if-a-surge-hits-what-experts-said-101641050972866.html
01-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Self-attacking antibodies from Covid-19 last long, says study and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 triggers self-attacking antibodies that stay up to 6 months after recovery: StudyWith the world fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for two years, a new US study has now revealed that infection - irrespective of being mild or asymptomatic, can trigger self-attacking antibodies and also persist over time. Read moreHindu leaders Narasimhanand, Sagar Sindhuraj named in Haridwar Dharma Sansad FIRThe Haridwar Police in its FIR against Haridwar Dharma Sandad have now added the names of Hindu leaders Yeti Narasimhanand and Sagar Sindhuraj in connection with the case of alleged hate speech based on viral video clips, reports said. Read moreDecember GST nears ₹1.30 lakh crore, Fin Min expects trend to continueThe Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in December 2021 is ₹1,29,780 crore, marginally lower than ₹1.30 lakh crore figure achieved in the preceding two straight months, but 12.7% increase on an annualised basis and 25.8% higher than the revenues collected in December 2019, which was a pre-Covid period, according to official data. Read moreRRR release postponed again due to rise in Covid-19 casesDirector SS Rajamouli's much-awaited period action film Rise Roar Revolt (RRR) has been postponed once again amid a surge in the coronavirus cases in the country and concerns over the new Omicron variant. Read more'I was feeling Pant was first candidate as vice-captain': Ex-India selector 'extremely surprised' at Bumrah's VC roleThe BCCI on Friday named India's 18-member squad for the upcoming ODI series against South Africa, where a rejigged setup saw KL Rahul donning the captaincy hat in place of Rohit Sharma. Read moreNew Year 2022: Rujuta Diwekar recommends 'ghar ka khana' to boost immunityThe simplest things in life are becoming elusive for most but embracing them can fix many of our health woes. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-self-attacking-antibodies-from-covid-19-last-long-says-study-and-all-the-latest-news-101641050015997.html
01-01-2022||India||‘Positive’ development on AFSPA in Assam, Nagaland soon’: Himanta||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma Saturday said: "some positive development" could be expected during the year with regard to Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) in the state where militancy is on the wane. Sarma, a senior BJP leader of the North East, said: "certain positive development" regarding the Act will take place soon in neighbouring Nagaland, where too it is in force. With militancy on the wane the Army has virtually withdrawn from Assam, except from five-six districts and when AFSPA comes up for renewal after four months the state government will take a “pragmatic decision”, he said. AFSPA has often been termed as "draconian" by political parties of the northeast because of the special powers it grants to the Indian Armed Forces to maintain public order in "disturbed areas" and its withdrawal has been demanded by civil society groups and rights activists. It was imposed in Assam in November 1990 and has been extended every six months since then after a review by the state government. “As far as AFSPA is concerned, Assam will see some rationalising in 2022 ... How and when we don't know. But I am an optimistic man. We are looking at 2022 as a year of hope. There will be some positive moments regarding the Act,” Sarma told reporters here. On the continuation of AFSPA in Nagaland, he said the Centre has already formed a committee to look into the matter. "The committee will submit its report in 45 days and I am hopeful there will be a certain positive development," he added. The Centre had on December 26 constituted a high-level committee headed by a secretary rank officer to examine the possibility of lifting the controversial AFSPA in Nagaland, apparently to soothe the rising tension in the northeastern state over the killing of 14 civilians. The committee was set up three days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a meeting with Sarma and his Nagaland counterpart Neiphiu Rio. The demand for repeal of AFSPA from the northeast came to the fore in December last year after 13 civilians were gunned down by the Army in a botched anti-insurgency operation in Nagaland and another person was killed in subsequent violence. The demand was made to the Centre even by the chief ministers of Nagaland and Meghalaya. The Act is in force in Manipur (excluding Imphal Municipal Council Area), in Changlang, Longding and Tirap districts of Arunachal Pradesh and areas falling within the jurisdiction of eight police stations of its districts bordering Assam, besides Nagaland and Assam. It was extended by six months in Nagaland by the Centre earlier this week. Sarma said tribal insurgency is almost over in Assam and credited the civil society organisations and students bodies for it. “The era of tribal militancy is over. All militant groups, but the ULFA have come overground and deposited arms ... Our last hurdle is ULFA(I),” he said. “The tribals are now firm on standing against insurgency. There won’t be any resurgence of militancy among them if we do not inflict any injustice on them,” the chief minister said. Sarma said he has learnt from his personal interactions with people who are directly or indirectly in touch with ULFA(I) chief, Paresh Barua that the militant leader wants a negotiated settlement like the government. “The stumbling block is ‘sovereignty’. ULFA(I) will want a discussion over it, which we cannot hold. We are working on breaking the deadlock,” he said. The unilateral ceasefire called by ULFA(I) in response to his call for peace after assuming office in May last year is a positive step. The Assam government reciprocated by not engaging in any "direct conflict" with the outfit in the last eight months, Sarma said. “But if we get information that people are trying to join ULFA(I) or its members are demanding money from the people then as the government we have to intervene,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/positive-development-on-afspa-in-assam-nagaland-soon-himanta-101641045332946.html
01-01-2022||India||December GST nears ₹1.30 lakh crore, Fin Min expects trend to continue||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in December 2021 is ₹1,29,780 crore, marginally lower than ₹1.30 lakh crore figure achieved in the preceding two straight months, but 12.7% increase on an annualised basis and 25.8% higher than the revenues collected in December 2019, which was a pre-Covid period, according to official data.The indirect tax revenue, a weathervane of economic health, in November surged to ₹1,31,526 lakh crore, the second highest since the new tax regime was launched in July 2017 on robust recovery of business activities after the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic and increased compliance.As the December collection figure indicates the volume of business transactions that took place in November, there is no impact of recent surge in new variant of Covid-19, according to experts. Some minor impact of Omicron on the GST collections is expected in the next two months depending on the extent of mobility curbs and restrictions on business activities, MS Mani, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India said.The pandemic is fast spreading in the country as India saw 22,775 new Covid-19 cases, highest since October 6 and Omicron infection jumped to 1,431 with 161 fresh cases, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. Mani said the GST revenue in December is marginally low by less than ₹2,000 crore, which is normal and doesn’t indicate anything amiss. “The GST collections reflect the continuing improvement in various macroeconomic parameters and appear to have now established a consistent trend over the past few months,” he said.“The GST collection in the month is close to ₹1.30 lakh crore despite reduction of 17% in the number of e-way bills generated in the month of November, 2021 (6.1 crore) as compared to the month of October, 2021 (7.4 crore) due to improved tax compliance and better tax administration by both central and state tax authorities,” Union finance ministry said in a statement. Electronic Way Bill (e-way bill) is a digital compliance mechanism under the GST regime to track movement of goods.Despite lower number of e-way bills, GST revenue is robust mainly because of increased contributions from services, experts said. “It is also accompanied by a continuing focus on implementation of technology based anti-evasion measures,” Mani said.Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA Ltd said the GST collections for December is “certainly impressive” given the “sequential drop in GST e-way bills” that had been seen during the festive month of November. “This performance can be attributed both to anti-evasion activities as well as the sharp growth in revenue from imports,” she said. During the month, revenues from import of goods were as 36% higher compared to the same period last year.Notwithstanding current surge in Omicron cases, finance ministry expects “the positive trend in the revenues will continue” in the fourth quarter (January-March 2022) due to increased compliance. Average quarterly GST collections has been robust in the third quarter ended December 31, 2021 at ₹1.30 lakh crore, compared to ₹1.10 lakh crore average in Q1 and ₹1.15 lakh crore in Q2 of the current fiscal year.“Coupled with economic recovery, anti-evasion activities, especially action against fake billers have been contributing to the enhanced GST. The improvement in revenue has also been due to various rate rationalisation measures undertaken by the [GST] Council to correct inverted duty structure,” it said.Out of the ₹1,29,780 crore gross GST revenue collected in December, ₹22,578 crore is central GST (CGST), ₹28,658 crore is state GST (SGST), and ₹69,155 crore is integrated GST (IGST) that include ₹37,527 crore collected on import of goods, and ₹9,389 crore cess on luxury items and sin goods, according to the finance ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/december-gst-nears-rs-1-30-lakh-crore-fin-min-expects-trend-to-continue-101641046079873.html
01-01-2022||India||Mumbai reports 6,347 Covid cases; lockdown not under discussion, says health minister||Continuing the upward trend of fresh Covid cases, Mumbai on Saturday reported 6,347 fresh Covid cases, the municipality said. Out of these new cases, around 5,712 are asymptomatic, which may be an indication of the spread of the Omicron variant, which is spreading fast without causing severe illness. On Friday, Mumbai recorded 5,428 fresh cases; on Thursday, the tally was 3,555. Maharashtra on Saturday reported 9,170 new cases, 1,445 recoveries, and 7 deaths today.  The state also reported six Omicron cases taking the overall Omicron tally to 460.  The Covid situation of Maharashtra, propelled by Omicron cases, has brought back talks of lockdown, while several restrictions have already been imposed in the state.  Health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said lockdown is not under discussion currently. "Decision of lockdown is not under discussion currently. The government will take decision about restrictions by taking into consideration the case positivity rate, hospital bed occupancy and oxygen consumption. If the daily (medical) oxygen requirement crosses 700 metric tons, then the state will go into lockdown automatically," the health minister said. On Friday, Maharashtra minister Vijay Wadettiwar said the stage of lockdown is approaching, but the chief minister will take a decision on when to impose it.About 10 ministers of the state and 20 MLAs have been infected with Covid, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday. "We cut short the Assembly session recently. So far, over 10 ministers and over 20 MLAs have tested positive for coronavirus. Everybody wants to be part of the celebrations of New Year, birthdays and other occasions. Keep in mind that the new variant (Omicron) spreads fast and hence caution is needed. PM Narendra Modi has appealed and some states have announced a night curfew. In Maharashtra, cases are increasing in Mumbai and Pune," Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-6-347-covid-cases-lockdown-not-under-discussion-says-minister-101641043207160.html
01-01-2022||India||‘India needs to accelerate its growth; cannot allow covid to hinder it’: PM Modi||India needs to accelerate pace of its development in the new year and will not allow the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic to dampen the growth process, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said here on Saturday.He stressed that the country will continue to fight the pandemic with "full caution and vigilance", and also take care of the national interest.Speaking at the release of the10th instalment under the PM-KISAN scheme, Modi reeled out the achievements of the country during the pandemic-hit 2021 across sectors, like health, defence, agriculture, startup ecosystem and infrastructure."2021 will be remembered for India's strong fight against the Covid-19 pandemic as also for reforms undertaken during the year," Modi said and lauded the achieving of more than 145 crore Covid vaccine doses.He said in the year gone by, India accelerated the speed of reforms in various sectors, and also created modern infrastructure."We have to further accelerate the pace of development. Corona poses challenges, but it cannot stall the growth process," the Prime Minister added.India saw a single-day rise of 22,775 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, thehighest since October 6, while the number of active cases surpassed one lakh and Omicron infection tally reached 1,431.In his first address of 2022, Modi said India's economy is growing at more than 8 per cent while it has also attracted record foreign investment, and taken forex reserves to new highs and GST collections were on rise.With India set to clock a USD 400 billion exports this fiscal, Modi said the country has also set new paradigms in the matter of exports and especially agriculture.Modi further said the process has been initiated to raise the marriage age of women to 21 years from the current 18 years, and bringing at par with that of men.He also referred to opening of doors of Sainik Schools and the National Defense Academy for women candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-to-accelerate-its-growth-cannot-allow-covid-to-hinder-it-pm-101641041562854.html
01-01-2022||India||On TMC’s foundation day, chief Mamata calls for strengthening of federal structure||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday called for strengthening the federal structure of the nation on the 24th foundation day of the Trinamool Congress.“As we step into yet another year, let us promise to stay united in our fight against all injustices. Let us treat each other with kindness and respect. Let us work towards strengthening the federal structure of this nation,” she tweeted.Banerjee had formed the TMC on January 1, 1998, months after severing ties with the Congress.“On #TMCFoundationDay, I extend my best wishes to all our workers, supporters and members of the Maa-Mati-Manush family. Our journey began on January 1st, 1998 and since then we have been committed in our efforts towards serving people and ensuring their welfare,” the TMC supremo tweeted.Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and her heir apparent Abhishek Banerjee tweeted: “On #TMCFoundationDay, I salute all our workers for their diligence in upholding the values of the @AITCofficial family. Thank you for finding the courage to fight those that dare to abuse our basic rights. Let us remain committed towards serving the people of this great nation.”The TMC, which returned to power in West Bengal with a thumping victory for the third consecutive row in May, 2021, is now expanding its footprint beyond West Bengal ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.Abhishek Banerjee, who was appointed as the party’s national general secretary earlier this year, announced that the TMC will expand its base in at least five other states other than Goa and Tripura and set up working units in 15 other states ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. This comes at a time when the party’s strength in the state legislative assembly is at its peak, with 217 of 294 seats. This apart five more BJP legislators have switched over to the TMC. In December 2021, it also swept the civic elections in Kolkata bagging 134 out of the 144 seats. After achieving a resounding victory over the BJP, the TMC has renewed its contract with the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the company launched by political strategist Prashant Kishor, till the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls in which Mamata Banerjee wishes to see her party playing a bigger role in national politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-tmc-s-foundation-day-chief-mamata-calls-for-strengthening-of-federal-structure-101641041099272.html
01-01-2022||India||Post-stubble burning, why Delhi sees a second spike in pollution in December||New Delhi: Delhi’s winter smog has become commonplace in November, when a sharp spike in the number of paddy fields are burnt in Punjab and Haryana to remove stubble, and the festival of Diwali, which adds emissions from firecrackers to the already polluted air.
01-01-2022||India||'Highest ever surge in world': Centre asks states to set up makeshift hospitals amid Omicron surge||The Centre on Saturday wrote to all states and Union territories asking them to take immediate stock of their healthcare infrastructure. Apart from adding more beds to hospitals, ramping up health care facilities, the states have been asked to check their oxygen availability, on a note of caution. The world is currently reporting the highest ever surge in Covid-19 cases, secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote in his letter. "In the context of the spread of Variant of Concern Omicron, the world is currently reporting the highest ever surge in Covid-19 cases. In India, the case trajectory is also showcasing an upward trend with 16,764 cases reported on December 31, the highest ever single-day rise in the past 70 days. Many developed nations in Europe and the Americas are reporting a significant rise in new cases in the past few weeks, which indicates high transmissibility of the virus," the secretary added.India's Omicron tally crosses 1,400-mark, 5 states have more than 100 casesThe health infrastructure may soon start getting stressed as there is a sudden increase in cases, the Centre said.In view of this, the Centre has asked the states to create makeshift hospitals. States may also utilise hotel accommodations for patients having mild to moderate symptoms, as it was done during the earlier surges in some states, it said. To monitor patients under home isolation, the states should constitute special teams, call centres, control rooms. A clear focus on rural areas and pediatric cases must also be maintained, the letter said."States need to regularly review the availability of required logistics, oxygen availability and buffer stick of drugs across all health facilities in the state," the Centre said.The alert comes amid a series of letters the Centre has recently written to the states and the UTs in view of the sudden surge, which is being seen as the beginning of a fresh wave in the country.On December 31, the Centre asked all states to test all fever, body ache cases for Covid and treat them for Covid, unless the test results prove otherwise. On the very first day of 2022, India reported 22,775 new Covid-19 cases and 406 deaths. The number of Omicron infections stands at 1,431, as on Saturday morning.Omicron, the newest variant of SARS-CoV-2, is believed to be spreading very fast though the severity is not worrying as most Omicron patients are asymptomatic and are recovering without being hospitalised. But if patients are not isolated properly, there is an increased risk of transmission among other family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/add-more-beds-in-hospitals-prepare-child-care-unit-centre-writes-to-states-as-omicron-cases-rise-101641038129305.html
01-01-2022||India||List of some major stampedes at temples, other religious congregations in India||Hundreds of people have died in stampedes at temples and other Hindu religious gatherings over the years in India. Here is a list of some of such major tragedies that have taken place in the country after 2000:August 27, 2003: 39 people were killed and around 140 injured in a stampede during the holy bath at the Kumbh Mela in Maharashtra's Nashik districtJanuary 25, 2005: More than 340 devotees were trampled to death and hundreds injured during an annual pilgrimage at Mandhardevi temple in Maharashtra's Satara district. The accident occurred when some people fell down on the steps made slippery by devotees breaking coconuts.August 3, 2008: 162 dead, 47 injured in stampede triggered by rumours of rockslides at Naina Devi temple in Bilaspur district of Himachal PradeshSeptember 30, 2008: Nearly 250 devotees killed and over 60 injured in stampede triggered by rumours of bomb going off at Chamunda Devi temple in Rajasthan's Jodhpur cityMarch 4, 2010: About 63 people were killed in a stampede at Ram Janki Temple of Kripalu Maharaj in Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district as people gathered to collect free clothes and food from the self-styled godman.November 8, 2011: At least 20 people were killed in stampede in Haridwar at Har-ki-Pauri ghat on banks of the Ganga riverNovember 19, 2012: Around 20 people were killed and many others injured as a makeshift bridge caved in, triggering a stampede during Chhath Puja at Adalat Ghat on the bank of river Ganga in PatnaOctober 13, 2013: 115 people were killed and over 100 injured in a stampede during Navratri festivities near Ratangarh temple in Madhya Pradesh's Datia district. The stampede was triggered by rumours that a river bridge the devotees were crossing was about to collapse.October 3, 2014: Thirty-two people were killed and 26 others injured in a stampede at Gandhi Maidan in Patna, shortly after the Dussehra celebrations ended.July 14, 2015: Twenty-seven pilgrims died and 20 others were injured in a stampede at a major bathing spot on the banks of the Godavari river where a huge crowd of devotees had gathered on the opening day of 'Pushkaram' festival in Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh.January 1, 2022: At least 12 people died and over a dozen were injured in a stampede at the famous Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir triggered by a heavy rush of devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-some-major-stampedes-at-temples-other-religious-congregations-in-india-101641037340806.html
01-01-2022||India||The year ahead: Can US Build Back Better?||There will be an urgency about Joe Biden’s presidency this year. The past year did not pan out quite the way he had hoped. But 2022 may be his last chance to make a difference.The Biden administration will begin its second year both determined and desperate. Its flagship Build Back Better legislation, a $1.7 trillion transformation of the United States welfare system, failed to garner the needed Senate votes in December. The president has seen his approval rating fall to a dismal 43%. His administration is struggling with yet another Covid wave. Inflation is beginning to spread through the economy.Biden’s political agenda is solely about blunting the anti-establishment, working class anger that led to the rise of Donald Trump. Securing the US against a second Trump presidency is the Holy Grail of the Biden presidency. And the orange-haired reality TV star has the Oval Office in his sights. Reportedly, Trump had to be dissuaded by aides from announcing his intention to run again after the US’s tragicomic withdrawal from Kabul. If his doctors give him the green signal, expect him to announcing in 2022.Biden will now try to push his agenda in bite-sized chunks. As he told party members recently, “We have to keep making the case”. Build Back Better, for example, will probably be shrunk-wrapped to Mild Medium-sized Milquetoast and put before the Senate again. Climate crisis policies will come sliced and diced.The world at large is only marginally better for Biden. Three major foreign policy crises will roll on into the new year. First is the military buildup along the Ukraine-Russia border. The coming six-party negotiations will seek to find a solution, and will kick off global diplomacy for 2022. But Putin won’t back down in a hurry.Second are tensions over Taiwan, though this seems to be increasingly shadow boxing, all fighter aircraft but no intention to fight. However, the US and China will continue to spar on many things economic. China will seek to use trade diplomacy to isolate America. Washington will double down on technology coalitions. The Quad, something Biden sees at the core of his China response, will assemble in Tokyo in February and probably at least once more later in the year.And finally there’s Iran. The attempt to resurrect the US-Iran nuclear deal will continue apace. Iran will not roll back its nuclear programme or its informal West Asian empire, as Washington is demanding. But Biden will also resist calls from Israel to consider a military solution. His instinct has been to not invest too much in West Asia, something which Iran will leverage as the US leader’s home front looms ever larger in importance.After all, by next spring the US will be all about the midterm congressional elections in November. With the entire lower house and a third of the Senate up for grabs, the odds are Biden will lose his slender congressional majority, be unable to pass legislation thereafter and end up a de facto two-year president. Trump has already been endorsing dozens of rabid Republicans at the congressional and state levels. Which is why Biden’s passage of Build Back Better and similar legislation is so crucial. The US president will also move more aggressively on voting rights and anti-monopoly legislation in the coming year, blocking the Republicans from suppressing minority voter rights and Mark Zuckerberg from subverting everyone’s data rights.These moves and more may prove important legacies of the Biden presidency but will be drowned out by the noise which will engulf the US in 2023. Noise by a Republican Party going off the rails, a virus that refuses to go away, and a club sandwich of overseas enemies who see Biden as weak and doddering. The US president will have a tough year, but more importantly it may be his last chance to proof his country against those who would Make America Trumped Again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-year-ahead-can-us-build-back-better-101641037679462.html
01-01-2022||India||4 dead in Haryana landslide; Anil Vij says rescue teams, Army at spot||Four people have so far died in the Haryana mine landslide, confirmed state home minister Anil Vij. The incident happened at the mining site in Bhiwani district of the northern state after a portion of stone mine crashed down on the workers, reportedly owing to a landslide.Taking to Twitter, Vij said that the local administration is taking care of the rescue operation. He added that a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been called from Ghaziabad and another of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) has been summoned from Madhuban.“An Army unit has been called from Hisar,” the minister further wrote in the tweet.
01-01-2022||India||The year ahead: Privacy, connectivity will define our tech interactions||The long-term nature of the Covid-19 pandemic we are living through will define a lot of how the development, and our interface with technology, will take place through most of 2022. The themes will revolve around the work-from-home (WFH) lifestyle, and tools that make things simpler on that front. Since it’s all online, security and privacy will remain in focus.Artificial intelligence all aroundThe definition of a smart device has changed. Earlier, a smart TV was that because it could connect to the internet, compared with one that couldn’t. Now, anything tagged as smart must have a mind of its own. That’s where artificial intelligence (AI) comes into the picture.The cameras in your computing device can track your face and swivel to keep you in the frame. Netflix can predict what you want to watch next. Your phone has AI to determine which apps you use when and prepares them for better performance. Your car can tell you when you’re inattentive and alerts you. AI will continue to be everywhere, even more so. Be it your Android phone or iPhone, the apps in your phone, a smart speaker, your TV and the car you drive will have greater infusion of AI.Need for data privacyThe wheels of change are in motion. Facebook has decided to remove facial recognition from its platform. WhatsApp is giving us powerful encryption for backups. Android and iOS as smartphone platforms are making it more difficult for you to be tracked by advertisers and are restricting apps from sending out your data without your permission.“As companies have to comply with stricter and more diverse privacy regulations worldwide, they are giving users more tools for controlling their privacy as they use their services,” says Anna Larkina, a security expert at Kaspersky. But do not for a moment expect big tech to make it easy for users — data collection continues to be critical for most tech companies as a source of revenue, and they would want that drip feed to not completely dry up.Your phone, all powerfulIt is expected that semiconductor shortages will ease off in H2 2022 but expect no let-up in phone launches. Phone companies appear well stocked. Everyone will be at it. OnePlus and Samsung usually launch flagship phones in the first few months of a new year — the OnePlus 10 and the Samsung Galaxy S22 series should make their debuts then.Digitimes Research expects smartphone shipments to increase around 7% in 2022, compared with the year before. Smartphone makers including Xiaomi and Realme will launch phones in different price bands through the year. And that’s before we get to the annual updates from Apple and Google for the iPhone and Pixel phones later in the year. Could we see a more affordable iPhone launched before the summer? That could well be the next generation iPhone SE.Internet that connects youThe very basis for WFH is reliable internet connectivity. The home broadband as well as 4G mobile networks have held up well over the work and video streaming rigours of the last two years. Home broadband tariffs have remained stable while the speeds on offer are between 30Mbps and 1Gbps. In 2021, broadband will have its newest cutting-edge iteration — satellite broadband. Alongside, we’ll have the next evolution of mobile networks with 5G.Satellite broadband simplifies things — beaming down internet via a satellite dish installed in your balcony or rooftop, from a constellation of satellites in the sky. Much like a direct to home (DTH) TV network. It is expected that Elon Musk’s Starlink will launch services. Expect OneWeb, which is owned by Bharti Airtel and the Government of UK, to be in play. Make no mistake, satellite broadband will add another option to the connectivity spectrum, but it’ll not be cheap — Starlink’s monthly subscription is expected at $99.Work and education, from homeAlongside work-from-home is the very important dimension of online classrooms. In India, affordable computing is crucial, that is PCs and laptops which are priced around ₹30,000. Microsoft’s big focus for 2022 is education and Windows 11 SE has been tweaked to put the education apps front and centre while streamlining a lot of other functionality to make it work on PCs around the ₹20,000 price point (and beyond).There are also the new education-focused PCs which the likes of HP, Lenovo and Dell will be rolling out in 2022. Ketan Patel, managing director at HP India, points out while speaking with HT that from a state of panic caused by the low PC penetration at the beginning of the pandemic, we are now seeing a 45% year-on-year growth for PCs, with WFH and online classrooms driving sales.
01-01-2022||India||The year ahead: Seven states in poll position||Uttar Pradesh is India’s most populous state and arguably its most politically crucial province. With a population over 200 million cutting across caste and communities, and 80 Lok Sabha seats and 403 assembly seats, the state wields disproportionate power in the country’s politics. Having roots in the state propels a political party or leader to the national arena because no other state comes close in terms of political heft – the next biggest state, Maharashtra, has 48 Lok Sabha seats and 288 assembly segments. No wonder, then, that nine of the country’s 14 Prime Ministers have had ties to the state, or that when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was contemplating an inaugural general election run, he chose an Uttar Pradesh constituency – Varanasi.These are some of the reasons why the assembly election scheduled to be held in Uttar Pradesh in February-March is the political event of 2022, one that is likely to determine whether the Opposition is spirited enough to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party in the 2024 general election, or whether the ruling party will get the same boost from the state that it did in 2017, when it won an unprecedented mandate of 312 seats.To be sure, there are also a number of other state elections that will make headlines and change political dynamics – notably Punjab, where the impact of the farm protests and their success in making the central government reverse course; Goa, where the fight is as much between the BJP and the Congress as it is between the Aam Aadmi Party and the Trinamool Congress to emerge as the new Opposition alternative, Uttarakhand, where the incumbent BJP appears to be in trouble after changing two chief ministers in a year, and in Manipur, where the Congress will seek to wrest power from the BJP in a state where it emerged as the single-largest party only to see its lawmakers defect.Among these, Punjab is particularly important because it is the state that birthed the first successful popular movement to effect a reversal of a significant economic policy decision by this government. It is also the state that has seen its government and ruling party in churn. If the state’s first Dalit chief minister staves off challenges from political opponents within and outside the party, it will be pleasant news for the win-starved Congress party.Towards the end of the year, two other important states go to the polls. In Himachal Pradesh, BJP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur will have to combat a series of bypoll reverses and an energised Congress party. In Gujarat, the home state of PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, the BJP virtually changed its entire government in September in an attempt to beat back anti-incumbency. Will the Congress party be able to repeat its spirited challenge of the 2017 campaign, or will new chief minister Bhupendra Patel manage to stitch together a multi-caste coalition that has been the hallmark of the BJP’s dominance in the western state? We will know in December.Of course, the other thing on India’s radar this year will be social cohesion, or rather, tension. Hate speeches and inflammatory remarks by some Hindu leaders, enduring caste cleavages and the oppression faced by Dalit populations across the country, and the response of the political class to it will be important to track for anyone interested in India’s future.But back to UP for a bit. The assembly polls in 2017 happened in the shadow of the disruptive impact of demonetisation, which had been implemented just three months before, and demonstrated PM Modi’s ability to rise above partisan issues and appeal directly to the people. Even as people were hurting under the decision to scrap high-value notes, they were steadfast in the belief that Modi had taken the decision to flush out black money. A doomed alliance between the Congress and the Samajwadi Party (SP) failed to fire on the ground, and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) lost the backing of some of its core supporters – its vote share was still significant but was rendered insignificant in a first-past-the-post system.In contrast, the BJP banked on the PM’s appeal and carefully forged an alliance of non-dominant communities from the other backward classes (OBC) and scheduled castes (SC), weaning these groups away from the regional outfits with the promise of empowerment, economic mobility and social recognition. Having learnt its lesson from the 2015 Bihar polls, the party was deft in dispelling any notion that it was against the emancipation of underprivileged castes. Hindutva and development were the glue that held together this coalition of extremes.The 2022 elections are happening under very different circumstances. The BJP has won a national re-election, having successfully defended UP from a formidable-looking alliance between the SP and the BSP, once-vaunted Opposition unity has since evaporated, and chief minister Yogi Adityanath has built a strong personal, if somewhat controversial, brand on Hindutva and law-and-order.Yet the stakes are the same, if not higher.This is a must-win election for the BJP, which faced a defeat in the West Bengal election and has since seen a string of leaders in the eastern state head towards its principal adversary, the Trinamool Congress. It is important for India’s ruling party to show that it can defend the state it showcases as the new development model for the country. The state is at the heart of the party’s Hindutva agenda and the success of its temple agenda – the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya began after the 2019 election and this will be the first major election where its impact can be gauged.For the Opposition too, the Uttar Pradesh elections are crucial. The polls will determine whether the original playground of the Mandal revolution has been overrun (or co-opted), whether strong regional parties can indeed challenge the BJP on its home turf (remember West Bengal was an unfamiliar frontier for the party), and if they can leverage popular discontent into electoral advantage. At stake also is the pre-eminence of the Congress as the primary pole in Opposition politics and a poor performance by the party will surely spark dissension and renewed talk of leadership. The election is crucial for the rest of India too.It will tell us how deeply the Hindutva project has permeated the masses, and whether the Opposition’s attempts at forging an alliance of backward castes is successful. It will indicate whether Adityanath – who has been projected by the BJP as its next big leader – has successfully built a brand and following. It will be show whether a new round of mandir politics – first Ayodhya, then Varanasi and Mathura – is having an impact. And it will show how Dalit communities respond to a spate of attacks and pervasive discrimination.But most importantly, it will be a barometer – the first, in fact – to understand whether the devastation during the second wave of the pandemic will have a political cost. Uttar Pradesh was home to some of the most controversial moments this summer, including the floating bodies in the Ganga, the mass graves on its banks, the oxygen shortage, the deaths of teachers during local body polls and the desperation for medicines and beds as health infrastructure collapsed and the state seemed effete. Can people really bury their loved ones but not let it became a factor in choosing their representatives? When public health collapses during a once-in-a-generation pandemic, do people blame god or government? Uttar Pradesh will tell us.
01-01-2022||India||The year ahead: A year of hope and caution||Is the glass half full or half empty?The year 2021 ended under the shadow of a new variant of concern (VOC) of the Sars-CoV-2: Omicron. The mutant spreads at unprecedented speed but seems significantly less virulent. It cheats existing immune defences but leaves the body better prepared to deal with the other known variants. It rises in sharp, dizzyingly quick waves but recedes just as quickly.After the horror of the Delta variant, some say Omicron brings hope in the possibility that it could tear through the world, leaving a degree of baseline immunity that would help everyone deal with the virus better.Others see Omicron as but merely a reflection of the unpredictable directions the virus can evolve in, and a turn for the worse may just be around the corner. The year 2022 will answer which scenario is right.The half fullThe experience of past pandemics and what we know about the evolution of infectious pathogens suggests there is a high likelihood of the coronavirus eventually becoming much more innocuous in the long term.Over time, a variant with increased transmissibility but decreased virulence – the ability to lead to serious disease – will lead the way to the Sars-CoV-2 becoming endemic. Coupled with the likelihood of eventual high population immunity, the virus might possibly become like the other coronaviruses that causes common colds in humans.In other words, it sounds very much like how Omicron has behaved.The half emptyThat Omicron arose with dozens of mutations only shows the virus might have a lot of scope for mutations. One evolutionary scenario is that it mutates further to pick up the morbidity and mortality traits as other coronaviruses that have existed, like Mers, which has a 35% fatality rate, and the first Sars-CoV, which had an estimated 10% fatality rate.Human factors play a huge part in such evolution. At present, there is large vaccine inequity in the world. Countries such as Israel are planning to give the second boosters – the fourth doses – while most people in sub-Saharan Africa are yet to even receive their first. At this rate, it will be years before an acceptable share of the global population has a primary vaccination course, let alone boosters. The virus, then, will continue spreading and, as it spreads, evolving.A second grim evolutionary scenario, which experts say is highly likely and is corroborated by some of the direction Omicron has taken, is of the virus becoming completely resistant to the current class of vaccines.Omicron has demonstrated that the virus can evolve much faster than the world can update its vaccines. The first of Omicron-specific vaccines are not expected until March, 2022 – a time by when most Omicron waves are expected to be over.Vaccines, then, are not the pandemic panacea the world hoped for a year ago.But they can be.The hunt for the silver bulletResearchers around the world are working on what are being regarded as pan-coronavirus shots. The objective is to create a future-proof vaccine that protects against all past variants, and will therefore be able to protect against future variants.Recently, the US military’s Walter Reed Army Institute published encouraging animal trial results of a similar vaccine. Known as the Spike Ferritin Nanoparticle Covid-19 vaccine, or SpFN, the vaccine has completed Phase 1 human trials with results undergoing final review. According to reports, unlike the other coronavirus shots, SpFN uses “a soccer ball-shaped protein with 24 faces for its vaccine, which allows scientists to attach the spikes of multiple coronavirus strains on different faces of the protein”.Another attempt is by a private company called BioVaxys Technology Group, which filed a patent for a similar method of using multiple spike proteins to train the human immunity into recognising the common cold coronaviruses, the Sars-CoV-2 and the first Sars virus.A second breakthrough that can come over the next 12 months is in the form of nasal vaccines. Even if they are designed on the older variants, these could provide a significant boost to protection by creating better immunity at the first site where the Sars-CoV-2 lands when it enters the human body: the mucous membrane in the upper air passage.Yale professor Akiko Iwasaki, one of the preeminent experts in immunology, summed up the huge potential of such vaccines with a simple analogy: “It is like having guards outside your home, versus guards placed inside the door.”And third, research on antiviral drugs is continuing. The last year yielded Molnupiravir and Paxlovid, two drugs that can help treat infected people to reduce their risk of death. It is likely that more candidates will hit success in the coming year.These three endeavours will determine whether science outpaces the virus for good, which in turn will likely be the pandemic story of 2022.
01-01-2022||India||The year ahead: The numbers game of boosting the Covid-19 battle||If 2020 is remembered as the year of the pandemic, the year 2021 went down in history as the year humanity fought back – the year of the vaccines. In the past year, billions of people spread across the world were administered shots of vaccines to protect against Covid-19.As the year was drawing to a close, however, a new, and heavily mutated and transmissible variant Omicron sent scientists and governments huddling to rework their vaccination strategies.In India, and across the world, the year ended with the governments revising their vaccination strategy to tackle the new threat. How many vaccine shots will be required for this new round of vaccinations with additional doses, and beyond? What does it mean for India’s target of achieving “full vaccination”? Here’s a look at what the events of the last few weeks mean for this year.Getting to “full vaccination”First, a look at what has been achieved on the vaccination front in 2021. A total of 1.44 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered across India. These have been done so to more than 843 million of India’s estimated 940 million adults. Around nine out of every 10 adults in India have now received at least one shot of the vaccines – nearly 62% have received two shots of the vaccines, and another 28% have been partially vaccinated.Now, to establish what the final target is – full vaccination. Depending on what time of the pandemic and where in the world this question is asked, the term “full vaccination” may go on to mean different things. In the first 10-11 months of India’s vaccination drive, the full vaccination target referred to the administration of two doses of the vaccine to everyone over the age of 18.On December 25 last year, the central government expanded the vaccination drive to cover children of ages 15 and above, and a booster dose (a third after the two original shots) to health care and frontline workers, and people above the age of 60 with certain health conditions – a decision made to counter the Omicron threat.As per the original calculations of covering 940 million people with two doses, India needed around 1.88 billion doses. But to completely cover the added categories and a further expansion of the programme to cover the entire population, this needs to be redone.First, the immediate maths. So far, roughly 10.4 million health care workers have been vaccinated, while another 18.4 million frontline workers have been given shots, according to government figures. So, giving these two groups of people a single additional shot adds around 29 million doses to the target. There are an estimated 138 million people above the age of 60 years in the country (as per Census of India’s estimates). While the drive currently has only been expanded to those who have certain medical conditions in this group, there are no estimates on how many such people there are. At some point, however, this entire category is set to be covered.A tally that has been added to the overall number is the number of children between the ages of 15 and 18 years who were made eligible on December 25 – of which there are 74 million, as per estimates. Two shots for each of this group means another 148 million doses added to the dose target.According to Our World in Data, 92 countries have so far started administered booster shots. India’s neighbours such as Sri Lanka and China, and economic peers such as Brazil are all in that list.In the long term, the Indian inoculation drive is likely to cover the entire adult population with a third additional dose like other nations to tackle threats of new variants. If all adults are to be covered in the coming months with the third shot, a total of 940 million doses gets added to the target.If the entire adult population is administered three doses of Covid-19 vaccines in India, the doses required will be 2.82 billion. With two doses for children above the age of 15 (boosters are not on the horizon for children just yet and the government doesn’t appear to immediately be considering children under the age of 15 for vaccination), the total number of doses needed will stand at 2.97 billion. Achieving the new goalOriginally, the target set for two-dose coverage of all adults was for December 31, 2021. The seven-day average of daily dose administration, a statistic that evens out the dip generally seen over the weekends, touched a peak of 9.7 million for the week ending September 23 last year after several states increased daily numbers to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17. At that pace, India was set to hit the year-end target, but since then, it has again dropped. It fell to around 2 million doses a day during the end of October but has again increased slightly to around 5.8 million in the past week.If the current pace of 5.8 million doses a day continues unchanged (and assuming no vaccine supply issues crop up), then India could hit the 2.97-billion dose target by mid-September, data shows. If the country manages to again soar at the peak recorded rate of 10.9 million doses a day, then it would hit the target by mid-May. If the current pace drops to around 4 million, then this target date moves to early 2023, according to data.In either case, the year of the pandemic, then of vaccination appear set to be followed by 2022 being the year of booster doses – and, most likely, also the year that begins the endemic phase of Sars-CoV-2.
01-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: MHA removes over 6,000 organisations from FCRA list and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.6,000 organisations including Oxfam India taken off FCRA list by MHASix thousand organisations including Oxfam India, Common Cause, Jamia Milia Islamia, Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (NMML), Kolkata-based Satajit Ray Film and Television Institute and the India Islamic Cultural Centre (IICC) have been taken off the list of registered organisations under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) with effect from Saturday, January 1, according to the latest data by the ministry of home affairs. Read More‘Better bargaining, large scale trading…’: PM Modi lists 5 powers of FPOsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday listed five powers of the farmer product organisations (FPOs) during his address after releasing the 10th instalment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. Read MoreWatch: Covid cases double in Maharashtra as health department declares 3rd waveMaharashtra health department has declared the arrival of third covid wave as the cases rise threefold in last 10 days in the state. Watch Now'A little more fuel has been added to the fire': Former India opener has his say on Chetan Sharma's Kohli clarificationFormer Indian cricketer Aakash Chopra feels that BCCI chief selector Chetan Sharma's clarification on Virat Kohli's controversial statement on his white-ball captaincy has reignited the clash between the 33-year-old and the administrators and added that he won't be surprised if the latter reciprocates. Read MoreNew Year 2022: Rujuta Diwekar recommends 'ghar ka khana' to boost immunityThe simplest things in life are becoming elusive for most but embracing them can fix many of our health woes. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mha-removes-over-6-000-organisations-from-fcra-list-and-all-the-latest-news-101641033790278.html
01-01-2022||India||Hindu leaders Narasimhanand, Sagar Sindhuraj named in Haridwar Dharma Sansad FIR||The Haridwar Police in its FIR against Haridwar Dharma Sandad have now added the names of Hindu leaders Yeti Narasimhanand and Sagar Sindhuraj in connection with the case of alleged hate speech based on viral video clips, reports said. "On the basis of the viral video clip, two more names, Sagar Sindhu Maharaj & Yati Narsinghanand Giri, have been added to the FIR in the Dharma Sansad hate speech case, upon further investigation. Section 295A has been included in the FIR," said Ashok Kumar, Director-General of Police, Uttarakhand.Earlier, the FIR mentioned the names of Dharm Das, Annapurna, Wasim Rizvi aka Jitendra Tyagi, and some others associated with the Dharma Sansad which was held from December 17 to 18.‘Seriously perturbed’: Forces’ ex-chiefs write to President, PM Modi on Haridwar, Delhi hate speechesAfter the videos from the religious congregation openly calling for genocide went viral, the  Uttarakhand Police registered an FIR against Rizvi, who was the former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Central Shia Waqf Board, under Section 153A of the IPC (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion) related to the statements made at the event. Rizvi converted to Hinduism last month. The actions stemmed from the widespread outrage against the open hate speeches against which five former chiefs of staff of the armed forces and more than 100 other prominent citizens, on December 31, wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, condemning the speeches made at the meet. Before that, a group of lawyers wrote to Chief Justice of India NV Ramana urging him to take suo motu cognisance against such dharma sansads held in Haridwar and New Delhi. The letter written by 76 lawyers highlighted the two separate events organised in Delhi by the Hindu Yuva Vahini and in Haridwar by Yati Narsinghanand on December 17 and 19, 2021. It said that the events and speeches delivered during the same "were not mere hate speeches but amount to an open call for the murder of an entire community".(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-leaders-narasimhanand-sagar-sindhuraj-named-in-haridwar-dharma-sansad-fir-101641035535173.html
01-01-2022||India||6,000 organisations including Oxfam India taken off FCRA list by MHA||NEW DELHI: Six thousand organisations including Oxfam India, Common Cause, Jamia Milia Islamia, Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (NMML), Kolkata-based Satajit Ray Film and Television Institute and the India Islamic Cultural Centre (IICC) have been taken off the list of registered organisations under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) with effect from Saturday, January 1, according to the latest data by the ministry of home affairs.People familiar with the development said that 5,789 organisations were taken out of the FCRA because they didn’t apply for renewal of licence, mandatory for receiving foreign funding, while licences of 179 organisations were cancelled in violation of the act after scrutinizing their documents.Also Read | Centre extends validity of FCRA registration of NGOs till March 31Till Friday, there were 22,797 FCRA registered organisations in the country, which has now come down to 16,829 after removal of 5,968 organisations (including 5,789 which didn’t apply + 179 rejected for violation) as on December 31, 2021, according to a senior MHA official, who didn’t want to be named.He said that as on January 1, the FCRA registration of total 16,829 organisations were “alive or active”, which means they are eligible to receive funds from abroad and use them for specified purposes.The dashboard also listed 12,580 organisations who cease to have their FCRA registration as on January 1. But officials indicated this was a cumulative list and includes organisations which lost their FCRA registration under similar conditions in previous years.Also Read | Bengal-Centre row over Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of CharityAmong the prominent organisations which, according to the home ministry’s records, do not hold a FCRA registration any longer are Hamdard Education Society, Indian Institute of Technology (Hauz Khas), Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA), Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA), National Foundation for Communal Harmony (NFCH), Delhi College of Engineering, Goa Football Association, Press Institute of India, The Lepra India Trust and Indian Institute of Management (Calcutta), Medical Council of India, Emmanuel Hospital Association, which runs over a dozen hospitals across India, Tubercolosis Association of India, Vishwa Dharamayatan, Maharishi Ayurveda Pratishthan, National Federation of Fishermen’s Cooperatives Ltd, Bhartiya Sanskriti Parishad, DAV College Trust and Management Society, Godrej Memorial Trust etc.The Centre amended the FCRA in 2020 allowing conducting an enquiry before a renewal and giving organisations of surrendering the licence if an organisation doesn’t want it.A second officer, who also requested anonymity, said between September 29, 2020 and December 31, 2021, when the amended FCRA law came into force, 18,778 NGOs or organisations were eligible for renewal of licences, out of which only 12,989 submitted the request for the renewal.Overall, with the addition of 5,968 more organisations in the list, as of January 1, now FCRA licences of total 12,580 NGOs across the country ceases to exist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6000-organisations-including-oxfam-india-taken-off-fcra-list-by-mha-101641034798981.html
01-01-2022||India||India sends 500,000 Covid-19 vaccines to Afghanistan||India on Saturday donated 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to the Indira Gandhi Children’s Hospital in Kabul and pledged to send another 500,000 jabs in the coming weeks as part of humanitarian aid for the people of Afghanistan. The vaccines were sent to Kabul via a flight of Iran’s Mahan Air as there are currently no direct flights between India and Afghanistan. India had earlier sent 1.6 tonnes of life-saving medicines to the same hospital, drawing praise from the Taliban. “Today, India supplied the next batch of humanitarian assistance consisting of 500,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine (Covaxin) to Afghanistan. The same was handed over to the Indira Gandhi Hospital, Kabul,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “Another batch of additional 500,000 doses would be supplied in [the] coming weeks,” the statement said. On December 11, the Indian government sent 1.6 tonnes of medicines to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Kabul on a special charter flight that also ferried 85 Afghan nationals who were stuck in India after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The same flight had brought 104 people, mostly Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Kabul to New Delhi a day earlier. The medicines, like the vaccines delivered on Saturday, were routed through the World Health Organization (WHO). India’s offer to provide 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Pakistani land routes, however, has been held up because of conditions attached by Pakistan. On December 3, Pakistan said it would allow wheat and medicines to be shipped via the Wagah land border crossing in Afghan trucks but it is yet to finalise modalities. The external affairs ministry said India is committed to provide humanitarian aid to Afghan people consisting of food grains, one million doses of Covid-19 vaccines and essential life-saving drugs. India will undertake the supply of wheat and the remaining medical assistance in the coming weeks, the ministry said. “In this regard, we are in touch with UN agencies and others for finalising the modalities for transportation,” it added. According to the World Food Programme (WFP), an estimated 98% of Afghans are not consuming enough food because of a spiralling economic crisis, conflict and drought, and this figure has increased 17% since August. “Afghanistan is facing an avalanche of hunger and destitution the likes of which I have never seen in my twenty plus years with the World Food Programme,” said Mary-Ellen McGroarty, WFP country director for Afghanistan. “We urgently need $220 million a month in 2022 to assist 23 million Afghans,” she added. 
01-01-2022||India||Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami launches Free Mobile Tablet scheme||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami launched a Free Mobile Tablet scheme for students here on Saturday.About 2 lakh 65 thousand students of Class 10 and 12 of degree colleges and state schools will get benefit from this scheme, as per government data.The state government official said that ₹12,000 was given by the DBT for buying mobile tablets to class 10 and 12 students of state government schools.Chief Minister Shri Pushkar Singh Dhami distributed free tablets to 100 girl students of the Government Girls Inter College of Dehradun's Rajpur Road. On Saturday, this programme was organised in all the 70 Vidhan Sabhas of the state. The Chief Minister also announced that an auditorium would be built at Government Girls Inter College, Rajpur Road.The DBT has already transferred funds to 1 lakh 59 thousand students of class 10 and 12 of government schools for buying the tablet.Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said, "During the Corona period, children had to face lots of difficulties in taking online classes. Keeping in mind the problems that the children faced, tablets are being given to them by the government.He further said that India is a young country with 65 per cent of the country's population below 35 years of age. The country is progressing rapidly under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India is becoming self-reliant.He said that all possible efforts are being made by the state government for the qualitative improvement of education in the state. "Virtual classes are being run in 500 schools of the state under digital learning. These services will soon be started in 600 other schools also. 1,418 smart classes are being set up in 709 government schools of the state, this work will be completed by January 15, 2022", he added.As per the state government, free textbooks will be provided to the students of classes 9 to 12 in all government schools. Along with that, free bags and shoes are also being provided to the students of classes 1 to 8 in government schools.The government has also decided to increase the amount of state-level scholarship keeping in mind the interest of the students. The amount of the Shivanand Nautiyal State Merit Scholarship has been increased from ₹250 to ₹1,500 per month and the number of beneficiary students has also been increased from 11 to 100. The amount of Sridev Suman scholarship has also been increased from ₹150 to ₹1,000. Under Chief Minister Pratibha Protsahan Yojana, a scholarship of ₹2,500 is being given to the meritorious students of class 12 for the next five years.The Chief Minister appealed to the people of the state that vigilance is necessary to protect one against the new COVID-19 variant Omicron. He said that everyone must follow the appropriate COVID-19 behaviour. "All preparations have been made by the government to protect against corona, but vigilance is very important to prevent it", said Dhami. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-pushkar-singh-dhami-launches-free-mobile-tablet-scheme-101641033224205.html
01-01-2022||India||‘Better bargaining, large scale trading…’: PM Modi lists 5 powers of FPOs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday listed five powers of the farmer product organisations (FPOs) during his address after releasing the 10th instalment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme.PM Modi said that the FPOs have a major role to play in mobilising the “growing potential of small farmers” of India. “Small farmers who earlier used to remain isolated, have big powers now in the form of [the] FPO,” he added.Here is the list of five powers listed by PM Modi:Under the PM-KISAN scheme, more than ₹20,000 crore was transferred to over 10 crore beneficiary families across the country. PM Modi released the 10th instalment at an event via video conference. Eligible farmer families get a financial benefit of ₹6,000 each year under the scheme, payable in three equal instalments of ₹2,000. The money is transferred directly to the bank account of the beneficiaries.The PM-KISAN scheme was announced in February 2019, and with the latest instalment, the amount provided under the scheme has reached nearly ₹1.8 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/better-bargaining-large-scale-trading-pm-modi-lists-5-powers-of-fpos-101641028693546.html
01-01-2022||India||India and Pakistan exchange lists of nuclear installations and prisoners||NEW DELHI: India and Pakistan on Saturday exchanged lists of nuclear installations that cannot be attacked in the event of hostilities, maintaining a tradition dating back more than three decades despite bilateral relations being at an all-time low. The two sides also exchanged lists of prisoners held in each other’s jails, and the Indian side sought the early release of civilian prisoners, missing Indian defence personnel and fishermen. The lists of nuclear installations and facilities were simultaneously exchanged through diplomatic channels in New Delhi and Islamabad according to the provisions of the Agreement on the Prohibition of Attack against Nuclear Installations and Facilities. Both sides do not disclose details of the facilities. The agreement was signed on December 31, 1988 and entered into force on January 27, 1991. It states that India and Pakistan have to inform each other of the nuclear installations and facilities to be covered under the pact on January 1 every calendar year. “This is the 31st consecutive exchange of such lists between the two countries, the first one having taken place on January 1, 1992,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. According to the lists of civilian prisoners and fishermen exchanged simultaneously through diplomatic channels in New Delhi and Islamabad, India currently has 282 Pakistani civilian prisoners and 73 fishermen in its custody. On the other hand, Pakistan has in its custody 51 civilian prisoners and 577 fishermen who are either Indians or are believed to be Indians. These lists are exchanged in line with the provisions of the Agreement on Consular Access signed in May 2008. Under this pact, the two sides exchange comprehensive lists on January 1 and July 1 every year. “The Government has called for early release and repatriation of civilian prisoners, missing Indian defence personnel and fishermen, along with their boats, from Pakistan’s custody,” the external affairs ministry said in a separate statement. In this context, Pakistan was asked to expedite the release of two Indian civilian prisoners and 356 fishermen whose nationality has already been confirmed and conveyed to Pakistan. Pakistan was also asked to provide immediate consular access to 182 Indian fishermen and 17 civilian prisoners who “are in Pakistan’s custody and are believed to be Indian”, the statement said. The Indian side requested Pakistan to expedite the grant of visas to members of a team of medical experts and facilitate their visit to Pakistan to “assess the mental condition of believed-to-be Indian prisoners of unsound mind” who are being held in different jails. “It was also proposed to organise an early visit of the Joint Judicial Committee to Pakistan,” the statement said, referring to a mechanism comprising legal experts from both sides created under the terms of the 2008 agreement. The signing of the 2008 agreement helped speed up identification and release of hundreds of prisoners, a majority of them fishermen. However, the process has been hit in recent years by bilateral tensions. The Indian side further urged Pakistan to expedite action “at its end to confirm the nationality status of 68 Pakistan prisoners, including fishermen, whose repatriation is pending for want of nationality confirmation by Pakistan”. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan has been requested to ensure the safety, security and welfare of all Indian and believed-to-be Indian civil prisoners and fishermen,” the statement said. “India remains committed to addressing, on priority, all humanitarian matters, including those pertaining to prisoners and fishermen in each other’s country,” it added. 
01-01-2022||India||‘Under house arrest’: Kashmir’s PAGD leaders say govt wants to scuttle protest||SRINAGAR: Leaders of the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) including former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti were placed under house arrest ahead of the grouping’s planned sit-in protest against the draft proposal of Delimitation Commission, leaders of the five-party alliance said on Saturday.Omar Abdullah said the move was an attempt to scuttle the peaceful protest planned by them. Later, he and Mehbooba Mufti tweeted videos of protests that their party leaders still managed to organise.“Some things never change,” the National Conference (NC) vice president said on Twitter on Saturday morning along with photographs of the police presence outside his house.“Good morning & welcome to 2022. A new year with the same J&K police illegally locking people in their homes & an administration so terrified of normal democratic activity. Trucks parked outside our gates to scuttle the peaceful @JKPAGD sit-in protest. Some things never change,” Abdullah said in a tweet.Talk about a lawless police state, the police have even locked the internal gate connecting my father’s home to my sister’s. Yet our leaders have the cheek to tell the world that India is the largest democracy, hah!! pic.twitter.com/flNICRGk58“Talk about a lawless police state, the police have even locked the internal gate connecting my father’s home to my sister’s. Yet our leaders have the cheek to tell the world that India is the largest democracy, hah!!”“GOI trumpets scrapping Article 370 & dismembering J&K throughout the country but is deeply paranoid and intolerant when people of J&K want to protest against its disempowerment. For the umpteenth time, we’ve been placed under house arrest for trying to organise a peaceful protest,” Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said in a tweet.There was no official statement on the restrictions placed on the political leadersThe PAGD leadership last month rejected the draft proposal of the Delimitation Commission, that seeks to increase the total number of Jammu and Kashmir assembly seats from 83 to 90, with 43 in the Jammu region and 47 in Kashmir. In the current assembly, Jammu has 37 members and Kashmir has 46.The amalgam has called the proposal an act to ‘divide people on the basis of religion and groups’.On December 21, the PAGD held a meeting under the chairmanship of NC chief Farooq Abdullah and expressed their deep dissatisfaction and shock with regard to recommendations of the commission. The meeting was attended by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, CPI (M) general secretary Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, Awami National Conference vice-president Muzuffar Shah and other political leaders of alliance constituents.On Saturday, Mehbooba Mufti said she has been put under house arrest and lambasted the government of India for stopping people to protest ‘disempowerment’ of J&K.PAGD is the alliance of mainstream parties including National Conference, PDP, Communist Party of India-M, J&K Awami National Conference and others which came together to fight for the restoration of region’s special status which was revoked on August 5,2019 and the region split into two union territories.National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah said that the administration was ‘terrified’ of normal democratic activity in J&K and said that police have even locked gates of the homes of his family members.PAGD spokesperson Muhammad Yousuf Tarigami told a local news agency that the gate of his quarter has been locked by the police. “The intentions are very clear. The Government of India by using the Delimitation Commission wants to dis-empower us,” he said.“It is new year and the message is loud and clear that there are no rights for the people of Kashmir even to protest. We have been put under house arrest and workers have been reportedly put in police stations, “ he said.“It is how their louder claims of building ‘New Kashmir’ get exposed. Not allowing us to hold a peaceful protest and express our legitimate concerns, this is how they want to run Kashmir, “ he said.The Delimitation Commission for the UT was formed by the union government on March 06, 2020, just six months after special status of J&K under Article 370 was revoked and the region split into two union territories – J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one. Earlier the delimitation of the constituencies in J&K was scheduled to be held in 2026. However following the central government’s changes in J&K after August 5, 2019, the J&K Reorganization Act increased the number of voting constituencies for J&K to 90.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-house-arrest-kashmir-s-pagd-leaders-say-govt-wants-to-scuttle-protest-101641026098244.html
01-01-2022||India||TN CM Stalin asks Centre to enhance IMD’s capacity, says Met dept missed predicting Chennai rain this week||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin sent a letter to Uniojn home ministry, highlighting the shortcomings in forecasts made by India Meteorological Department (IMD). He also called for additional investments in advanced weather prediction mechanism. The letter was sent after intense rains in the state on December 30 and 31. “I request the Government of India to do the needful to enhance the capacity of IMC, Chennai to enable it to make predictions of high alert situations earlier and notify the same to the state government well in time.”Tamil Nadu's capital Chennai and nearby areas witnessed heavy rainfall on the last two days of 2021.In his letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, Stalin said that the alerts from the IMC in Chennai were used by the state government in preparing for disaster situations. “We have, however, noted that IMC is unable to predict red alert situation sufficiently in advance giving hardly any time,” he said.Also read | Record rain batters Chennai, more predicted for four districts in Tamil NaduHe also said that the shortcoming of the IMC’s capability to provide accurate information was hindering the state’s efforts towards the timely mobilisation of the emergency management system. “This results in total disruption of normal life, movement of health care support systems and also causing loss of lives and damages to critical infrastructure,” he added.Noting that this necessitated additional investments in advanced weather prediction mechanism and technology upgrade in the IMC. “In this regard, I request the Government of India to do the needful to enhance the capacity of IMC, Chennai to enable it to make predictions of high alert situations earlier and notify the same to the State Government well in time,” he said.Meanwhile, some parts of Chennai complained of waterlogging on Saturday, two days after swift, heavy rains pounded the city on Thursday night and dispersed, moderate rains on Friday. Residents complained on Twitter about stagnant rain water in many streets and localities across the city, despite a let-up in rains since Friday night.Taking to Twitter, some people shared images of waterlogged streets and warned others of avoiding such roads. Meanwhile, many others also shared pictures of some of the main roads in the city which were devoid of any such stagnation.Former Tamil Nadu CM and opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader Edappadi K Palaniswami criticised the ruling DMK and said that Chennai was inundated after just one day’s heavy rains.He also said that the government should have been prepared for the situation, particularly after the recent floods in the city due to the northeast monsoon.Following the heavy rain on Thursday night, office goers complained of traffic jams in many arterial roads in the city.The IMD, meanwhile, predicted that there would be isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over coastal Tamil Nadu and the neighbouring Union territory of Puducherry for the next 24 hours and would then decrease.“Strong northeasterly winds are prevailing off the coast off Tamilnadu in the lower levels. A cyclonic circulation lies over southwest Bay of Bengal off Sri Lanka coast at middle tropospheric level. Under its influence, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall activity is very likely over coastal Tamilnadu during next 24 hours and decrease thereafter,” the weather bureau said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-stalin-asks-centre-to-enhance-imd-s-capacity-says-met-dept-missed-predicting-chennai-rain-this-week-101641024449416.html
01-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Landslide occurs in mining quarry at Haryana's Bhiwani and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Landslide in mining quarry in Haryana's Bhiwani; 2 injured, several missingTwo people are injured and several others are missing after a landslide in a mining zone in Haryana's Bhiwani, news agency ANI reported. Read MorePM Modi to release 10th installment of PM-KISAN today: All you need to knowPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday release the 10th installment of financial benefit under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. Read MoreLiving longer and disease-free: Teenager's book delves into research about increasing lifespanThe fear of losing your parents and seeing them suffer from age-related ailments is unbearable for all of us. But very few would go to the extent of trying to change the course of nature. Read MoreHarry Potter reunion: When director Alfonso Cuaron assigned the cast homework and Emma Watson outshone Daniel RadcliffeWhen the Harry Potter films began filming, the three main cast members - Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson, and Rupert Grint - were pre-teens. So, it’s no wonder that some of the early directors in the franchise treated them like kids. Read More'I went to the loo. These 2 boys were having a chat': Shastri recalls Pant and Gill's conversation during Gabba 'heist'India’s three wicket-win against Australia at The Gabba in January of 2021 will go down as arguably their greatest Test victory of all time. Read MoreApple Days sale live! iPhone 13 price drop revealed at Vijay Sales- Best ever discountsAs New Year is here, people make various resolutions, celebrate with friends and family and even gift them something to make the occasion special. And what else can be a better gifting idea than a brand new iPhone 13, especially as you can get it with a major price cut along with other discount offers? Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-landslide-occurs-in-mining-quarry-at-haryana-s-bhiwani-and-all-the-latest-news-101641019515606.html
01-01-2022||India||1 killed, 2 injured as portion of mine collapses in Haryana; several trapped||One worker was killed and at least two injured after a portion of stone mine crashed down on them in Haryana, Bhiwani's Dadam mining area in Tosham Tehsil on Saturday. The incident believed to have taken place due to a landslide, news agency ANI reported. More than half a dozen vehicles and four to five people are trapped and rescue operation is going on."Saddened by the unfortunate landslide accident in Dadam mining zone at Bhiwani. I am in constant touch with the local administration to ensure swift rescue operations and immediate assistance to the injured," chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Twitter.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal has reached the spot where the landslide took place."Some people have died. I cannot provide the exact figures as of now. A team of doctors has arrived. We will try to save as many people as possible," he said.Some eye-witnesses said that mining activities were halted a few days ago, but the exact reasons of collapse of stone mines is yet to be ascertained.This is the second tragedy on the first day of the new year. Early on Saturday, 12 people were killed after a stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi district.Around 20 people were injured in Vaishno Devi stampede, which was triggered by a heavy rush of devotees.Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said that preliminary information from the scene suggests there was a minor altercation among some young boys, and within seconds, there was a stampede situation."Police and officials of the civil administration were quick to respond, and the order within the crowd was immediately restored, but by that time, the damage had been done," he told reporters.The stampede occurred around 2.30 am near gate number three outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine located atop the Trikuta hills, about 50 km from Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslide-in-mining-quarry-in-haryana-s-bhiwani-2-injured-several-missing-101641023383957.html
01-01-2022||India||Vote out ‘anti-people’ parties in upcoming Assembly polls, urges Mayawati||On the occasion of the new year, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati took the opportunity to take a dig at her political rivals ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections and terming Opposition parties 'anti-people' urged citizens to vote them out in the upcoming polls."The elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Punjab are near. On the first day of this New Year, I urge the citizens to take the chance to vote out the anti-people parties in the upcoming polls this year", said Mayawati.The BSP chief said that the big parties who have been in power in the Centre like BJP and Congress, only show up ahead for state or regional polls by conducting big extravagant rallies."The rallies that they hold are out of Central fund which comes from common people's taxes. My party cannot afford such big election rallies even if we want to. BSP is a poor man's party which consists of people like laborers", added Mayawati.She further said that her party ideology is against holding extravagant rallies."As far as election publicity is concerned BSP has its own way of functioning which is different from other parties", added the former UP CM. "Other parties get money from big industrialists and ponzi scams, BSP doesn't", said Mayawati.Regarding the stampede accident at Vaishno Devi Shrine today, Mayawati expressed her grief and said, "My condolences are with the families of the deceased". "Till now whatever we have come to know from the media reports, it seems to me that the accident happened due to the government's negligence", she added. She urged the government to take note of the accident and take proper measures to avoid such incidents in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vote-out-anti-people-parties-in-upcoming-assembly-polls-urges-mayawati-101641018716262.html
01-01-2022||India||New Year festivities stay muted in Haryana's Gurugram amid Omicron wave||In view of the rising cases of Omicron variant of COVID-19, the New Year celebrations were muted in Haryana's Gurugram.In Gurugram, people said that they are not celebrating New Year this time due to the current COVID-19 situation.Speaking to ANI, Gauri, a local visitor in MG mall said, "We are feeling very good because people are following all the COVID-19 protocols here. You can also see that there is very little footfall in the mall. The government has also imposed night curfew to curb the COVID-19 cases and prevent the spread of its Omicron variant.""Of course, we are not able to enjoy it in the same way we used to do it earlier. But this is important for our own lives, so we are happy with it," Gauri added.Jyoti, another visitor in MG mall said, "We are not getting the same vibes of New Year celebrations as there is no crowd, no traffic jam, no event. But keeping in mind the current situation, it's for our own good only.""Earlier, there used to be many events for New year celebrations, but nothing is happening this time. People are also following COVID-19 protocols," she added.Meanwhile, Haryana has reported 14 cases of Omicron variant of COVID-19 so far, as per the Union Health Ministry on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-year-festivities-stay-muted-in-haryana-s-gurugram-amid-omicron-wave-101641021118711.html
01-01-2022||India||PM Modi releases 10th installment of financial benefit under PM-KISAN scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi released the 10th installment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme on Saturday. Under the scheme, an amount of over ₹20,000 crore was transferred to more than 10 crore beneficiary farmer families across the country.Modi released the amount to beneficiaries at an event held through video conference.Addressing the nation after the event, PM Modi said, “Crores of farmer families of the country, especially small farmers, have received the 10th installment of the Prime Minister's Kisan Samman Nidhi. ₹20,000 crore have been transferred in the bank accounts of farmers.”PM Modi then went on to highlight India's achievements and strides made in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Coronavirus has its challenges, but it cannot stop the pace of India. In 2022, we have to accelerate our pace further. India will fight Covid-19 with full caution and vigilance and fulfill its national interests,” he said.Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of ₹6,000 per year is provided to the eligible farmer families, payable in three equal installments of ₹2,000. The money is transferred directly to the bank account of the beneficiaries.
01-01-2022||India||ATM service charges increase from today: Here's what you need to know||Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) across banks are all set to increase service charges per transaction from Saturday, following an order from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and customers will have to ₹1 more beyond the permissible free transactions for cash as well as non-cash purposes.As per the RBI notification dated June 10, 2021, from January 1, 2022, banks have been permitted to charge ₹21, instead of ₹20 with applicable taxes, if any, shall be additionally payable.However, the customers are eligible for five free transactions (inclusive of financial and non-financial transactions) every month from their own bank ATMs.They are also eligible for free transactions (inclusive of financial and non-financial transactions) from other bank ATMs viz. three transactions in metro centres and five transactions in non-metro centres.The last change in interchange fee structure for ATM transactions was in August 2012, while the charges payable by customers were last revised in August 2014.The RBI has notified the changes from January 1, 2022, citing the increasing cost of ATM deployment and expenses towards ATM maintenance incurred by banks or white-label ATM operators.Ashwani Rana, Founder of, Voice of Banking said, "The increase of service charges per ATM transaction will be charged from the customers beyond a number of transactions permitted by the respective banks. This increase is only ₹1 plus Goods and Services Tax (GST), which is very nominal to customers against the maintenance charges paid by banks as earlier they were charging ₹20."Nipun Jain, Chief Executive Officer, RapiPay Fintech clarified, "Consumers withdrawing cash using our Micro ATMs and Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS) will not be affected with the recent RBI guideline to increase ATM transactions charges (applicable after the customers exhaust the free monthly limit).""We believe this will boost the already growing demand for cash withdrawal through AEPS and Micro ATMs at our direct business outlets and help us in achieving our goal of growing financial inclusion in deeper geographies and far-flung areas like North East, Kashmir, Ladakh, and Uttrakhand. We have sold over one lakh Micro ATMs since we began operations last year. Our average ticket size of withdrawal has climbed from ₹3500 to ₹3800, with a CAGR growth of 25 per cent in Micro ATMs in the last one year," Jain added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atm-service-charges-increase-to-cost-rs-21-per-transaction-from-today-101641016819628.html
01-01-2022||India||Commercial LPG cylinder prices slashed by ₹102.50||In some relief for consumers on New Year, National Oil Marketing companies have slashed the prices of 19 kg commercial LPG cylinder cost by ₹102.50 effective from January 1, 2022.The 19 kg commercial cylinder will cost ₹1998.50 in Delhi from today, sources told ANI.It will provide some relief to restaurants, eateries and tea stalls etc which constitute the largest user segment of the 19 kg cylinder.Last month on December 1, prices of 19 Kg LPG cylinders were increased by ₹100 bringing the prices of 19 kg commercial cylinders to ₹2,101 in Delhi which was the second-highest price of 19 kg commercial cylinder after 2012-13 when it cost around ₹2,200 per cylinder.However, there is no decrease in prices of other domestic cylinders weighing 14.2 kg, 5 kg, 10 kg composite or 5 kg composite cylinders and their prices remain the same.Earlier on November 1, prices of 19 kg Commercial cylinder saw a steep rise of ₹266, increasing the prices to ₹2,000.50.A 19-kg cylinder, following the new rate cut, will cost ₹1,998.50 as against ₹2,101 in Delhi.LPG Cylinder rate is revised monthly for all the states and union territories in India. Earlier on October 1, prices of 19kg cylinders were increased by ₹43 and on October 6, ₹2.50 decrease in 19 kg commercial cylinder. On September 1, prices of 19kg cylinder were increased by ₹75.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/commercial-lpg-cylinder-prices-slashed-by-rs-10250-101641015485883.html
01-01-2022||India||22,775 new Covid-19 cases recorded in India, active caseload above 100,000||India witnessed a sharp spike in its daily Covid-19 infections on Saturday with 22,775 new cases reported from across the country on the first day of the new year. This is an increase of over 6,000 cases from the 16,764 reported on Friday. The rise in infections came amid widespread curbs announced by many state governments to check new year celebrations.Also, 406 more people lost their lives to the illness in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 481,486, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed.The active caseload, which has been on the rise since the past few days, breached the 100,000-mark and stood at 104,781. It fell below the six-digit mark on December 1, 2021 after a gap of 547 days and had remained below it since then. However, active cases accounted for less than 1% (0.30% to be exact) of the total confirmed cases so far, the ministry said in a statement.Also read | India's Omicron tally crosses 1,400-mark, 5 states have more than 100 casesMeanwhile, the number of cases pertaining to the Omicron variant (B.1.1.529) also increased and was recorded at 1,431, according to the ministry. Maharashtra and Delhi, with 454 and 351 cases respectively, added the most to the national tally. The variant has now been reported from 23 states and Union territories. Of the total cases 488 people have recovered and been discharged, the ministry noted.As many as 8,949 people across the country recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours taking the total recoveries to 34,275,312 with an overall recovery rate of 98.32%.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that 1,110,855 samples were tested for the disease on Friday and so far 678,989,110 tests have been conducted.On the vaccination front, more than 1.45 billion doses have been administered so far. “With the administration of 58,11,487 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 145.16 crore (1,45,16,24,150) as per provisional reports till 7 am today,” the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22775-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-india-active-caseload-above-100000-101641012985508.html
01-01-2022||India||India's Omicron tally crosses 1,400-mark, 5 states have more than 100 cases||India’s Omicron tally has crossed the 1,400-mark (1,431 to be exact), the Union health ministry showed in its update on Saturday morning. Maharashtra is leading the tally with 454 cases, the health ministry’s update showed.National capital Delhi is at number 2 in the list of 23 states and union territories (UTs) with 351 cases, followed by Tamil Nadu (118), Gujarat (115) and Kerala (109).Watch: Low-key celebrations as India's Omicron tally crosses 1400-markThe spread of Omicron has led to subdued New Year celebrations this year. Metro cities are its primary targets, which is why the police imposed strict restrictions in Delhi, Mumbai and other metro cities.Omicron has led to a surge in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the world and in India. On Friday, the last day of 2021, Delhi recorded 1,796 new cases of Covid-19 whereas Maharashtra saw its tally jump by a staggering 8,067.Maharashtra’s disaster management minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Friday that the stage of imposing a fresh lockdown in the state is approaching, but chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a final call on it.The Maharashtra government has already imposed fresh restrictions in the wake of Omicron’s spread, capping the number of people to be allowed at weddings and other gatherings.The state’s additional chief secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas said on Friday that the state may report a total of two lakh active Covid-19 cases by the third week of January.The Mumbai Police on Friday prohibited people from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places from 5pm to 5am till January 15 in view of rising cases of Covid-19 and its Omicron variant.More than 2,800 flights were cancelled and nearly 12,000 more were delayed around the world on Thursday as the Omicron variant of the coronavirus caused staff shortages at airlines, the tracking website FlightAware showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-crosses-1-400-mark-5-states-have-more-than-100-cases-101641012004384.html
01-01-2022||India||'Vaishno Devi stampede happened because…': What J&K Police chief said||The stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine took place because of an argument among the devotees, Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh said on Saturday morning, hours after 12 people were reported dead in the incident.The stampede occurred near gate number three outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop Trikuta hills.Also Read | What we know about the Vaishno Devi stampede "12 people are dead, and 13 injured in the stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan in Katra. The incident occurred around 2:45 am, and as per initial reports, an argument broke out which resulted in people pushing each other, followed by the stampede," Jammu and Kashmir's Director General of Police Dilbag Singh said.The police are involved in the rescue operation and the injured have been admitted to various hospitals, including Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Hospital. The condition of many of the them was stated to be "serious".The Centre has instructed authorities in the union territory to provide better treatment to the injured and move them immediately to a hospital with best facilities if necessary.Meanwhile, the pilgrimage (yatra), which was stopped after the stampede, resumed after some time.The cave shrine is situated at an altitude of 5,200 feet in the Reasi district and generally attracts close to a million devotees every year.The operations of the pilgrimage site are managed by the Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, which provides battery car and ropeway services to the pilgrims to reach the top of Trikuta hills for darshan.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief at the incident and announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from Prime Minister National Relief Fund to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan and an amount of ₹50,000 for the injured.Jammu and Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha also announced an ex-gratia of ₹10 lakh for the next of kin of those who died and ₹2 lakh for the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-stampede-happened-because-what-j-k-police-chief-said-101641011237084.html
01-01-2022||India||Vaishno Devi stampede: What we know so far||As many as 12 people were killed and 13 others injured after a stampede occurred at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine on Saturday morning which, officials said, was triggered by a heavy rush of devotees.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the loss of lives in the stampede and offered his condolences to the families of the victims. "Extremely saddened by the loss of lives due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to JK LG Shri @manojsinha_ Ji, Ministers Shri @DrJitendraSingh Ji, @nityanandraibjp Ji and took stock of the situation," PM Modi tweeted.Also read | Vaishno Devi stampede: High-level probe ordered, Union minister rushes to KatraHere's what we know so far:>Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh said initial reports suggest that an argument first broke out between people which later resulted in stampede. The cop also informed the incident took place at around 2:45am.>Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha briefed Union home Minister Amit Shah about the stampede and said a high-level inquiry has been ordered into the incident. “The Inquiry Committee will be headed by Principal Secretary (Home) with ADGP, Jammu and Divisional Commissioner, Jammu as members,” Sinha added.>The yatra which was suspended for a short while following the stampede has now resumed.>The Lieutenant Governor announced  ₹2 lakh to the injured and said that the shrine board will bear the cost of the treatment of the injured."Ex-gratia of ₹10 lakh each would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to stampede and ₹2 lakh to the injured," he said.>The Prime Minister announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to the next of kin of those who lost their lives. The injured will be given ₹50,000.>The injured have been admitted to various hospitals, including Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, and the condition of many of the injured was stated to be "serious".>Meanwhile, the Centre has instructed the union territory authorities to provide better treatment to the injured and move them immediately to a hospital with best facilities if necessary, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-stampede-what-we-know-so-far-101641010988534.html
01-01-2022||India||Assam aims to vaccinate 15-18 age group within 7 days, 2nd dose before exams||GUWAHATI: The Assam government aims to vaccinate all eligible recipients in the 15–18-year age bracket with Covaxin within one week, health minister Keshav Mahanta said here on Friday. Health and education authorities will join hands to set up special camps in schools and junior colleges across the state and vaccinate students. Those who are not in schools and colleges can get their jabs at regular vaccination centres. “Vaccination of this new section of the population will start on January 3. We have taken it as a mission to finish first dose vaccination of all eligible 15–18-year-olds by January 9 before the start of third dose vaccination for citizens above 60, and frontline and healthcare workers from January 10,” Mahanta said.“I request all parents and guardians to ensure that their children get the first dose by January 9 so that they are eligible to get their second dose in February before start of the final or board exams,” he added. Director (Health Services) Munindra Nath Ngatey said Assam has nearly 2 million eligible recipients who fall in the 15-18 age category. Mahanta said till date the state administered 37.5 million doses (21.7 million first dose and 15.8 million second dose) of Covid-19 vaccine across the state. Though Assam is yet to record any case of Omicron variant of Covid-19, the minister said that preparations are already underway to tackle the fast-spreading variant. “To fight the possible onslaught of Omicron we have 9,000 extra beds, 1,000 ICU beds and 2,600 oxygen beds ready at the moment. If required, we can increase the total number of beds to 25,000 within one week,” said Mahanta.He added the state will have two genome testing laboratories (one in Jorhat and another in Guwahati) within the next few days for genome sequencing of the Omicron variant. Till date, Assam has recorded 620,563 Covid-19 cases with 612,282 recoveries and 6,164 deaths. 
01-01-2022||India||Assam Congress MLA Sashi Kanta Das who extended support to BJP suspended||GUWAHATI: The Congress on Friday suspended one of its legislators in Assam for offering support to the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party-led government. Assm unit chief Bhupen Kumar Borah suspended Raha MLA Sashi Kanta Das from the party “pending disciplinary proceeding with immediate effect for repeatedly violating party discipline and indulging in anti-party activities”, said an order issued by general secretary Bobbeeta Sharma. On December 20, Sashi Kanta Das shocked his party colleagues by announcing his support to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government headed by Himanta Biswa Sarma. The MLA made the disclosure just ahead of the winter session of the assembly. “Within a short span, CM Sarma has been able to bring various communities in the state together and also give rapid boost to development. I talked with him about development issues in Raha and he assured all help. Therefore, I’ve decided to support the government,” Das told journalists on December 20.“A decision on switching of parties and joining the BJP hasn’t been taken at this point. For now I’ve decided to support the government for the sake of development of my constituency,” he had added. Welcoming the decision, Sarma said that there are many more legislators in the opposition camp who are willing to join the ruling party due to the work carried out by the state government.Earlier this year, Congress MLAs Rupjyoti Kurmi from Mariani and Sushanta Borgohain from Thowra resigned from their seats and joined the BJP. An All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA, Phanidhar Talukdar from Bhabanipur, had also quit his party and joined the ruling party. All three MLAs won bypolls in November and became BJP MLAs. 
01-01-2022||India||Vaishno Devi stampede: High-level probe ordered, Union minister rushes to Katra||President Ram Nath Kovind has expressed grief at the stampede incident at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir’s Katra, in which a dozen people were killed and 20 others injured early on Saturday. Union minister Nityanand Rai said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is monitoring the situation.Vaishno Devi stampede: Track Live updatesThe stampede took place at around 2.45am, Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh told news agency ANI. “As per initial reports, an argument broke out which resulted in people pushing each other, followed by stampede,” he said. The incident happened near gate number three outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop Trikuta hills.Watch: 12 killed in stampede at Vaishno DeviA large number of devotes had gathered at the shrine for darshan on the first day of the new year. News agency AFP quoted a government official as saying that the toll can go higher “as the route to the hilltop shrine was packed with devotees”.Also Read | Union ministers, political leaders express condolencesThe Mata Vaishno Devi is one of the most revered Hindu shrines in India, with tens of thousands visiting to offer prayers every day.Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said that a high-level enquiry has been ordered into the stampede incident, which will be headed by Principal Secretary (Home) with ADGP (Jammu) and Divisional Commissioner (Jammu) as members.Sinha also announced ex-gratia of ₹10 lakh for the family of those killed in the incident and ₹2 lakh for kin of the injured. The central government too has announced ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for the families of the deceased and ₹50,000 for those whose family members have been injured."Extremely saddened by the loss of lives. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter.Union minister Jitendra Singh has rushed to Katra to take stock of the situation.
01-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Leaders express grief over Vaishno Devi stampede deaths and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vaishno Devi stampede: Union ministers, political leaders express condolencesPrime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh, Lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi have expressed grief at the incident in which 12 people were killed early on Saturday. Read moreVaccination for 15-18 age group: CoWin registration set to begin from todayIndia is all set to begin CoWin registrations for the Covid-19 vaccination for children aged 15 to 18 years from Saturday. The government has said both walk-in and online registration will be available for vaccination of children, who would start getting doses against Covid-19 on January 3. Read moreUrged Virat to 'please continue' as T20I captain for 'sake of Indian cricket': Chetan Sharma on Kohli's 'shock' decisionAhead of the T20 World Cup, Virat Kohli had announced in October that he would be stepping down from his role as captain in the shortest format after the tournament. The following two months saw controversies erupting in Indian cricket with Kohli, BCCI President Sourav Ganguly, and chief selector Chetan Sharma at the forefront of it all. Read moreAnushka Sharma, Virat Kohli have a blast at New Year bash in South Africa: 'The year that got us the greatest happiness'It was the first New Year for Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli after the birth of their daughter, Vamika. The couple rang in 2022 in South Africa where Team India is playing against the host nation in the test series. Read moreAnkita Lokhande in beautiful silk saree welcomes New Year 2022 with Vicky Jain: All pics insideNew bride Ankita Lokhande welcomed New Year 2022 with her husband Vicky Jain last night by sharing stunning pictures from a recent photoshoot. The Pavitra Rishta actor showed off her new bride glow in the images, for which she draped herself in a beautiful silk saree. Read moreLow-key celebrations as India's Omicron tally crosses 1400 mark on New Year eveIn light of the growing number of Covid cases, police officials ensured the New Year celebrations were low-key across cities. India's Omicron tally crossed the 1400 mark on the last day of 2021. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-leaders-express-grief-over-vaishno-devi-stampede-deaths-and-all-the-latest-news-101641007123348.html
01-01-2022||India||12 dead, 15 injured in Vaishno Devi stampede past midnight; probe ordered||JAMMU: A stampede at the 700-year-old Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu early on Saturday, possibly triggered by a brawl between some young men, killed 12 people and injured 15, people aware of the matter said.The tragic incident took place just 300metres from the Holy Cave located in the folds of the three-peaked mountain, at about 2.15 am, said Ramesh Kumar, chief executive officer of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board mandated to maintain the shrine and regulate the pilgrimage to one of the most revered Hindu shrines.Jammu and Kashmir governor Manoj Sinha has ordered an inquiry into the stampede and set up a panel headed by the union territory’s principal secretary home Shaleen Kabra. Additional director general of police Mukesh Singh and Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer will be the other members of the panel.Watch what happened at Vaishno Devi moments after deadly stampede claimed 12 livesPrime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and minister Jitendra Singh to take stock of the situation. “Extremely saddened by the loss of lives due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon,” PM Modi said in a tweet.President Ram Nath Kovind said he was very distressed to know about the stampede and offered condolences to the bereaved families. Home minister Amit Shah said he was deeply pained by the tragic accident. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the tragedy was “heart-wrenching”.The circumstances that led to the stampede are still unclear.“Preliminary information from the scene suggests there was an altercation among some young boys, and within seconds, there was a stampede situation, said director general of police Dilbag Singh.Aditya Sharma, a pilgrim, said, according to news agency PTI, that there was a heavy rush of devotees and some people who were sleeping on the floor got crushed.Local shopkeepers insist that the route to the hilltop shrine was packed with devotees, far more than could be accommodated without falling foul of the social distancing norms mandated due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Video clips of the passage leading to the sanctum sanctorum, the destination of the pilgrims who spent New Year’s Eve covering the 12-km trek from the starting point of the yatra, Ban Ganga, show dense crowds in the barricaded space.In one clip of the situation after the stampede, pilgrims can be seen trying to resuscitate a person lying on the ground.Jagdev Singh, the duty officer at the police post on the hilltop, said the stampede took place near the X-ray machine, which leads to the shrine.Eight of the deceased were identified as Arun Pratab Singh (30), Dharam Veer Singh (35), Vineet Kumar (38) and Shamta Singh (35) of Uttar Pradesh, Vinay Kumar (24) and Sonu Panday (24) of Delhi, Mamta (38) of Haryana and Desraj Kumar (26) of Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, the officials said, according to PTI.Raghav Langer, divisional commissioner Jammu, said the bodies are being sent home as they are being identified. Langer said the administration has gotten in touch with the families of 10 people who died.Langer didn’t respond to allegations that the shrine board allowed more people than could have been accommodated safely, insisting that the laid-down standard operating procedure was followed. He did not elaborate, saying an inquiry has already been ordered.
01-01-2022||India||Vaishno Devi stampede: Union ministers, political leaders express condolences||The stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine, which happened on the first day of the year, has led to condolences from a number of politicians cutting across party lines. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh, Lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi have expressed grief at the incident in which 12 people were killed early on Saturday.Thirteen others were injured in the stampede, which occurred due to heavy rush of pilgrims on New Year Day. The yatra (pilrimage) was suspended following the stampede.Click here for live updates on Vaishno Devi stampedePM Modi said that he was “extremely saddened” by the loss of lives due to the stampede. “Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to JK LG Shri @manojsinha_ Ji, Ministers Shri @DrJitendraSingh Ji, @nityanandraibjp Ji and took stock of the situation,” he said in a tweet.Further, he also announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh to the families of those that lost their lives from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF). Also, those injured would be provided ₹50,000, he added.Also read | Vaishno Devi stampede: PM Modi expresses grief, yatra suspendedHe also announced ex-gratia to the victims. “Ex-gratia of Rs.10 lakh each would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to stampede and Rs.2 lakh to injured. Shrine board to bear the cost of treatment of injured,” Sinha further said on Twitter. He also briefed the Prime Minister of the situation.Union home minister Amit Shah said he was “deeply pained” by the stampede and had spoken with Sinha regarding the incident. “The administration is working continuously to provide treatment to the injured. I express my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in this accident,” Shah said.Watch | Vaishno Devi stampede: At least 12 killed; PM Modi announces ex-gratia, high-level probe ordered“The tragedy due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Bhawan is heart-wrenching. Anguished by the loss of lives due to it. My condolences to the bereaved families in this sad hour. Praying for the speedy recovery of the injured,” Union defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also condoled with the bereaved families. “The stampede at Mata Vaishnodevi temple is sad. My condolences to the families of the deceased. Wishing the injured a speedy recovery,” he tweeted.Meanwhile, the head priest of the shrine, Pandit Sudarshan, appealed to the pilgrims to not create further chaos at the shrine. He too expressed his condolences at the loss of lives due to the stampede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-stampede-union-ministers-political-leaders-express-condolences-101641006107199.html
01-01-2022||NA||Highlights: High-level probe ordered into Vaishno Devi stampede, yatra resumes||As many as 12 people were killed and 13 others injured in a stampede that occurred at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine on Saturday morning."The incident occurred around 2:45 am, and as per initial reports, an argument broke out which resulted in people pushing each other, followed by the stampede," Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh told news agency ANI.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has offered his condolences to the families of the deceased.The police launched a rescue operation to evacuate the people. The situation is under control now, according to officials.Follow all the updates here:Probe panel asked to submit report within a weekThe committee set up by the Jammu and Kashmir administration has been asked to submit the report of the probe into the Vaishno Devi stampede earlier in the day, within a week. Read here.4 injured in Vaishno Devi stampede in 'serious condition', say hospital authoritiesFour people who were injured in Saturday morning's stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir's Katra are currently in serious condition and are on ventilators, according to authorites of the hospital they have been admitted to.“First casualties arrived at our hospital at around 3 am. We received around 15 patients but four of them were in serious condition. They were unconscious when they reached the hospital and they are still in the ICU on ventilators,” news agency ANI reported Dr JP Singh, neurosurgeon at the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, as saying.Centre instructs authorities to provide better treatment to injuredThe Centre has instructed the authorities to provide better treatment to the injured and move them immediately to a hospital with best facilities if necessary, reports news agency ANI.Speaking to ANI, minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai informed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was monitoring the situation. "The local administration has been given instruction that if there is a need for better treatment for the injured ones, then they should be shifted to another hospital where best facilities are available without any delay," he added.Amit Shah briefed, high-level inquiry ordered into stampede incident, says Manoj SinhaJammu and Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha informed on Saturday that Union home Minister Amit Shah has been briefed about the stampede and a high-level inquiry has been ordered into the incident. “The Inquiry Committee will be headed by Principal Secretary (Home) with ADGP, Jammu and Divisional Commissioner, Jammu as members,” Sinha added.Meanwhile, the yatra has resumed, people familiar with the development confirmed.Rahul Gandhi offers condolences to families of victimsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi mourned the deaths in a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. "The stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi temple is tragic. I extend my condolences to the families of the deceased," Gandhi said on Twitter. He also wished a speedy recovery to the injured.Head of Vaishno Devi shrine urges devotees to stay calm and avoid chaosThe head priest of the shrine, Pandit Sudarshan, has appealed to the pilgrims to stay calm and avoid creating chaos at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. He has expressed grief at the loss of lives at the shrine.12 dead, 13 injured in Vaishno Devi stampedeAs many as 12 people have been confirmed dead so far in a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Jashmir's Katra. According to officials, the stampede was triggered by a heavy rush of devotees. At least 13 others were injured during the stampede and are currently undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital.  PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia from PMNRFAn ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan in Katra, J&K. The injured would be given Rs. 50,000: PM ModiJ&K Lt Guv announces ₹10 lakh ex-gratiaAn ex-gratia of ₹10 lakh for the next of kin of those who died in the stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan in Katra; ₹2 lakh for the injured: J&K LG Manoj Sinha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-stampede-live-updates-katra-101641002608921.html
01-01-2022||India||Swiggy, Zomato to pay 5% GST from today: What are the new changes and how will it impact customers||Online food delivery platforms such as Swiggy and Zomato will have to pay five per cent goods and services tax starting Saturday (January 1) as the changes to GST rules will come into effect. These changes are based on the decision taken at the 45th GST council meeting on September 17, 2021, to crack down on restaurants that don't pay taxes.The services offered by these platforms and cloud kitchens and central kitchens were covered under ‘restaurant service’ and would attract 5% GST without any input tax credit (ITC), the Union finance ministry had said after the meeting.What changes now?With the new rules, food delivery platforms are expected to pay 5% GST on restaurant services that they provide. Previously, the restaurants themselves collected and deposited the tax to the government, but now the delivery platforms will be responsible for paying them to the taxmen. This is being done as the government found that several restaurants listed on the food delivery platforms were evading taxes, even though they were being collected from the customers.Why the changes ?“As ‘restaurant service’ has been notified under section 9(5) of the CGST Act, 2017, the electronics commerce oprator (ECO) shall be liable to pay GST on restaurant services provided, with effect from the 1st January, 2022,” a circular from the finance ministry said.“Accordingly, the ECOs will no longer be required to collect TCS and file GSTR 8 in respect of restaurant services on which it pays tax in terms of section 9(5),” it added.Are customers paying a new tax ?The finance ministry has clarified that the customers who avail the services of these platforms will not be paying any new tax. The 5% GST would only be deposited through a different route to the government.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the customers would not be paying any new taxes due to the changes, according to a report by Livemint.Implications for small eateries and compliance burdenThe decision is likely to affect smaller players, restaurants that are earning under ₹20 lakh per annum, according to the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI). The body said that these restaurants were not filing GST previously, however, will now need to do so as the move will bring them under the government’s taxnet.Further, it also said that the compliance burden on restaurants would now increase as they still need to collect GST for dine-ins, takeaways and own delivery while not having to collect taxes for orders through delivery platforms.(With inputs from Livemint)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swiggy-zomato-to-pay-5-gst-from-today-what-are-the-new-changes-and-how-will-it-impact-customers-101641002218236.html
01-01-2022||India||Vaishno Devi stampede: PM Modi expresses grief, yatra suspended||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed grief over the stampede incident at Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir in which 12 people have died. He also offered condolences to the families of the deceased."Extremely saddened by the loss of lives due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to JK LG Shri @manojsinha_ Ji, Ministers Shri @DrJitendraSingh Ji, @nityanandraibjp Ji and took stock of the situation," PM Modi said on Twitter.Extremely saddened by the loss of lives due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to JK LG Shri @manojsinha_ Ji, Ministers Shri @DrJitendraSingh Ji, @nityanandraibjp Ji and took stock of the situation.The Prime Minister also announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the families of those who have been killed in the incident. The families of those injured will received ₹50,000, PM Modi said.Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha's office announced an ex-gratia of ₹10 lakh for the next of kin of those killed in the stampede.Thirteen others were injured in the stampede which took place due to heavy rush of devotees on the first day of the New Year. They have been admitted to various hospitals, and the conditions of some of them are said to be "serious".“The incident occurred around 2:45 am, and as per initial reports, an argument broke out which resulted in people pushing each other, followed by stampede,” Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The stampede occurred outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop Trikuta hills in Reasi district. The yatra (pilgrimage) to the holy shrine has been suspended after the incident.The Jammu and Kashmir Police launched a rescue operation soon after the stampede was reported.The cave shrine is situated at an altitude of 5,200 ft in Reasi district and generally attracts close to a million devotees every year.The operations of the pilgrimage site are managed by Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, which provides battery car and ropeway services to the pilgrims to reach the top of Trikuta hills for darshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-stampede-pm-modi-expresses-grief-yatra-suspended-101641001444589.html
01-01-2022||India||Navy to test Rafale-M jet for INS Vikrant||With countdown already begun to commission indigenous aircraft carrier 1 as INS Vikrant in August 2022, the Indian Navy will conduct flight trials of Rafale-Maritime fighter at Shore Based Test Facility at INS Hansa in Goa on January 6 onwards as part of its exercise to identify the best warplane to suit the 40,000 tonne carrier. The IAC 1 is based at Cochin shipyard and is currently undergoing intensive sea trials in Arabian Sea and Indian Ocean.According to officials in knowledge of the matter, the Rafale-M fighter will be pushed through intensive trial at the 283 metre mock-up ski jump facility at INS Hansa for nearly 12 days to assess whether the fighter aircraft is best suited for IAC-1. The Rafale M fighter is the principal weapon system for French Charles De Gaulle aircraft carrier and has also shown its inter-operability with US aircraft carriers way back in 2008.The Indian Navy is also planning to test US F-18 Hornet fighter at the same facility apparently in March as the alternative option to Rafale-M fighter. The Boeing F-18 is a proven carrier based multi-role fighter for the US Navy and has performed strike operations from way back to 1991 Gulf War.While the Indian Navy operates two squadrons of MiG-29K onboard its sole aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, the Russian aircraft is facing issues of maintenance and spare parts availability.The DRDO’s LCA-M is still in the development stage with two single engine demonstrator fighters being flight tested from INS Vikramaditya and the Goa based shore based test facility for providing inputs to the final twin engine deck based carrier fighter in future. According to Aeronautical Development Agency, the first flight trial of the indigenous twin engine fighter is expected before 2026 and induction into Indian Navy before 2031.While the decision on which fighter will spearhead IAC-1 will be based on the flight trials, fact is that Rafale-M is lighter and smaller in airframe to F-18 and packs a bigger punch than its American counterpart in terms of longer range air to air missiles and air to land missiles. Naval Aviation experts also say that it will be require structural modifications to the IAC 1 to fit F-18 into the lift to cart the fighter from hanger to the flight deck above due to its comparatively larger airframe.As the IAC -1 is expected to commissioned as INS Vikrant on August 15, 2022, the 75th year of Indian independence, by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, there is a strong possibility that the Indian Navy may ask the French manufacturers of the aircraft to lease four to five Rafale -M in 2022 so that the aircraft carrier is made operational. India already has a maintenance cum flight training facility of Rafale at Ambala air base. The Naval aviators will be trained at INS Hansa.
01-01-2022||NA||Highlights: Cinemas, sports complexes shut in Gurugram, 4 Haryana cities amid Omicron spike||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Two liquor shops in northeast Delhi's Seelampur shutTwo liquor shops in Seelampur in North East Delhi have been slapped with fines of ₹10,000 and ₹20,000 for violation of Covid-19 norms.Two markets in northeast Delhi shut till 10am on Jan 2 over flouting Covid normsTwo markets in North-East district - Shani Market, E-block, 4 1/2 Pushta, Sonia Vihar and Johripur Shani Market - have been closed with effect from 4 pm on January 1 upto 10 am on Jan 2 due to Covid appreciate behavior violations.Indian Army, China's PLA troops exchange sweets, greetings at LAC on New YearIndia and Chinese troops exchange sweets and greetings at several border posts along Line of Actual Control including in eastern Ladakh to mark New Year, news agency PTI reported quoting officials.Earthquake of 5.1 magnitude hits Afghanistan-Tajikistan border, tremors felt in J&KAn earthquake of magnitude 5.1 occurred 84-km South East of Fayzabad in Afghanistan, bordering Tajikistan, stated National Center for Seismology.It was also felt in Jammu and Kashmir at 6:45pm today, said Disaster Management Kashmir.Delhi begins New Year with over 2,000 Covid cases, logs 1st death due to virus in 2022Mumbai reports 6,347 new Covid cases, over 5,000 patients are asymptomatic: BMC dataMumbai has reported 6,347 fresh COVID cases (5,712 asymptomatic), 451 recoveries, and one death today.Karnataka minister BC Nagesh tests positive for Covid-19Karnataka Minister BC Nagesh says he has tested positive for COVID-19"I have quarantined myself & are taking all the necessary precautions and medication required," he says.Calcutta HC proceedings to be virtual only from Jan 3 amid rising Covid-19 fears"It is hereby notified for information of all concerned that in view of the threat of the imminent third wave of the Covid pandemic and also the alarming rise in the number of Covid affected cases… the Court proceedings shall be through virtual mode only," read the official notice.4 people killed in landslide at mining site in BhiwaniFour people have died in the landslide at a mining site in Bhiwani, said Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij.Delhi Police issues 657 challans on New Year's eveOn the New Year eve on Dec 31, Delhi Traffic Police issued 657 challans including 36 for drink & drive, 103 for dangerous driving, 370 for riding without helmet, 48 for triple riding, and 100 for other traffic-related offences, the police informed.Over 6,000 NGOs lose foreign funding license in a day: MHA dataLicenses under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA), 2010, required to receive foreign funding, of more than 12,580 non-profit organisations (NGOs) have ceased as on Saturday. Read full storyPM Modi lists five powers of FPOsPM Modi said that the farmer product organizations (FPO) have five big powers. The first is better bargaining, that is, bargaining power.The second power that farmers have got from FPOs is that of trade on a large scale.The third force is innovation.The fourth power in FPO is risk management. Together, you can better assess challenges and create ways to deal with them.And the fifth power is the ability to change according to the market.Efforts on to make biofuel from agricultural residues: ModiPM Modi said that efforts are being undertaken to enable farmers make money from crop residues, stubble, etc. “Hundreds of new units are being set up across the country to make biofuel from agricultural residues,” he said.Need to fulfil national interests while fighting Covid: Modi PM Modi said that the country must accelerate its pace in 2022. “Corona has its challenges, but Corona cannot stop India's pace. India will also fight Corona with full caution and vigilance and will also fulfill its national interests,” he said. Modi highlights India's 2070 net zero target, hydrogen missionHighlighting India's net zero target by 2070, Modi said that the country was leading the world in efforts against climate change. “Today India is working on hydrogen mission, taking lead in electric vehicles,” he said. India opened Sainik Schools to women in 2021: ModiSainik Schools in India also began accepting women candidates in 2021, PM Modi said. “Last year, India opened the doors of the National Defense Academy to women and also started an effort to increase the age of marriage of daughters from 18 to 21 years i.e. equal to that of sons,” he said. UPI transactions in 2021 topped ₹70 lakh crore; over 50,000 start-ups working today: ModiDuring his speech, Modi said that transactions worth ₹70 lakh crore were done through UPI in 2021 in the country. Also, more than 50,000 start-ups are working in the country currently . More than 10,000 of them started working in the last 6 months, Modi noted.Economy growing at over 8%; GST collection, forex reserves, foreign investments at record level: ModiPM Modi said that the growth rate of the country's economy was over 8%.Foreign investments, forex reserves and GST collections were also at record levels, he added.‘Time to start new vibrant journey’: PM Modi on completion of 75 years of Independence in 2022PM Modi said that it is time to start a “new vibrant journey” of the country's resolves in the year India will complete 75 years of independence. “Today, as we enter the new year, taking inspiration from our efforts of the past year, we have to move towards new resolutions. This year, we will complete 75 years of our Independence. This is the time to start a new vibrant journey of the country's resolves, to move forward with renewed vigour,” he said.Police say 2 injured, several missing after landslide in mining quarry in Haryana, reports ANITwo injured and several missing. More details are awaited: Haryana PoliceFollowing a landslide in a mining quarry in Bhiwani, Haryana, state police said that two people were missing and several others were injured, reports ANI. PM Modi transfers ₹20,000 crore to over 10 crore farmer families under PM-KISANPM Modi transferred ₹20,000 crore to more than 10 crore beneficiary farmer families under the PM-KISAN scheme.Vaishno Devi stampede: 15 injured brought to hospital, 4 in ICU, says doctorFollowing the stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine, 15 injured people were brought to the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality Hospital. Of the injured, four were admitted to the ICU, reports ANI citing Dr JP Singh, a neurosurgeon at the hospital.  “11 people were stable, out of which three to four people were discharged after first aid. Around five are still under treatment,” he said. Delhi's Covid-19 positivity at 2.44%, cases rapidly increasing: Satyendar JainDelhi reported 1,796 #COVID19 cases yesterday. The positivity rate is at 2.44%. No Covid1-19 deaths were reported yesterday. However, the number of cases is rapidly increasing: Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain pic.twitter.com/iU1Watj4KpDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the number of Covid-19 cases is rapidly increasing in the national capital and the positivity rate was at 2.44%, reports ANI. 10 ministers, over 20 MLAs test Covid-19 positive in Maharashtra: Deputy CM Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar said that 10 ministers and over 20 MLAs tested Covid-19 positive in the state, reports ANI.PAGD leaders under house arrest ahead of protest against: Alliance spokespersonPAGD leaders have been placed under house arrest ahead of their march to protest against the recommendations of Delimitation Commission, reports PTI citing a spokesperson of the alliance.India reports 22,775 new Covid-19 cases, Omicron tally at 1,431With 22,775 new Covid-19 cases, the total caseload reached 3,48,61,579. Also, 406 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. Active caseload went past the 100,000-mark again and stood at 104,781. The Omicron tally stood at 1,431, according to the latest data from the health ministry. Union ministers express grief over Vaishno Devi stampede, Jitendra Singh to visit KatraUnion ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh expressed grief over the deaths at Vaishno Devi shrine due to a stampede and Jitendra Singh said that he would Katra to assess the situation.Vaishno Devi stampede: J&K admin announces ex-gratia of ₹10 lakh to those deadJammu and Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha announced an ex-gratia of Rs10 lakh each to the families of those who lost their lives after the stampede at Vaishno Devi. He also said ₹2 lakh would be given to the injured. Shrine board will bear the cost of the treatment of injured, he added.12 dead, 13 injured in stampede at Vaishno Devi: J&K Police As many as 12 people died and 13 others were injured in the stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine, reports ANI citing Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbagh Singh. “The incident occurred around 2.45 am, and as per initial reports, an argument broke out which resulted in people pushing each other, followed by stampede,” he said.Click here to read moreVaishno Devi stampede: PM announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia to families of those dead,   ₹50,000 to injuredPM Modi announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each to the families of those who lost their lives at the stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine. Also, ₹50,000 would be given to those injured, he said. The amount would be given from the PMNRF.‘Extremely saddened’ says PM Modi on deaths due to stampede at Vaishno Devi PM Modi said that he took stock of the situation at Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir, where at least 12 people died due to a stampede earlier today. “Extremely saddened by the loss of lives due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to JK LG Shri @manojsinha_Ji, Ministers Shri @DrJitendraSingh Ji, @nityanandraibjp Ji and took stock of the situation,” Modi tweeted. PM Modi wishes ‘abundance of joy and good health’ in New Year greetingsHappy 2022! May this year bring abundance of joy and good health in everyone’s lives. May we keep scaling new heights of progress and prosperity, and work even harder to fulfil the dreams of our great freedom fighters. pic.twitter.com/dHoaD4tbpkPrime Minister Narendra Modi wished the country on New Year 2022. “Happy 2022! May this year bring abundance of joy and good health in everyone’s lives. May we keep scaling new heights of progress and prosperity, and work even harder to fulfil the dreams of our great freedom fighters,” he tweeted.Update: 12 dead in stampede at J&K's Vaishno Devi shrineAt least 12 people died in the stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra, Jammu and Kashmir, reports ANI citing block medical officer Gopal Dutt. “Casualties from Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and 1 from J&K. More details awaited. Injured being taken to Naraina Hospital after rescue,” he said.At least 6 people dead in stampede at J&K's Vaishno Devi shrineAt least six people died after a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan, reports ANI citing officials.  “Exact number not there yet. Their post mortem will be done. Injured being taken to Naraina hospital, total number of injured not confirmed either,” said Dr Gopal Dutt, block medical officer, Community Health Centre..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-1-2022-101640999620123.html
01-01-2022||India||Vaccination for 15-18 age group: CoWin registration set to begin from today||India is all set to begin CoWin registrations for the Covid-19 vaccination for children aged 15 to 18 years from Saturday. The government has said both walk-in and online registration will be available for vaccination of children, who would start getting doses against Covid-19 on January 3.While the CoWin registrations will begin from Saturday, the onsite registration will commence from the day of vaccination i.e. January 3 itself.According to the government's guidelines, children can book slots on the CoWin app using their ID cards from January 1.Dr R S Sharma, Cowin platform chief, had earlier said that besides Aadhaar and other national identity cards, children can use their class 10th ID card for registration.On Tuesday, Union health secretary chaired a workshop through video conference with all states and union territories (UTs) to review the rollout of vaccination for the age group 15-18 and precautionary third dose for vulnerable categories - healthcare workers (HCW), frontline workers (FLW), and those in the 60 age group who have co-morbidity.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address on December 25, 2021, announced that children aged 15-18 years will begin getting a vaccine against Covid-19 from January 3, 2022, and healthcare and frontline workers will start receiving precautionary doses from January 10.Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, which has been granted approval for restricted use in an emergency situation in the age group between 12 and 18 years, is the only vaccine available for children.The Centre has also advised states to establish separate dedicated Covid-19 vaccination centers for kids aged 15-18 while a separate vaccination team and separate queues to be maintained at all other CVCs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-for-kids-aged-15-18-years-cowin-registration-set-to-begin-from-today-101640998572792.html
01-01-2022||India||12 dead, 13 injured in stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir||At least 12 people were killed and 13 others injured in a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir’s Katra early on Saturday. The stampede was triggered by a heavy rush of devotees on the first day of the new year, according to news agency PTI. The yatra (pilgrimage) to the holy shrine has been suspended after the incident.“12 dead, 13 injured in the stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan in Katra. The incident occurred around 2:45 am, and as per initial reports, an argument broke out which resulted in people pushing each other, followed by stampede,” Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbagh Singh told news agency ANI.The stampede occurred outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop Trikuta hills in Reasi district.The Jammu and Kashmir Police launched a rescue operation soon after the stampede was reported.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief at the incident and announced an ex-gratia for the families of those killed. Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha's office announced an ex-gratia of ₹10 lakh for the next of kin of those killed in the stampede.The injured have been admitted to various hospitals, including Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, and the condition of many of the injured was stated to be “serious”.The cave shrine is situated at an altitude of 5,200 ft in Reasi district and generally attracts close to a million devotees every year.The operations of the pilgrimage site are managed by Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, which provides battery car and ropeway services to the pilgrims to reach the top of Trikuta hills for darshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stampede-at-vaishno-devi-injuries-reported-jammu-and-kashmir-police-101640997769158.html
01-01-2022||India||'Stage of lockdown is approaching', says Maharashtra minister amid huge spike in Covid-19 cases||A minister in Maharashtra said on Friday that the stage of imposing a fresh lockdown in the state is approaching, but chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a final call on it. The remarks by state minister Vijay Wadettiwar came as Maharashtra recorded a huge spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, with 8,067 people testing positive for the infection.Also Read | ‘Covid cases likely to cross single-day peak during 2nd wave in Mumbai’“The stage of lockdown is approaching. But the chief minister will take a decision on when to impose it,” Wadettiwar, the minister for disaster management, told reporters.Decision on restrictions on travel and colleges will be taken together, he added.Amid the spread of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus, Maharashtra saw a sharp rise in daily Covid-19 infections in the last 11 days of 2021. This prompted the state government to issue fresh guidelines, in which it capped the attendance at gatherings in open or closed spaces at 50.Also Read | 55% of 282 Mumbai samples test Omicron positive. Experts explain the reason for fast spread"In case of marriages or any other social, political or religious event, the maximum number of attendees shall be restricted to 50 persons. The maximum number of attendees is restricted to 20 in funerals," according to an order issued by the Maharashtra government on Thursday.The order further said, "In any other part of the state which are tourist spots that attract a large crowd of people such as beaches, open grounds, etc, the competent authority may as deem appropriate, impose section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973."The Mumbai police on Friday (New Year’s Eve), prohibited people from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places from 5 pm to 5 am. The restrictions will remain in place till January 15 in view of rising cases of Covid-19 and its Omicron variant, the police said.Meanwhile, painting a grim picture, Maharashtra additional chief secretary (Health), Dr Pradeep Vyas, claimed on Friday that the state may see two lakh active Covid-19 cases by third week of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stage-of-lockdown-is-approaching-says-maharashtra-minister-101640996798093.html
