02-01-2022||India||Punjab’s governor counters CM on pending bill||A day after chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi threatened to stage a sit-in against Punjab governor Banwari Lal Purohit for not clearing a Bill for regularising services of 36,000 contractual employees, the governor Sunday put the spotlight back on government, asking chief minister’s office (CMO) to reply to six queries relating to pending court cases, reservation and funding raised on the proposed legislation.Calling the CM’s claim as “factually incorrect”, the governor, in a written statement, said the file regarding the regularisation of the services of contractual employees was reverted to the office of Punjab chief minister with six queries, which need to be clarified by the state government. “This file was duly received by the CMO on December 31 and the reply is awaited,” he said.Channi, while addressing a press conference on Saturday on completing 100 days in office, alleged that the governor was holding up the file under pressure from the BJP-led central government. “If the governor does not clear the file, I will sit on dharna with my cabinet colleagues against him,” he warned.However, the governor said, “Once the reply comes, the Bill will be re-examined at governor’s secretariat.”The Bill regarding regularisation of the services of contractual employees was passed in the state assembly on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjabs-governor-counters-cm-on-pending-bill-101641148106241.html
02-01-2022||India||Youth should consider careers in sport: Modi||MeerutPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday the youth in the country should be encouraged to pursue sports as their careers as he criticised the previous governments for not motivating people in the field, a remark that came after he laid the foundation stone for the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Meerut.Youth in Uttar Pradesh will now have a better chance to shine in sports at a time when India’s athletes are winning laurels in the international arena, the Prime Minister said.“Previous governments did not give importance to this potential of the youth in the field of sports. For the development of sports in the country, it is necessary that our youth should have faith in sports and should be encouraged to take up sports as their profession,” Modi said.The Prime Minister used a sports metaphor to lampoon previous governments in India’s most populous state. Earlier, gangsters and criminals used to have free play in Uttar Pradesh, but the Yogi Adityanath government is “playing jail-jail” with them, he said at a rally ahead of assembly polls early this year. The world-class facilities at the proposed university in Meerut district’s Salawa will help create international athletes and foster a sports culture in the country, he said.Meerut was the birth place of Dhyan Chand, and the central government named the country’s biggest sports award Khel Ratna after Dadda, as Dhyan Chand was popularly known, the Prime Minister said, adding that the first sports university of Uttar Pradesh is being dedicated to him. The university will be built with a budget of ₹700 crore and produce more than 1,000 players every year, he said.“The city of revolutionaries will further strengthen its identity as the city of sportspersons,” Modi said, referring to the 1857 war of Independence against the British that began in Meerut with the death of sepoy Mangal Pandey. Modi lauded the sports goods manufacturing industry of Meerut that exports equipment to over 100 countries.“During previous governments, criminals used to play their games and the mafias used to play their own. Earlier, there used to be tournaments of illegal land grabbing,” Modi said. “Now, the Yogi government is playing jail-jail with such criminals.”People living in Meerut and adjoining areas can never forget how houses used to be set ablaze, he said. “The result of these games played by earlier governments was that people were forced to leave their ancestral homes and there was an exodus.”Five years ago, women in Meerut feared leaving their homes after evening, he said. “Today, the daughters of Meerut are bringing laurels to the entire country,” Modi said.Modi also referred to the infamous Sotiganj stolen cars market of Meerut. “There has been an end to the game played with vehicles in the market,” he said.The Prime Minister accused previous state governments of not making efforts to change the narrow mindset towards sports. The sports world was earlier marred by maladies like games of nepotism, casteism, corruption and discrimination at every level, right from the training to team selection, but now the situation has changed, he said.The impact of the change is seen in the many medals Indian sportspersons are winning at the Olympic and Paralympics, he said.Payment made to farmers during the Yogi government’s term was more than what was paid by the two earlier regimes, he said.Modi interacted with Olympians, national and international players before addressing the gathering. He also inspected stalls of sports goods manufactured in local units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-should-consider-careers-in-sport-modi-101641147871351.html
02-01-2022||India||Bhiwani landslide: Rescue operations continue, one feared trapped||A day after four people were killed, and two others were injured after a landslide near the Dadam mining site in Bhiwani district, officials Sunday said at least one person is still trapped under the debris, and efforts are on to unearth the body. “As per rescue officials, the person still trapped under the debris used to drive a machine at the mining site,” said Bhiwani superintendent of police (SP) Ajit Singh Shekhawat, adding that one of the two persons injured in the landslide had been discharged.Meanwhile, Tosham sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Manish Phogat did not rule out the possibility of more people being trapped as their records may not have been maintained in the daily register. “The entire area near the site has been cordoned off,” the SDM said.Hurdles in rescue opsNational Disaster Response Force deputy director BR Meena said the teams faced a tough time carrying out the rescue operations on Saturday night and Sunday morning due to the fog.“We also faced difficulty removing a big boulder. So far, we have pulled out two excavators and four dumpers from the rubble. However, another dumper is still trapped in the debris.The rescue operation will continue till Monday. We have called in mining experts, and explosions are being carried out in small areas to avert another landslide,” Meena said.Team formed to probe matterThe SP said, “The deputy commissioner has constituted a team to check if any norms were violated while mining. So far, there is no evidence that illegal mining was carried out at the Dadam mining site.”A senior official, requesting anonymity, said the mining contract had been given to Yamunanagar-based Govardhan Mines. On the second day of the rescue operation, teams of the NDRF from Ghaziabad, and State Disaster Response Force team from Madhuban, and an army unit of Hisar joined the rescue operation.Meanwhile, BJP MP from Bhiwani-Mahendergarh parliamentary Dharambir Singh alleged that illegal mining was being carried out at the Dadam mining site. “The contractors never allowed anyone to enter the site. They have been extracting the stone being used in building material by violating all norms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhiwani-landslide-rescue-operations-continue-one-feared-trapped-101641147685018.html
02-01-2022||India||Approach us if you suspect Pegasus spyware attack, SC-formed panel says in public notice||The technical committee appointed by the Supreme Court issued a public notice on Sunday asking citizens to come forward and contact the panel if they suspected that their mobile devices were infected by Pegasus spyware.The public notice asked such citizens to also specify the reasons as to why they believed that their device may have been infected with Pegasus malware, and whether they would be in a position to allow the technical committee to examine the said device.The public notice, issued in leading dailies on Sunday, said “such person who suspects her/his device is infected” should send an email to the technical committee “before noon of January 7, 2022”.“In case the committee feels your reasons for suspicion of the device being infected with the malware compel a further investigation, then the committee shall request you to allow examination of your device,” the notice said.The public notice “is issued to request any citizen of India who may have felt her/his mobile device/instrument that may have been infected by Pegasus malware”.“The committee requests any citizen of India who has reasonable cause to suspect that her/his mobile has been compromised due to specific usage of NSO Group Israel’s Pegasus software to contact the technical committee appointed by...“Supreme Court of India with reasons as to why you believe your device may have been infected with Pegasus malware, and whether you would be in a position to allow the technical committee to examine your device,” it said.The panel will give an acknowledgement for having received the instrument and also make and give the user a digital phone image for their records.The collection point would be in New Delhi. “The mobile instrument collected from you will be delivered back on completion of the tests/investigation,” it said.Last year, a row erupted over Israeli spyware Pegasus allegedly being used for targeted surveillance in India.In October last year, the Supreme Court directed a panel of experts to investigate whether the government used military-grade private Israeli Pegasus spyware to surveil opposition leaders, activists, tycoons, judges and journalists.The apex court had also observed that the state cannot get a “free pass” every time the spectre of national security is raised and that its mere invocation cannot render the judiciary a “mute spectator” and be the bugbear it shies away from.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approach-us-if-you-suspect-pegasus-spyware-attack-sc-formed-panel-says-in-public-notice-101641147575485.html
02-01-2022||India||Govt appeals against WTO ruling over sugarcane trade||India has appealed against a ruling of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) trade dispute settlement panel which ruled that the country’s domestic support measures for sugar and sugarcane are inconsistent with global trade norms, an official said.The appeal was filed by India in the WTO’s Appellate Body, which is the final authority on such trade disputes. India has stated that the WTO’s dispute panel ruling has made certain “erroneous” findings about domestic schemes to support sugarcane producers and exports and the findings of the panel are completely “unacceptable” to it.The panel in its ruling on December 14, 2021 recommended India to withdraw its alleged prohibited subsidies under the Production Assistance, the Buffer Stock, and the Marketing and Transportation Schemes within 120 days from the adoption of this report.Ruling in favour of Brazil, Australia and Guatemala in their trade dispute against India over New Delhi’s sugar subsidies, the WTO panel has stated that the support measures are inconsistent with WTO trade rules.The official said that the dispute panel’s findings are unreasonable and not supported by the WTO rules and also evaded key issues which it was obliged to determine.“The panel’s findings on alleged export subsidies undermine logic and rationale. India has appealed in the appellate body of the WTO against the panel’s ruling,” the official added.In 2019, Brazil, Australia and Guatemala dragged India into the WTO’s dispute settlement mechanism alleging that New Delhi’s domestic support measures to producers of sugarcane and sugar and export subsidies are inconsistent with global trade rules including various provisions of the WTO’s Agreement on Agriculture, Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT).Brazil is the largest producer and exporter of sugar in the world. India is the world’s second largest sugar producer after Brazil. In December 2020, the government had approved a subsidy of ₹3,500 crore to sugar mills for the export of 60 lakh tonnes of sweetener during the ongoing marketing year 2020-21 as part of its efforts to help them clear outstanding dues to sugarcane farmers. In the previous marketing year 2019-20 (October-September), the government had provided a lump sum export subsidy of ₹10,448 per tonne. Mills exported 5.7 million tonnes of sugar against the mandatory quota of 6 million tonnes set for the 2019-20 season (October-September), according to official data.These three countries, which are members of the WTO, had complained that India’s support measures to sugarcane producers exceeds the de minimis level of 10 per cent of the total value of sugarcane production, which according to them was inconsistent with the Agreement on Agriculture.They had also flagged India’s alleged export subsidies, subsidies under the production assistance and buffer stock schemes, and the marketing and transportation scheme.According to WTO rules, a WTO member or members can file a case in the Geneva-based multilateral body if they feel that a particular trade measure is against the norms of the WTO. Bilateral consultation is the first step to resolve a dispute. If both the sides are not able to resolve the matter through consultation, either can approach for the establishment of a dispute settlement panel. The panel’s ruling or report can be challenged at the World Trade Organization’s Appellate Body.Interestingly, the appellate body of the WTO is not functioning because of differences among member countries to appoint members in this body. Over 20 disputes are already pending with the appellate body. The US has been blocking the appointment of the members.Even if the body, which is the final arbiter on such trade disputes, starts working from now, it would take over an year to take up India’s appeal. According to trade experts, if the appellate body also passes a ruling against India’s support measures, New Delhi has to abide by that and make appropriate changes in the way it provides those measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-appeals-against-wto-ruling-over-sugarcane-trade-101641147504611.html
02-01-2022||India||Outrage mounts over 'Bulli Bai' app, IT minister says Centre working with police||As outrage mounted over a dodgy app that has posted pictures of Muslim women, including many prominent personalities, "for auction", IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Sunday that the government is working with police in Delhi and Mumbai in the matter and the National Commission for Women too stepped in.The NCW has written to the Delhi Police to expedite its action in the case against the 'Bulli Bai' app, floated for trolling and harassing the victims, to ensure that such crimes do not recur.Hundreds of Muslim women were listed for "auction" on the app with photographs sourced without permission and doctored. It has happened for the second time in less than a year. The app appeared to be a clone of Sulli Deals which triggered a similar row last year.  Politicians, netizens and women's rights groups demanded strict action against the makers of the app and many blamed it on right-wing elements.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called upon people to raise their voice against "'insult of women" and communal hatred."The insult of women and communal hatred will stop only when we stand against it in one voice. The year has changed, the situation should also change. It is time to speak up," Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag 'no fear'.As the issue snowballed, IT Minister Vaishnaw tweeted on Sunday, "Government of India is working with police organisations in Delhi and Mumbai on this matter."Police of both the metropolitan cities have registered cases in the matter.NCW chief Rekha Sharma, on Twitter, "noted" a tweet from a journalist whose photo was used in the app. The journalist also raised a complaint with the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police."@NCWIndia  has taken cognizance of this incident. Chairperson @sharmarekha has written to @CPDelhi to immediately register FIR in the matter. The process must be expedited so that such crime is not repeated," the NCW tweeted."The action taken in both the cases must be apprised to the Commission at the earliest. A copy of the letter has also been sent to Dy Commissioner of Police, Delhi," the NCW said in another tweet.The Delhi Police has registered an FIR against unknown persons for allegedly uploading a doctored picture of the woman journalist on a website.An official said Mumbai Cyber police has also registered an FIR against developers of 'Bulli Bai' app and Twitter handles that promoted this application. The case was registered on Saturday under sections 354-D (stalking of women), 500 (Punishment for defamation) and other sections of the Information Technology Act, he said. The West region of Cyber Police registered the FIR against Twitter handle holders and the 'Bulli Bai' app developers hosted on GitHub," the official said.Vaishnaw has said GitHub has confirmed blocking the user and that the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) and police authorities are coordinating further action in the matter.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti alleged that ''fringe elements'' who were targeting Muslim women online had the ''official patronage''.  "Appalling that the criminals behind such derogatory & demeaning actions against Muslim women are given a free run," the former chief minister tweeted.Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi had on Saturday flagged the 'Bulli Bai' app, seeking action from Mumbai police and Vaishnaw.The All India Progressive Women's Association alleged that "Hindu supremacists" were behind this and expressed solidarity with the victims.Many netizens took to Twitter to raise the issue."The Indian government, police, media, society at large ignored Sulli deals. And now you have #BulliDeals, a horrifying cruel depraved sadistic "auction" of Muslim women using their pictures. The more you ignore these things, the more sure you can be that it'll be your family soon," a netizen tweeted.       Once the app is opened, a Muslim woman's face is randomly displayed as Bulli Bai. Muslim women with a strong presence on Twitter, including journalists, have been singled out and their photos uploaded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outrage-mounts-over-bulli-bai-app-it-minister-says-centre-working-with-police-101641146749170.html
02-01-2022||India||Yogi govt is enemy of development: Akhilesh attacks UP CM, spares Modi||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav Sunday fired a fresh salvo at the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh (UP), calling it “Vikas key dushman, alpsankhayak ke dushman (enemy of development and minorities)” but left Prime Minister Narendra Modi out of his attack. The SP chief launched the verbal attack during the Lucknow leg of his Vijay Rath Yatra while addressing two public meetings. The yatra was taken out on the day when Modi, along with chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath, laid the foundation stone, for UP’s first sports university in Meerut.Continuing his attack on Adityanath, Yadav said, “When this government felicitated our Olympic heroes, where did ‘baba mukhya mantri’ do the ceremony? Of course, at the same stadium built by the SP government. So, in 2022 (polls), hit ‘baba mukhya mantri’ out of the boundary.” The yatra (tenth in the series) started from HCL headquarters at Chak Ganjaria. Akhilesh asked the crowd to turn their eyes towards the HCL facility “that gave jobs in Lucknow to many youths who used to migrate to Bengaluru, Mumbai, Hyderabad for IT jobs.” He said the HCL facility in Lucknow came up in his government’s tenure. He also asserted his government built the cancer institute and ultra-modern dairy plant in the area that was a jungle before. He called upon people to bring back the “development-oriented SP government”. “The BJP government is an enemy of minorities as they discontinued reservation for Anglo-Indians (in Parliament and state legislatures).” Reiterating his free electricity promise, he said: “On coming to power, our government will give 300 units of free power to domestic consumers and free power to farmers for irrigation.” “Had the present government carried forward the SP government’s power plant projects, UP would have had plenty of cheap power. When our government returns, these projects will be executed. This is only the first promise in our manifesto. But there will be many more especially for farmers, economically weaker sections, women and youths among others. The manifesto will be released soon,” he said. Slamming Yogi for frequently alleging that “in the previous government terrorists and rioters were invited at the CM’s residence, Akhilesh retorted, “It is this government that harbours criminals.” He added, “Why doesn’t this government release lists of top gangsters in the districts? And wasn’t it the same government who sheltered and protected one of its MLAs in the Unnao rape case? It is under this government that the Hathras case took place. And has there been any chief minister like this one with so many cases filed against him?” The SP chief also attacked the BJP government over farmers’ issues, unemployment, Covid deaths, law and order, price rise and development. After holding public meetings at Chak Ganjaria and Rohtas ground, Kasimpur in Mohanlalganj assembly constituency, Akhilesh visited Bhagwan Parshuram temple at Mahurakala village, Gosainganj, and offered prayers. he also unveiled an idol of lord Parshuram. The newly built temple with a nearly 73-foot axe, the weapon of Lord Parshuram, has been built near the Purvanchal Expressway in Lucknow. Responding to Akhilesh’s free electricity promise, Union education minister and BJP’s election in-charge in UP Dharmendra Pradhan tweeted: “Those who gave “goondaraj” are now talking of giving free power supply. Now, Akhileshji is also talking of getting the Ram temple constructed even though everyone knows that it was the SP government that had ordered firing on Ram bhakts. The credibility of liars is zero...”
02-01-2022||India||SP, BJP gave kabristan, shamshan; we will give schools: Kejriwal in UP||Lucknow: Aam Aadmi Party convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday kicked off the party’s UP campaign saying that while the Samajwadi Party made burial grounds in its regime, the Bharatiya Janata Party was making funeral grounds now, and adding that his party would make schools and hospitals instead. Speaking at a rally in Smriti Upvan, Kejriwal said, “During their tenures (in government), SP made kabristans and BJP shamshan ghats. But if you vote us (AAP), we will construct schools and hospitals,” he said. Referring to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Kejriwal alleged that “the BJP not only made shamshan ghats but also sent people there… Uttar Pradesh was the worst in managing corona (Covid-19 pandemic).” Promising to improve the condition of schools across the state, he said, “ [Uttar Pradesh chief minister] Yogi Adityanath has failed to improve the condition of schools (government schools) in the last five years. But I will ensure good schools for all in UP, like the ones in Delhi.” AAP has announced it will contest almost all the 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh where polls are due in February-March. “Before the Yogi government, the state experienced four-hour power cuts. Under his (Yogi Adityanath) government, there are eight-hour power cuts. If the BJP is voted to power again, then there will be 12-hour power cuts… If you want 24-hour electricity, vote for us,” the AAP leader said to the crowd.He asserted that 35 lakh families in Delhi were getting ‘zero’ electricity bills, a reference to the AAP government’s free electricity supply scheme in the capital. He also promised free pilgrimage for all the people of Uttar Pradesh to Ayodhya, like the Delhi government pilgrimage scheme. On the occasion, Kejriwal also announced ₹1,000 per month allowance for women above 18 years of age if voted to power “You have tested the Samajwadi Party, the BJP, the BSP and the Congress, now give us an opportunity for five years (to govern Uttar Pradesh),” Kejriwal said.Reacting to Kejrwal’s allegations, the SP said the state remembers the development work carried out under former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. “People of Uttar Pradesh know about the development work carried out during the SP government. Even Arvind Kejrival recently praised our national president Akhilesh Yadav and stated that he should become the next CM in 2022. Our party is committed to develop UP and we have an agenda and vision,” said SP spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi.BJP did not respond to queries for comment. 
02-01-2022||India||Delhi man hits 9 people in Nainital, crashes car into sidewall. He was drunk: Cop||HALDWANI: A Delhi man allegedly hit nine people in Nanital on Sunday before crashing his car into a sidewall. He was caught by angry locals and handed over to the police who arrested him.The man behind the wheels was identified by the Mallital police as Amit Bahugana, 38, a resident of Delhi.Dharamveer Solanki, inspector at Mallital police station, said a medical examination of the man later confirmed that he was drunk.Solanki said the speeding car hit 9 people and 6 parked bikes in the Cheena Baba area of Mallital before eventually coming to a halt after hitting a sidewall.The police officer said the injured were taken to the BD Pandey government hospital for treatment.“The driver tried to escape from the spot but the local people caught him near Mallital Royal hotel and handed him over to police”, he said. Solanki said an FIR was registered against Amit Bahuguna on charges of rash and negligent driving, causing hurt due to rash and negligent act, causing grievous hurt and attempt to commit culpable homicide.“The vehicle has also been seized,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-man-hits-9-people-in-nainital-crashes-car-into-sidewall-he-was-drunk-cop-101641145404668.html
02-01-2022||India||Bike which Vicky Kaushal-Sara rode belonged to production, confusion because of bolt: Cops||Indore police said on Sunday that the two-wheeler that Bollywood actor Vicky Kaushal and Sara Ali Khan were seen riding on the streets of Indore for an upcoming film belonged to the production house and the confusion created because of a bolt which made the number 1 look like 4. A local resident filed a complaint against Vicky Kaushal alleging that the registration number of his two-wheeler has been used by the production house. Complainant Jai Singh Yadav said his consent was not taken before using the number of his two-wheeler."Vehicle number used in the movie sequence is mine; don't know if the film unit is aware of it. This is illegal. He cannot use my number plate without permission. I have filed a complaint with the police. Action should be taken in the matter," Yadav told ANI.Police reached the sets of the film to investigate the complainant and found out that the numbers are different. "During the investigation of the number plate, we found out that all misunderstanding was caused by the bolt fixed on the number plate. Due to that bolt, the number one is looking like number four. The number used in the movie sequence belongs to the movie production. Hence nothing illegal had been found out in our investigation," Rajendra Soni, sub-inspector, Bangangam, said.A person associated with the production told ANI that the bolt was used to install the number plate. The number belongs to a member of the production house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bike-which-vicky-kaushal-sara-rode-belonged-to-production-confusion-because-of-bolt-cops-101641141922708.html
02-01-2022||India||Highest single-day spike since May in Delhi; Kolkata's Covid positivity rate 33% | 10 points||In May, India witnessed the deadly second wave of the pandemic. Delhi on Sunday recorded 3,194 fresh Covid infections which was the highest single-day rise since May 20, when India was officially reeling under the second wave of the pandemic. Similar spikes were reported from Mumbai and Kolkata. West Bengal on Sunday reported 6,153 infections while Kolkata's positivity rate reached 33%.Here are 10 points about the emerging situation of Covid in India1. On Sunday, India reported more than 27,000 new Covid-19 cases. On Monday, the number will see another huge spike as the metro cities are adding a huge number of cases.2. Most of the new cases in Delhi and Mumbai are asymptomatic, which is an indication that this surge is driven by Omicron, the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2.West Bengal announces fresh Covid-19 curbs; schools, colleges shut from tomorrow. Details here3. Is it the beginning of a third wave? According to experts, the third wave has already set in since the last week of December.4. The rapid surge also indicates community transmission of Omicron, though there has been no official confirmation regarding this. Delhi, Tamil Nadu ministers have claimed that without community transmission of Omicron, such a large spike could not have taken place.5. West Bengal has announced a lockdown-like situation closing schools, colleges, gyms etc. It has also curbed flight operations with Delhi and Mumbai, two hotspots of the ongoing surge.6. Karnataka has stepped up vigilance in border districts and the government may announce some fresh restrictions in the state.7. The Supreme Court has decided to again switch to online hearing of the cases for two weeks from January 3, as the cases are rising.8. Vaccination for children in the age group of 12 to 18 years will begin from January 3.9. A cluster outbreak has been reported in Nainital as 85 students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Nainital’s Gangarkot tested positive.10. The government on Sunday said India's Covid vaccination programme has been one of the most successful and largest in the world. "Compared with other developed nations, India has done a better job in administering Covid vaccination to its eligible adult citizen of 93.7 crore (as per the RGI (Registrar General of India)) across all its states and UTs (union territories)," it underlined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-spike-since-may-in-delhi-kolkata-s-covid-positivity-rate-33-10-points-101641138764396.html
02-01-2022||India||Kerala’s 45 new Omicron cases are mostly travellers from ‘low-risk’ countries||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala on Sunday reported 45 new cases of Omicron, the highest single-day tally since the first case of the new variant was detected on December 7. With 45 fresh cases, the state’s total Omicron cases went up to 152, said state health minister Veena George. Of the new cases nine persons came from high-risk countries and 32 came from the nations marked as low risk, said the minister in a statement on Sunday. Only four persons contracted the infection locally.Among the new cases, 16 have been reported in Ernakulam. State capital Thiruvananthapuram has reported 9 cases. Two days ago the state had logged 44 cases crossing the 100 mark.Veena George called for a heightened vigil in view of rising cases.“We have to be extremely careful in the coming days. We have to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly. We have noticed people removing masks while talking and this should be discouraged,” said the minister adding the state was well prepared with enough oxygen stock and beds. On warnings of a surge in cases, the government said it has taken enough precautions to meet the exigency. At least 98% of the eligible population in the state received the first dose of vaccine and 77% have received both doses.News agency PTI said the largest number of Omicron-infected people to the state have come from the UAE, Qatar and the UK. Other countries include France, the Philippines, Turkey, Sweden, Kazakhstan, Ireland, Africa, Uganda and Ukraine.”Till now, a total of 50 people have reached the state from high-risk countries while 84 have reached from low-risk countries. Eighteen have contracted the disease through their contacts,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-45-new-omicron-cases-are-mostly-travellers-from-low-risk-countries-101641138983733.html
02-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Indian Army asks Pakistan to take back body of man killed in Kupwara ops and all the latest news||‘Killed Pak terrorist, take body’: Indian Army messages Pak on hotline after Kupwara opsA Pakistani terrorist trying to infiltrate into India across the Line of Control (LoC) was killed in Keran sector of Kupwara in Jammu and Kashmir, the Indian Army said on Sunday, accusing Pakistan of breaching the ongoing ceasefire between the two armies. Read moreKerala reports 45 new Omicron Covid-19 cases, tally at 152Kerala on Sunday reported 45 new cases of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) Covid-19 variant taking the total number of cases due to the variant in the state to 152, the state government said. Read more'Happens to everyone': Dravid rallies behind Kohli & Rahane, says 'just a matter of time' before they score bigAfter India's first-ever Test win in Centurion, the action now shifts to Johannesburg where the Virat Kohli-led unit will look to seal the country's maiden Test series win in the Rainbow nation. Read moreAR Rahman's daughter Khatija Rahman gets engaged to Riyasdeen Shaik Mohamed, see pic of her fianceMusician AR Rahman's daughter Khatija Rahman recently got engaged to audio engineer Riyasdeen Shaik Mohamed. Taking to Instagram, Khatija shared a picture collage also featuring her from the event. Read moreToo much vitamin D can put you at risk of these deadly diseasesWhile there has been a lot of talk around vitamin D deficiency in Indians and the several health risks it poses from bone diseases to mental health illnesses, overdosing on vitamin D supplements can be disastrous for your health too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-indian-army-asks-pakistan-to-take-back-body-of-man-killed-in-kupwara-ops-and-all-the-latest-news-101641137244554.html
02-01-2022||India||Back in Tripura, Abhishek Banerjee hard sells TMC as lead challenger to BJP||AGARTALA: Back in Tripura, Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday pitched his party as the primary opposition to the ruling Biplab Deb government, underlining that his party is committed to putting up a tough fight to the Bharatiya Jnt Party (BJP) and pledging that his party will not compromise in this battle against the saffron party.Abhishek Banerjee’s visit - he was last in the state in October when he addressed a rally - comes two days before the scheduled visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 4 to inaugurate the new terminal building of Tripura’s Maharaja Bir Bikram (MBB) Airport at Agartala.“They torture common people, ransack their homes to keep up their fascist politics with ‘Duare Goonda’ model (goons at doorstep). Tripura is reduced to a theatre of goons and madmen. Our fight is against this….Biplab Deb has become politically bankrupt”, he told reporters after prayers at Choddo Debata Bari, the temple of Tripura’s royal family deities, on the outskirts of Agartala city. He said that he prayed for the well-being of people in the state and said TMC would continue its political fight against what he described as the BJP misrule.Banerjee said the Biplab Deb government’s performance had been a disappointment, and that opposition political workers were subjected to targeted violence. Besides, the government did not even honour court rulings.“We shall not cede a single inch of ground in this fight”, he said and expressed confidence that people are now supporting his party. Citing Tripura urban body polls held last year, the TMC leader claimed his party secured 24% vote share and emerged as the principal opposition force in front of BJP.To be sure, according to the State Election Commission, the TMC was indeed the runner up in the Agartala municipality but ended up at the third spot in the overall vote share across the state. The party secured 16.39% vote share across the state, next to the CPI (M) which received 18.13% votes. The BJP was way ahead; it secured 59% votes and won 11 out of the 14 urban bodies that went to polls. In all, the BJP won 217 of the 222 seats that voted in addition to the 112 seats that it netted uncontested.Abhishek Banerjee is expected to meet state Trinamool Congress leaders and supporters later in the evening.The Trinamool Congress, which started its journey in Tripura in 1999 with former chief minister Late Sudhir Ranjan Majumder, never formed government or won any assembly election. The TMC did have six MLAs in 2016, but they had shifted from the Congress party and later jumped to the BJP once again in 2017, barely months before the 2018 assembly elections, which brought the BJP to power in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/back-in-tripura-abhishek-banerjee-hard-sells-tmc-as-lead-challenger-to-bjp-101641137123272.html
02-01-2022||India||Kerala reports 45 new Omicron Covid-19 cases, tally at 152||Kerala on Sunday reported 45 new cases of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) Covid-19 variant taking the total number of cases due to the variant in the state to 152, the state government said.Of the 45 new cases, 16 were reported from Ernakulam district, 9 from state capital Thiruvananthapuram and six cases from Thrissur. Pathanamthitta added five cases to the state tally while Alappuzha and Kozhikode each added three cases. Malappuram logged two cases and Wayanad saw one case of the variant on the day, state health minister Veena George said.As many as nine patients out of the 45 arrived from ‘high risk’ countries and 32 of them from low risk countries, she added. Remaining four cases (three in Alappuzha and one in Thrissur) were infected through contact.Also read | Mumbai reports 8,063 new Covid casesAccording to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s statement on Sunday morning, Kerala had 109 Omicron cases of which only one patient was discharged as of then. The ministry also said that 1,525 Omicron cases were recorded across the country.The state also saw 2,802 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours and added 78 more fatalities – it included 12 who died in the last few days and 66 more that were designated as Covid-related deaths after new guidelines from the Centre – to its death toll. So far, 5,243,289 confirmed infections and 48,113 deaths have been reported from the state.Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram with 472 cases, Ernakulam with 434 cases and Thrissur with 342 cases added the most to the state’s tally. They were followed by Kozhikode (338 cases), Kottayam (182 cases), Kollam (172 cases), Kannur (158 cases), Malappuram (138 cases), Alappuzha (134 cases), Pathanamthitta (120 cases), Idukki (99 cases), Palakkad (91 cases), Wayanad (80 cases) and Kasargod (42 cases).Close to 98% of the state’s eligible population has been administered at least one dose of the vaccine while 79.3% has been fully immunised against the disease, George said. The state has so far administered 26,162,701 first doses and 21,201,510 second doses.The weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) in six wards across were found to be above 10 and the minister said that there would be “strict restrictions” in these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-45-new-omicron-covid-19-cases-tally-at-152-101641136509503.html
02-01-2022||India||Why Assam govt employees will get leave on Jan 6 and 7. All you need to know||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday urged the government employees to utilise the ‘special holidays’ in spending quality time with their families. "I urge Assam Government t employees to spend quality time with their parents/in-laws on Jan 6 & 7 designated as special holidays," Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma said in a tweet.The state last year in November approved the decision to allow two-day special leave for state governments employees so that they can spend quality time with their family membersIn the notification issued by the General Administration Department of Assam, the government said, "The Assam government is pleased to allow state government employees to avail casual leave on January 6 and 7, 2022, suffixing the two holidays, the 8th and 9th of January 2022, being the 2nd Saturday and Sunday, so as to enable them to spend the aforesaid days with their living parents and parents-in-law."Employees whose parents are not alive will not fall under the given provision. Also, these leaves cannot be availed for any other purpose.From top civil servant to fourth grade, all employees can avail the leave, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-assam-govt-employees-will-get-leave-on-jan-6-and-7-all-you-need-to-know-101641131814967.html
02-01-2022||India||Mumbai reports 8,063 new Covid cases; State surpasses 11k, Omicron 50||Mumbai on Sunday reported 8,063 fresh Covid-19 cases, recording a 27% jump from Saturday when the city logged 6,347 fresh infections, according to BMC data. About 89% of the cases are asymptomatic, the data revealed. No deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Sunday's number for Mumbai is a sharp rise as on Saturday, the entire state recorded around 9,000 fresh cases. As during the previous wave, Mumbai is emerging as a hotspot along with Delhi. West Bengal has put a cap on flight operations from these two cities.On the Omicron front, Maharashtra reported 50 new cases including 36 from Pune city, eight from Pimpri Chinchwad, two each from Pune Rural and Sangli, and one each from Thane and Mumbai. The overall Omicron tally of the state reached 510. The tally of fresh Covid cases in Maharashtra stood at 11,877. According to Maharashtra government data, Mumbai on Sunday reported 7,792 Covid cases.The steady surge is an indication that the Omicron variant is driving the increase and, according to BMC data, Omicron has proved to be the dominant variant in some bunch of samples sent for genome sequencing. Community transmission of Omicron in Mumbai has not been ruled out either by experts.'Stage of lockdown is approaching', says Maharashtra minister amid huge spike in Covid-19 casesThe Maharashtra government is estimating a huge jump in the number of infections in the third wave which many experts believe has already set in. This is primarily because Omicron is known to be more contagious than Delta. Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary (health) has said Maharashtra may report a total of 2 lakh active Covid cases by the third week of January. "Based on the current trend of rising COVID cases in the state, it is expected that we will have about two lakh active cases by the third week of January 2022. Separate instructions are issued for managing these numbers, in case some of them need hospitalisation," he said."Don't be lulled by the narrative that third wave or Omicron wave is mild and not fatal. It's equally fatal for those who are not vaccinated and have comorbidities. So please improve vaccination coverage and save lives," Dr Vyas added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-8-063-new-covid-19-cases-27-higher-than-yesterday-101641132045304.html
02-01-2022||India||‘Killed Pak terrorist, take body’: Indian Army messages Pak on hotline after Kupwara ops||SRINAGAR: A Pakistani terrorist trying to infiltrate into India across the Line of Control (LoC) was killed in Keran sector of Kupwara in Jammu and Kashmir, the Indian Army said on Sunday, accusing Pakistan of breaching the ongoing ceasefire between the two armies.“In a complete breach of the ongoing ceasefire understanding between the two armies across the Line of Control, an infiltration or BAT (Border Action Team) action was attempted in the Keran sector of Kupwara district on January 1. Swift action by the troops deployed at the Line of Control foiled the bid and eliminated the terrorist, later identified as Mohd Shabbir Malik, a Pakistani national,” Major General Abhijit S Pendharkar, GOC 28 division, said at a media briefing in Kupwara.“This clearly establishes that Pakistan continues to sponsor cross border terror. A hotline communication has been made to the Pakistan Army asking them to take back the body of the killed individual,” he said.BAT, according to officials, is said to be a mix of regular Pakistani soldiers and militants who are known for attacks on the Indian army on the border. Pakistan has always denied these allegations.“A search of the belongings revealed Pakistani national identity card and vaccination certificates (issued by Ministry of National Health Services Regulation & Coordination Government of Pakistan) identifying him as Mohd Shabir Malik. The belongings also include a photo of the infiltrator in army uniform wearing name tab of Shabbir,” he said.“The incident site is located on the Pakistani side of the Anti Infiltration Obstacle System, kept under surveillance by the Indian Army to effectively counter any nefarious activity by the infiltrators or Pakistan Army,” the top army commander said.The route adopted by the terrorist was similar to the one adopted on April 4, 2020, during Operation Rangadori Bhaikh in which five terrorists were eliminated.In February 2021, Indian and Pakistan’s militaries agreed to strictly observe a ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control (LoC) after years of tumultuous relationship on the border between the two armies.Pendharkar said in complete breach of the ceasefire understanding arrived at between the director-general of military operation (DGMOs), the armed intruder dressed in Pathani suit and a black jacket was detected moving from areas under the control of the Pakistan Army across the Line of Control at about 3pm on Saturday.“Ambushes were laid along likely routes that could be adopted by the intruder and movement was followed till 1600 hours. The ambush was sprung at the opportune moment and the infiltrator was eliminated. The body of the slain infiltrator was recovered along with one AK 47 and large quantity of ammunition including seven grenades,” he saidThe army said that the surveillance of the area is in progress, denying any “exploitation” of the bad weather condition prevailing in the area.“The operation is ongoing. The route adopted by the terrorist was similar to the one adopted on 04 Apr 20 during Op Rangadori Bhaikh in which five terrorists were eliminated,” he said.In response to a question, the officer said that the intelligence inputs of these areas are always there from where infiltration may be attempted by some terrorists.“We are vigilant to that. There are inputs of some of the launch pads and some terrorists being there. The weather conditions could be exploited as the snow falls and winter sets in when snow is more,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/killed-pak-terrorist-take-body-indian-army-messages-pak-on-hotline-after-kupwara-ops-101641130882729.html
02-01-2022||India||Goa aims to vaccinate all between 15 and 18 years of age in 4 days from Monday, says state minister||With the country’s Covid-19 vaccination drive set to include those between 15 and 18 years of age from Monday (January 3), the Goa state government aims to inoculate all beneficiaries in the age group swiftly.Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane on Sunday said that the stahas received the required number of vaccine doses and intends to administer the first dose of the vaccine to all 72,000 beneficiaries in the particular age group within three or four days starting Monday, when the program will be thrown open to them.“Goa has already received 72,000 doses to vaccinate the children between the age group of 15 to 18 years, which would be administered within 3-4 days from January 3 onwards,” news agency ANI quoted Rane as saying. Further, he also said that medical teams will visit schools if the need arises.Also read | ‘Misleading’: Centre on media reports about missed Covid-19 vaccination targetHis remarks came after a review meeting of Covid-19 situation in the country with Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya. All state health ministers took part in the review, during which the Omicron variant and the vaccination drive – particularly the inoculation of those between 15 and 18 and the precautionary doses previously announced for vulnerable populations.Every adult in the coastal state has been vaccinated with at least one dose of the vaccine already, a feat which the state achieved back in September 2021. However, the state is yet to achieve complete coverage of the second dose.According to data from the Co-WIN dashboard, 2,407,567 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the state as of 6.30pm. This included 1,301,807 first doses and 1,105,760 second doses.Some restrictive measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the state are expected to be announced on Monday, when chief minister Pramod Sawant will hold a meeting with the state task force, Rane said.Among other measures, a genome sequencing machine will be set up in Goa in the next 15 days to speed up testing for the Omicron variant, he added. The samples are now being sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune.On Saturday, the state reported 310 new Covid-19 cases and no new deaths as the total confirmed cases there reached 181,182 and the death toll remained unchanged at 3,522, a bulletin from the state showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-aims-to-vaccinate-all-between-15-and-18-years-of-age-in-4-days-from-monday-says-state-minister-101641129305572.html
02-01-2022||India||Delhi's Covid positivity rate rises to 4.59%, 1,621 containment zones in city||With 3,194 Covid cases recorded in the last 24 hours, the positivity rate in the national capital on Sunday stood at 4.59%.  This is the highest single-day spike since May 20, 2021. The number of containment zones in the city has reached 1,621, the bulletin released by the health department revealed. That the numbers will breach 3,000 was already told by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in his press meet held earlier in the day, during which he said that despite the spike in the numbers, there is no need to panic as hospitals in the capital are not occupied and most patients are asymptomatic. "Currently, the number of active cases in the city is 6,360 and today (Sunday) 3,100 new cases are expected to be reported. All cases are mild and in most of the patients don't need hospitalisation," Kejriwal said."I am presenting this data to show that the coronavirus cases at present are very mild and there is no need to panic. We have to act responsibly, wear masks, wash hands regularly and follow social distancing norms," Kejriwal said.According to government data, out of 9,024 beds in hospitals, 8,717 are vacant. In dedicated Covid care centres, 3,996 beds are lying vacant, while 4,759 patients are under home isolation. About four cases in the Capital at present are severe and 94 are on oxygen support.The rise in the number of Covid cases in Delhi comes as part of the overall surge that the country at present is witnessing, possibly because of the Omicron variant. The R-value which denotes the transmission rate of the infection is over 2 in Delhi, which means every 100 infected people are spreading the infection to over 200 people.A yellow alert has been announced in the city closing theatres and regulating public transport. However, marketplaces that are operating on an odd-even basis witness a huge crowd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-covid-positivity-rate-rises-to-4-59-1-621-containment-zones-in-city-101641126918727.html
02-01-2022||India||HT This Day: Jan 3, 1950 - Cooch-Behar merges with W. Bengal||The 450-year-old Cooch-Behar State, whose administration had been taken over by the Government of India in September last, was finally merged yesterday with West Bengal.Hundreds of people from different parts of the State and from West Bengal were present at a public meeting held here in the morning when the West Bengal Premier, Dr B. C. Roy, explained the implications of the integration and welcomed the citizens of the State into West Bengal as also into the constitutional set-up of the Indian Union. A large number of officials of the provincial Government and the State were also present at the meeting. Dr Roy assured the people of Cooch-Behar he would do everything possible to ameliorate their condition. The Premier declared that for historical, as well as for sentimental reasons, Cooch-Behar would be maintained as a separate district with headquarters at Cooch-Behar. Representation would be given to the people of Cooch-Behar in the provincial legislature on the population basis. As regards the future of the State employees, Dr Roy said that all State servants would be absorbed in West Bengal Government service on terms not less advantageous than those under the State regime. In case, however, it was found necessary to discharge any person, adequate compensation would be paid to him. Dr Roy also announced the decision of the Government to spend the balance of the State treasury on the date of merger (amounting to about ₹1.5 crores) on nation building schemes for the benefit of the people of Cooch-Behar. PEOPLE WELCOMED Welcoming the people of the State into West Bengal, the Premier said that socially and ethnologically the people of Cooch-Behar had close affinities with the people of the Jalpaiguri area in West Bengal. Besides its indigenous population, the State had a good proportion of Bengalis, Beharis and Marwaris, who had resided here for generations. The court language of the State was Bengali. Dr Roy said that with the advent of independence in India, the forces responsible for bringing this freedom travelled to and affected the people of the States. Fortunately, the Rulers, on their part, recognized the changes that were coming on and adjusted themselves to these forces. “Therefore we have witnessed the fact that within a few months of on independence, smaller States have been consolidated into sizeable units and democratic institutions and responsible governments have been introduced in them. Thus it was possible for the Government of India to utilize those forces for purposes of integration and bring about a united India in which the Indian Union and the States and their respective citizens will have full scope to co-operate and develop the country as one unit.” The meeting over, Dr Roy proceeded to the State Secretariat, where he formally took over charge from the Chief Commissioner, Mr V. L Nanjappa, who had been administering the State on behalf of the Government of India. A Calcutta Gazette Extraordinary published the West Bengal Government’s notification declaring that the Chief Commissioner’s province of Cooch-Behar be constituted into district in West Bengal and divide the district into the following subdivisions: Cooch-Behar Sadar, Dinhata, Mathabhanga, Tufaganj and Mekliganj. The notification further adds that the district of Cooch-Behar will form part of the presidency division in West Bengal. Mr V. I. Nanjappa, Chief Commissioner. Cooch-Behar, has been appointed, until further orders, district magistrate and collector. KATJU’S BROADCAST The Governor of West Bengal, Dr K. N. Katju, broadcasting from the Calcutta station of All India Radio last night said that the merger of the States into larger unions of neighbouring provinces was a historic and political necessity. Congratulating the people of Cooch-Behar and West Bengal on this “auspicious occasion when a great destiny was bringing them together into one whole,” the Governor said that ever since his arrival in Bengal, 18 months ago, he had more and more realized the depth of the attachment, in which the people of West Bengal held their brethren in Cooch-Behar and the intensity of the longing for the union which had now happily taken place. On their side the Cooch-Beharis had always considered Calcutta as their metropolis and had deeply cherished the bonds, economic and cultural, which bound them to this great city. It was, therefore, a matter for rejoicing that their brethren of Cooch-Behar were opening a new chapter in their history and starting upon a much larger and richer life. Lying between Assam and West Bengal, Cooch-Behar has been an area of over 1,300 square miles with a population of 6,50,000. The revenue of the State, according to this year’s budget, amounts to ₹1.11 crores. In the matter of food production the State is a surplus area, producing about 3 lakhs maunds of paddy annually. It grows the best kind of tobacco in this part of the country, fetching a revenue of ₹40 lakhs annually as export duty. It also produces about 52,000 bales of jute. Although the existing administrative set-up of the State will not be disturbed in the immediate future, Cooch-Behar will form a district of the presidency division of West Bengal. The present Chief Commissioner, Mr Nanjappa, will act as administrator of the district. There will be a period of transition from three to six months before the State becomes a full-fledged district. SARDAR’S MESSAGE Sardar Patel in a message said that the decision to merge the State with West Bengal was taken by the Government of India only after they were convinced that interests of her people would be thus better served. “The interests of the people of Cooch-Behar and of the country at large demand that the people should now take to the task of consolidation with West Bend with faith and determination,” he said. The message which was read by the Chief Commissioner of Cooch-Behar, expressed confidence that the West Bengal Government would realize the special responsibility that they owed to the people of Cooch-Behar for their progress and prosperity. Sardar Patel said: “I can assure them that the Central Government will continue to watch their future in West Bengal with lively interest. “Cooch-Behar has had old connections and associations with West Bengal. Though partition has somewhat affected the closeness of that association, it has also emphasized the need for consolidation. They should have faith not only in the assurances given to them by the Government of West Bengal, of which they have already given an earnest in the specific obligations that they have accepted and which were announced in the Press note issued by the Government of India, but also in the vigilance and watchful attention of the Central Government in their welfare. They should have determination to see that their own interests are fully safeguarded under the new dispensation and to ensure that they play their due part in the great responsibility that they owe to the country as whole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-jan-3-1950-cooch-behar-merges-with-w-bengal-101641124462348.html
02-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: West Bengal to operate flights twice weekly to Delhi, Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.West Bengal to operate flights from Delhi, Mumbai twice a week from TuesdayAmid rising concerns over the Omicron situation in India, the West Bengal government said on Sunday that the state will operate flights from Delhi and Mumbai – two regions that have reported an alarming number of cases of the highly transmissible variant – only twice a week on Mondays and Fridays. Read MorePM Modi in Meerut, lays foundation of Major Dhyan Chand Sports UniversityPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday laid the foundation stone of the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut, inaugurating a major developmental work of his government in the new year. Read MoreLara Dutta on Steve Harvey asking Harnaaz Sandhu to meow: 'The idea of it wasn't to ask India a bizarre question'Lara Dutta, actor and former Miss Universe, has opened up about Miss Universe 2021 host Steve Harvey asking Harnaaz Sandhu to mimic an animal at the event. Read MoreIND vs SA 2nd Test: Rishabh Pant four catches away from joining MS Dhoni in elusive wicketkeeper's clubYet another Test match offers young India wicketkeeper Rishabh Pant to script another elusive wicketkeeping century to join the legendary MS Dhoni in an elusive list. Read MoreTata Motors successfully hives off its passenger vehicles businessTata Motors has successfully hived off and transferred its entire passenger vehicle undertaking to Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles Ltd. Read MoreStuck in survival mode? Signs to watch out forDo you struggle to deal with intrusive, racing and compulsive thoughts and constantly feel the need to keep going even though you are exhausted to the core? Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-west-bengal-to-operate-flights-twice-weekly-to-delhi-mumbai-and-all-the-latest-news-101641120839920.html
02-01-2022||India||‘Misleading’: Centre on media reports about missed Covid-19 vaccination target in India||The Union health ministry on Sunday responded to media reports about India missing its Covid-19 vaccination target – to vaccinate all eligible adults by the end of 2021 – and said that such reports were “misleading and does not represent the complete picture”.Further, the ministry also compared the progress of the country’s immunisation program to that of other countries like the USA, the UK, France and Spain.“In the fight against global pandemic COVID-19, India’s national COVID-19 Vaccination programme has been one of the most successful and largest vaccination programmes compared with the many developed western nations with significantly low population base to vaccinate,” the ministry said in a statement.Also read | Omicron acts as natural vaccine? Experts say notion rooted in ‘pandemic fatigue’According to the data furnished by the ministry, 90% of the eligible population has been administered the first dose of the vaccine and the coverage is at 65% for the second dose.The 90% first dose coverage was higher than that of the USA (73.2%), the UK (75.9%), France (78.3%) and Spain (84.7%), the ministry said. However, the UK, France and Spain were ahead of India in their respective second dose coverage, the ministry’s data showed. The US, with 61.5% second dose coverage, was the only country behind India in the list shared by the ministry.“Further, over 11 states/UTs in India has already achieved 100% of 1st dose vaccination, while 3 States/UTs have already achieved 100% full vaccination (both 1st and 2nd dose) against COVID-19. Many States/UTs are soon expected to achieve 100% vaccination very quickly,” the ministry also said.The ministry’s remarks came after a recent media report in the BBC on December 31, titled “Covid-19: How India missed its vaccination target”, said that India missed its vaccination target of inoculating its entire adult population of 940 million with two doses.BJP leader Prakash Javadekar first made the claim of full vaccination by the end of 2021 in May 2021, when he was an Union minister, the report said. Javadekar had made the remarks previously in response to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who had criticised the vaccination drive.Notably, health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a written reply to Parliament back in July 2021, said that there was no fixed time-frame for the completion of the vaccination drive, however, also noted that the Centre expected all beneficiaries above 18 to be jabbed by December 2021.As of 7am on Sunday, 1,454,413,005 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the country. With the vaccination drive set to include people in the 15 to 18 years age group, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya discussed the vaccine rollout in this age group and also the Omicron variant with state health ministers on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misleading-centre-on-media-reports-about-missed-covid-19-vaccination-target-in-india-101641121960599.html
02-01-2022||India||Only 1 woman member in panel that will examine bill to raise legal marriage age||Trinamool MP Sushmita Dev is the only woman member of the parliamentary panel that will examine the Prohibition on Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill seeking to increase the age of legal marriage of women from 18 to 21 years. During the winter session of Parliament, the bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha by Union minister Smriti Irani. Then it was sent to the 31-member committee for examination. According to the members' list of the parliamentary standing committee, led by senior BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, available on the Rajya Sabha website, Sushmita Dev is the only woman among the 31 members."I wish there were more women MPs in the committee but having said that we will make sure all interest groups are heard," the MP told PTI.NCP MP Supriya Sule said the chairman of the panel has the power to invite other women MPs for a more inclusive and wider discussion.The proposed bill has already become controversial with several MPs terming the bill as an infringement on several personal laws as the bill will amend seven personal laws -- the Indian Christian Marriage Act; the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act; the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act; the Special Marriage Act; the Hindu Marriage Act; and the Foreign Marriage Act.“Equality of women in our country needs to be seen in [terms of] age of marriage. Invoking marriage laws of different faiths, I rise to introduce the amendment bill. This amendment gives equality to men and women in allowing both to marry at 21. Our research shows that 2.1 million child marriages had to be stopped and many underage girls were found pregnant. So you are stopping right to equality," Smriti Irani had said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-1-woman-member-in-panel-that-will-examine-bill-to-raise-legal-marriage-age-101641121115901.html
02-01-2022||India||In fresh Covid-19 curbs, Bengal cuts flights from Delhi and Mumbai to twice a week||Amid rising concerns over the Omicron situation in India, the West Bengal government said on Sunday that the state will operate flights from Delhi and Mumbai – two regions that have reported an alarming number of cases of the highly transmissible variant – only twice a week on Mondays and Fridays. All the airlines operating flights from Delhi and Mumbai to Kolkata and elsewhere in the state have been intimated regarding the new directives, which will come into effect from Tuesday, that is, January 5.Also Read | West Bengal announces fresh Covid-19 curbs; schools, colleges shut from tomorrow. Details here“West Bengal to operate flights from Delhi and Mumbai only twice a week, which will be on Monday and Friday, with effect from January 5,” said the state's chief secretary HK Dwivedi, while announcing the fresh coronavirus-related restrictive measures, on part of the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government, on Sunday.Notably, the West Bengal government had earlier this week written to the central government announcing its decision to suspend the once-a-week direct flight between Kolkata and London, considering the rising number of Omicron variant cases in the United Kingdom.The decision was taken after a high-level meeting of the state government, in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee met top officials of the administration and public health experts, and discussed the high incidence of Omicron cases among in-bound flyers.The last flight from London's Heathrow airport to Kolkata's Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport lands on Sunday, i.e. January 2, after which the service will remain suspended. According to airlines officials, this puts passengers intending to avail international travel in a fix since it would entail a “logistical nightmare” to accommodate all the passengers in flights operating from other Indian cities.Now, the reduction in flight services from Delhi and Mumbai to Kolkata from January 5 is only expected to compound the problem further.Also Read | West Bengal suspends UK flights to Kolkata from January 3 amid Covid spikeAmong other Covid-19-related restrictions that the West Bengal government announced today are shutting down all educational institutions from Monday and allowing offices to operate with 50 per cent workforce.Local trains would be allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity till 7 pm, while all shopping malls and markets would be allowed to remain open till 10 pm but with half their capacities. Long-distance trains will operate as per their usual schedule. Metro trains in Kolkata will also operate as per their usual timing but with 50 per cent capacity.All tourist attractions, including the zoos, would remain closed. Besides, swimming pools, parlours, spas, wellness centers and gyms were also told to shut down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-to-operate-flights-from-delhi-mumbai-twice-a-week-from-tuesday-101641119076931.html
02-01-2022||India||Stray dogs attack minor girl in Bhopal, captured on CCTV||A minor girl was injured after some stray dogs attacked her in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal city, officials said on Sunday. The girl, about two to three years' old, was later rescued by a man and admitted to a hospital, they said. The incident, which took place on Saturday evening in Bag Sewania locality, was captured on a CCTV and the footage went viral on social media platforms. In the clip, five dogs were seen charging at the girl while she was running away in panic after being chased. The canines were seen pulling her down on the road and biting her. A man then came to her rescue and chased away the dogs by hurling stones at them. The girl received wounds on her head and face. She has been admitted to the government-run Hamidia Hospital, police inspector Sanjeev Chouksey said, adding that they came to know about the incident through social media. A policeman was sent to the hospital to enquire about the girl's identity and health. So far, no one has complained to police about the incident, he said. “The girl is two to three years' old. She is being given proper medical treatment. She is alright," Bhopal Municipal Corporation Commissioner KVS Choudary told PTI. Denying that the stray dog menace has gone up in the state capital, he said the canine sterilisation programme was paused only for two-three months last year during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic. At least 30 to 40 dogs are being sterilised daily since over a month, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stray-dogs-attack-minor-girl-in-bhopal-captured-on-cctv-101641117598578.html
02-01-2022||India||Nawab Malik says BJP leaders lobbying for Sameer Wankhede's extension at NCB||On December 31, Sameer Wankhede's term as the NCB Mumbai zone chief ended. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Sunday claimed that some influential BJP leaders from Maharashtra are lobbying for the extension of his term at the level of the Union home ministry. "Despite negative report against Sameer Wankhede for his wrongdoings, some influential BJP leaders are pursuing with the Union Home Ministry to change his negative report to positive and get him an extension in NCB. Let them do that. After the order is issued, we will seek information under the RTI and expose the manner in which it has been done," Nawab Malik whose son-in-law was also arrested by NCB last year said.After superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB in a drugs case, Nawab Malik brought a series of allegations against NCB and Sameer Wankhede. On Sunday, Nawab Malik released two audiotapes where Wankhede is purportedly speaking with witnesses asking them to give their backdated signatures. "I have released two audiotapes consisting of conversations between the witnesses and the NCB officers. NCB is putting pressure on the witnesses to come to the office and sign in the matter. Already panchanama (record) has been completed but now NCB is demanding backdated signature from the witnesses," Nawab Malik said.Commenting on the audio clips released by Nawab Malik, an NCB official said to news agency PTI that the person 'Maddy', who is talking to an NCB officer (in the audio clip), is one of the witnesses in a case. "At the time of filing a charge sheet, we call such witnesses. There is nothing like signing (back-dated) papers or any other documents. Whatever allegations the minister is making are false and baseless. We have not threatened anyone for anything," the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-says-bjp-leaders-lobbying-for-sameer-wankhede-s-extension-at-ncb-101641117885323.html
02-01-2022||India||Nitish Kumar govt slammed by Tejashwi Yadav over NITI Aayog ranking of Bihar||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday slammed Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over Bihar's low ranking in NITI Aayog's poverty index baseline report and said that the "double-engine" government is responsible for this.While extending greetings for New Year, Yadav spoke to the media and said, "Whom do you hold responsible for Bihar being at the lowest in terms of education, health, unemployment and others if not the double engine government of the Chief Minister?""Who would be answerable if not them? They have 40 of 40 MPs in the state, it's a double engine government, then if not them, who would be answerable?" he further questioned.Calling out the state government for not remembering its promise of providing 19 lakh jobs, opposed to RJD's promise of 10 lakh jobs, Yadav said, "In the state where people are already dealing with things like floods and drought, inflated prices, the government should have provided them with the promised 19 lakh jobs.""I do not ask them to give it every year, but at least give it for one year; at least remember the promises you make," he added.As per the Niti Aayog's Multi-dimensional Poverty Index (MPI), Bihar has the highest proportion of "multidimensionally poor" people; 51.91 per cent of the state's population.Poverty, under MPI, was measured on three equally weighted dimensions - health, education, and standard of living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-govt-slammed-by-tejashwi-yadav-over-niti-aayog-ranking-of-bihar-101641115885947.html
02-01-2022||India||Cases during the farm protests that the Delhi Police posited, but now hang fire||The three farm laws against which farmers protested for over a year at the Delhi borders have been scrapped. The three border roads connecting Delhi with the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are open and the farmers have returned to their villages. For almost a year, Delhi police and the farmers stood on opposite sides on the three borders in Delhi, Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur, separated by iron barricades, nails, and barbed wires.
02-01-2022||India||'Communal hatred will stop only when': Rahul Gandhi on 'auction' of Muslim women||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday raised his voice against the application 'auctioning' Muslim women which has already triggered action and outrage, saying the humiliation and communal hatred against women will stop only when all stand in one voice against it. "The year has changed, the situation has also changed -- now we have to speak," Rahul Gandhi tweeted. After a Delhi-based journalist filed a complaint with the Delhi Police against a questionable website for uploading her doctored photos, several politicians condemned it. The Delhi Police registered an FIR on Saturday night.What is ‘Bulli Bai’, the controversial app targeting Muslim women on social media?IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said the app has been blocked and further action was being coordinated. "GitHub confirmed blocking the user this morning itself. CERT and Police authorities are coordinating further action," the minister said. महिलाओं का अपमान और सांप्रदायिक नफ़रत तभी बंद होंगे जब हम सब एक आवाज़ में इसके ख़िलाफ़ खड़े होंगे।साल बदला है, हाल भी बदलो- अब बोलना होगा!#NoFear"I was shocked to find out this morning that a website/portal called bullibai.github.io (since deleted) had a doctored picture of me in an improper, unacceptable and clearly lewd context. This needs immediate action, as the same is clearly designed to harass me and other similarly situated independent women and journalists," the woman journalist said in her complaint.A senior Delhi police officer said the case has been registered under sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 354 A (sexual harassment and punishment for harassment) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the journalist alleging that she is being targeted by an unidentified group of people on "Bulli Bai" portal.The police said no arrests have been made in the case so far and a probe is underway.This is not the first time that Muslim women have been targeted by online platforms. Around six months ago, Sulli Deals -- Bulli Bai is believed to be a clone of that -- used to collect photos of Muslim women from their social media accounts and 'auction' them. Both the apps were created by unidentified groups on GitHub. In the Sulli Deals controversy, two FIRs were filed by the Delhi and the Uttar Pradesh Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communal-hatred-will-stop-only-when-rahul-gandhi-on-auction-of-muslim-women-101641113252320.html
02-01-2022||India||PM Modi in Meerut, lays foundation of Major Dhyan Chand Sports University||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday laid the foundation stone of the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut, inaugurating a major developmental work of his government in the new year.Addressing the public at the foundation-laying ceremony in Meerut, the Prime Minister congratulated everyone for welcoming in 2022 and said that it has been quite significant for him to visit Meerut at the beginning of the new year.“Meerut is a center of our strength and culture,” said the Prime Minister. “It is the land of Jain tirthankaras and has shown us the strength of India ever since the time of the Indus valley civilisation.”Also noting the fact that field hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand, after who the sports university is named, was based out of Meerut, the Prime Minister said, “His [Major Dhyan Chand's] name has ‘dhyan’, which means focus, without which no one can gain success. The youth here will do well.” An official release by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has noted that the sports university is being established at an estimated cost of ₹700 crore at the Salawa and Kaili villages of the Sardhana town in Meerut. It will have the capacity of training 1,080 sportspersons, including 540 women and 540 men.“This modern university would be one of the best of its types in the entire world,” Modi said. “Along with sporting facilities, it would also help in nurturing the careers of over 1,000 youth and turn them into successful sportspersons.”The Major Dhyan Chand Sports University has been planned with all the modern, state-of-the-art sports infrastructure – including a synthetic hockey ground, football ground, separate grounds for basketball, volleyball, handball, and kabaddi.It also includes a lawn tennis court, gymnasium hall, a synthetic running stadium, swimming pool, a multipurpose hall, and a cycling velodrome.According to the government release, the university will also house facilities for shooting, squash, gymnastics, weightlifting, archery, canoeing, and kayaking, among other facilities.Modi had earlier said that inculcating sporting culture and establishing a world-class sporting infrastructure in all parts of the country is one of the key areas of focus for his government. The establishment of the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in the poll-bound state is expected to be a major step towards fulfilling this vision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-in-meerut-lays-foundation-of-major-dhyan-chand-sports-university-101641113163055.html
02-01-2022||India||Indian in Singapore kills compatriot with wooden plank on New Year’s Day||An Indian has been arrested in Singapore for allegedly killing a compatriot with a wooden plank embedded with nails following a dispute on New Year's Day, a media report said on Sunday.Paneer Vetrivel, 26, is alleged to have hit Rajendran Shanmugasundran, 37, with the plank near 20 Woodlands Industrial Park E1 between 1 AM and 1.25 AM on January 1, The Straits Times newspaper reported.He was charged with voluntarily causing grievous hurt by a dangerous weapon at a migrant workers' dormitory in a special sitting of the Criminal Mentions Court on Sunday.The report said Paneer faces a charge of fatally attacking the man with a wooden plank embedded with nails on New Year's Day.If convicted of voluntarily causing grievous hurt with a dangerous weapon, he can be jailed for life and caned, or jailed for up to 15 years, caned and fined, it said.The police said that they were involved in a dispute at the dormitory in Woodlands Industrial Park.Officers were alerted to the fight at about 1.25 AM and found Rajendran lying motionless on the ground with head injuries. He was rushed to hospital where he later died.Paneer was arrested and has been remanded for further investigations.His case is expected to come up in court again on January 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-in-singapore-kills-compatriot-with-wooden-plank-on-new-year-s-day-101641110157833.html
02-01-2022||India||Severe cold wave grips north India, mercury drops to freezing levels in these states||A severe cold wave condition continued to prevail in several parts of the country on Sunday with temperatures dropping to freezing levels in the past few hours.In Delhi, the cold weather was accompanied by very poor air quality levels, making it worse for street-dwellers and others. Besides, most other north Indian states reported bone-chilling temperatures.Following are some details of prevailing weather conditions in major states:New Delhi - The national capital woke up to a foggy morning where the temperature dipped to 7.4 degrees celsius.Jammu & Kashmir - Light to moderate snowfall in most places of the Valley pushed the mercury closer to the freezing pointUttar Pradesh - The mercury dipped to a low of four degrees Celsius in several parts of the country’s most populated state. Dense fog could be seen in a few pockets over east Uttar Pradesh.Punjab & Haryana - Both the states witnessed an average minimum temperature of 8 degrees Celsius. Hisar in Haryana saw a record low of 2 degrees Celsius.Himachal Pradesh - The Himalayan state reported below normal temperature at many places with the mercury dropping to -1.6 to -3.1 degrees Celsius.West Bengal - Sub-Himalayan Bengal also saw freezing temperatures even as capital Kolkata remained temperate at 20 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-cold-wave-grips-north-india-mercury-drops-to-freezing-levels-in-these-states-101641109152967.html
02-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Security tightened in Shimla after terror attack intel, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Himachal: Security beefed up in Shimla after intel inputs on terror attackIn the wake of threat perception from a Pakistan-based militant group, security has been beefed up on The Ridge and Mall Road in Shimla. Read MoreIndia readies first aerosports policy, proposes an ambitious target for 2030The civil aviation ministry on Saturday released a draft National Aerosports Policy (NASP 2022) to leverage India’s ‘huge’ potential for air sports given its large geographical expanse, diverse topography and fair weather conditions. Read More'Let it go, team just won a Test': Furious ex-PAK skipper slams Chetan for 'unnecessary, uncalled for' Kohli statementFormer Pakistan captain Salman Butt was left furious with BCCI chief selector Chetan Sharma's clarification on Virat Kohli on Friday, opining the the statement was “totally unnecessary, uncalled for, not required at this stage” with Team India present part of a Test series in South Africa. Read MoreSonam Kapoor's casual skirt-blouse set for New Year bash with Anand Ahuja is worth a fortune, it costs...Actor Sonam Kapoor and her husband, Anand Ahuja, celebrated New Year 2022 with their friends at their London home. Sonam had posted several pictures from the celebrations on her Instagram page on January 1. Read MoreSunny Leone says she tried to walk out of infamous 2016 TV interview, was hurt ‘nobody stopped it'Sunny Leone has opened up on the controversial interview she was part of back in 2016 when she was subject to a barrage of inappropriate and sexist questions from a veteran journalist. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-security-tightened-in-shimla-after-terror-attack-intel-and-all-the-latest-news-101641106317560.html
02-01-2022||India||Omicron acts as natural vaccine? Experts say notion rooted in ‘pandemic fatigue’||Experts have dismissed the claim of the Omicron variant of coronavirus being a natural vaccine as a “dangerous idea” by irresponsible people who don’t take long Covid into account. The Omicron causing milder infections and less hospitalisation and deaths have led to the notion that the new variant of concern may act as a natural vaccine. A Maharashtra health official recently said that the new variant spread faster than Delta, but there have been few hospitalisations."We hope this trend continues. If this happens, Omicron will act as a natural vaccination and may help in its (COVID-19) progression towards the endemic stage," state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate told PTI.Noted virologist Shahid Jameel said it is a dangerous idea spread by irresponsible people."It breeds complacency and is rooted more in pandemic fatigue and the inability to do more, than in evidence available at this time," PTI quoted Jameel as saying.Jameel said that those propagating the natural vaccine theory don’t take into account the effects of “long Covid”."Especially in India, where malnutrition, air pollution and diabetes are rampant, to willingly let people be exposed to a virus about which you understand little is not good science and public health," he added.Giridhara R Babu, the head of Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India, urged people to stay away from this misinformation, saying there have been deaths and hospitalisations due to the Omicron variant.“Compared to vaccination, natural infection cannot protect the population (against death or hospitalisation) against any variant (Alpha, Beta, Gamma or Delta). Proponents of herd immunity are saying it again that Omicron would provide herd immunity. Evidence matters, not opinions," he said.Shuchin Bajaj, founder-director, Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals, cautioned about the long term effects of the disease."It has been shown that it can be seen persisting for more than six months in various other organs in addition to lungs, like heart and brain and kidneys etc, even after very mild infections. So we don't really know what long term effects it can cause. We are already seeing a lot of long COVID patients with brain fogging, inappropriate sinus tachycardia," he said."So we should not really think of this as a vaccine. It's not really a vaccine, we have had deaths due to Omicron. We have had ICU admissions due to Omicron. So it is a much milder version compared to Delta but still, it is a virus and we need to be careful," he added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-acts-as-natural-vaccine-experts-say-notion-rooted-in-pandemic-fatigue-101641107770257.html
02-01-2022||India||Delhi collects ₹99 lakh for COVID-19 violations on New year||Over ₹99 lakhs was collected in fines and 66 FIRs were registered on the first day of 2022, Saturday for violation of COVID-19 protocols, following the enforcement of 'Yellow alert' restrictions in the national capital, said the Delhi government.A total of ₹99.34 lakh were collected as challans in the entire city.Most numbers of violations were reported in North, East, and Central Delhi for not wearing masks in the public on Saturday.As many as 689 incidents of violation of COVID-19 guidelines were registered in North Delhi, 629 in East Delhi and 620 in Central Delhi.On Saturday, Delhi also recorded 5,085 cases of violations.This came as the national capital continue to record a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases following the emergence of the Omicron variant.Delhi reported 2,716 new COVID-19 cases during the last 24 hours, witnessing its highest single-day spike since May 2021.As per a bulletin issued by the health department on Saturday, the positivity rate for the day mounted to 3.64 per cent. A total of 74,622 samples were tested during the last 24 hours, up from 73,590 on Friday.With this, the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the national capital has gone up to 14,50,927. There are currently 6,360 active COVID-19 cases in the national capital. Out of these, 3,248 are currently in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-collects-rs-99-lakh-for-covid-19-violations-on-new-year-101641107019852.html
02-01-2022||India||Odisha puts off resuming physical classes for primary students amid Covid surge||Bhubaneswar: Odisha on Sunday put on hold its decision to resume in-persn classes for primary school students from January 3, Monday, in view of a sharp increase of Covid-19 cases over the past few days, the state government announced as the state reported 424 new Covid cases, its highest in 2 months. Odisha last reported 400 cases on October 30 when 488 new cases were detected on a single day. The state has so far detected 14 cases of infection by Omicron variant of Covid.Over 20,000 primary schools were scheduled to reopen for physical classes on January 3, followed by another 3,093 schools on January 10, according to the schedule announced by the government.“As a lot of parents and guardians expressed their reservations and owing to the rise in Covid-19 cases, the state government has decided to postpone the reopening of primary schools,” said school and mass education minister Sameer Ranjan Dash.Officials said many schools that opened the schools for classes 6-10 are finding it difficult to maintain social distancing norms in classrooms due to lack of space, forcing teachers to make them sit close to each other. School and mass education department officials however said the physical mode of teaching for classes 6 to 10 students will continue as per the previous schedule. Similarly, the summative assessment examination for class 10 students will be conducted as per schedule by the Board of Secondary Education between January 5 and 8.After the second wave of Covid infections started in April, physical classes across Odisha were suspended. physical classes resumed for classes 10 and 12 students in July while the same for class 9 students resumed on August 16. Classroom teaching for class 8 and 11 began on October 25. Students of classes 6 and 7 returned to classrooms from November 15. Dash said the decision to postpone the reopening of primary schools has been taken following consultations with stakeholders, health experts and the feedback from parents.The Odisha Board of Secondary Education has already reduced the syallabus of Class 9 and 10 by more than 33% after the disruption in the academic calendar. It also unveiled a scheme of assessment for the session 2021-22 for classes 9 and 10 students under which internal assessments will be done by the class/ subject teachers periodically in continuous manner in the form of formative assessments.Formative assessments for class 10 students were conducted in the first week of September and November while two more formative assessments are likely to be conducted in January and March. The same format would be adopted for class 9 students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-puts-off-resuming-physical-classes-for-primary-students-amid-covid-surge-101641107360512.html
02-01-2022||India||Aviation ministry to formulate air sports policy, set up apex body||The government plans to formulate a national air sports policy as well as set up an apex body for air sports.The civil aviation ministry has sought comments from the public on the draft National Air Sports Policy (NASP 2022) till January 31.The plan is to promote air sports by making it "safe, affordable, accessible, enjoyable and sustainable", according to the ministry.The policy will cover sports like aerobatics, aeromodelling, amateur-built and experimental aircraft, ballooning, drones, skydiving and vintage aircraft.Under the policy, an Air Sports Federation of India (ASFI) will be established as the apex governing body while associations for each air sport will handle day to day activities.The air sports associations will be accountable to ASFI with respect to the regulatory oversight.Further, ASFI shall represent India at FAI and other global platforms related to air sports. The Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI), headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland is the world governing body for air sports. "The vision is to make India one of the top air sports nations by 2030," the ministry said.The draft has been prepared by a committee comprising senior officials from the Union government, Indian armed forces, Aero Club of India, National Cade Corps and air sports experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-to-formulate-air-sports-policy-101641105919814.html
02-01-2022||India||Delhi may see 3,100 new Covid cases today, but no need to panic: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the national capital is expected to see 3,100 new Covid-19 cases during the day even as he urged citizens to not panic.“Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly in Delhi, but there is no need to panic. Currently, the active cases in the city are 6360. Today, 3100 new cases are expected to be reported. Only 246 hospital beds were occupied yesterday. All cases are mild and asymptomatic,” he said while addressing the media.The chief minister said most of the new cases being reported in Delhi are mild or asymptomatic, adding only 82 oxygen beds have been occupied so far.“As of now, only 82 oxygen beds in hospitals are occupied. The Delhi government is prepared with 37,000 beds. I just want to tell you that all new cases are with mild symptoms and are asymptomatic and so there is no need to panic," he said.Also read | Capital sounds ‘yellow alert’, adds more curbsOn January 1, Delhi recorded a huge surge of 2,716 fresh Covid-19 cases, a spike of 920 infections when compared to the previous day's tally of 1,796.This was the biggest jump in single-day case count in the national capital since May 21 when 3,009 infections were logged amid the second wave of the pandemic.Delhi also has the second-highest number of Omicron cases at 315, only behind Maharashtra. Of these, 57 patients have been discharged.A yellow alert was sounded in the capital last week in the wake of rising cases.According to Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) orders issued on Tuesday, schools, colleges, movie theatres and gyms will remain shut, and markets and shopping malls will operate on an odd-even basis.Further, the night curfew in the capital has been extended from 10pm to 5am as part of the first phase of the graded response action plan as the number of people infected with the Omicron variant continued to rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-may-see-3100-new-covid-cases-but-no-need-to-panic-says-cm-kejriwal-101641105700341.html
02-01-2022||India||13 students test covid positive in Jammu: Vaishno Devi University closed||Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi have ordered the closure of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University till further orders after 13 students tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Sunday.The decision to close the university located at Kakriyal near Katra town, the base camp for the pilgrims visiting Vaishno Devi shrine, was taken to contain the spread and ensure the safety of the students and general public, an order issued by Reasi District Magistrate Charandeep Singh said.The order said the screening for COVID-19 was conducted at the university on December 31, 2021, and January 1, during which a total of 13 students have tested positive.Ordering immediate closure of the university till further orders, Singh, who is also chairman of the district disaster management authority, said: "any violation of the order shall invite punitive action under section 188 of Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005".Jammu and Kashmir have recorded 169 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the infection count to 3,41,459, while two more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,530.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-students-test-covid-positive-in-jammu-vaishno-devi-university-closed-101641103387450.html
02-01-2022||India||Delhi-bound Spicejet flight takes off from Rajkot sans ATC clearance, probe on||A SpiceJet passenger flight took off from Delhi from Gujarat's Rajkot in the last week of December without the mandatory clearance from the Air Traffic Control (ATC).A probe has now been ordered by the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and the pilots have been de-rostered pending the investigation.An ANI report, quoting the Rajkot airport director, said the incident happened on December 30, 2021. “The pilots had not taken the mandatory take-off permission from the ATC Rajkot. A detailed report has been sent to the Airports Authority of India headquarters and the DGCA," the director said.According to the flight schedule, SG-3703 was on time for taking off for Delhi, but it was observed by ATC that the pilots flew without taking the mandatory permission for take-off."Through its communication, the Rajkot ATC asked the pilots as to how they flew without take-off permission… In response, the pilots apologised and said that there was a mistake. This conversation took place when the plane took off," a senior official of the Airport Authority of India was quoted as saying by the news agency.According to a report in the Times of India, a pilot said the investigation will ascertain how the lapse happened and who was at fault. "Was it a communication gap, error or something else. This needs to be seen as such a thing cannot be allowed to be repeated. As per Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), mandatory take-off permission is required for any aircraft from ATC before the flight takes off, whether the runway is secured or not or any other aircraft not arriving for an emergency.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-flight-takes-off-from-rajkot-sans-atc-clearance-for-delhi-probe-on-101641103438969.html
02-01-2022||India||West witnessing worrying Omicron-driven Covid surge. Death rate is silver lining||The record daily case of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the United States this week has caused fresh concerns about the Omicron variant as it continues to spread rapidly across the globe. The United Kingdom, France and the US have been witnessing an exponential surge in Covid-19 cases, with Britain reporting over 2,200 daily cases per million people. While France is the close second with over 2,000 daily infections per million people, the US is quickly catching up with the worst-hit countries.The fatality rate, however, remains the silver lining of the Covid wave fuelled by the highly contagious Omicron variant. In January 2021, when Britain was reporting the unprecedented surge in daily cases, the fatality rate was around 18 deaths per million people. Now that the UK is reporting almost three times daily infections from January last year, the number of daily new confirmed deaths per million people is hovering around 1.47, less than one-tenth of the fatality rate recorded a year before.Experts suggest that the low fatality rate can be attributed to the high vaccination coverage in the country this time.According to Our World In Data, the seven-day rolling average of daily new infections is currently around 1,100 per million people, way above its January peak of 756. The average daily deaths related to Covid currently stand at around 4 per million people, while it was at 10 per million people in January 2021.Dr Suresh Kumar, MD of Delhi’s LNJP hospital, said that 138 Omicron cases were treated in the hospital last month as the infections continue to increase at an alarming rate. Kumar told news agency ANI that 95 per cent of them have recovered and returned home, adding that all Omicron patients at the hospital are stable."As many as three children were found Omicron positive in the last one month. Two have been discharged while the third one is recovering and stable at present", added the LNJP MD.The symptoms are less visible in the vaccinated population while in children the symptoms are moderate fever and loose motion, according to the doctor."The children will get vaccinated in the next two weeks and we can expect fewer Covid-19 cases after that", said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-witnessing-worrying-omicron-driven-covid-surge-death-rate-is-silver-lining-101641102925925.html
02-01-2022||India||India reports yet another surge with 27,553 new Covid-19 cases, 284 deaths in 24 hours||India on Sunday reported yet another spike in daily Covid-19 infections with 27,553 fresh cases being logged in the past 24 hours. This pushed the active case tally to 1,22,801, according to data from the Union health ministry. As many as 22,775 new cases were reported a day ago.The nationwide tally of the Omicron variant of Coronavirus further climbed to 1,525, with Maharashtra topping the charts with 460 cases.Delhi is the second-most contributor of the highly transmissible Omicron with 351 cases, followed by Gujarat (136), Tamil Nadu (117) and Kerala (109).The country reported 284 Covid-19 fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the total death toll to 4,81,770.India’s total caseload of the Covid-19 infections have surged to 3,48,89,132, with active cases comprising less than 1 per cent (0.35) of the total cases, the ministry said.Also read | Omicron cases cross 1,500-mark in India, 23 states affectedWith 9,249 people recovering from the disease in the last 24 hours, total recoveries climbed to 3,42,84,561. The recovery rate currently stands at 98.27 per cent.An increase of 18,020 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours with the daily positivity rate being recorded at 2.55 per cent. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent, according to the ministry.As part of the ongoing vaccination drive, 145.44 crore vaccine doses have, so far, been administered across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-yet-another-surge-with-27-553-new-covid-cases-284-deaths-in-24-hours-101641100526700.html
02-01-2022||India||Aero sports set to get a boost under new policy||NEW DELHI Given the right impetus, India could be one of the top air sports nations by 2030 because of its vast size, varied terrain and fair weather conditions, the civil aviation ministry said in a proposed aero sports policy. The policy, which has been in the works for about a year, covers activities such as air racing, aerobatics, aeromodelling, hang gliding, paragliding, paramotoring, flying vintage aircraft, ballooning, operating drones and skydiving.Besides the revenue from air sports activities, multiplier benefits in terms of growth in travel, tourism, infrastructure and local employment, especially in hilly areas of the country, are much greater, the government said. Creating air sports hubs across the country will bring in air sports professionals and tourists from across the world, according to the draft policy released on Saturday.“Air sports by their very nature involve a higher level of risk than flying a regular aircraft. NASP 2022 places strong focus on ensuring international best practices in safety,” said the document, which has been placed in the public domain to seek feedback. India will establish an Air Sports Federation that will regulate and oversee the sporting activities in the country. The federation will represent India at the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale, the global governing body for air sports headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland. The draft policy requires all people and entities providing air sports services to register as members of respective air sports associations. They will also have to register key equipment used for air sports with their associations.Indian airspace is divided into red, yellow and green zones, according to the DigitalSky platform of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, which allows air sports enthusiasts to rely on the easily accessible map for guidance. Operations in red zones require a permission from the central government, and yellow zones need approval by the concerned air traffic control authorities. Operation in green zones for aircraft with total weight of up to 500kg does not require any permission.Locations such as Bir-Billing in Himachal Pradesh, also known as India’s paragliding capital, Gangtok in Sikkim, Hadapsar in Maharashtra and Vagamon in Kerala will be declared as control zones for air sports that would require approvals from the federal home and defence ministries, the concerned state government and the local air traffic control. “This will enable hassle-free flying by air sports enthusiasts in such control zones without creating any risk to national security or safety of other manned aircraft,” the draft policy said. “During peak winters, the level of air sports reduces in Europe and North America, and the air sports aficionados migrate to milder climates. ASFI and the air sports associations will work towards developing a hassle-free process to enable their movement to India,” it pointed out. “This will enable Indian air sports enthusiasts to learn from the experience of the visiting professionals, get exposed to global best practices and create opportunities to host global competitions in India.”The government will also consider allowing import of air sports equipment without any levies for a specified number of years. Schools, colleges and universities will be encouraged to have air sports included in their curriculum, the policy proposes. In order to make air sports affordable to all, the government will request the GST Council to consider rationalizing tax rates on air sports equipment to 5% or less, the draft said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-readies-first-aerosports-policy-proposes-an-ambitious-target-for-2030-101641100159755.html
02-01-2022||India||Five-member SIT to probe Haridwar Dharma Sansad hate speech case||A five-member special investigating team (SIT) will probe the extremely provocative hate speeches delivered at the Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, in mid-December.The SIT will be headed by an officer of the superintendent of police level and legal action will be taken against those found guilty, said the Garhwal deputy inspector general, Karan Singh Nagnyal, on Sunday.On Saturday, officials said two more names -- Yati Narasimhanand, Sindhu Sagar -- were added to an FIR lodged in connection with the Haridwar event where speeches inciting violence against Muslims were allegedly delivered. The event was held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar for three days from December 16.Uttarakhand | A 5-member SIT has been constituted under an SP-level officer to probe the matter of the Dharma Sansad hate speech case in Haridwar. Legal action to be taken against those found guilty: DIG Garhwal Karan Singh NagnyalSection 295 of the Indian Penal Code (destruction, damage of a place of worship or an object held sacred) was also added to the FIR apart from Section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language).Haridwar circle officer Shekhar Suyal said the names of Ghaziabad's Dasna temple priest Yati Narasimhanand, who was the event organiser, and seer Sindhu Sagar were added to the FIR.However, the official refused to explain why the new section had been added to the FIR saying it was part of the investigation which cannot be shared telephonically.Besides, Waseem Rizvi alias Jitendra Tyagi, Sadhvi Annapurna, Dharamdas, Yati Narasimhanand and Sindhu Sagar have been booked in the case.Yati Narasimhanand, the controversial priest of Dasna temple, had been out of the ambit of the probe so far.Rizvi, who was earlier the president of Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, had changed his name to Jitendra Narayan Tyagi after converting to Hinduism.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fivemember-sit-to-probe-haridwar-dharma-sansad-hate-speech-case-101641099532088.html
02-01-2022||India||Chennai got 20cm rainfall in 5 hours. IMD explains why it couldn’t foresee it||NEW DELHI: Extremely heavy rain that brought Chennai to a standstill on Thursday was unexpected and took the India Meteorological Department (IMD) by surprise, people familiar with the matter told HT on Friday. The met department was expecting moderate rainfall but extremely heavy rain of over 20 cm was recorded in a relatively small area of parts of urban and suburban Chennai within a span of around 5 hours, the department said.Three people were killed in a rain-related incident on Thursday and parts of the city remained waterlogged on Friday. “We expected moderate rain on Thursday. But extremely heavy rain occurred in a small area covering parts of Chennai and its suburbs… between 4.30pm and 10pm. As of now, we do not have the science to forecast such localised, short span extreme events. So, we started broadcasting rainfall alerts and issued a red category warning when we noticed such an event was unfolding,” said S Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, IMD Chennai“We have short and medium-term weather forecasts but these events are not captured in those. There are continuous changes in the atmosphere, a dynamic process just like the human body. We do not expect such rainfall events during this time of the year but we have to expect the unexpected now in weather,” he added.“The weather department was unable to predict the heavy rain yesterday. We will take up the issue of upgrading weather forecast systems with the central government”, Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin told reporters.According to Balachandran, the heavy rainfall may be attributed to the interaction between moist, low-level easterlies with the westerly winds, but other interactions may have also taken place.On Thursday, between 8.30am and 7.45pm, rainfall as high as 24 cm was reported from parts of Chennai.Strong northeasterly winds are prevailing off the coast off Tamil Nadu in the lower levels. A cyclonic circulation is lying over southwest Bay of Bengal, off the Sri Lankan coast at the middle tropospheric level. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall activity is very likely to continue over coastal Tamil Nadu during next 2 days, IMD has warned.IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said about the Chennai rainfall, “This may have happened because of the interaction of northwesterly winds from northwest India and easterlies from the northeast monsoon. There was a trough near the Tamil Nadu coast and a deep trough in the northwesterlies. We were expecting heavy rain from December 31 but not on December 30. The impact of the interaction was advanced, which we did not foresee. It’s important to remember that this was a localised event and short spanned.” “It’s difficult to say that this event is attributed to climate change because that will need the study of atmospheric concentration of CO2; temperature profile etc. But there is no doubt that extreme rainfall events due to climate change are increasing over India,” he added.Chennai’s rainfall is among several extreme weather incidents reported across the country this year.In October, severe flooding was reported in Nainital following a cloudburst; several parts of Maharashtra, particularly the ghat areas also recorded floods and landslides in July. Mahabaleshwar, a hill station in Maharashtra’s Satara district located in the Western Ghats recorded the highest rainfall ever in its history with 60 cm in 24 hours.Recording 20cm or more in 24 hours is classified to be “extremely heavy” rain by IMD.Flooding was also reported in parts of east Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh etc in July and August. During the northeast monsoon, as many as 100 people were killed across Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in various rain-related events in the southern peninsula in November.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-got-20cm-rainfall-in-5-hours-imd-explains-why-it-couldn-t-foresee-it-101641098959500.html
02-01-2022||India||Omicron cases cross 1,500-mark in India, 23 states affected||Omicron cases in the country crossed the 1,500-mark on Sunday with about 100 fresh infections related to the highly transmissible strain of the coronavirus disease being registered in the last 24 hours.As many as 23 states have so far been affected in the country by the latest strain of Covid-19 that has led to a rapid spike in overall virus cases across the world, including India.Overall, India reported 27,533 fresh Covid-19 cases and 284 deaths on Sunday with active cases standing at 1,22,801.Of the total 1,525 Omicron cases recorded so far in the country, Maharashtra and Delhi remained the top contributors with 460 and 351 infections registered, respectively. According to the latest update from the health ministry, 560 of the 1,525 patients have recovered from the highly contagious disease so far.Some of the other states worst hit by Omicron are Gujarat (136), Tamil Nadu (117) and Kerala (109), followed by Rajasthan (69), Telangana (67), Karnataka (64) and Haryana (63).The government has imposed several fresh restrictions during the festive year-end week in view of the worsening scenario.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-cross-1-500-mark-in-india-23-states-hit-101641097523221.html
02-01-2022||India||What is ‘Bulli Bai’, the controversial app targeting Muslim women on social media?||A controversial app created on a repository hosting service has triggered outrage on social media after photos of Muslim women were uploaded on it without their consent. The app named ‘Bulli Bai’ was allegedly found auctioning pictures of Muslim women, months after some unidentified persons created a similar app ‘Sulli deals’ where photographs of hundreds of Muslim women, sourced from their social media accounts, were uploaded and auctioned. The app was taken down following outrage on social media.On Saturday, a woman journalist shared an image of her being sold on the Bulli Bai app as ‘deal of the day’. Taking to Twitter, the journalist said it was “very sad that as a Muslim woman you have to start your new year with this sense of fear & disgust.”“To "sell" someone online is a cybercrime & I call on the police to take immediate action. The perpetrators deserve exemplary & condign punishment,” Congress leader Shashi Tharoor wrote on Twitter.Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said she has repeatedly asked the Union information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to take stern action against “rampant misogyny and communal targeting of women through #sullideals like platforms.”‘A shame that it continues to be ignored,” she added.Photos of Muslim women again misused on app, 2 police complaints filedVaishnaw informed that GitHub has confirmed blocking the user on Saturday morning and CERT and Police authorities are coordinating further action. Responding to the minister, Chaturvedi said “besides blocking the platform punishing the offenders creating such sites is important.”The journalist later filed a complaint with the Cyber Cell of Delhi Police for immediate registration of FIR and consequent action against people behind the auctioning of Muslim women on social media."It is indeed disappointing to see the impunity with which such hate mongers continue to target Muslim women, without fear of saction whatsoever. Based on tweets posted on the Delhi Police handle, I believe that Delhi police has 'taken cognizance' of this offence," the complaint read.Delhi Police have registered an FIR under sector 509 of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the woman journalist. FIR has been registered in the Cyber Police station of the South East district, reported news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-bulli-bai-the-controversial-app-which-has-triggered-outrage-on-social-media-101641096495632.html
02-01-2022||India||Will stick to ₹8 lakh income limit for EWS quota, Centre tells Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Centre has decided to continue with the existing annual income limit of ₹8 lakh for identification of economically weaker section (EWS) following the recommendation by a committee set up to revisit this criterion after the Supreme Court raised doubts over the 10% quota rollout while dealing with NEET-PG admissions.In an affidavit filed late Saturday night, the Centre annexed a copy of the committee’s report and said, “The central government has decided to accept the recommendations of the committee including the recommendation of applying the new criteria prospectively.”The three-member committee comprising former union finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey, member secretary ICSSR VK Malhotra, and principal economic advisor Sanjeev Sanyal, in its report submitted to Centre on December 31 said, “The committee has come to the conclusion that the existing annual income criteria of ₹8 lakh is not over-inclusive.”The income criterion for identifying EWS was introduced by a notification of January 17, 2019 which further laid down other conditions for identifying EWS, such as the beneficiary’s family must not own or possess five acres of agricultural land, a residential flat of 1,000 square feet and above or residential plot of 100/200 square yards and above in notified/non-notified municipalities.The committee altogether omitted the residential asset criteria but retained the five acre agricultural plot criteria. It said, “The committee is of the view that on merit as well as for ease, convenience, and simplicity, the residential asset area criteria should altogether be omitted as it does not reflect true economic conditions and also poses serious complications and burden on EWS families without commensurate benefits.”However, with regard to agricultural asset, it maintained, “Removal of agricultural land limit criteria could result into anomalous situation of big land owners being included in EWS.”The committee’s recommendations will be applicable from the next admission cycle as it was of the view that the existing and ongoing criteria in every on-going process where EWS reservation is available should be continued.The committee was formed on November 30 after the top court, while considering a bunch of petitions questioning the introduction of 10% EWS and 27% OBC quota in NEET-PG admissions in 2020-21 academic session, wondered whether the income criteria of ₹8 lakh could be uniformly applied across the country. Also, it was pointed out that this was the same cutoff for identification of creamy layer or socially advanced persons among OBCs.The affidavit filed by ministry of social justice and empowerment has come ahead of the hearing of NEET-PG petitions on January 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-stick-to-rs-8-lakh-income-limit-for-ews-quota-centre-tells-supreme-court-101641095239198.html
02-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to lay foundation of sports university in Meerut, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to lay foundation of Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Meerut todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, around 1pm on Sunday. The university will be established in an area covering Salawa and Kaili villages of Sardhana town in Meerut at an estimated cost of about ₹700 crore, an official statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office said. Read more…Indore resident files complaint against Vicky Kaushal for using his vehicle number in film sequenceAn Indore resident has filed a police complaint against Bollywood actor Vicky Kaushal for alleged illegal use of the number plate of his vehicle. The complaint was lodged after Vicky Kaushal was seen riding a bike on the streets of Indore for his upcoming film, with his co-actor, Sara Ali Khan riding pillion. Read more…Jammu and Kashmir to get 5 new police stations, 310 posts of various ranks to be createdThe Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is set to get five new police stations after the government on Saturday sanctioned their establishment. The five new police stations will be in Srinagar and Budgam districts. The Jammu and Kashmir government also gave a nod for the creation of 310 posts of assistant sub-inspector, constable and follower. Read more…'Let's talk about how to make them the best team': Chetan Sharma breaks silence on rumoured rift between Kohli, RohitOne of the biggest controversy of the present Indian team has has been around for quite a few years pertains to the rumoured rift between Rohit Sharma and Virat Kohli. However, chief selector of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Friday brushed aside the rumours urging cricket fraternity to leave behind controversies in 2021. Read more…Ranveer Singh breaks down as his ‘bhagwan’ Govinda visits The Big Picture. WatchActor Ranveer Singh got emotional as he hosted his idol Govinda on his game show, The Big Picture. A video shared by Colors on Instagram shows Ranveer crying on meeting Govinda, as the latter tried to calm him down. Read more…Ankita Lokhande in black backless dress parties with Vicky Jain and the pics are LOVE: See hereNewlyweds Ankita Lokhande and Vicky Jain partied the night away with their friends recently and took to Instagram to share all the fun moments. The Pavitra Rishta star also posted adorable pictures of herself and her husband from the occasion, and they are all things love. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-sports-university-in-meerut-and-all-the-latest-news-101641091699667.html
02-01-2022||India||Indore resident files complaint against Vicky Kaushal for using his vehicle number in film sequence||An Indore resident has filed a police complaint against Bollywood actor Vicky Kaushal for alleged illegal use of the number plate of his vehicle. The complaint was lodged after Vicky Kaushal was seen riding a bike on the streets of Indore for his upcoming film, with his co-actor, Sara Ali Khan riding pillion.The complainant, Jai Singh Yadav, claimed that the vehicle number used in the movie sequence is his, adding that the actor can’t use that number plate without his permission."The vehicle number used in the movie sequence is mine. I don't know if the film unit is aware of it but this is illegal. They can't use my number plate without permission. I have given a memorandum at the station. Action should be taken in the matter," news agency ANI quoted Yadav as saying.Yadav also shared the photograph of the number plate of his two-wheeler with ANI.Vehicle number used in the movie sequence is mine; don't know if the film unit is aware of it...This is illegal, can't use my number plate without permission. I have given a memorandum at the station. Action should be taken in the matter: Complainant Jai Singh Yadav (1.1.22) pic.twitter.com/CkpZBVUnduResponding to the complaint, Rajendra Soni, Sub-inspector in Indore's Banganga area, said, "We received a complaint. We will see whether the number plate was used illegally. Action will be taken as per provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act. If the film unit is in Indore, we will try probing them."Vicky Kaushal takes out bike on Indore streets, Sara Ali Khan rides pillion. WatchSeveral pictures of Vicky Kaushal and Sara Ali Khan surfaced on social media after the actors were spotted on the streets of Indore shooting for their upcoming film. A post shared by #vickykaushal❤Vicky's Hosay ❤ (@vickykaushalafghanfan)Sharing a video of the film shooting, Joint Director of Jansampark Indore wrote on Twitter, "Abhineta Vicky Kaushal wa abhinetri Sara Ali Khan agami film production 25 ki shooting aaj shahar ke Nandlalpura mein chal rahi hai (Actors Vicky Kaushal and Sara Ali Khan's next film production's shooting today in Nandlalpura area of the city)."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-resident-files-complaint-against-vicky-kaushal-for-using-his-vehicle-number-in-film-sequence-101641086393621.html
02-01-2022||India||PM Modi to lay foundation of Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Meerut today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, around 1pm on Sunday.The university will be established in an area covering Salawa and Kaili villages of Sardhana town in Meerut at an estimated cost of about ₹700 crore, an official statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office said.The establishment of Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in the poll-bound state will be in line with the Prime Minister's vision of inculcating sporting culture and establishing world-class sporting infrastructure in all parts of the countryThe sports university will be equipped with modern and state-of-the-art sports infrastructure including synthetic hockey ground, football ground, basketball, volleyball, handball, kabaddi ground, lawn tennis court, gymnasium hall, synthetic running stadium, swimming pool, multipurpose hall and a cycling Velodrome.Also read | ‘Better bargaining, large scale trading…’: PM Modi lists 5 powers of FPOsIt will also house facilities for shooting, squash, gymnastics, weightlifting, archery, canoeing, and kayaking, among other facilities with the capacity of training 1,080 sportspersons, including 540 women and as many men.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been launching a slew of projects in Uttar Pradesh recently ahead of this year's Assembly polls where the party is hoping for a second consecutive term.Recently, Modi inaugurated the completed section of the Kanpur Metro Rail Project during his visit to the city in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, marking one of the key developmental projects of the BJP government in the state.Prior to that, Modi inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi.In the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly election, the BJP came to power in the state with a massive majority of more than 300 of the 403 seats, following which Yogi Adityanath became the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-major-dhyan-chand-sports-university-in-meerut-today-101641081782518.html
02-01-2022||India||Jammu and Kashmir to get 5 new police stations, 310 posts of various ranks to be created||The Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is set to get five new police stations after the government on Saturday sanctioned their establishment. The five new police stations will be in Srinagar and Budgam districts. The Jammu and Kashmir government also gave a nod for the creation of 310 posts of assistant sub-inspector, constable and follower.The government notification provides for the creation of police units in Shalteng, Sangam, Khimber, Tengpora and Mouchwa."In terms of clause (s) of section 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, sanction is hereby accorded to creation of following Police Units: i) Police Station, Shalteng, District Srinagar, ii) Police Station, Sangam, District Srinagar, iii) Police Post, Khimber under the Police Station Zakoora, District Srinagar. iv) Police Post, Tengpora under the Police Station, Batamaloo, District Srinagar. v) Police Post, Mouchwa under the Police Station, Chadoora, District Budgam," the official notification said.It also provided for the up-gradation of three police posts in the Bemina, Chanapora and Ahmed Nagar areas of Srinagar."......up-gradation of i) Police Post, Bemina to Police Station, Bemina, ii) Police Post, Chanapora to Police Station, Chanapora, iii) Police Post, Ahmed Nagar to Police Station, Ahmed Nagar. The territorial jurisdiction of these Police Units shall be notified," the order added.The government further sanctioned the creation of 310 posts of various ranks, with 49 new posts for assistant sub-inspector, 246 for constable and 15 for follower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-to-get-5-new-police-stations-310-posts-of-various-ranks-to-be-created-101641081372977.html
02-01-2022||India||Photos of Muslim women again misused on app, 2 police complaints filed||Two separate complaints were filed in Mumbai and the Capital on Saturday after photos of hundreds of Muslim women were uploaded without their consent on an app with derogatory messages.The incident comes nearly six months after some unidentified persons created an app and uploaded photographs of hundreds of Muslim women, whose photographs were sourced from their social media accounts. The app was uploaded on a repository hosting service and taken down following outrage on social media.One of the woman journalists whose doctored image was also uploaded on the app took to Twitter to express her anguish, and termed the incident a malicious attempt to defame Muslim women. She also posted a copy of the complaint she filed over the matter with the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police. Acknowledging the complaint, the Delhi Police tweeted: “The matter has been taken cognizance of. Concerned officials have been directed to take appropriate action.”Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi, too, lodged a complaint over the matter with the Mumbai Police.“Looks like this is handiwork of same miscreants group that had created similar content on internet... They have just changed the name...”“I have shared whatever information I had regarding this matter with the police. This includes some screenshots, details of two particular Twitter handles who were talking about this, details of the website where such material was uploaded... police can also take suo motu action,” she said. Sir,Thank you.With due respect I had shared with you that besides blocking the platform punishing the offenders creating such sites is important.I hope @HMOIndia & @GoI_MeitY will support @MumbaiPolice to find these culprits&make them as well as platforms accountable #BulliDeals https://t.co/o1wXAnJVYqMumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said the cyber wing of the Mumbai police is looking into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/photos-of-muslim-women-again-misused-on-app-2-police-complaints-filed-101641067643241.html
02-01-2022||India||Probe report on CDS chopper crash likely in coming week||The investigation into the December 8 chopper crash that killed CDS Gen Bipin Rawat and 13 others is nearly complete and the findings are likely to be submitted to the Air headquarters next week, people familiar with the development said on Saturday.The probe report is being finalised for submission, they said. It is learnt that the probe team led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh examined all likely scenarios for the crash including possible human error or whether it was a case of disorientation by the crew when the helicopter was preparing for landing.The people said the findings of the Court of Inquiry and the procedure it followed in the probe are being legally vetted. “The legal vetting is being done to ensure that the probe team followed all the laid down norms and procedures,” said one of the people cited above.Asked about possible causes of the crash, a number of aviation experts said there were instances of a significant number of air accidents caused by visual disorientation triggered by the loss of situational awareness by pilots. And bad weather could be a factor contributing to the loss of situational awareness at times, said one of them.The report is expected to be submitted to Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari in a week, they said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-report-on-cds-chopper-crash-likely-in-coming-week-101641066090519.html
02-01-2022||India||Modi releases fresh instalment of PM-KISAN||Farmers should adopt zero-budget natural farming, Prime Minister Narendra Modi advised on Saturday while releasing the tenth instalment of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), a cash-transfer scheme for farmers, which would disburse ₹20,000 crore to nearly 100 million agricultural households.The country will become self-sufficient only when farmers became self-sufficient, Modi said while interacting with several farmer producer organisations through videoconferencing.“The formation and promotion of 10,000 farmer producer organizations scheme further the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat by making our agricultural economy not only sustainable but the biggest contributor to our GDP,” Modi said.The virtual event was attended by nine chief ministers, several ministers from different states, and representatives of agricultural institutions.The Prime Minister also released an equity grant of more than ₹14 crore to about 351 farmer producer organisations that would benefit 124,000 farmers.Under PM-KISAN, the government provides income support of ₹6,000 a year to every landowning farmer with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal instalments.The central government has paid nearly ₹161,000 crore since the scheme was launched on 24 February 2019. The previous instalment was released in August 2021.Besides landholding records, most states require farmers to provide at least four sets of verified documents to be eligible for the PM-KISAN scheme: the Aadhaar number, phone number, bank account details and know-your-customer credentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-releases-fresh-instalment-of-pmkisan-101641064917266.html
02-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu: Stalin inaugurates two commissionerates||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Saturday inaugurated two new police commissionerates in suburban Chennai, aimed at better prevention of crimes, enhanced management of traffic and expeditious redressal of people’s grievances. The Tambaram commissionerate at Sholinganallur and Avadi commissionerate at TN Special Police II Battalion campus in Avadi, were inaugurated by Stalin through video-conferencing from the Secretariat here. The new commissionerates in suburban Chennai would facilitate better prevention of crimes, enhanced traffic management and quick redressal of public grievances, an official release said. M Ravi and Sandeep Rai Rathore, both senior IPS officers of the rank of Additional Director General of Police, have been named as police commissioners of Tambaram and Avadi respectively. The two officers functioned as special officers for the formation of their respective commissionerates. On September 13, 2021, Stalin had announced setting up of commissionerates at Tambaram and Avadi to overhaul Greater Chennai Police on the lines of other metro cities and considering aspects like changing patterns of crimes and the security scenario. Twenty police stations divided into two police districts of Tambaram and Pallikaranai falls under Tambaram commissionerate. Avadi commissionerate comprises 25 police stations and has two police districts of Avadi and Red Hills. A suburban police commissionerate, headquartered at St Thomas Mount, was formed during the 2006-2011 DMK regime and it was later merged with Chennai city police when the AIADMK captured power in 2011. While Tambaram is a southern suburb and gateway to Chennai from southern Tamil Nadu, Avadi is on the west, about 105 kilometers from TN-Andhra Pradesh border and it is close to Tiruvallur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-stalin-inaugurates-twocommissionerates-101641062040839.html
02-01-2022||India||Chennai battles waterlogging after heavy rain||Continuous and heavy rainfall over the past few days led to waterlogging in several parts of Chennai on Saturday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to heavy rainfall activity over coastal Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during the next 24 hours.“A cyclonic circulation lies over southwest Bay of Bengal of Sri Lanka coast at middle tropospheric level, under its influence, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to heavy rainfall activity is very likely over the coast of Tamil Nadu during next 24 hours and decreases thereafter,” said the IMD.People had found themselves in knee-deep water in T. Nagar on Friday morning. Some inundated roads were also closed as their clearing was underway. People were also seen placing sandbags outside to stop rainwater from entering their houses. A day after several parts of Chennai experienced over 20 cm rainfall, Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Friday said the Meteorological department usually provided information on likelihood of rainfall, but they could not forecast Thursday’s heavy showers.After inspecting initiatives to drain rain water from several flooded localities using heavy duty motors, Stalin accused the previous AIADMK regime of not taking appropriate steps to strengthen infrastructure and prevent water-logging.Expressing confidence that water logging issues would be addressed before the next rainy season, the CM said IMD usually provided information (to government) on likelihood of rainfall.They, however, could not forecast the heavy rainfall on December 30 in Chennai and it was unexpected, he told reporters.To a question on surprise rains and whether there are any issues in providing weather forecast and if the state government would submit a representation to the Centre to change equipment at the IMD regional centre here, he said it is the job of the union government.”However, since you have raised the matter, the Tamil Nadu government will remind the Centre about this.”On Thursday, several areas of Chennai experienced more than 20 CM rainfall, he said.Asked on the CM’s comment, an IMD (Chennai) official told PTI that considering several technicalities and practical difficulties it is not always possible to provide 100 per cent error free forecast.A weather forecast by the IMD (issued 12.30 hours on December 30) had said: “Thunderstorm with moderate rain is likely to occur at a few places over coastal Tamil Nadu. “Thunderstorm with moderate rain is likely to occur at many places over Villupuram, Cuddalore and Delta districts, Puducherry and Karaikal. Light rain is also likely to occur at isolated places over Interior Tamil Nadu districts.”For the second consecutive day, people here battled inundation, and stench as rain water mixed with sewage in a number of areas.As rainfall continued here and in several suburbs, traffic congestion was also witnessed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-battles-waterlogging-after-heavy-rain-101641061984497.html
02-01-2022||India||Kerala reports over 2k Covid cases, 22 deaths||Kerala recorded 2,435 fresh coronavirus cases and 22 Covid-19 related deaths on Saturday, taking the caseload to 5,240,487 and the death toll to 48,035.The health department said that along with Saturday’s deaths, 219 deaths were also designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court.“Currently, there are 18,904 active COVID-19 cases in the state of which only 10.7 per cent are admitted to hospitals,” the health department said in a release.Meanwhile, 2,704 recuperated from the disease on Saturday, taking the total cured to 5,181,981.Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest number of cases, 481, followed by Ernakulam with 400 and Kozhikode with 299 cases.The health department tested 48,658 samples in the last 24 hours and there are six wards across five local self government bodies in the state with a weekly infection population ratio above ten per cent.There are 109,032 persons under observation in the state of which 15,842 are in isolation wards of various hospitals.Of those who were found infected today, 38 reached the state from outside, while 2,241 contracted the disease through their contact. The source of infection of 134 is yet to be traced and 22 health workers are also among the infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-over-2k-covid-cases-22-deaths-101641061981001.html
02-01-2022||India||Moustache, friendly demeanour, duty-bound: Cop who became Bengaluru Traffic Police mascot||The big moustache stands out, so does his smile. Bengaluru Traffic Police’s mascot – Meese Thimmaiah – can bring a smile to anyone’s face. The new mascot was an instant hit with the people. This mascot based on a real-life traffic policeman, who died saving a woman and her child, had a fan following of his own in the 1990s way before the social media era.Head constable Marichikaiah Thimmaiah who was posted near the General Post Office (GPO) Junction, a stone’s throw away from Vidhan Soudha,had become a landmark for the junction.Hailing from Koratagere taluk in Tumakuru district, Thimmaiah joined Bengaluru police in 1977. A year later he got married to Lakshmama, who still remembers her husband’s fondness for big moustaches. “He started growing a moustache in 1985 and maintained it till his last day. He loved it when people called him Meese Thimmaiah (moustache Thimmaiah). Every morning, he would oil his moustache before getting to work,” remembered Lakshmama. Owing to the popularity of his moustache, the department made an exception to give him an annual allowance of ₹500 for grooming. “Thimmaiah remembered all the officers who served with him. He was popular among children and elders alike,” said R Hitendra, who previously served as the additional commissioner of police, traffic.“Whenever a school bus used to pass by the GPO junction, we would hear children cheering for him,” said retired sub-inspector Lakshman Gowda, who served with Thimmaiah. Despite mandatory routine transfers, Thimmaiah’s area was not changed due to his popularity, and unfortunately the same junction claimed his life. On April 26, 1995, a mini-truck violated the traffic regulations ignoring his signals. In an attempt to save a woman and her child who were crossing the road then, Thimmaiah jumped in. Even though he managed to rescue the child and her mother, he was killed in the accident.The memories of that day are still fresh in his wife’s mind. “As usual, he was in front of the mirror grooming his beard. He dropped the children to school and hours later I heard about his death,” she said. He was the family’s sole earning member when he passed away in August 1995, leaving behind his wife and three children. Thimmaiah had an immaculate record till his death and was awarded for his services posthumously with a gold medal by the state government. The GPO circle which he managed with great distinction was renamed in his honour as Police Thimmaiah Circle. “We could think of no one else but Thimmaiah when we wanted a mascot for Bengaluru,” said Hitendra. 
02-01-2022||India||Karnataka reports over 1k fresh Covid cases, 5 deaths; Bengaluru logs highest||Karnataka on Saturday reported 1,033 fresh Covid cases and five deaths, according to the health department bulletin. The total number of active cases is now at 9,386. In comparison, the state reported 832 cases on Friday, 707 cases on Thursday and 566 on Wednesday. On Saturday, 810 of the new cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban alone as the city witnessed a sharp increase in the number of new cases for the fourth consecutive day. According to the health department bulletin, while the test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 0.86 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 0.48 per cent. There were 354 discharges on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,960,615. Of the five deaths reported, two are from Bengaluru Urban, and one each from Mandya, Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada accounted for the second-highest cases (48), followed by Mysuru (29), Udupi (28) and Mandya (23). Bengaluru Urban has reported a total of 1,264,428 positive cases so far, followed by Mysuru 180,304 and Tumakuru 121,349. Cumulatively, 56,587,422 samples have been tested in the state so far, of which 119,225 were tested on Saturday, the health bulletin added. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Saturday said that the spike in the cases in Bengaluru are witnessed in three main areas of the city, where the residents have a history of domestic or international travel. “We are witnessing a spike in the areas where residents are travelling aboard or domestically. We are observing a high number of cases in the Bommnahalli, Yelahanka and Mahadevapura areas. We have briefed our respective officials and Resident Welfare Associations. We also hope that the restrictions announced by the government ahead of the New Year, would show results,” said Gaurav Gupta. He further added that the vaccination of children above the age of 15 will start from January 3 and the vaccines will be given at the schools. Meanwhile, Karnataka minister for primary and secondary education BC Nagesh on Saturday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms. He said he has quarantined himself and is taking all necessary precautions. “I’ve tested positive for COVID-19 today with mild symptoms. I have quarantined myself and taking all the necessary precautions and medication required. I would request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest,” Nagesh tweeted.On Friday, Karnataka witnessed a spike in Omicron cases, with 23 new cases reported. This took the tally of Omicron cases in the state to 66. India’s first two cases were reported from Karnataka. Confirming the new Omicron cases, health and medical education minister Dr K. Sudhakar in a tweet, said, “19 of the 23 cases are international travellers from the USA, Europe, Middle East and Africa.” Of these, five, including a two-year-old male child, are children who are not eligible for vaccination. Among the others, all of whom, except two were vaccinated, one had also taken a booster shot. Only one of the 23 infected people had taken one dose. Amid the spike in Covid-19 and Omicron variant cases in the state, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said the government will take certain “important decisions” in the days to come and put in place necessary health infrastructure to deal with the situation that might arise. “It is increasing across the country; the Centre has identified Karnataka also as one among the eight states. We have already taken certain precautions,” Bommai said in response to a question on the increase in Covid-19 and Omicron cases in the state. Speaking to reporters here, he said looking at cases in the days to come health infrastructure such as beds, oxygen, medicines, ICU must be put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-over-1k-fresh-covid-cases-5-deaths-bengaluru-logs-highest-101641061921265.html
02-01-2022||India||Mismanagement, huge rush caused stampede in Vaishno Devi: Eyewitnesses||Jammu: Overcrowding and lack of supervision by authorities led to the stampede at the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu & Kashmir’s Katra that left 12 dead in the wee hours of Saturday, according to eyewitnesses.Also Read | At least 12 killed during Vaishno Devi stampedeAt least 12 people died and over a dozen were injured in a stampede at the Vaishno Devi shrine triggered by a heavy rush of devotees on the New Year. This is the first such tragedy at the shrine located atop the Trikuta hills, about 50 km from Jammu. Soon after the incident, local residents, pilgrims and members of the Baridar Sangharsh Samiti staged a massive protest at the Katra bus stand, demanding a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and framing of charges against the shrine administration under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.“This is really very unfortunate that on New Year so many pilgrims died. The administration and shrine board authorities are responsible for it. There must be a fair probe into the entire incident, which is not possible by the panel constituted by the LG. The Centre should form a panel. Had there been proper management, there would not have been so many deaths,” said Sham Singh, president of the Baridar Sangharsh Samiti.Most of the deaths were due to suffocation, police said.Director general of police Dilbag Singh, who accompanied Union minister Jitendra Singh to take stock of the situation at the shrine, told reporters that the incident took place due to confusion or “probably somebody at the site acted funny which could have led to some altercation”.“People who got admitted here are stable. We may add some technical solutions for the yatra (pilgrimage). Earlier, people used to visit the shrine during festivals but nowadays youngsters want to visit the shrine on the 1st day of the year,” said Jitendra Singh.“All these things are being looked into. That area is a little narrow and people ran helter-skelter without knowing the reason,” Dilbag Singh said. “Most of the deaths have taken place due to suffocation after being run over by each other and most of the injuries are also due to the same reason.”(WITH AGENCY INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mismanagement-huge-rush-caused-stampede-in-vaishno-devi-eyewitnesses-101641059646382.html
