04-01-2022||India||Sindhutai Sapkal will be remembered for her noble service to society: PM Modi||Paying tribute to renowned social worker Sindhutai Sapkal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that many children could lead a better quality of life due to her efforts. Sapkal, known as "orphan children's mother", died following a heart attack at a private hospital in Pune. A recipient of Padma Shri, she was 75.Dr. Sindhutai Sapkal will be remembered for her noble service to society. Due to her efforts, many children could lead a better quality of life. She also did a lot of work among marginalised communities. Pained by her demise. Condolences to her family and admirers. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/nPhMtKOeZ4Modi tweeted, "Dr Sindhutai Sapkal will be remembered for her noble service to society. Due to her efforts, many children could lead a better quality of life."She also did a lot of work among marginalised communities. Pained by her demise. Condolences to her family and admirers. Om Shanti," he said.Besides the Padma award, she received more than 750 awards and honours. She used the award money to build shelters for orphans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sindhutai-sapkal-will-be-remembered-for-her-noble-service-to-society-pm-modi-101641320147359.html
04-01-2022||India||Naveen Patnaik responds to SOS for Missionaries of Charity, gives ₹79 lakh||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik Tuesday sanctioned ₹78.76 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to support 13 institutions run by Missionaries of Charity (MoC) in the state, a statement by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said.“Based on the requests of collectors, the Chief Minister has sanctioned assistance for 13 institutions run by MoC spread over 8 districts. More than 900 inmates in various leprosy homes and orphanages in the state will be benefited by this decision,” the CMO said.The move comes days after the organisation asked the central government to freeze its bank accounts following the Union home ministry’s refusal to renew its FCRA licence. Patnaik had responded to reports about the home ministry decision with instructions to district collectors to help out the charity to ensure that no inmate at any shelter or orphanage run by the organisation in the state suffers.“We are grateful to the chief minister for his support and we are indebted to the people of Odisha,” said Sister Stanley Rose of Missionaries of Charity after the CM’s order. Rose said the freezing of bank accounts has not hit the activities of the organisation. “The Almighty will take care of our needs.” Missionaries of Charity runs a leprosy home on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar housing 300 inmates. It also runs 12 orphanages with 600-odd inmates. Besides, there are 87 sisters who look after the day-to-day affairs of these institutions. Odisha BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma said the chief minister’s decision may send a wrong message.“The FCRA renewal of Missionaries of Charity was not done due to audit irregularities. Today’s order clearly shows his government would stand for Missionaries of Charity irrespective of its legalities and proprieties. In a federal government, when the Centre takes certain steps, the states should respect it. But the move by Patnaik is against cooperative federalism,” Sharma said.On December 25, the Ministry of Home Affairs said that Missionaries of Charity’s request for renewal of their certification under FCRA was refused, for “not meeting the eligibility conditions under the FCRA, 2010 and Foreign Contribution Regulation Rules (FCRR) 2011”. The registration was originally set to expire on October 31, however, its license was extended till December 31 to give them time to complete the renewal process, due to Covid-19 disruptions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-responds-to-sos-for-missionaries-of-charity-gives-rs-79-lakh-101641317830772.html
04-01-2022||India||Centre permits mining in Hasdeo Arand area in Chhattisgarh||Despite protests by local residents, the environment ministry has permitted further coal mining in 1,136 hectares of land in Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand, one of the last remaining old growth forests in the country. The forest advisory committee of the ministry on December 23 approved a proposal to extend mining in the Parsa East and Kente Basan (PEKB) block owned by the Rajasthan’s power distribution utility, as coal reserves in the first allotment of 762 hectares was exhausted earlier than estimated. Hasdeo Arand, sitting on rich coal reserves, is one of the largest contiguous stretches of dense forests in central India. It spans 170,000 hectares and has 22 coal blocks underneath it. In October last year, HT had reported that protests by local residents broke out in the region after the ministry granted clearance for stage-II mining in the Parsa coal block in the region. On March 15, 2012, the ministry had granted clearance for mining in around 1,898 hectares of the region in two phases. Mining in phase-I was restricted to 768 hectares over a span of 15 years, considering an annual capacity of 10 million tonnes per annum, according to the clearance. This means that the stage-I mining was to be carried out till 2027. But the project proponent, Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited, had on September 9, 2020 applied for an amendment to the 2012 forest clearance, seeking the ministry’s nod for stage-II mining in 2022. The advisory committee referred to a biodiversity report by the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education that recommended that four contiguous coal blocks in the Gej-Jhink watershed – Tara, Parsa, PEKB and Kente Extension – that are either already open or in advance stage of getting statutory clearances, can be considered for mining with strict environmental safeguards, including appropriate conservation measures for management of surface water and biodiversity. The approvals for coal mining in PEKB in Hasdeo Arand has been widely opposed by environmentalists. PEKB was a “no-go” area for mining as per a 2011 draft report of the environment ministry. The entire issue of ‘Go - No Go’ is before a Group of Ministers (GoM), constituted by the Cabinet Secretariat on February 3, 2011, to consider the environmental and developmental issues relating to coal mining and other developmental projects. However, the project was reconsidered after then environment minister Jairam Ramesh observed that the coal blocks were in the “fringe” and not within the biodiversity rich Hasedo Arand forest and were separated by a well-defined hilly ridge. An expert team from the ministry also visited the site on November 26 to 29 and said that under corporate social responsibility, a number of initiatives in the form of self-employment generation, agriculture, dairy, vermicomposting, women’s empowerment, etc., for uplifting socioeconomic conditions of the people around PEKB block were undertaken. “We have stated all the reasons why approval has been given for phase II mining in a larger forest area,” a member of the advisory committee said on condition of anonymity. “The risks have been considered and studied.” “This decision reflects that the Congress-led state government and the Bharatiya Janata Party led central government are concurring on pushing for mining operations despite several socio-ecological, legal and constitutional irregularities,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research, a think tank. The mine is owned by Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (RRVUNL) while coal mine developer-cum-operator (MDO) operations have been awarded to Adani Enterprises.Adani Enterprises did not respond to HT’s queries on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-permits-mining-in-hasdeo-arand-area-in-chhattisgarh-101641317164153.html
04-01-2022||India||As Covid sees rapid spread, Mandaviya said Centre reviewing existing health infra in all states||The central government is continuously reviewing the existing health infrastructure in all states, Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday amid a massive spike in daily Covid-19 infections across the nation."We are continuously reviewing the existing health infrastructure and preparedness in all states in the country," the health minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Mandaviya’s statement on a day Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal and several other states reported exponential growth in daily cases of the viral disease. The fresh surge comes in the backdrop of the detection of the highly transmissible Omicron variant, which is sweeping across the country.India on Tuesday logged as many as 37,379 new Covid-19 cases, which was a spike of 10.75 per cent from the preceding day in the biggest single-day jump since early September.This was the seventh consecutive day when the country saw a rise in the daily Covid cases. On Monday, India logged 33,750 fresh infections.Following Tuesday's figures, the cumulative tally of India has reached 3,49,60,261, according to the data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The active caseload has also been pushed to 1,71,830, accounting for 0.49% of the total cases.As many as 124 new fatalities due to Covid-19 were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll in India to 482,017.Meanwhile, the number of cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of Covid-19 reached 1,892, with Maharashtra (568) and Delhi (382) being the leading contributors. Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu all feature in the top 10 most-hit states due to the variant and have over 100 infections recorded so far.Telangana, Karnataka, Haryana and Odisha are other states in the top 10 list in India, according to the health ministry's bulletin.On January 1, the Centre asked all states and union territories to start setting up makeshift hospitals to increase the availability of beds and create special teams to evaluate home isolation cases.The government has also been asked to consider using hotel rooms and other similar accommodations in line with Covid-dedicated hospitals to cater to patients showing mild to moderate symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-sees-rapid-spread-mandaviya-said-centre-reviewing-existing-health-infra-in-all-states-101641316365221.html
04-01-2022||India||Supreme Court refers NGO plea to treat ₹25 lakh cost as donation to 3-judge bench||New DelhiFour years after an NGO was asked to pay ₹25 lakh for seeking a judicial probe into an alleged corruption case involving a sitting high court judge, the Supreme Court on Tuesday referred the matter to a three-judge bench to examine whether the amount could be treated as a “donation” instead of a “penalty” to avoid harming the reputation of former judges, senior lawyers, and eminent persons associated with the non-profit.The application was moved by Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR), challenging an order passed against it by a three-judge bench on December 1, 2017. Dismissing CJAR’s petition for a judicial probe into the alleged medical college bribery scam involving the then sitting judge of the Allahabad high court, the top court said at the time: “The writ petition is dismissed with cost of ₹25 lakh to be deposited by the petitioner before the Registry of this court within six weeks where after the said amount shall be transferred to Supreme Court Bar Association Advocates’ Welfare Fund.”Hearing the matter on Tuesday, a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said: “As the original order was passed by a bench of three judge combination, post this application for consideration of prayer (c) before a three-judge bench.”Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan appeared for the petitioner, and said, “We are not (arguing) on the amount as the same has already been deposited with the court. We are (arguing) on the amount being treated as donation and not penalty as it concerns of reputation of people involved with this movement. It is a small favour but has implication on a large number of persons.”On January 19, 2021, the top court sought the assistance of the attorney general, who appeared during the hearing on Tuesday and supported the application. “What they want is the entire amount of ₹25 lakh be treated as donation. I personally have no objection to the amount being treated as donation.”The bench raised concerns since the word “cost” was part of the December 2017 order, which could be modified only by another bench having minimum three judges. Venugopal supported this view and submitted that the application be sent to a larger bench.Dhavan said, “CJAR is not a society but a platform where there are former judges as well. The word penalty will impose a stigma on people who are part of CJAR.” The NGO’s website names former Supreme Court judge PB Sawant, former Bombay high court judge H Suresh, and senior advocate Shanti Bhushan among its patrons.CJAR has been involved in highlighting acts of judicial impropriety and corruption. As part of that initiative, a petition was filed in the Supreme Court seeking probe against justice SN Shukla, then sitting judge of Allahabad high court, on charges of receiving a bribe to decide a matter in favour of a Lucknow-based medical college.The 2017 top order dismissing the petition termed it “frivolous, without any reasonable basis, and a gross abuse of the process of the court.”The Central Bureau of Investigation later filed charges against officers of the medical college and a retired judge, IM Quddusi, in the matter. A special CBI court took cognisance of the case in July 2019. In July 2019, the then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi gave permission to federal investigators to register a first information report against justice SN Shukla, who retired on July 17, 2020. CJAR, in its application before the top court, said: “The conspiracy into which the petitioner organisation sought an investigation subsequently led to the arrest and charge-sheeting of a retired high court judge and of the medical college owners and middlemen and the indictment of a sitting high court judge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refers-ngo-plea-to-treat-25-lakh-cost-as-donation-to-3-judge-bench-101641316565576.html
04-01-2022||India||Tribal man lynched, body set on fire over illegal tree-felling in Jharkhand||A tribal man was lynched and set on fire on Tuesday by a mob on suspicion of felling trees and stealing wood at a village in Jharkhand’s Simdega district, police said.The victim was in his 30s and was identified as Sanju Pradhan. He was killed in the presence of local residents in Besrabazar village under Kolebira police station around 2 pm on Tuesday. “As per the initial probe, around 500 villagers were present when the incident occurred. We have recovered the half burnt body of Sanju Pradhan, who had criminal antecedents. He had three cases registered against him for links with Maoists and had been to jail in connection with these cases,” said Rameshwar Bhagat, in-charge of Kolebira police station.No arrests have been made so far. There was tension in the village and additional police have been deployed in the area.“In the initial probe, we have information that a section of his fellow villagers had complained against him to the forest department for illegally cutting trees,” Bhagat said. “They were angry that no action was taken against Pradhan.”Simdega district administration must take appropriate action against those involved in the lynching, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said.This is the second incident of lynching in the state barely a fortnight after the Jharkhand legislative assembly passed the Prevention of Mob Violence and Mob Lynching Bill, 2021, which aims at providing “effective protection” of constitutional rights and the prevention of mob violence in the state.On Saturday, villagers in Gumla district brutally beat up two tribal brothers, alleging that their mother practised witchcraft. One of the brothers lost his eyesight due to injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribal-man-lynched-body-set-on-fire-over-illegal-tree-felling-in-jharkhand-101641316204112.html
04-01-2022||India||Congress sacks Manipur working president D Korungthang after he exits assembly, preps to switch||IMPHAL: The Congress on Tuesday suspended Manipur Congress leader D Korungthang as the state unit’s working president after he resigned from the state assembly and hinted at plans to exit the Congress in a few days.The Manipur Congress made the announcement on Tuesday came around the same time that Manipur assembly speaker accepted Korungthang’s resignation from the assembly. The 61-year-old Congress leader represented the Tengnoupal assembly segment in Tengnoupal district that borders Myanmar.The Congress decision was conveyed to Korungthang in a letter from the party in-charge of Manipur, Bhakta Charan Das. In the letter, Das said the party had been receiving reports about his anti-party activities in his constituency over the past month. “AICC has received evidence of your involvement in anti-party activities,. Hence we are forced to take a call on this subject and further remove you from the post of Manipur PCC working president and suspend you from the Congress party,” the letter said.In an official bulletin, Manipur legislative assembly secretary said: “Shri D Korungthang elected from 42-Tengnoupal (ST) Assembly Constituency has resigned his membership from the Manipur Legislative Assembly… “Consequent upon his resignation, 42-Tengnoupal (ST) Assembly Constituency is now lying vacant with effect from Tuesday, the 4th January 2022.”Korungthang hasn’t spelt out his future plans but he is learnt to have told his supporters that he was looking at joining a non-BJP party in the state.Asked, Korungthang said he will make a decision on his next steps soon. For now, he declined to elaborate on his reasons for leaving the Congress.After Korungthang’s exit, the Congress’ strength in the 60-seat assembly has declined to 16.In the 2017 assembly elections, Congress emerged as the single largest party in the state by winning 28 seats out of 60 seats but was not able to form the government. Instead, the BJP, which won 21 seats in the state elections, formed the government with support of four NPP MLAs, four Naga People’s Front MLAs and one MLA each from TMC, Lok Janshakti Party and an Independent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sacks-manipur-working-president-d-korungthang-after-he-exits-assembly-preps-to-switch-101641316083680.html
04-01-2022||India||Karnataka announces weekend curfew, schools in Bengaluru to be shut for 2 weeks||The Karnataka government on Tuesday announced that a weekend curfew will be imposed for the next two weeks across the state in view of rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka said that the weekend curfew will come into effect at 10pm on Friday and end at 5am on Monday.While theatres, malls, pubs and bars will be allowed to operate at 50% capacity, gatherings at public places will be barred. In Bengaluru, schools for all classes except the 10th and 12th standards will be shut for two weeks starting January 6.The fresh restrictions were announced after the state's technical advisory committee suggested imposing additional measures to contain the spread of coronavirus. The committee advised focussed implementation of the five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.“Pubs/clubs/restaurants/bars/hotels/eating places in a hotel etc will function with 50% of the seating capacity strictly adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour and entry to such places will be restricted to fully vaccinated persons,” a guideline issued by the government read.“Cinema halls/multiplexes/theatres/rangamandiras/auditorium and similar places to operate with 50% of its seating capacity strictly adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour and entry to such places will be restricted to fully vaccinated persons,” it added.Wedding functions will be permitted, with not more than 200 people participating in open spaces and 100 people in closes places. Religious places will be allowed only for ‘darshan’, with 50 fully vaccinated persons permitted at any given time.“There shall be intensive surveillance at the border of Kerala and Maharashtra as per the prevailing circular/guidelines issued by Department of Health and family Welfare, Govt. of Karnataka. The same guidelines are extended to State of Goa. The checks are on all modes of transports that is air, train and road,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-announces-weekend-curfew-schools-in-bengaluru-to-be-shut-for-2-weeks-101641315322495.html
04-01-2022||India||IAS M Sivasankar, named in Kerala's gold smuggling case, reinstated by Vijayan govt||The Kerala government on Tuesday withdrew the suspension of senior IAS officer M Sivasankar who was put in jail and later made an accused in the high-profile gold smuggling case.The former principal secretary at the Kerala Chief Minister's Office was suspended two year ago after about 30kg gold worth ₹14.82 crore being smuggled through the UAE consulate in Thiruvanthapuram was seized by the costumes department and his links with main accused Swapna Suresh had come to the fore.The case that had rocked the Pinarayi Vijayan government in its last term was probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), National Investigative Agency (NIA) and Customs department.Also read | High court quashes charges against key accused in Kerala gold smuggling caseThe ED later arrested the former top bureaucrat and he spent about three months in jail. Earlier, chief secretary VP Joy recommended his reinstatement. His post will be decided later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/m-sivasankar-named-in-kerala-s-sensational-gold-smuggling-case-reinstated-101641312838323.html
04-01-2022||India||DCW chief writes to Naidu seeking reconstitution of panel reviewing marriage age bill||Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal on Tuesday expressed her concerns about the inclusion of only one woman parliamentarian in the 31-member panel formed to examine a bill to raise the legal marriage age. In her letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, Maliwal sought reconstitution of the panel with more than half women MPs."It's sad that the present committee has only one woman amongst 30 men! This is a sensitive matter and shall impact the lives of crores of women. Therefore, it must be decided through a comprehensive and consultative process led by women," the DCW chief’s letter read.At present, Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Sushmita Dev is the only woman member of the parliamentary panel that is tasked to deliberate on the Prohibition on Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, which seeks to increase the age of legal marriage of women from 18 to 21 years.The bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha by Union minister Smriti Irani during the winter session of Parliament. It was then sent for examination to the 31-member committee, led by senior BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe.In the letter, Maliwal further wrote about the failure of agencies in implementing existing laws against child marriage and asked for wider consultation and assessment over the same. "The issue of raising the legal marriageable age of women in India is contentious and requires comprehensive assessment and deliberation backed by extensive research, both on the implementation of the existing provisions of law as well as the implications of the proposed amendments," she said.The DCW chief’s letter comes a day after several women MPs expressed their dismay over the inadequate representation in the parliamentary panel examining the proposed law.Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi, a member of the Upper House of Parliament from Maharashtra, has also written to the Rajya Sabha Chairman seeking more participation of women in the discussion. "This is disheartening to note that a bill so pertinent to women and the Indian society will be deliberated upon in a committee where the representation is highly skewed," the Shiv Sena leader’s letter read.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader and Lok Sabha member Kanimozhi took to Twitter to express her displeasure over the matter. "There are a total of 110 female MPs but the govt. chooses to assign a bill that affects every young woman in the country to a panel that has 30 men and only one woman. Men will continue to decide the rights of women. And women will be made mute spectators," she wrote on the microblogging site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcw-chief-writes-to-naidu-seeking-reconstitution-of-panel-reviewing-marriage-age-bill-101641311508952.html
04-01-2022||India||Omicron: More curbs in India, IHU strain in France, Record cases in US | 10 points||Authorities in India announced more curbs on Tuesday as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases continued to rise across the country amid the spread of the Omicron variant. Several political leaders, including Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, tested positive for Covid-19, prompting them to self isolate themselves. Meanwhile, the United States reported 1 million Covid cases in a single day, the highest-ever number reported by the country within 24 hours. While the world is still grappling with the new variant of concern, a more mutated strain identified by researchers in France has caused fresh concerns.Take a look at the top Covid stories of the day:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-more-curbs-in-india-ihu-strain-in-france-record-cases-in-us-10-points-101641310949295.html
04-01-2022||India||Ambassador Atul Keshap appointed head of US-India Business Council||The US Chamber of Commerce said on Tuesday ambassador Atul Keshap was being appointed as president of the US-India Business Council (USIBC) effective from January 5.Keshap most recently served in New Delhi as United States Chargé d’Affaires to India, leading the US Embassy team, it said in a statement.The Indian-origin Keshap has held a number of senior US government positions and is a 28-year veteran of the US Department of State. The US Chamber of Commerce announced that Ambassador Atul Keshap has been appointed President of the US-India Business Council (USIBC) effective January 5. Ambassador Keshap most recently served in Delhi as United States Chargé d’Affaires to India, leading US Embassy team pic.twitter.com/C2h8wP3nLyKeshap said he was excited to continue his involvement in shaping and strengthening the robust relationship between the United States and India.“India and its inspired citizenry hold a special place in my heart, and I believe there is no better place to continue this journey than serving as president of USIBC, which is committed and dedicated to enhancing commercial ties between the two countries,” he said.“With the two countries on the cusp of entering an even more robust era in our strategic partnership, I feel privileged and honored to lead USIBC,” he added.Nisha Biswal, a former US assistant secretary of state for South Asia, and Keshap’s predecessor as USIBC head, will remain deeply involved with the organisation as the US Chamber of Commerce’s senior vice president of International Strategy and Global Initiatives and South Asia.The U.S.-India Business Council (USIBC) represents top global companies operating across the United States, India, and the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambassador-atul-keshap-appointed-head-of-us-india-business-council-101641310402335.html
04-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Delhi govt asks private hospitals to keep 40% beds for Covid cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi govt directs major private hospitals to keep 40% beds for Covid casesThe Delhi government on Tuesday directed all private hospitals and nursing homes in the national capital with 50 beds or more to reserve at least 40 per cent of their total bed capacity for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. Read MoreMaharashtra reports massive spike with over 18k new cases, Mumbai tally up tooMaharashtra on Tuesday saw a rise of over 6,000 cases in its daily Covid-19 tally with 18,466 new infections being registered during the day. It also reported 20 related deaths, pushing the active caseload to 66,308. Read MoreUttarakhand girl arrested in Bulli Bai app case is a class 12 pass-out. She’s 18An 18-year-old girl in Uttarakhand’s Rudrapur town has been arrested by Mumbai police in connection with its probe into the ‘Bulli Bai’ app where images of Muslim women were posted in an attempt to “auction” them, a top Uttarakhand police officer said on Tuesday. Read MoreShardul Thakur's heroics helps seamer break multiple records, achieves rare feat to join former England pacerShardul Thakur continued his terrific form as he completed his maiden five-wicket haul in Test cricket. The 30-year-old seamer picked seven wickets on Day 2 of the ongoing Johannesburg Test, helping India bundle out South Africa on 229 in their first innings. Read More‘Mom and me’: Katrina Kaif enjoys stunning dusk view from her Juhu house, shares pics of her ‘cosy corner’After sharing pictures of herself on Instagram wearing mangalsutra, actor Katrina Kaif has now given a closer look at her ‘cosy’ life. On Tuesday, Katrina shared several pictures from her new house with husband Vicky Kaushal on her Instagram Stories. Read MoreExpert opens up on side-effects of Covid vaccine for 15-18 age groupVaccination for teens has taken off with those in the age group of 15-18 queuing up at the centres for the much-needed shot with no adverse effect reported so far but parents must watch out for any uncommon symptoms given that signs of harmful reactions in kids are usually the same as in case of adults. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-govt-asks-private-hospitals-to-keep-40-beds-for-covid-cases-and-all-the-latest-news-101641308732075.html
04-01-2022||India||‘It’s dharm yudh for us': BJP president Nadda on Telangana unit chief's arrest||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda, who arrived in Hyderabad on Tuesday to protest the arrest of the party's Telangana unit chief, Bandi Sanjay Kumar, described fight against Kumar's arrest as a ‘dharm yudh’ (religious war) for the BJP.Also Read | ‘Murder of democracy’: JP Nadda on Telangana BJP chief Sanjay Bandi’s arrest“This is dharm yudh for us. We will take all legal recourse, and fight in democratic ways till the end. We will continue our fight but not overstep the laws,” Nadda said, according to news agency ANI. This is 'Dharm Yudh' for us. We will take all legal recourse and fight in democratic ways till the end. We will not overstep the laws & continue our fight: BJP President JP Nadda on the arrest of Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay pic.twitter.com/LKSSFSOxjqThe BJP chief also described the Telangana government, under the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), as the most ‘undemocratic government.’ He said, “What has happened in the last two days is a murder of democracy. It is a form of autocracy here. Sanjay Bandi was manhandled and then arrested. This is a live example of (chief minister) K Chandrasekhar Rao's undemocratic rule. It is my charge that he has lost his sense of proportion and mental balance. Telangana is proving to be one of the most corrupt states.”
04-01-2022||India||Maharashtra reports massive spike with over 18k new cases, Mumbai tally up too||Maharashtra on Tuesday saw a rise of over 6,000 cases in its daily Covid-19 tally with 18,466 new infections being registered during the day. It also reported 20 related deaths, pushing the active caseload to 66,308. A day ago, the state had registered 12,160 cases and 11 fatalities.The state’s Omicron tally reached 653 with 75 new patients being found infected by the highly transmissible strain of the virus. Of these, 259 have been discharged.The new Omicron cases included 40 from Mumbai, nine from Thane city, eight from Pune city, five from Panvel, three each from Kolhapur and Nagpur, two from Pimpri Chinchwad, 1 each from Bhivandi Nizampur, Ulhasnagar, Satara, Amravati and Navi Mumbai.The state also saw 1,748 patients recovering from the disease taking the cumulative tally to 65,18,916.The capital city of Mumbai registered 10,606 infections and two deaths. The country’s financial capital now has a total of 8,16,965 cases. A day ago, it had logged 7,928 new Covid cases.The administration has a imposed a large number of restrictions to contain the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-massive-spike-with-over-18k-new-cases-mumbai-tally-up-too-101641307157834.html
04-01-2022||India||Odisha sanctions ₹79 lakh to assist Missionaries of Charity||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has sanctioned ₹79 lakh from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund (CMRF) as assistance to the Missionaries of Charity (MoC), his office said in a statement on Tuesday.“Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has sanctioned ₹78.76 lakh from the CMRF to support 13 institutions run by the Missionaries of Charity in the state,” the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said, according to news agency ANI.Patnaik's office also noted that the assistance was for MoC institutions across eight districts of the state. “More than 900 leprosariums and orphanages in the will benefit from this decision,” it further said. CM has sanctioned assistance for 13 institutions run by MoC spreading over 8 districts. More than 900 inmates in various leprosiums and orphanages in the state will be benefited by this decision: CMO, OdishaThe announcement comes nearly a week after Patnaik, on December 30 last year, directed district collectors in the eastern state to use money from the relief fund to arrange for food and treatment of inmates and leprosy homes run by the Kolkata-based organisation, in Odisha.Also Read | Use relief from Odisha CM fund to help Missionaries of Charity if required: PatnaikThe directive was made in the wake of controversy over the Union home ministry ‘freezing’ all bank accounts of the Mother Teresa-founded Missionaries of Charity, as alleged by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on December 27.However, countering Banerjee's charge, the home ministry clarified that it did not freeze any account, adding that the State Bank of India (SBI) informed that the charity itself requested the SBI to block its accounts.Offering further clarification, the Missionaries said, “We would like to clarify that our FCRA (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act) registration has neither been suspended nor cancelled. Further, there is no freeze ordered by the Ministry of home affairs on any of our bank accounts.”Also Read | Mother Teresa's charity denies bank account freeze after Mamata blames CentreThe home ministry announced on January 1 that a total of 6000 bodies have been taken off the list of registrated organisations under the FCRA. Among these, 5789 organsations didn't apply for renewal of license, while that of 179 others was cancelled for violation of the act, the ministry elaborated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-sanctions-rs-79-lakh-to-assist-missionaries-of-charity-101641304873099.html
04-01-2022||India||Uttarakhand girl arrested in Bulli Bai app case is a class 12 pass-out. She’s 18||DEHRADUN: An 18-year-old girl in Uttarakhand’s Rudrapur town has been arrested by Mumbai police in connection with its probe into the ‘Bulli Bai’ app where images of Muslim women were posted in an attempt to “auction” them, a top Uttarakhand police officer said on Tuesday. The app is seen to be a clone of ‘Sulli Deals’ that triggered a similar row last year.She is the second person to have been arrested in connection with the case registered by the Mumbai cyber police on Sunday to investigate the offensive app. Vishal Kumar, 21, a second-year civil engineering student, who was picked up from Bengaluru, was the first. He was formally placed under arrest on Tuesday and remanded in police custody by a judge in Mumbai. His lawyer has denied the charges, insisting that Kumar has been “falsely implicated”.The girl, a class 12 pass-out, has been produced before a local judge in Udham Singh Nagar district who granted transit remand to take her to Mumbai. The police team and the girl are still in Uttarakhand, waiting for female police officers to arrive from Mumbai to escort her, a district police officer said.The girl’s precise role in the case is still unclear. Senior police officers in Mumbai have declined to divulge any details about her alleged role.Uttarakhand police chief Ashok Kumar confirmed the girl’s arrest but underscored that the state police wasn’t part of the team that questioned her.“Uttarakhand police didn’t question the accused as the probe is conducted by the Mumbai police only which is in the know of the case details,” Kumar told HT.“The Uttarakhand police only provided them (Mumbai police) assistance by sending one of our lady constables to arrest the accused as their team was not accompanied by one of their own,” the Uttarakhand police chief said.A senior police officer said the Mumbai police team arrived in Udham Singh Nagar district’s Rudrapur around noon. “They sought assistance from us to arrest her, which we provided. The team then produced her before a local court to get transit remand to take her to Mumbai for interrogation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-girl-arrested-in-bulli-bai-app-case-is-a-class-12-pass-out-she-s-18-101641304446021.html
04-01-2022||India||Bengal restricts flights from Mumbai, Delhi to thrice a week amid Covid spread||Flights from Mumbai and Delhi will be allowed to land in West Bengal thrice a week in view of the current Covid-19 situation in the two places. The West Bengal government on Tuesday informed the ministry of civil aviation of its decision on the matter and said the rule will be applicable from January 5 (Wednesday).In a letter to the ministry, Bengal additional chief secretary BP Gopalika said flights from Mumbai and Delhi will be allowed on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from January 5. The situation will be reviewed depending on the pandemic situation in these states, it added.West Bengal Additional Chief Secretaray BP Gopalika informs Civil aviation ministry that flights from Mumbai and Delhi will be allowed thrice weekly - Monday, Wednesday and Friday, w.e.f January 5; situation to be reviewed depending on COVID cases in the state. pic.twitter.com/5LjbpdmQGfThe letter said that while the state government is extremely sensitive towards the inconvenience that may be caused to passengers, the restrictions are absolutely essential to contain the spread of the pandemic. With more than a 14-fold rise in Covid cases in barely a few days, the Bengal government has reimposed several restrictions till January 15 by closing schools and colleges and limiting the workforce across offices. The restrictions on flights from Mumbai and Delhi had also been in place, but at the time it was allowed only on two days, which has now been increased to thrice a week.West Bengal reported 9,073 new cases, 3,768 recoveries and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours. The active caseload touched 25,475.Both Delhi and Maharashtra and its capital Mumbai have been registering a massive number of cases over the past few days, while also leading the chart of Omicron contributions.Delhi logged 5,481 fresh Covid-19, the national capital’s highest since May 16, 2021, on Tuesday pushing the positivity rate to 8.37 per cent.Mumbai reported 10,860 new COVID-19 cases, up 34.37 per cent from a day ago, and 2 deaths, taking infection tally to 8,18,462 and toll to 16,381.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-restricts-flights-from-mumbai-delhi-to-thrice-a-week-amid-covid-spread-101641303926037.html
04-01-2022||India||Congress leader Randeep Surjewala tests positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms||Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19. The Congress general secretary said he got himself tested after experiencing symptoms like mild fever and cold on Monday night.The senior party spokesperson urged everyone who came in his contact in the last 24 hours to take appropriate precautions and get themselves tested.“After experiencing symptoms like mild fever and cold last night, I got myself tested and am Covid positive. I would request everyone who came in contact with me over last 24 hours to take appropriate precautions and get themselves tested,” Surjewala wrote on Twitter.Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manoj Tiwari tested positive for Covid-19."I have tested positive for Covid. Mild symptoms. Have isolated myself at home. Those who came in touch wid (with) me in last few days, kindly isolate urself (yourself) and get urself tested," Kejriwal wrote on Twitter.Kejriwal has tested positive a day after holding a political rally in Dehradun in poll-bound Uttarakhand.A day ago, Union minister for meavy industries Mahendra Nath Pandey said he had contracted the virus and was admitted at Yashoda Superspeciality Hospital Kaushambi, Ghaziabad, as a "precautionary measure".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/randeep-surjewala-tests-positive-for-covid-19-with-mild-symptoms-101641302448396.html
04-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Indian soldiers celebrate new year in Galwan Valley, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Troops celebrate new year unfurling Tricolour at Galwan ValleyImages of Army troops holding a Tricolour at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh as part of the New Year celebration were released by the security establishment on Tuesday. Read moreMaharashtra may see nearly 100,000 cases a day during the third wave peakAccording to internal projections of the Maharashtra health department, aily cases may go up to 100,000 cases at the peak of the third wave anticipated in February. Read moreIND vs SA: 'He does not have to' - Mbangwa responds to Gavaskar's 'all players have fancy cars, they don't walk' commentFormer Zimbabwe pacer Pommie Mbangwa has responded to legendary Sunil Gavaskar’s ‘all players have fancy cars’ comment during the lunch interval on Day 2 of the 2nd Test between India and South Africa in Johannesburg. Read moreRaveena Tandon recalls crying herself to sleep because of gossip items: ‘They linked me with my own brother’Raveena Tandon recalled being the target of gossip tabloids back in the day and being linked with men she shared a platonic relationship with. She said that one time, she was even linked with her own brother. Read moreEat ber or jujube to boost immunity; know its benefits from Rujuta DiwekarBer or jujube, the sweet and tarty winter fruit has a distinct taste that is loved by many. A storehouse of Vitamin C, ber is excellent for immunity and a very effective cure for constipation. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-indian-soldiers-celebrate-new-year-in-galwan-valley-and-all-the-latest-news-101641292670442.html
04-01-2022||India||80 doctors, students at Patiala medical college test Covid positive||A total of 80 people, including doctors, students and support staff, of the Government Rajindra Hospital and Medical College in Punjab's Patiala have tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Tuesday.This comes as Patiala is turning out to be the worst-hit district in Punjab in terms of a rising number of coronavirus cases.Patiala reported 143 fresh coronavirus cases, accounting for 34 per cent of the 419 cases in Punjab, with a positivity rate of 23.95 per cent, on Monday.District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh on Tuesday said 22 resident doctors, 34 medical students, nine faculty members and 15 support and paramedical staff at the Government Rajindra Hospital and Medical College have tested positive for COVID-19.The officials said directions have been issued to evacuate nearly 1,000 medical students from the hostel after conducting their Covid tests.Those who test positive for the viral disease will be isolated, they added.A few days ago, 93 students at the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology in Patiala had tested positive for Covid, the officials said.Punjab has been witnessing a rise in the number of coronavirus cases for the last few days.The state reported 46 fresh cases of the infection on December 27, 51 cases on December 28, 100 cases on December 29, 167 cases on December 30, 221 cases on December 31, 332 cases on January 1, 417 cases on January 2 and 419 cases on January 3.The positivity rate climbed to 4.47 per cent on January 3 from 0.63 per cent on December 27, according to a medical bulletin.Similarly, the number of active cases jumped from 392 on December 27 to 1,741 on January 3.Punjab has so far recorded 6,05,922 Covid cases and 16,651 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-doctors-students-at-patiala-medical-college-test-covid-positive-101641293866170.html
04-01-2022||India||Cousins from UP held in Bihar for smuggling gold worth ₹2.88cr||Two cousins hailing from Uttar Pradesh's Mirzapur district have been arrested here in separate raids which led to recovery of gold worth nearly ₹3 crore, an official said on Tuesday. The alleged gold smugglers were travelling by different trains, and they were caught at Gaya Junction by a joint team of Railway Protection Force and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence late Monday night. "One was arrested from Shipra Express, while another was nabbed on board Kalka Express. Both had boarded their trains at Howrah," RPF outpost in-charge Ajay Prakash said. He said both were found to be in possession of three one-kg gold bars each and the DRI team, which had arrived here from Patna upon receiving a tip-off, put the cumulative value at ₹2.88 crore. The cousins were taken away by the DRI team to Patna for further probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cousins-from-up-held-in-bihar-for-smuggling-gold-worth-rs-288cr-101641293300495.html
04-01-2022||India||Keeping up with UP | With Yogi’s hat in the ring, the pressure on CM aspirants||The political uncertainty that has often plagued Uttar Pradesh has had one clear consequence. It has made chief ministerial candidates wary of contesting assembly elections.
04-01-2022||India||PM Modi inaugurates integrated terminal at Agartala airport, recalls ‘Hira’ model||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated the integrated terminal at Maharaja Bir Bikram (MBB) Airport in Tripura's capital, Agartala, as he arrived in the city from Imphal, the capital of the neighbouring Manipur, where he inaugurated and laid foundation stone of a total of 22 developmental projects.Also Read | PM Modi to launch state-of-the-art airport terminal in Tripura today. All you need to knowPM Modi also launched two key initiatives on the occasion: Mukhyamantri Tripura Gram Samriddhi Yojana and Project 100 Mission of Vidyajyoti Schools.Afterwards, addressing a gathering, the Prime Minister recalled his ‘Hira’ model of development for the northeastern state. “H for highway, I for internet way, R for railways and A for airways. With this new model, Tripura is today improving and increasing its connectivity,” he remarked.PM Modi first pitched ‘Hira’ model for Tripura in February 2018, ahead of that year's assembly elections in the state. His Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the subsequent polls to form its maiden government here, with Biplab Deb taking oath as chief minister.Praising Deb and the BJP government, he credited the ‘double engine’ government, i.e. the same ruling party at the Centre and in state, with improving Tripura's connectivity with the rest of the country. “There is no match for double government. Double engine government means proper use of resources, it means sensitivity, and it means boosting people's ability. Double engine government means people's service, it means fulfillment of resolutions, and it also means united effort for prosperity,” he explained.Meanwhile, besides PM Modi and chief minister Deb,  the inauguration ceremony was also attended by Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, Tripura deputy CM Jishnu Deb Barman, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-new-terminal-at-agartala-airport-recalls-hira-model-of-development-101641286970374.html
04-01-2022||India||Kerala: Vijayan announces relief package for those facing losses due to K-Rail||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday announced a relief package for those facing losses due to the proposed high-speed rail corridor - K Rail - while asking them to ignore protests against the project.Vijayan said ₹4.6 lakh will be given for the loss of a home apart from the compensation a person will be entitled to. He said an additional ₹1.5 lakh and a house under the state government’s Life Mission project can also be sanctioned. For those below the poverty line, five cents (100 cents equals an acre) of land and ₹10 lakh compensation will be given. Compensation ranging from ₹25,000 to ₹40,000 will be given for cattle sheds.Vijayan promised jobs in the proposed rail corporation for qualified people affected by the project and said ₹13,000 crore will be set aside for compensation as per the market rates. “The government will be there with people who face losses. ...We have to surge ahead. For this, we need such projects,” said Vijayan, who has maintained the government will not bow to protests.Opposition leader V D Satheesan criticised Vijayan saying he meets only influential people and corporates. “But a majority of the displaced will be common people.”The proposed corridor will pass through 11 districts. Congress, the main Opposition party in the state, and the Bharatiya Janata Party are opposing the project. The ₹69, 941 crore project seeks to connect north Kerala’s Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram in the south. It needs 1,383 hectares of land of which 1,383 hectares is private land. The state is planning to fund the project through equity funds, foreign lending, and the railway ministry’s part-funding. The proposed link is estimated to bring down the travel time between Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram, covering 529.45km, to four hours from 12 hours. It is expected to be completed by 2025.
04-01-2022||India||Troops celebrate new year unfurling Tricolour at Galwan Valley||Images of Army troops holding a Tricolour at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh as part of the New Year celebration were released by the security establishment on Tuesday.The photographs were released three days after China's state media played up a purported video of soldiers of People's Liberation Army (PLA) sending new year greetings to Chinese people from a location near the Galwan valley region.In one of the photos, around 30 Indian soldiers were seen with the national flag. Another photo showed the group with four of them holding the national flag and another Tricolour flying high on a flagpole adjacent to a temporary observation post.A PTI report, quoting sources, said the photographs were taken on January 1 in the Galwan Valley.The photographs were also posted by Union law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju on his Twitter action with the caption "brave Indian Army soldiers in Galwan Valley on the occasion of #NewYear2022."On New Year’s day, troops on both sides exchanged sweets and greetings at 10 border points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), including in eastern Ladakh and North Sikkim, which was seen as a warm gesture in the midst of the lingering row in eastern Ladakh.The eastern Ladakh border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5, 2020, following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas.Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process last year in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake and in the Gogra area.Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.The 13th round of Corps Commander-level military talks in October ended in a stalemate with the Indian Army saying that the "constructive suggestions" made by it were not agreeable to the Chinese side.In their virtual diplomatic talks on November 18, India and China agreed to hold the 14th round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh.It is learnt that the Chinese side is yet to respond to the next round of military talks.The defence ministry on Friday said it held several rounds of military talks with the Chinese side to deescalate the situation in eastern Ladakh without compromising on its stand of 'complete disengagement and immediate restoration of status quo ante.India has been insisting on returning to the status quo that existed before the face-off took place in early May 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/troops-celebrate-new-year-unfurling-tricolour-at-galwan-valley-101641291099449.html
04-01-2022||India||Covid-19: AIIMS Delhi cancels winter vacation, asks faculty to join immediately||In view of increasing Covid cases due to the Omicron variant of the virus, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi on Tuesday cancelled the remaining part of winter vacation from January 5 to January 10 and has asked the faculty members to join duty 'with immediate effect'.In a notice, AIIMS said: "In continuation of the office of memoranda...it is to inform that the Competent Authority has decided to cancel the remaining part of the winter vacation i.e. from 5th to 10th January, 2022 due to the ongoing Covid-19 Omicron Pandemic.""Covid-19: AIIMS, Delhi cancels remaining part of winter vacation from January 5 to January 10; asks faculty members to join duty 'with immediate effect'," the notice further read.Meanwhile, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has decided to impose a weekend curfew in the national capital.Addressing a press conference after the DDMA meeting today, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia informed that buses and metro trains will again run at full seating capacity to avoid crowding outside metro stations and at bus stops.The Deputy Chief Minister informed that cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 have been rapidly rising. "Delhi has reported around 11,000 positive cases in the past 8-10 days, of which around 350 patients are in hospital, only 124 patients need oxygen and 7 are on a ventilator," he added.Delhi has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks following the emergence of the Omicron variant.The city reported 4,099 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the positivity rate in the national capital to 6.46 per cent, Delhi's health department bulletin informed on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-aiims-delhi-cancels-winter-vacation-asks-faculty-to-join-immediately-101641290458845.html
04-01-2022||India||33 hospital staff in Lucknow's Medanta test positive for Covid-19, all asymptomatic||As many as 33 people, including 32 hospital staff and one emergency doctor, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at Lucknow’s Medanta Hospital, news agency ANI reported. Everyone is reported to be asymptomatic."Most of the doctors who have been infected are those who go for sample collection and this could be the reason that they have contracted the disease," ANI quoted Rakesh Kapoor, director of Medanta Hospital, as saying."The hospital is also collecting samples from other staff members and doctors," he added.At the hospital, health care workers are being screened as well as infected departments being sanitized.In 2021, Medanta was the first hospital in Uttar Pradesh to treat a Covid patient with monoclonal antibody therapy. It has been at the forefront as a healthcare facility taking care of Covid infected patients. On January 3, the hospital started vaccinations for children ageing 15 and 18 years.COVID-19 vaccination of children aged between 15 and 18 years began at Medanta on January, 3rd. Visit your nearest Medanta vaccination centre or book a slot today to get your child vaccinated via the Cowin app. Call on 012448334589 for more information.#Covid19vaccine #Medanta pic.twitter.com/nWjHXClwVJOn Monday, 572 new cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh, bringing the number of active cases in the state to 1725. Lucknow (86), Ghaziabad (130), Gautam Budh Nagar (101) and Meerut (49) lodged the highest number of infections. The total number of confirmed cases in Uttar Pradesh now stands at over 1.71 million.Also Read | Don't panic’: Yogi Adityanath says Omicron is ‘like viral fever’ but precaution neededAccording to official reports, the state has delivered 20 crore vaccination doses, allowing for 50% vaccination coverage.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/33-hospital-staff-in-lucknow-s-medanta-test-positive-for-covid-19-all-asymptomatic-101641289056143.html
04-01-2022||India||Delhi may see 5,500 Covid cases today, curfew is not lockdown: Health minister Jain||Delhi is expected to report as many as 5,500 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, health minister Satyendra Jain said, adding the positivity rate is expected to touch 8.5 per cent.He further said the weekend curfew being imposed in view of rising Covid cases should not be considered a lockdown.Over the last two weeks, the national capital is witnessing a massive spurt in its daily Covid cases with the emergence of the Omicron variant.On Monday, Delhi logged 4,099 new Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, while the positivity rate jumped to 6.46 per cent, according to the daily health bulletin.The active cases in the city have gone to 10,986 and the cumulative tally of the Covid-19 cases now stands at 14,58,220. In the last 24 hours, Delhi also witnessed one Covid-related death taking the death toll to 25,100.To curb the latest surge, the city government reimposed several restrictions, including weekend and night curfews. Earlier in the day, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said buses and metro trains will again run at full seating capacity to avoid crowding outside metro stations and at bus stops.In the previous order, the government had reduced the passenger capacity inside buses and metros to 50 per cent, which eventually led to long queues outside stations and crowded bus stops.The government has also mandated private offices to function with 50 per cent workforce, while all government officials except for those engaged in essential services will work from home.Meanwhile, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he has tested positive for the viral disease with mild symptoms. This came a day after he addressed a mega election rally in poll-bound Uttarakhand, where none of the people on the dais could be seen wearing a mask despite rising infections in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-may-see-5-500-covid-cases-today-curfew-is-not-lockdown-health-minister-jain-101641289377078.html
04-01-2022||India||Omicron becoming dominant strain in India not a ‘bad thing’, says expert||The Omicron variant of coronavirus becoming a dominant strain in near future is not a “bad thing” as the symptoms are less severe than other variants of concern, a health expert has suggested. Dr S Chandra, a consultant physician at Delhi’s Helvetia Medical Center, told news agency ANI that the symptoms in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients infected with Omicron mostly seem to be mild and moderate and further get reduced within three to four days.“Omicron will become dominant strain which is not a bad thing considering the fact that its symptoms are less severe,” ANI quoted Chandra as saying.“Symptoms mostly seem to be mild and moderate in Omicron patients. The symptoms are reduced within 3-4 days in such patient,” he added.Amid Covid rise, weekend curfew imposed in Delhi, non-essential movement curbedThe doctor underlined that vaccinated individuals are getting infected because Covid-19 vaccines may not be effective enough against the new variant of concern due to the high number of mutations. He, however, stressed that vaccines held in reducing the severity of the disease. Chandra said that the third Covid wave won’t be as severe as the second wave.“We seem to be at beginning of the third wave. Although cases are rising, the mortality rate is still very low. The third wave won't be as severe as the second wave,” Chandra said, as quoted by ANI.The rapid rise in fresh Covid cases, driven by the highly contagious Omicron variant, prompted the Delhi government to announce a fresh set of curbs in the national capital, including the weekend curfew. Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain told reporters that the capital is expected to report about 5,500 new Covid cases on Tuesday, with a positivity rate close to 8.5 per cent. He emphasised that weekend curfew should not be considered as lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-becoming-dominant-strain-in-india-not-a-bad-thing-says-expert-101641287595529.html
04-01-2022||India||'Bulli Bai' app row: Key accused detained from Uttarakhand, engg student held in Mumbai||The prime accused in the case of the ‘Bulli Bai’ application that targeted Muslim women in a fake online auction was detained from Uttarakhand, Mumbai Police said on Tuesday. The accused is a woman and knew the 21-year-old engineering student who was arrested during the day in Mumbai following 10 hours of grilling. The arrested man, detained a day ago from Bengaluru, was identified as Vishal Kumar. The arrest came after 10 hours of questioning by Mumbai Police Cyber Cell DCP Rashmi Karandikar.  Kumar was later sent to police custody till January 10. Police said the main accused was handling three accounts related to the 'Bulli Bai' app. “Kumar opened an account by the name Khalsa supremacist. On December 31, he changed the names of other accounts to resemble Sikh names. Fake Khalsa account holders were shown,” the Mumbai Police said in a statement as quoted by news agency ANI.The main accused woman was handling three accounts related to 'Bulli Bai' app. Co-accused Vishal Kumar opened an account by the name Khalsa supremacist. On Dec 31, he changed the names of other accounts to resemble Sikh names. Fake Khalsa account holders were shown: Mumbai PoliceA major uproar has erupted over the leaking of photographs of more than 100 prominent Muslim women, including journalists, activists, film stars and artists, on the application last weekend without their permission.The website had listed the women for “auction” in what appeared to be a clone of the banned app ‘Sulli Deals’ which had triggered a similar row last year.The women listed on the website also included a 65-year-old mother of a disappeared Indian student as well as Pakistani Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai.A case had been registered against unknown culprits under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act.The website, hosted on San Francisco-based coding platform GitHub, came to light after an outrage by several victims and other supporters on Twitter.A company spokesperson of GitHub said it had taken down the user account which had hosted the website on its platform, and that it would cooperate with investigating authorities.The Delhi Police on Monday asked Twitter to block and remove related "offensive contents" on its platform.Investigations were launched in at least three states and police filed criminal complaints against developers of the website, based on the complaints of the targeted women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulli-bai-app-row-21-year-old-held-in-mumbai-after-10-hrs-of-grilling-101641283619960.html
04-01-2022||India||Covid-19: 5 big things to know about the new IHU variant||A new variant of coronavirus – named IHU - has been identified by researchers in France amid the rapid spread of the Omicron strain across the globe. The study, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, suggests that the new virus strain has more mutations than the Omicron variant.Omicron is still new and a lot of research has been going on across the world to understand its behaviour and capacity to infect. So far, 32 mutations have been identified in Omicron, which is believed to be more resistant to existing vaccines.But now, this new strain of lineage B.1.640.2 contains 46 mutations.The IHU was discovered in France on December 10, and since then, the scientists there have been conducting research on it.Here is a list of things known about the new IHU variant so far:• Its presence was first detected by experts at the IHU Mediterranee Infection in Marseille.• It has been linked to travel to Cameroon, a country in Africa. Omicron was also discovered in southern part of Africa on November 24 and rapidly took the world in its grip.• At least 12 cases of the new IHU variant were reported near Marseilles in France early in December. They are believed to be linked to the index case who returned from Cameroon. The research began after the discovery of the cluster.• According to a paper posted on medRxiv, the genomes were obtained by next-generation sequencing with Oxford Nanopore Technologies on GridION instruments. It further said that the mutations have caused 14 amino acid substitutions and 9 amino acid deletions - which are located in the spike protein.• The B.1.640.2 has not been spotted in other countries or labelled a variant under investigation by the World Health Organization (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-5-big-things-to-know-about-the-new-ihu-variant-101641284585803.html
04-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Covid-19 cruiser patients refuse to disembark at Goa and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 patients on cruiser refuse to get down at Goa, ship sent back to Mumbai The Cordelia cruise ship en route to Goa, aboard which as many as 66 of the 2,000-odd passengers had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) yesterday, has now been sent back to Mumbai, reported the PTI news agency on Tuesday. Read MoreSurge in Covid-19 cases indicative of third wave but don't panic: NK AroraDr N K Arora, the chairman of the Covid-19 working group of the NTAGI, has said that the massive surge in Covid-19 cases over the past one week was indicative of a third wave of the pandemic in the country. Read MoreWatch: Worst review ever? Bangladesh take DRS for LBW against Taylor even as ball hits bat, commentators in splitsBangladesh burnt a referral in what would go down as one of the most bizarre DRS reviews of all time. On Day 4 of the first Test between New Zealand and Bangladesh, the visitors strangely opted for DRS even as the ball clearly hit the bat of Ross Taylor. Watch NowJaved Akhtar, Shabana Azmi defend his ancestor Fazl-e-Haq against trolls: 'A freedom fighter who died in Kala Pani'Lyricist Javed Akhtar and his actor wife Shabana Azmi recently gave it back to trolls who questioned the honour of his great great grandfather Fazl-e-Haq Khairabadi. Read MoreUS twins delivered 15 minutes apart have birthdays in different yearsIn a happy and rare event, a pair of twins ended up having their birthdays in different years after being delivered 15 minutes apart. The brother and sister were born at a hospital in California. Read MoreMilind Soman calls turban stylish accessory for Jaisalmer sun, Ankita Konwar reacts on his fiery picsFitness enthusiast and supermodel Milind Soman believes that there is one accessory that is the most stylish look for the Jaisalmer sun - the turban. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-cruiser-patients-refuse-to-disembark-at-goa-and-all-the-latest-news-101641278618051.html
04-01-2022||India||Surge in Covid-19 cases indicative of third wave but don't panic: NK Arora||Dr N K Arora, the chairman of the Covid-19 working group of the NTAGI, has said that the massive surge in Covid-19 cases over the past one week was indicative of a third wave of the pandemic in the country.He also informed that the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus is accounting for over 50 per cent of the fresh cases of the infection in major Indian cities.“The galloping increase in the number of Covid cases over the last one week is indicative of the third wave, as is being seen in several other countries across the globe,” news agency PTI quoted Arora as saying on Tuesday.Saying there was no need to press the panic button, the doctor reasoned that over 80 per cent of the people in the country have been infected with the virus naturally while more than 90 per cent of the adults have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and over 65 per cent are fully vaccinated.Also read | 50 doctors at Delhi's AIIMS in isolation as Covid-19 cases spiral into hospitals, faculty vacation cancelledPointing out at some epidemiological similarities between South Africa and India, Arora said, “If we look at the behaviour of the Omicron wave in South Africa, where it rapidly increased, in two weeks, the number of cases started coming down and most of the cases were either asymptomatic or had a mild illness, along with the decoupling of the total number of Covid cases vis-a-vis those requiring hospitalisation. All these factors indicate that the Omicron wave in South Africa may soon subside”."In view of this, we may see a somewhat similar pattern in India as far as the third wave is concerned."Looking at the behaviour of the Covid infection in the last seven to 10 days in India, I feel that we may be in for a third wave peak very soon," he said.Arora further advised people who are yet to take the vaccine to get themselves jabbed for protection against severe disease and hospitalisation and strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.Also read | Mix and match of Covaxin, Covishield elicits 4 times antibody responseIndia has been reporting a sharp spike in its Covid-19 caseload from the past few days. On Tuesday, the country saw 37,379 cases being logged in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,49,60,261, according to Union health ministry's data updated at 8am.This number of active cases of the infection has climbed to 1,71,830.So far, as many as 1,892 cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant have been detected across 23 states and Union territories in the country. Of the total cases of the new strain, 766 patients have either recuperated or migrated.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-covid-19-cases-indicative-of-third-wave-but-don-t-panic-nk-arora-101641275749909.html
04-01-2022||India||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari tests positive for Covid||Bharatiya Janta Party MP from North East Delhi and former state unit chief Manoj Tiwari on Tuesday said he tested positive for Covid-19 and has isolated himself at home.He has developed a fever and cold two days back and tested positive on Tuesday. "Was feeling unwell since January 2 night. I could not go for poll campaigning in Rudrapur in Uttarakhand due to mild fever and cold. Have tested positive today. As a precautionary measure, I have isolated myself yesterday (Monday) only. Please take care of yourself and your families,” Tiwari said in a tweet in Hindi on Tuesday.He has also asked his staff and those who came in contact with him to get tested and quarantine themselves as a precaution.According to his staff members, the BJP MP has tested positive for Covid-19 second time, earlier he had tested positive during the second wave of coronavirus pandemic in April 2021. The BJP star campaigner, Tiwari has cancelled his upcoming rallies in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. He has to address a rally in Lucknow on January 7, which has been cancelled now, one of his staff members told PTI.He has last addressed a public gathering in Chandigarh on December 21.Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana has also tested Covid positive."Dosto I have been diagnosed Covid Positive. Fortunately, it’s a mild one. I m in Home isolation now. Please aap sab log apna dhyan rakho. U people take care of urself,” Khurana, son of former Delhi chief minister late Madan Lal Khurana, tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-manoj-tiwari-tests-positive-for-covid-101641277009517.html
04-01-2022||India||Vice Admiral Sree Harilal Sarma passes away at 99||Vice Admiral Sree Harilal Sarma, who was the flag officer commanding the Indian Navy’s Eastern Fleet tasked with cutting the maritime communications between West and East Pakistan (Bangladesh) in the 1971 war, passed away at Odisha’s Bhubaneswar on Monday. He was 99.Sarma, who celebrated his 99th birthday on December 5, also fought the 1965 war with Pakistan and the Second World War. A Param Vishisht Seva Medal awardee, he was on board the INS Rajput when it destroyed PNS Ghazi, a Pakistani submarine, near Visakhapatnam in 1971.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik called Sarma one of Odisha’s illustrious sons while paying tribute to him. “Deeply saddened to learn about the passing away of one of #Odisha’s illustrious sons, Vice Admiral S H Sarma, PVSM. The veteran soldier led from the front during many battles India has fought. My thoughts & prayers are with the bereaved family and friends,” he tweeted.In a tweet, Lest We Forget India, an organisation that honours the sacrifices of the Indian armed forces, said Sarma played a pivotal role during the 1971 India-Pakistan war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-admiral-sree-harilal-sarma-passes-away-at-99-101641276695236.html
04-01-2022||India||Covid-19 patients on cruiser refuse to get down at Goa, ship sent back to Mumbai||The Cordelia cruise ship en route to Goa, aboard which as many as 66 of the 2,000-odd passengers had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) yesterday, has now been sent back to Mumbai, reported the PTI news agency on Tuesday. Citing an official from a shipping agency, the report said that the decision to send the cruise ship back was taken after a few of the infected persons refused to get admitted to a medical facility in the coastal state.The Cordelia cruise ship, which was recently on the news in view of a high-profile drugs bust case, was now carrying hordes of New Year revelers from Mumbai to Goa. After a crew member contracted Covid-19, however, samples of all the passengers were tested. Thereafter, as many as 66 passengers on board tested positive for the viral disease, according to Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane.Govind Pernulkar, manager of operations at JM Baxi and Co, a local ship agent, told the PTI news agency that as many as 27 of the passengers who tested positive refused to get admitted to a Covid-19 facility in Goa.“Only six crew members out of the total 66 who had tested positive were disembarked [in Goa],” he said.After considering the situation, the South Goa district administration ordered that the ship along with all the passengers be sent back to Mumbai, he said, adding that the ship was sent back at 11.30pm on Monday and it is expected to reach Mumbai by Tuesday afternoon“The passengers who were shifted to an isolation facility were also brought back to the ship before it sailed to Mumbai,” Pernulkar said. “The coronavirus positive passengers would be isolated on the ship.”Notably, some of the infected persons who refused to leave the ship were also travelling along with their families, according to the shipping agent. Many of these family members had tested negative for the viral infection, thus leading to conflicting ideas about isolation on the coastal state.The Goa administration is likely to impose a night curfew soon between 11pm and 6am, besides cancelling classes for students of classes VIII to XII. The classes will be taken back online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-patients-on-cruiser-refuse-to-get-down-at-goa-ship-sent-back-to-mumbai-101641266139847.html
04-01-2022||India||As Covid-19 spreads, Punjab imposes night curfew; schools, colleges shut||The Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government in Punjab imposed a night curfew, and curbs on shopping malls, sports stadiums and other institutions in view of rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The new restrictions will remain in place till January 15, said the order issued by department of home affairs.It further said that wearing of masks by all persons in public places, including workplaces, will be mandatory and must be strictly enforced.The night curfew will remain in place from 10pm to 5am. "The district authorities are accordingly asked to issue prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC and ensure strict compliance," said the order.Essential services, like operation of multiple shifts in industry and offices (both Government and private), movement of persons and goods on National and State Highways and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and flightshave been exempted form these curbs.All schools and colleges, except medical and nursing colleges, have been closed. They have been directed to proceed with online teaching.Further, cinemas halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas, museums, zoos will operate at 50 per cent of their capacity subject to all staff present being fully vaccinated.The air-conditioned buses till also run with 50 per cent of their seating capacity.Only fully vaccinated staff will be allowed to attend the government as well as private offices, working spaces, factories and industries.The state government has further allowed district authorities to impose additional restrictions as deemed necessary "based on their assessment of the situation". They can't, though, dilute the curbs announced by the state government.Punjab reported 419 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death on Monday. This took the state's infection tally to 6,05,922, while the death toll reached 16,651, according to state government's medical bulletin.Of fresh cases, Patiala reported 143 infections, followed by 58 in Pathankot, 57 in Ludhiana and 30 in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-spreads-punjab-imposes-night-curfew-schools-colleges-shut-101641273217664.html
04-01-2022||India||With 37,379 new cases, India's Covid tally rises for 7th straight day; Omicron count nears 2,000||India on Tuesday logged as many as 37,379 new Covid-19 cases, which was a spike of 10.75% from the preceding day, according to the morning bulletin shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The spike was the biggest single-day jump in coronavirus cases in the country since early September, Reuters reported.This is the seventh consecutive day that India saw a rise in the daily Covid-19 case count with 33,750 fresh infections reported on Monday. Following Tuesday's figures, the cumulative tally of India has reached 3,49,60,261, health ministry's bulletin revealed. The active caseload has also been pushed to 1,71,830, accounting for 0.49% of the total cases.Meanwhile, the number of cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of Covid-19 has touched 1,892 in India. Maharashtra and Delhi remain the leading contributors with 568 and 382 infections, respectively. Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu all feature in the top 10 most-hit states due to the variant and have over 100 infections recorded so far. Telangana, Karnataka, Haryana and Odisha are other states in the top 10 list in India, according to the health ministry's bulletin.Also Read | As Covid cases rise in Delhi, DDMA meeting in few hours to decide on stricter curbsAs many as 124 new fatalities due to Covid-19 were reported in the last 24 hours, one less than the preceding day, taking the death toll in India to 482,017. However, the only positive signal that remains in the latest updates is the new recoveries that saw a jump to 11,007 from Monday's 10,846. The total number of patients who recovered from the virus now stands at 3,43,06,414.A total of 68,24,28,595 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the country so far, of which, 11,54,302 were done in the last 24 hours.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/laoNY0nD9bFurther, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has surpassed the 146 crore-mark with more than 57 lakh adult eligible beneficiaries getting inoculated in the past 24 hours. From Monday onwards, vaccination for individuals aged 15-18 also began and on the launch day, as many as 42,06,433 people were administered the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine. Thus, in the last 24 hours, 99,27,797 vaccine shots were jabbed to all eligible beneficiaries.
04-01-2022||India||Tribals protest against reduction in quota for Odisha panchayat polls||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha Adivasi Kalyan Sangha, an organisation of tribals, held a rally on Monday in front of the Bolangir district collector’s office against the reduction in their quota for the panchayat polls.Niranjan Bisi, a Sangha leader, said tribals in 23 of the state’s 30 districts would be politically side-lined as not a single sarpanch post has been reserved for them in 195 blocks. He added similarly no panchayat samiti chairperson post has been reserved for them.“In 2017 panchayat polls, at least 2,300 posts of sarpanch were reserved for tribals in the 23 districts while 70 posts were marked for us for the posts of panchayat samiti chairpersons. But this time, we have been totally forgotten just to appease the OBC (Other Backward Class) candidates who are numerically more than us,” said Bisi. “This is a violation of Article 243D of the Constitution, which states that seats would have to be reserved for scheduled tribes and scheduled castes in every panchayat in proportion to the population...”Bisi said in the Bolangir district, where tribals account for 21% of the population, not a single post of sarpanch in 317 gram panchayats have been reserved for tribals. He added in 2017, 72 posts were reserved for them. In Patnagarh block, where tribals constitute 32% of the population, no post of sarpanch has been reserved for them.“We would socially boycott (ruling) BJD (Biju Janata Dal) and not allow any leader of the party to enter the villages if our voices are ignored.”Similar protests were organised in Sonepur, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Angul, Nuapada, and Balasore districts for retaining the 2017 panchayat polls quota for tribals.“As per the amended Odisha Gram Panchayat Act, no post of sarpanch has to be reserved for tribals. So, to ensure that tribals get 22.8% reservation, we have reserved the posts of ward members in the rest of the districts,” said Gyana Das, director of the panchayati raj department.Kalahandi Adivasi Sangha chief Parakash Majhi accused the government of depriving the tribals of their rightful due. “When (chief minister) Naveen Patnaik came to power in 2000, he did everything possible for tribals by starting several schemes. But in 2022 panchayat polls, the government wants to do OBC politics and thus tribals are no longer required. By making the tribals weaker in the panchayati raj system, whatever gains the tribals made would be nullified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribals-protest-against-reduction-in-quota-for-odisha-panchayat-polls-101641273214989.html
04-01-2022||India||Offline ticket counters of Taj Mahal, Agra Fort closed in view of Covid-19||In view of the current Covid-19 situation, the manual ticket counters of the Taj Mahal and Agra Fort in Uttar Pradesh's Agra were closed on Monday.Superintending Archaeologist Dr Raj Kumar Patel said, "There was a huge gathering outside the ticket windows. Following this, the decision was taken to close the windows of the manual ticket counters. However, the monuments are not completely closed."Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh reported 514 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Monday.The state has reported eight cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus so far, said the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offline-ticket-counters-of-taj-mahal-agra-fort-closed-in-view-of-covid19-101641270326938.html
04-01-2022||India||Gorakhpur region to get 3rd expressway, will benefit 20 districts in state||Uttar Pradesh is set to get another expressway. Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan reported that National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has appointed a consultant for preparing detailed project report (DPR) for 500-kilometre-long Gorakhpur-Shamli expressway.The final router of the proposed expressway will be known only after the DPR is finalised. But Livehindustan reported that it will pass through 20 districts, including Sant Kabirnagar, Basti and Siddharth Nagar.This will be third expressway to start from Gorakhpur, Livehindustan reported. Currently, a link expressway to connect the Purvanchal Expressway is being constructed in the region. Livehindustan added that 40 per cent work on this link road is completed. A DPR is being prepared for another 519-kilometer-long road which will link Gorakhpur to Siliguri in West Bengal, it further said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath recently spoke how the number of expressways increased significantly in Uttar Pradesh in the last few years. He was speaking at a function in Shajahanpur where Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for Ganga Expressway.He said that from 1947 to 2017, just one expressway was built in the state, but since then six expressways are being made.The 594-kilometre-long Ganga Expressway is expected to be the longest expressway in Uttar Pradesh. It is being built at a cost of ₹36,200 crore.Starting near Bijauli village in Meerut, the Ganga Expressway will extend till near Judapur Dandu village in Prayagraj via Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, and Pratapgarh.The expressway will have a 3.5-kilometre long air-strip for assisting emergency take-off and landing of Air Force planes in Shahjahanpur.The Ganga Expressway is set to reduce the travel time between Delhi and Prayagraj to just 7 hours. It was approved on November 26, 2020, and will be ready for commute by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorakhpur-region-to-get-3rd-expressway-will-benefit-20-districts-in-state-101641269042088.html
04-01-2022||India||Rain, hailstorms likely in north India in next 7 days||NEW DELHI: Widespread rain, isolated hailstorm and low day-time temperatures are likely across northern India for at least the next seven days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), due to two consecutive western disturbances that may affect northwest and central India.No cold wave conditions are likely for the next seven days.Widespread to moderate rain and snowfall is likely over the western Himalayan region between Tuesday and Thursday. Isolated heavy rain and snowfall is likely in Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh on Tuesday. Heavy rain and snowfall is also likely to take place in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Wednesday. Also, scattered to moderate rainfall is likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, northern Rajasthan, western Uttar Pradesh and western Madhya Pradesh between Tuesday and Thursday. A separate intense western disturbance is likely to affect northwest India from Thursday, with a cyclonic circulation likely to form in southwest Rajasthan on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-hailstorms-likely-in-north-india-in-next-7-days-101641266074632.html
04-01-2022||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to launch 22 projects in poll-bound Manipur today, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of as many as 22 development projects worth ₹4,800 crore in Manipur's capital Imphal today. Read moreDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Twitter on Tuesday that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief is isolating at home. Read moreAmid rising concerns over a fresh surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, doctors in the United States are faced with a peculiar conundrum – they have no ready way of determining which variant of the coronavirus a person is carrying. Read moreTeam India suffered a huge blow on Monday as Test skipper Virat Kohli was ruled out of the crucial second Test against South Africa in Johannesburg, but former India captain Sunil Gavaskar found a silver lining. Read moreBefore making his big Bollywood debut with Ishaqzaade in 2012, Arjun Kapoor had worked in several films as an assistant director. However, in a recent interview, the actor revealed that he even got to face the camera in one of these films, with Govinda no less. Read moreMiss Universe 2021 Harnaaz Sandhu reached New York after taking a flight from Mumbai on Sunday evening. The 21-year-old beauty queen will begin her Miss Universe journey in The Big Apple. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-launch-22-projects-in-poll-bound-manipur-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101641264722968.html
04-01-2022||India||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tests Covid-19 positive with 'mild symptoms', goes into self-isolation||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Twitter on Tuesday that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief is isolating at home.Watch: Kejriwal goes into isolation after testing positive for Covid-19“I have tested positive for Covid. Mild symptoms. Have isolated myself at home. Those who came in touch wid me in last few days, kindly isolate urself and get urself tested,” Kejriwal tweeted.I have tested positive for Covid. Mild symptoms. Have isolated myself at home. Those who came in touch wid me in last few days, kindly isolate urself and get urself testedThe AAP chief has undertaken many trips to poll-bound states like Uttarakhand and Punjab to campaign for his party. AAP is looking to emerge as a formidable force in both the elections.On Monday, he addressed AAP's ‘Nav Parivartan Yatra’ at Parade Ground in Dehradun. In April last year, Kejriwal's wife Sunita had tested positive for Covid-19 after which the chief minister had isolated himself.Delhi has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 infection, riding on the back of the new coronavirus variant Omicron. Omicron is now the dominant variant in the capital, as 81 per cent of the samples sent for genome sequencing found evidence of the heavily mutated virus, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain told the state assembly on Monday.Delhi reported 4,099 fresh Covid infections on Monday as the positivity rate surged to 6.46 per cent, both at their highest levels since May 18, when the city logged 4,482 fresh cases at a test positivity rate of 6.89 per cent.The rising positivity rate is a concern among health experts, and could lead to stricter curbs in the national capital. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal will chair a meeting of District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday, which will be attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and top officials and experts.The body is likely to discuss and consult experts on whether the national capital needs more restrictions to check the sharp surge.Currently, Delhi is under a ‘Yellow Alert’, the first level of restrictions under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), even as the city has hit the positivity rate requirement for the highest level Red Alert, which mandates a complete lockdown.Under ‘Red Alert’, a complete curfew will be imposed, the Delhi Metro will be closed, only essential private offices will be permitted to open, and malls will be closed. Essential shops in the city will be allowed to operate and only standalone non-essential shops will be allowed to operate between 10am and 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-tests-covid-19-positive-with-mild-symptoms-goes-into-selfisolation-101641264200246.html
04-01-2022||India||Delhi air quality remains ‘very poor’, rain likely from tomorrow||The air quality index (AQI) in Delhi recorded a value of 369 on Tuesday morning, indicating ‘very poor’ air quality, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India. The AQI is expected to improve slightly as the weather department has predicted rain in the national capital over the next three days."High winds and intermittent rains are likely during January 5 to January 8 that are expected to improve AQI significantly to 'lower end of very poor' through strong dispersion and wet deposition. Mixing layer height continues to be about 1 km," SAFAR said.The mercury rose by a few notches on Tuesday as the minimum temperature was recorded at 8.5 degrees Celsius, officials said. The minimum temperature on Monday had settled at 5.4 degrees Celsius under foggy conditions.On Monday, Delhi recorded an AQI of 389. The AQI in neighbouring areas was: Ghaziabad (366), Gurugram (355), Noida (346), and Faridabad (340).The maximum temperature in Delhi on Tuesday was recorded at 21.5 degrees Celsius, same as the previous day's average. Humidity levels oscillated between 97 per cent and 43 per cent.On Tuesday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 22 and 7 degrees Celsius, respectively, according to the weather department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-air-quality-remains-very-poor-rain-likely-from-tomorrow-101641257488623.html
04-01-2022||India||Boy hit by bullet during CISF training dies in Tamil Nadu||Days after being hit by a bullet, an 11-year-boy died on Monday evening in Tamil Nadu’s Pudukkottai district, police said.The bullet was allegedly fired on December 30 last year during Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Tamil Nadu police’s training at the shooting range, which is about one km away from the boy’s house.On Monday, chief minister MK Stalin said an investigation into the incident was underway. “Appropriate action will be taken against those found guilty,” he said in a statement on Monday. Expressing grief, Stalin also ordered ₹10 lakh solatium to the boy’s family from the CM Relief Fund.The accident happened in Narthamalai village on December 30 when a bullet, fired from the Pasumalaipatti shooting range, hit the boy, K Pugazhendi, who was sitting outside his house. He was rushed to the government hospital in Pudukkottai and later shifted to Thanjavur government hospital. The doctors removed the bullet from his cerebrum on the same day and his further treatment was being done in the ICU. However, he succumbed to his injury on Monday.Locals had demanded that the shooting range be shut and the district police order an enquiry into the accident. The Keeranur police registered a case against a CISF personnel under IPC sections 286 (negligence in handling explosive substance) and 338 (causing grievous injuries).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boy-hit-by-bullet-during-cisf-training-dies-in-tamil-nadu-101641260721105.html
04-01-2022||India||ATMS: Everything about next-gen traffic management system being tested by NHAI||If you are planning a long road trip via expressways, it is advisable to keep all the documents related to your vehicle in order. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is testing a new system, which will tell authorities if a vehicle has valid registration, pollution certificates and other documents.The new system is called Advanced Traffic Management System (ATMS) and all the expressways in the country will soon be integrated into it. It is not only capable of capturing a photo of the number plate of the vehicle, but will also alert the authorities if travellers are not wearing seat belts.The ATMS will be linked to the vehicle database of the transport department (RTOs).Here is everything you need to know about ATMS:• The NHAI is currently testing the system on Delhi-Meerut Expressway, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and some other places.• It will identify those vehicles, which do not have valid papers. The data will be shared with local traffic police for issuing challans.• All this will be made possible by capturing the number plate of a vehicle. This will tell ATMS about the insurance of the vehicle, its age, pollution certificate and CNG kit testing certificate since the system will be linked to RTO database.• According to NHAI officials, this system will help in reducing traffic jams and road accidents. Instead of placing barricades, the traffic policemen will issue challans only to those vehicles which will be flagged by the system.• The challans will be issued without stopping the vehicles. It will be the responsibility of the local traffic police to collect the amount later.• In case of commercial vehicles, the system will also check for valid fitness certificate.• They also said that the technology will help identity those vehicles which have been used in some crime, or been involved in accidents.• The ministry of road transport has made ATMS mandatory on all new expressways and national highways being built. The system is also being installed on existing roads, like the Delhi-Agra expressway.• Initially, the project was meant to make the Fastag experience more seamless by calculating the distance between vehicles. But, in a recent meeting between officials of the road transport ministry and NHAI, some experts suggested to link it with the database of the road transport department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atms-everything-about-next-gen-traffic-management-system-being-tested-by-nhai-101641259479858.html
04-01-2022||India||LeT operative among 2 killed in encounters in Srinagar||Two terrorists, including a top commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), were killed in separate encounters with security forces in Srinagar on Monday, police said.Soon after the encounter near Shalimar Garden here, police identified the 30-year-old LeT commander as Salim Parray, a resident of Hajin in Bandipore district of Jammu and Kashmir.“Srinagar police neutralised dreaded terrorist of proscribed terror outfit LeT Salim Parray,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir range, Vijay Kumar said.The IGP added that a second terrorist was also killed in another encounter near Shalimarbagh in Srinagar and he was later identified as Hafiz alias Hamza from Pakistan. “He was involved in killing of two policemen in Bandipora after which he had shifted to Harwan area of Srinagar,” the senior officer said.According to the police, before joining the LeT ranks in 2017, Parray worked as a motor mechanic in Hajin town. In August last year, police had issued a list of wanted commanders and terrorists active in Kashmir and his name also figured in the list, police said. Most of the terrorists from that list have already been killed by forces in different parts of Kashmir, police added.Parray, who was active since the last five years, had managed to escape from several encounters in Hajin and adjoining areas, police said, adding that by the end of 2017, almost entire LeT group active in Hajin was eliminated, except Parray.Whenever any big terrorist-related incident took place in Hajin or neighbouring areas, security forces would try to find Parray’s footprints, a police officer said requesting anonymity.Police said that Parray was involved in killings of several civilians in the area. He also helped foreign terrorists in establishing a base and find hideouts in Hajin and neighbouring areas, police said.Hailing the killing of Parray as a “big success” for the security forces, a senior police officer said, “He was the guiding force for new cadres and foreigners who came to Bandipore, Kupwara, Sopore and Hajin. After his death, things will be difficult for terrorists in Hajin, which was being used as a transit point by terrorists coming from north Kashmir before travelling to central and south Kashmir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-operative-among-2-killed-in-encounters-in-srinagar-101641257402115.html
04-01-2022||India||PM Modi to launch state-of-the-art airport terminal in Tripura today. All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday inaugurate the new integrated terminal building of the Maharaja Bir Bikram (MBB) Airport during his visit to the state of Tripura. The airport terminal, according to an official release, has been built at a cost of about ₹450 crore and is expected to be capable of handling around four to five times more passengers than the existing one – which reportedly can manage only 500 passengers at a time.Spread over 30,000 square meters, the new state-of-art terminal building is equipped with modern facilities and supported by the latest information technology (IT) network-integrated system. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be inaugurating the new building at around 2pm in Agartala, the state capital of Tripura.Through the local architecture of building and various installations passengers will experience local art forms, stone sculptures of Unnakoti hills, Chabimura replica. Also, local bamboo art has been presented in multiple forms at the airport. #architecture #agartalaairport (2/2) pic.twitter.com/2VtPsqkyonThe press release by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) goes on to say, “The development of the new terminal building is an effort in line with the Prime Minister's endeavour to provide modern facilities in all airports across the country.”The new airport terminal building in Tripura comes as part of the Airport Authority of India (AAI)'s initiative to develop modern, state-of-the-art airports all across the North-East to contribute to the all-around development of the region.The new Tripura airport terminal includes as many as 20 check-in counters, 10 immigration counters, aprons for six aircraft parking bays, five custom counters, four passenger boarding bridges, and even one hangar. In line with the Cochin International Airport, the airport terminal building in Tripura shall also include a solar power unit capable of handling most of its power requirements.The architecture of the airport terminal building has also been designed keeping in mind the unique history of the state and its distinctive cultural landscape. It will sport local art forms and stone sculptures of the Unakoti hills and Chabimura replica, among others. Local bamboo art has also been presented in multiple forms at the airport.During his visit to Tripura, Prime Minister Modi will also launch two other key initiatives – the Mukhyamantri Tripura Gram Samriddhi Yojana and the Project Mission 100 of Vidyajyoti Schools.Project Mission 100 of Vidyajyoti Schools is aimed to improve the quality of education in the state by converting 100 existing high/higher secondary schools with state-of-the-art facilities and quality education.The project will cover about 1.2 lakh students from nursery to class XII and will cost around ₹500 crores in the next three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-state-of-the-art-airport-terminal-in-tripura-today-all-you-need-to-know-101641254356174.html
04-01-2022||India||Staggered timing, roster: Centre issues new Covid guidelines for offices | 10 points||The central government on Monday issued new guidelines for its offices, restricting the number of people below the level of under secretary. The decision has been taken in the wake of rising number coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.The Omicron variant has led to a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases across the country. The number of those affected by the new strain of coronavirus crossed the 1,700-mark on Monday.The Centre has implemented a number of measures to check the spread of the infection, and has even asked the state governments to tighten the curbs based on local conditions.Here are some of the measures announced by the Centre in its offices to check the spread of Covid-19:• The personnel ministry has directed 50 per cent of the employees below the level of Under Secretary to work from home amid rising coronavirus cases.• Persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees have been exempted from attending the offices.• The offices too will have staggered timings - 9am to 5.30pm and 10am to 6.30pm - to avoid overcrowding in the offices.• All the staff members residing in Covid containment zones have also been exempted from coming to office.• The order has further said that a roster should be prepared by all the departments concerned according to the new guidelines.• All officers of the level of under secretary and above can attend office on a regular basis.• Meeting, as far as possible, shall be conducted on video-conferencing and personal meetings with visitors, unless absolutely necessary in public interest, are to be avoided.• Proper cleaning and frequent sanitisation of the workplace, particularly of the frequently touched surfaces may be ensured.• The department heads should also ensure non-crowding in corridors and canteens.• All staff members have to ensure strict compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour. These include frequent washing of hands, wearing a mask and observing social distancing at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/staggered-timing-roster-centre-issues-new-covid-guidelines-for-offices-101641255282626.html
04-01-2022||India||Two engineers suspended for failing to fix potholes in Bengaluru||The chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) suspended two executive engineers for majorly lagging behind in meeting monthly pothole-filling targets in their divisions. Talking to the media, BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said on Sunday that apart from the suspensions, four executive engineers have been issued notices over delays in filling potholes.Suspended executive engineer NS Revanna of the Gandhinagar division could meet 9% of the target given. As per the records, out of the 782 potholes, the engineer had filled 67 potholes as of December 28. CM Shivakumar, in-charge executive engineer of the Yelahanka Zone, was able to achieve only 18% of the total target, which led to his suspension. Notices have been issued to executive engineers E Ramakrishnappa of Shivajinagar, H T Mohandas of Byatarayanapura, H S Mahadesh of Bommanahalli, and H V Rayappa Reddy of Dasarahalli. The action came as chief minister Basavraj Bommai on Sunday held a review meeting on the repair works in the city and gave the BBMP a deadline of March 31 to fill potholes on the entire 730 km stretch of roads in Bengaluru. An official, who was privy to the details of the meeting, said the chief minister told the BBMP that repair works were a priority for the government. He added that 150 engineers will be hired on a contract basis, as the number of wards within the BBMP limits has increased from 198 to 243 after delimitation. Following the meeting, revenue minister R Ashoka said the chief minister promised an additional grant of ₹1,500 crore to take up road projects under TenderSURE, a web-based tendering system.Roads stretching at least 2,000 km in the city are damaged or have potholes, according to the state government, which have cost many lives over the years. The revenue minister said on Monday that major roads stretching 1,332 km in the city are damaged because of potholes. Of the 85,791 roads in the over 198 wards in the city, 2653 (or 887 km) are in poor condition by the government’s own admission. On October 7, the Karnataka high court had pulled up the BBMP for its inability to fill potholes in the city. The court directed the civic agency to ensure that filling up of potholes are taken up at the earliest and submit a status report. The bench orally observed, “You see potholes only on Kumara Krupa Road, the road in front of seven ministers’ bungalows, the road towards the high court. But you don’t see potholes of other localities, where the common man lives.” V Ravichandar, an urban expert, said the dug-up roads make Bengaluru look like a “Mohenjo-Daro excavation.” “Anywhere you drive, it is impossible to drive without potholes. It has become kind of a Mohenjo-Daro excavation city which is perpetually dug up,” the urban expert had earlier told HT. Badal Nanjundaswamy, a renowned artist, recreated a simulation of an astronaut walking a crater-filled road in September 2019 that was dubbed “moonwalk”, which became global headlines for bringing to light the basic infrastructure challenges of a city that has been called India’s IT, technology, startup and aerospace capital. Nanjundaswamy has over the years created nearly 50 artworks to get the attention of civic agencies, which include a mermaid in a water-filled pothole, a plastic yet realistic crocodile, a picture of Lord Yama or the god of death according to Hindu mythology painted around an open man-hole, among other pieces of art, that trend online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-engineers-suspended-for-failing-to-fix-potholes-in-bengaluru-101641236432706.html
04-01-2022||India||Will take call on more Covid restrictions in state this week: Karnataka CM Bommai||The Karnataka government is likely to impose more restrictions to stop spread of Covid-19, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday. The state cabinet will decide in this regard later this week after consulting experts, he said.“We are monitoring both Covid and Omicron situation. It is spreading at a very fast pace in the country, in the state and in neighbouring states, so we need to have a discussion with experts. In this regard I will have a discussion with experts tomorrow (Tuesday),” Bommai said.“Having the experience of managing the earlier two waves, we have already asked the experts to recommend containment measures, with limited impact on daily lives of the people,” he said.The chief minister also urged the people of the state to show self-control and follow the Covid-19 guidelines. The Karnataka government has already imposed containment measures like “night curfew” from 10 pm to 5 am from December 28 till January 7 morning to fight the spread of the infection.Witnessing a further surge in daily Covid-19 cases, Karnataka on Monday reported 1,290 fresh infections and 5 deaths, taking the count to 30 10,847 and the death toll to 38,351. Out of the new cases, 1,041 were from Bengaluru Urban as the city saw 134 discharges and 3 deaths. The total number of active cases is now 11,345.The last time Bengaluru reported over 1,000 daily Covid cases was in July.Even though the cases in the city are on the rise, hospitalisations have been limited say government data and officials of the hospitals in the city.Dr H M Srikanth Helawar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, said according to government data, there have been 296 admissions to private hospitals and 38 admissions to government hospitals in the last 15 days. “Most of the people admitted are above the age of 45 and they have mild symptoms. They have been allotted general beds and they are being monitored since their blood oxygen levels were dropping,” he said.Meanwhile, ten more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus have been detected in Karnataka, health minister K Sudhakar said on Monday. This takes the state’s Omicron tally to 76.“Ten new cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Karnataka on Jan 2nd taking the tally to 76. Bengaluru (reported) 8 cases (of which 5 are international travellers) while Dharwad (logged) 2 cases,” Sudhakar said in a tweet.The country’s first two Omicron cases were detected in the state on December 2.According to the state health department, among the 10 new cases, two are children and the rest are all adults who are fully vaccinated with the Covid-19 vaccine. The cases include international travellers like a 19-year-old male from the US, a 40-year old female from Belgium, a 46-year old male from Dubai, two 49-year old females from Dubai.Rest are a 13-year old female primary contact of Omicron positive international traveller, 42 and 65-year old females travelled from Mumbai, 14 and 53-year old females who are contacts of COVID positive cases.Most of the cases are currently asymptomatic and are under hospital isolation. While for two cases 14 and 53-year-old females who are contacts of COVID positive cases- the department said, “They are currently healthy, asymptomatic discharged hence inactive and in-home quarantine, as part of recovery.” The primary and secondary contacts of all these cases have been traced and tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-take-call-on-more-covid-restrictions-in-state-this-week-karnataka-cmbommai-101641236315323.html
04-01-2022||India||North Karnataka outperforms Bengaluru in vaccines for teens||As many as 3.8 lakh children between the age group of 15 to 18 years were vaccinated on Monday in Karnataka. The vaccination drive, however, fell short of the target of 6.38 lakh students set by the state government.As per the government data, 15 districts in Karnataka, including Bengaluru, had reported less than the state’s average of 59%. Haveri district in Karnataka topped the list by administering 273% of the given target. Officials said the case above the given target shows that there was overwhelming support from the parents from this district.The north Karnataka districts, which had a poor record in vaccinating its adults, surpassed other cities in student vaccination. Haveri was followed by Dharwad and Belagavi districts from north Karnataka, while the target for Haveri and Dharwad was at 5,000 students for Monday, the district vaccinated 13,657 and 11,675 students, respectively.In the case of Belagavi, the target was to vaccinate 20,000 students on Monday, but the district was able to administer 44,068 vaccinations, showed the data. Belagavi is the district to have administered the most number of vaccinations on Monday in the state.Bengaluru city, on the other hand, achieved only 27% of the target of 32,800 vaccinations for the children. BBMP officials said 8,784 students were vaccinated on Monday in the state capital. “There was reluctance among parents since many have not been sending their children to school and the vaccination drives the conducted at schools. We expect that more parents will come forward in the coming days,” said an official.Earlier in the day, a vaccine drive for children in Karnataka was launched by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai in BBMP Higher Primary and Pre-University College, Bairaveshwara Nagar, Moodalapalya.“Today we are inaugurating the vaccine drive for children aged between 15 and 18 years. In Bengaluru alone, we are targeting 441,000 beneficiaries in 5,482 schools and 577 PU colleges. Around 40,000 will be given the vaccine in BBMP limits on day one,” Bommai said.Health Minister K Sudhakar said vaccines reduced the severity of Covid-19 and the risk of mortality. “Everyone must take the vaccine. Totally, 8.65 crore doses have been administered in the state. So far, Karnataka’s positivity rate is low, at 0.5 per cent, as compared to other states such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. We have regular meetings with the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee and officials to take appropriate measures,” Sudhakar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-karnataka-outperforms-bengaluru-in-vaccines-for-teens-101641236132282.html
04-01-2022||India||NIA detains Woman from Ullal over ‘links to IS’||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) team on Monday detained a woman from Ullal near Mangaluru for her alleged connection with hardline Islamist group Islamic State (IS), sources in the probe agency said.Deepthi Marla, the wife of Abdul Rahiman, who the grandson of former MLA late BM Idinabba, was taken into custody from her home in Ullal on Monday morning, an NIA official said in Bengaluru wishing not to be named. She was later taken to Wenlock District Hospital for a medical check-up and was produced before a local court, the official said.The NIA team had earlier raided her house in Ullal on August 4, 2021 and arrested Abdul Rahman. The team had also carried out search operations in the house and had seized a few documents from the house.So far, 15 Islamic State sympathisers have been arrested from Karnataka. The last arrests were reported on August 11, 2021, when the NIA arrested Zufri Jawhar Damudi from Bhatkal town in connection with terror activities of a group propagating the violent ideology of the IS.In October 2019, NIA had announced that the central agency had arrested 127 IS sympathizers from across India between 2014 and 2019. According to the NIA list at the time, a maximum of 33 people have been arrested from Tamil Nadu, followed by Uttar Pradesh (19), Kerala (17), Telangana (14), Maharashtra (12), and Karnataka (8).Since 2019, as per the information listed on NIA’s website, three IS-related cases have been reported. The first case was reported on September 19, 2020, in which four men from Karnataka were arrested. The second case was reported on March 5, 2021, in which seven people from Kerala were arrested and the third case of arrests was reported after raids in September.With these arrests, Kerala moved to the second spot in the list with 24 arrests while Karnataka jumped to the fourth with 15 arrests, followed by Telangana (14), as per the NIA information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-detains-woman-from-ullal-over-links-to-is-101641236012227.html
04-01-2022||India||Minister, Congress MP clash on stage in Bommai’s presence||Karnataka information technology minister Ashwath Narayana and Congress MP DK Suresh had a face-off on a stage on Monday with both leaders almost coming to blows. The incident took place in the presence of chief minister Basavaraj Bommai during an event in Ramanagara district. The event was organised by the state government to unveil the statues of Dr B R Ambedkar and Bengaluru founder Kempegowda. The function was also Bommai’s first event in the district after he took over as the chief minister. A senior police officer present at the event, who didn’t want to be named, said the problems began when Congress workers and supporters walked onto the stage where CM Bommai was sitting and raised slogans supporting Shivakumar. They waved black flags as a sign of opposition to the CM before the event started. Police cleared them and the function continued. During his speech, Narayana attacked Congress leaders and listed achievements of the BJP government “Only getting votes, but doing nothing...that’s not what we’re here to do. We’re here to bring development to the people of Ramanagara. We are not people who’ll lay our hands on someone’s land.” He questioned the action of the Congress workers who walked onto the stage and shouted slogans. “Is this how you behave when a chief minister comes? Should you shout like this to ruin the district’s reputation? If you are a man, show it in your work. You create problems by bringing some people to the function. Show what you have done with your work. We did not come here to cheat people; we came here to work.” Bommai signalled Ashwath Narayan to stop making the remarks, but it seemed too late by then, as Suresh, brother of Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar, could be seen walking towards Narayana. Seeing the MP charging towards him, the minister stopped the speech and got into a shouting match with Suresh. Suresh was joined by Congress’ Bangalore Rural MLC S Ravi, who even tried to throw the mike to stop Narayan from speaking. Senior police officers present at the event pulled the two leaders apart. Later, Ashwathnarayan continued his address as Suresh sat in protest on the stage against the minister. “You should have held a meeting with us with regards to today’s programme. We would have welcomed you in a grand manner. BJP has held this programme without informing us. Did RSS teach you this culture?” asked Suresh on the stage. As the commotion continued, Bommai took the mike to assure the crowd that individual egos should not come in the way of respecting Ambedkar and Kempegowda. “I have come here to contribute to development. And development will happen with everybody’s cooperation and not by one individual,” he said, urging not to mix politics with development. The Vokkaliga-dominated Ramanagara district has been a bastion of the Congress and JD(S). Narayana, a Vokkaliga leader, has been trying to help the BJP create a strong base in the district. Reacting to the incident, JD(S) leader and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy slammed the Congress MP for his action. “The action of the MP was of a goon. For years, Ramanagara was a peaceful city. If during a government function, in the presence of the chief minister, he could do such a thing, what would happen to the common man?” asked Kumaraswamy. Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra called the incident a public exhibition of muscle power by the Congress leaders. “I condemn the gross misconduct of the Congress leaders at a function organised by the Ramanagara district administration today, which was attended by the chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and other dignitaries. The Congress leaders’ attempt to manhandle the higher education minister, Dr Ashwath Narayan, in a public meeting is obnoxious and nothing but an attempt to exhibit muscle power. The people of Karnataka will not tolerate this kind of goonda culture,” the home minister said in a statement. DK Shivakumar said that a minister’s arrogance was at display in Ramanagara. “The minister (Ashwath Narayana) has done everything to make sure that his chief minister is humiliated in public and this is part of the conspiracy to bring the chief minister down (by publicly humiliating him). Instead of keeping the decorum, he was hitting his thigh (show of strength) and shouting who is the man… When the chief minister and Anitha (Ramanagara JD(S) MLA) said his (Narayan’s) speech was not right, what more should I say,” said Shivakumar. The incident happened days ahead of a planned march by the Congress in support of the Mekedatu project on the Cauvery river, which the party claims the BJP is trying to stall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-congress-mp-clash-on-stage-in-bommai-s-presence-101641235952255.html
04-01-2022||India||Bar owners lay siege to Tamil Nadu minister’s residence||Alleging irregularities in tenders, for running the bars attached to the state-owned Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac ) outlets, bar owners and workers on Monday laid siege to the house of the minister for electricity, prohibition and excise, V Senthil Balaji.This is the first such complaint against a sitting minister since the DMK formed the government in May. Tasmac has a monopoly over liquor sale — one of the highest revenue making avenues — in the state.The protesters said they were given licence for two years starting from 30 September 2019 to 2021 to collect the bottles and sell eatables in the Tasmac shops or bars located in 38 districts. “During this period, for almost 15 months we had to remain shut due to Covid-19 lockdown. This is our livelihood,” said M Balamurugan, secretary of the Tasmac Bar Owners and Workers’ Welfare Association. We protested in front of the minister’s house as he is doing favouritism in the tender process, he said.The bar owners were not required to pay the licence fee during the lockdown period, however, they were paying rent to owners of bar premises/land.The protesters demanded chief minister M K Stalin’s intervention.Hours after the protest, the minister responded to the allegations in a press conference in Chennai on Monday calling it politically motivated. “Utmost transparency was followed while opening the tenders and announcing the winner,” Balaji said.He said the new regulations were added to the tender document keeping in mind the Covid-19 protocol.In December 2021, a few bar owners had moved the Madras High Court alleging violations in the provisions of Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998. The bar owners said they have a private arrangement with the owners of the property where the Tasmac bars attached to the shop are being run and that the state has now floated a fresh tender by advertising it on December 14 and 15.“But after that they didn’t issue tender applications,” said Balamurugan.“It is an attempt to oust the current and old bar owners and members of association from participating in the tender process,” he added.“The applications were given only on December 29 and that’s too short notice.” The tender process was held on December 30 for the contract to be awarded to the highest bidder.In their court petition, the bar owners also submitted that they have invested in developing the bar facility and therefore the petitioners should be given the opportunity to run/operate on the bar premises.Opposing this, the standing counsel for the respondents submitted that the tender forms are available on the website. “In any event, these forms will be given to all the existing licence holders whose licences are currently valid,” the state had told the court on December 22. The court had then ordered that the state can award the contract to successful bidders on December 30 who produce a no objection certificate from the property owner. The hearing was listed for January 3 but the state sought more time to respond.Balamurugan who runs four TASMAC shops with his partners in Thiruvallur alleged that there was no tender box kept in his district as well as in Chennai on December 30.“When we questioned the same, we did not get any response. But tenders boxes were present in other districts and they opened the boxes the next day which is against the rules,” he said.However, Balaji said,“The allegations are not true. The tender awards went on smoothly and no one raised any objection during the process. We followed the due process. Can anyone say their tender documents were rejected? Can anyone say they were not allowed inside the hall where the process was on?”
04-01-2022||India||Hate speech not part of our culture: Naidu||Hate speech and writings are against the country’s culture and constitutional ethos and secularism is in the blood of every countryman, said Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu in Kottayam on Monday. Addressing the 150th death anniversary of Saint Kuriakose Elias Chavara, an 18th-century social reformer and spiritual leader of Catholics, he said India is respected across the world for its unique culture, heritage and secularism. “Every person has the right to practice and preach faith in the country. Practice your religion but don’t abuse and indulge in hate speech and writings. They are against our culture and tradition,” he said. He asked religious bodies and other institutions to “inculcate the true Indian value system and among the new generation.” He also urged youngsters to imbibe, protect and promote the country’s cultural values and highlighted the importance of the philosophy of sharing and caring for others. “Living for others will not only give a person a lot of satisfaction but will also make the people remember that person for a long time for his or her good deeds,’’ he said. “Chavara had a passion for learning and reading. He was a scholar in several languages, including Sanskrit, English and Portuguese. He treated literature as a powerful means of energising people and his writings are rich in poetic flavour replete with profound spiritual and mystical insights,” Naidu said, adding that the country needs more such spiritual leaders. He said the saint combined the spirit of the renaissance with the mission of charity and the noble Christian concept of universal brotherhood. The vice president also said there is a dire need to inculcate the spirit of service from a young age. “Once this (Covid) pandemic is behind us and normalcy returns, I would suggest that government schools, as well as those in the private sector, must make community service of at least two to three weeks compulsory for students. It would help them to develop an attitude of sharing and caring in their interaction with others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hate-speech-not-part-of-our-culture-naidu-101641235534200.html
04-01-2022||India||Jagan meets Modi, seeks borrowing facility for Andhra||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to increase the net borrowing ceiling of the state to facilitate the state government to borrow more during the current fiscal year 2021-22, according to an official release from the chief minister’s office (CMO).Jagan, who had an hour-long meeting with the Prime Minister in New Delhi on Monday evening, explained the state’s financial position. He said the state had suffered heavily post bifurcation of the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh.“While Andhra Pradesh had 58 per cent of the combined state’s population, it could get only 45 per cent of the revenue. The state’s per capita income is only ₹8,979 as against ₹15,454 of Telangana as per 2015-16 estimates. This is just an indicator of the state’s financial position,” he said in a statement.The chief minister explained how his government was compelled to go in for borrowings to implement the welfare schemes. He said the Centre had originally fixed the net borrowing ceiling (NBC) for the financial year 2021-22 at ₹42,472 crores as per the Fiscal Responsibility and Budgetary Management (FRBM) norms.“The Department of Expenditure of the Union ministry of finance subsequently informed us that ₹17,923.24 crores were to be adjusted against the NBC fixed for this year on account of the so-called over-borrowing of the state during earlier years of the previous government in the state,” he said.Jagan clarified that the over-drawl was only borrowing and not a grant and the borrowing was also being serviced without any default. He requested the prime minister that the state’s NBC be restored to its original level of ₹42,472 crores.The chief minister brought to the prime minister’s notice that the total revenue deficit of the state for 2014-15 financial year ₹22,948.76 crore and the amount released to the state was only ₹4,117.89 crore. He requested that the remaining portion of ₹18,830.87 crores be released at the earliest, to support the state during this hour of need.According to the CMO release, Jagan also requested Modi to approve the revised cost estimates of Polavaram major irrigation project being built on Godavari river at ₹55,657 crores at 2017-18 price level, which includes drinking water component of ₹4,000 crores and that the Centre also release the pending payments of ₹2,100 crores already incurred by the state government towards Polavaram project.Regarding the dispute with the Telangana government over payment of dues of ₹6,284 crores to Andhra Pradesh Generation Corporation Limited (APGENCO), Jagan urged the Prime Minister to direct Telangana to settle these dues at the earliest.The chief minister urged the Centre to renew the approvals of site clearances for greenfield international airport at Bhogapuram. Regarding setting up an Integrated Steel Plant in YSR Kadapa District, he said MECON, a Government of India undertaking has not yet concluded its report as to the feasibility of the integrated steel plant and urged the Prime Minister to direct the concerned officials to expedite it.Later, Jagan called on Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman and discussed the issues related to the state.
04-01-2022||India||Kerala assault case: Actor writes to CM, seeks speedy justice||A week after prosecution sought a new probe into the actor assault case following fresh revelations of a film director, the victim Monday wrote to chief minister (CM) Pinarayi Vijayan and state police chief Anil Kant requesting them to take appropriate steps to ensure speedy justice to her. The four-year-old sensational case took a new turn two weeks back after director Balachandra Kumar told a news channel that he met the prime accused Pular Suni at actor Dileep’s residence in 2016 and claimed that the latter had a video clipping of the assault. Last week public prosecutor V N Anil Kumar had submitted his resignation to the government. He is the second prosecutor to resign from the post. In her letter, the victim expressed concern over the inordinate delay in trial and requested them to speed it up after taking new aspects into consideration. She also sought immediate appointment of a new prosecutor. She also said fresh allegations raised by the director should be probed. The case took place in 2017 when the actor was returning after a shooting assignment in Kochi. She was allegedly abducted and sexually assaulted in a moving car by a criminal gang. There were 10 accused in the case. The accused filmed the entire incident and let her go after three-hour ordeal while threatening to release the video if she approached the police. During the assault, accused Suni had reportedly told the victim that he was given a contract to execute the crime. A day after the incident, the actor filed a police complaint and all the accused directly involved in the crime were arrested. Since speculations were rife that the accused had carried out the assault at the behest of someone, six months after the case, a special team had arrested actor Dlieep and he spent three months in jail. The case witnessed many twists since then as several witnesses turned hostile and at one point, the state government said Dileep was filing unnecessary pleas in different courts to delay the trial. In November last year, the Supreme Court had directed the special court, headed by a woman judge, to complete the trial in six months. But it was delayed due to the pandemic outbreak and the time period was extended by of six months. Meanwhile, last Tuesday, Kerala High Court admitted a state government plea seeking to examine more witnesses in the case. On December 21, the trial court had rejected the fresh demand of the prosecution forcing it to move the high court which sent notices to all the respondents in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assault-case-actor-writes-to-cm-seeks-speedy-justice-101641235412250.html
04-01-2022||India||Telangana BJP chief sent to judicial custody for violating state Covid curbs||A local court in Telangana’s Karimnagar district on Monday remanded Bharatiya Janata Party state unit president Bandi Sanjay to 14-day judicial custody for allegedly violating Covid-19 protocol after he organised a “Jagran Deeksha” (night-long protest) at his party office on Sunday night.Apart from Sanjay, four other BJP activists were also sent to the two-week judicial remand. They were shifted to Karimnagar Central Jail after due medical examination, a police official said on Monday.The Karimnagar police arrested Sanjay and others at the party office in the town after a three-hour-long high drama and violent protests by the BJP activists, who resisted police entry into the premises to disrupt the Jagran Deeksha.The BJP leader, who represents Karimnagar Lok Sabha constituency, took up the protests demanding that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government revoke the controversial government order (GO No. 317) on the arbitrary transfers of teachers and employees.The police booked Sanjay under Sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobeying the law), 341 (wrongful restraint), 332 (injuring a public servant) R/W 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code, besides Section 51 (b) of Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of Prevention of Damage to Public Property (PDPP) Act.Apart from Sanjay, 16 BJP activists were also booked under similar cases, of which 11 activists were shown as absconding, the police said.After keeping Sanjay at Manakondur police station throughout the night, the police shifted him to the police training centre in Karimnagar town on Monday morning, from where he was taken to the court, which rejected his bail petition, an official said.In their remand report, the police said Sanjay and others had resorted to unlawful assembly, violating the orders of the state government on preventive measures being taken for the Covid-19 pandemic.“Hundreds of party leaders and workers gathered at the party office and wrongfully restrained the public. When the police requested them to obey the government orders and guidelines of the high court, they assaulted the police with bottles and sticks, causing severe injuries to some policemen. They also damaged the police van and prevented the police from discharging their duties, forcing the latter to arrest them,” the police said in the remand report.The arrest of Sanjay and his judicial remand evoked strong protests from the BJP leaders across the country. BJP national president J P Nadda strongly condemned the ‘inhuman’ manner in which the Telangana government, led by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, beat up Sanjay, lathi-charged the workers and arrested them.“It is very sad and highly condemnable. This is nothing but the murder of democracy. We strongly condemn this malicious attempt,” Nadda said.Senior Telangana BJP leader and Union minister for tourism G Kishan Reddy described the arrests as a largescale conspiracy by the TRS government to stifle the voice of dissent in the democracy.“The enlightened people of Telangana are closely watching the inhuman acts of the TRS government. They would reach a fitting lesson to it at the right time. The BJP will never be scared of such illegal arrests and false cases,” Reddy said at a press conference in New Delhi.Senior BJP leaders, including party national vice-president D K Aruna, OBC Morcha national president Dr K Laxman, BJP MLAs T Raja Singh, M Raghunandan Rao and Eatala Rajender and other senior office-bearers met at the party office in Hyderabad in the evening to decide the future course of action, an official aware of the developments said.“From tomorrow, we have decided to launch state-wide protests condemning the police atrocities and anti-democratic activities of the Telangana government,” BJP state vice president G Manohar Reddy said.Meanwhile, Sanjay wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP national president J P Nadda and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla alleging that the TRS government was behaving undemocratically and stern action be taken against the police responsible for his ill-treatment.Senior TRS leader and state minister for civil supplies Gangula Kamalakar described Sanjay’s Jagran Deeksha as a big drama. “He was arrested by the police for violating the Central government guidelines on Covid-19. If he has any concern for the people. he should stage a deeksha before the Prime Minister’s Office in Delhi for not filling up the one crore jobs as promised by Modi in the past,” he said.
04-01-2022||India||Ready to give up home ministry if Sidhu wants it, says Punjab deputy CM||Chandigarh: Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday said he is ready to give up his home portfolio if state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu wants it for himself. Randhawa’s statement came as Sidhu has been questioning his party’s government in the state for not being able to arrest Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been booked in a drug case under the NDPS Act. Sidhu had said nothing would happen with the registration of an FIR against the Akali leader, saying he would not rest till Majithia was arrested. “If my brother (Sidhu) says that he wants the home ministry, then I will immediately put it at his feet,” said Randhawa while talking to reporters here. Ever since he became the home minister, Sidhu has been upset with him, added Randhawa. The Punjab deputy chief minister also denied the allegation that the state government did not want to arrest Majithia. He said Majithia is not in Punjab and he is not carrying his mobile phone. If he is spotted anywhere here, then Majithia will be arrested within a second, he said as he dubbed as fake some photos of the Akali leader, which showed him at the Golden Temple complex. Randhawa said Majithia is also not abroad as a lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, had been issued against him. Majithia has been booked under non-bailable provisions of the NDPS Act, the minister said. Randhawa said no security person was accompanying Majithia. “He is alone and not carrying his mobile phone,” said Randhawa. Majithia is absconding, he said. Asked if he is facing any sort of pressure, Randhawa denied it and said had there been any pressure, how could an FIR be registered against Majithia. Randhawa said raids are being conducted to arrest him. Randhawa also slammed AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal for calling the registration of the case against Majithia as “weak”. Replying to Kejriwal’s charge of the Congress being “hand in glove” with the Badals, Randhawa said it was the Delhi chief minister who had sought an apology from Majithia in a defamation case. Majithia was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drug racket in the state. Majithia is the brother-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Besides Sidhu, the Aam Aadmi Party has been attacking the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government for not being able to arrest Majithia despite several days passing since the registration of the FIR. AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Sunday had alleged that the Channi government did not want to arrest Majithia as there was a “setting” between it and the Badals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-give-up-home-ministry-if-sidhu-wants-it-says-punjab-deputy-cm-101641235052142.html
04-01-2022||India||Home minister Amit Shah holds high-level security meet||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday held a high-level meeting with the chiefs of country’s security agencies and intelligence wings of armed forces during which several issues including threats from global terror organisations, terror-financing and illicit use of cyberspace were discussed, according to a home ministry statement.The MHA statement said the “home minister conducted a high-level security meeting to review the prevailing threat scenario in the country and the emerging security challenges”.The statement said that during the meeting, Shah highlighted the continued threat of terrorism and global terror groups, terror financing, narco-terrorism, organised crime-terror nexus, illicit use of cyberspace, movement of foreign terrorist fighters. The home minister stressed on the need for better coordination and synergy among the central and state security agencies in countering the ever-changing counter terrorism and security challenges, it said.The heads of security agencies of the country, prominent central intelligence agencies, Central Armed Police Forces, intelligence wings of armed forces, revenue and financial intelligence agencies attended the meeting, the statement said.Police chiefs of states and Union Territories also joined the meeting through video conferencing, it added.The meeting is significant in the wake of inputs that Pakistan-based terror organisations; particularly Khalistani outfits may target various cities ahead of assembly elections in five states -- Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa.A bomb exploded inside the district court complex in Ludhiana on December 23 killing one person and injuring six others. Police had said the terror attack was carried out at the behest of Germany-based Jaswinder Singh Multani of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ). German authorities have detained Multani while the NIA has registered a case to investigate a larger conspiracy by SFJ to carry out attacks in Indian cities.People familiar with the development said security forces have been asked to stay alert ahead of elections.Last week, the home minister chaired a high-level meeting of Narco Coordination Centre (NCORD) in which he directed the concerned authorities to arrange container scanners and related equipment for scanning of incoming and outgoing containers at all ports, private and government , people familiar with the development said.He had also instructed the agencies to develop a narco-canine pool at the national level. He asked the federal drugs enforcement agency Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to make a policy in coordination with the National Security Guard (NSG) under which states’ police will have access to a facility of canine squad that can be used for detecting drugs consignments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-holds-high-level-security-meet-101641234993224.html
04-01-2022||India||Centre seeks urgent hearing of pleas opposing EWS, OBC reservation in Neet-PG||The Centre approached the Supreme Court on Monday for an urgent hearing on petitions challenging the implementation of reservation for other backward classes (OBC) and economically weaker sections (EWS) in the all-India quota NEET undergraduate and post-graduate seats.After the court raised questions in October last year on the criteria adopted to give reservation to EWS based on a uniform annual income cap of ₹8 lakh, the Centre had put counselling for NEET seats on hold and constituted a committee to revisit the formula.The committee’s report formed part of an affidavit submitted by the Centre on January 1 before the top court that was supposed to take up the matter for hearing on January 6. On Monday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta appeared before a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and requested the court to advance the hearing from January 6 to Tuesday, January 4.“There is some urgency. Please have it tomorrow,” Mehta said.The bench agreed to consider Mehta’s request but justice Chandrachud pointed out that besides him, the other two judges – justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath – are part of separate benches. An order to constitute the bench at short notice can be passed only by the chief justice of India (CJI) on the administrative side.“I will have a word with the CJI and see if a special bench can be constituted,” justice Chandrachud said. Till late in the evening, the matter was not on the list of business issued for Tuesday.Mehta said, “There is genuine urgency”, though he did not specify the reason. However, the context was understandable, given the recent strike by resident doctors upset over the counselling being put on hold. After the Centre intervened and assured the striking doctors it would resolve the matter by January 6, their federation withdrew the stir and decided to hold a meeting on Thursday.Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for some of the petitioners, was permitted by the court to file a reply to the Centre’s affidavit.A bunch of petitions challenged a July 29, 2021 notification by the Centre introducing 27% OBC quota and 10% EWS quota in the NEET all-India quota seats. The petitions had raised constitutional and legal challenges to the July 29 order on the grounds that it exceeds the 50% benchmark and provides 10% EWS seats to those belonging to forward castes who earn below ₹8 lakh per annum which is applied uniformly across states, regardless of the rural or urban divide. In addition, those families possessing five acres or more of agricultural land also stood excluded.The three-member committee, after revisiting the criteria put out by the Centre on January 17, 2019, concluded that the ₹8 lakh limit is not “over-inclusive” and upheld the condition on agricultural land. However, it omitted the residential asset criterion prescribed by the January 2019 notification.The panel recommended that its recommendation be implemented from the next admission or advertisement cycle. Till then, it recommended that the existing criteria applicable for EWS reservation be followed. The Centre accepted all recommendations of the committee and informed the same of the court in its affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-urgent-hearing-of-pleas-opposing-ews-obc-reservation-in-neetpg-101641234753695.html
04-01-2022||India||SC denies appeal against protection from arrest to Suvendu Adhikari||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in West Bengal, will continue to be protected against arrest, as the Supreme Court on Monday refused to interfere with the Calcutta high court’s order in connection with criminal cases lodged against him.A single-judge bench of the high court had on September 6 granted an interim stay on any coercive action against Adhikari in connection with criminal cases registered against him after he crossed over from the ruling Trinamool Congress party to the BJP. The West Bengal government had challenged the stay before a division bench of the high court, which upheld the stay. The state government then approached the apex court. Adhikari had approached the high court seeking stay of arrest in seven criminal cases lodged against him in the state. He had claimed that the criminal cases were the result of “regime revenge” because he had defected to the BJP in the state ruled by the TMC. One case pertained to a theft of ₹5,000 and a gold chain, while another related to theft of tarpaulin sheets at the behest of Adhikari. Even an old case of an alleged suicide of Adhikari’s personal security officer was sought to be reinvestigated on a complaint by the widow of the deceased, who alleged murder.This was the second case coming up against the same order, a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and AS Bopanna observed on Monday.On December 13, the court had dismissed appeals filed by the West Bengal government and a complainant in one of the cases on the ground that the high court order was passed as an interim direction, pending final consideration of Adhikari’s petition. The top court’s order had permitted the state to file an application before the high court to vacate the stay.In the present appeal, the state government presented new arguments, questioning the dismissal of its letters patent appeal (LPA) by the high court’s division bench. “Since the order of the single judge was assailed before us, the issue of maintainability of LPA pales into insignificance,” the bench had said. “Parties are to be governed by our order of December 13.”The issue raised in their appeal was similar in nature to a case already pending before the top court, said lawyer Menaka Guruswamy, appearing for the state government. “The issue here is whether LPA can be moved in terms of a writ petition before the high court under Article 226 of the Constitution,” she said. “This question is pending consideration in the Anup Majee vs CBI case pending before this court.”“We have already dealt with the high court order on merits; then where is the question of LPA? Once you have approached us on merits and we have dismissed your appeal, there is no question of dealing with another petition against the same order,” the apex court bench said on Monday.Guruswamy sought to argue that the question raised by the state has not been dealt by the December 13 order. She requested the court to allow this matter to be tagged with the Anup Majee petition, as similar questions of law are to be decided. Appearing for Adhikari, advocate PS Patwalia opposed the state’s arguments and requested the court to dismiss the same. As regards clubbing the petition with the other pending case, the bench told the state, “The state is already before us in the Anup Majee matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-denies-appeal-against-protection-from-arrest-to-suvendu-adhikari-101641234572060.html
04-01-2022||India||SC asks Centre to decide on plea to extradite woman who went to join ISIS||The central government should decide within eight weeks on the extradition and repatriation of a woman from Kerala who is detained in Afghanistan with her child on charges of joining the ISIS terror outfit, the Supreme Court ordered on Monday. The court was hearing a petition filed by 65-year-old VJ Sebastian Francis, a resident of Ernakulam district, who requested repatriation of his daughter Sonia, alias Ayisha, and his granddaughter. The two are at Pul-e-Charkhi prison in Kabul since 2019, before the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan. Francis said he feared for the lives of his 32-year-old daughter and nine-year-old granddaughter, and sought the apex court’s intervention.“First you have to persuade the Indian government. You should have first approached the government instead of moving the court,” a bench comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said.Commenting on news reports suggesting cordial diplomatic ties being established between India and Afghanistan, the bench said, “The relationship appears to be good.”The woman had left the country on July 30, 2016 to join her husband, who was working with ISIS in Afghanistan. On an Interpol red corner notice issued on March 22, 2017, Ayisha and her daughter surrendered before Afghan forces on November 15, 2019, and were jailed. India’s National Investigation Agency has charged Ayisha under various offences under the anti-terror law UAPA.“There are several treaties in force under which extradition is possible. But in cases involving UAPA, they (Centre) do not initiate,” the bench said, expressing its limitations. A representation was moved before the federal government but there’s been no response yet, advocate Renjith Marar, appearing for Francis, told the court.The petition was filed in the Supreme Court in July last year. Disposing of the petition, the apex court bench said, “We direct the Cabinet Secretary and Secretary, ministry of external affairs (MEA) to consider and dispose the request for extradition of the detenues, preferably within eight weeks from today.” The apex court also permitted Francis to approach the Kerala high court, instead of approaching it, if he is aggrieved with the decision taken by the Centre after the eight-week period.During the hearing, Marar pointed out that the jail in which the kin of the petitioner were lodged was destroyed by the Taliban and prisoners were shifted to detention centres in border areas adjoining Pakistan.In his petition, Francis had stated that India was duty bound under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to bring back its citizens. He requested the Indian government to extend consular access to ensure safety of his daughter and granddaughter through diplomatic channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scasks-centre-to-decide-on-plea-to-extradite-woman-who-went-to-join-islamic-state-101641234212401.html
04-01-2022||India||SC notice on plea challenging inner line permit in Manipur||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the responses of the Centre and the Manipur government to a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the inner line permit (ILP) system which controls the entry to Manipur of people who are not residents, and prohibits them from conducting business without a special permit.A bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari issued notices on a petition filed by a Kolkata-based sociocultural organisation Amra Bangalee.The petition challenged the decision of the Centre in 2019 to extend the ILP system in Manipur by way of an order promulgated by the President. It also challenged permit guidelines issued by the state government restricting the entry of outsiders, and imposing curbs on them with respect to business activity and land purchase.Terming the law and accompanying regulations to be violative of the constitutionally guaranteed freedoms of equality (Article 14), life and liberty (Article 21), non-discrimination (Article 15) and movement and trade (Article 19), the petition filed through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi said: “The effect of ILP system in Manipur is that no person who is not a resident of the state is permitted to enter the state or engage in business without applying for a special permit known as ILP.”The inner line is an arbitrarily decided territory, the petition contended, adding: “These legislations create an embargo on the right of free movement of citizens and their right to freely carry out trade and occupation within the territory of India, guaranteed under Article 19.”Describing the law as part of the colonial legacy introduced under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR) of 1873, advocate Ayyubi said that this regulation was enacted during British rule to create a monopoly by prohibiting Indians from engaging in trade with the local tribal population. “The said restriction is continued post-Independence as well under the guise of protecting interests of tribal areas.”BEFR was retained by way of a 1950 order, and made applicable to most of North-East region. In 2019, an amendment was made to the Adaptation of Laws Order 1950 to extend it to Manipur besides Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and areas of districts of Nagaland as notified from time to time. The 1950 order applied to certain districts in the above states.Although, the 2019 amendment did not contain any Statement of Objects and Reasons, at the time of moving the amendment, the government said that it was meant to protect the indigenous population in these states.Expert quote||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-on-plea-challenging-inner-line-permit-in-manipur-101641233972078.html
04-01-2022||India||MPs seek more women in House panel to discuss bill to increase age of marriage||Two opposition lawmakers on Monday wrote to the Rajya Sabha chairman, demanding inclusion of more women members in a parliamentary panel examining a bill to increase the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years.Expressing her disapproval to just one woman in the committee to examine the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi wrote to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu, saying that the interest of all stakeholders, especially women, should be noted.“I request you to ensure that there should be more representation and participation of women in the discussion around the bill that concerns the issues faced by women in India,” Chaturvedi said in her letter.Trinamool Congress member Sushmita Dev also requested for increased representation of women in the panel. “I wish to propose that any woman member of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha be empowered to testify either in writing or in person before the Committee on this issue,” Dev said in her letter to the chairperson of the parliamentary standing committee on education, women, children, youth and sports, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe.Earlier on Sunday, Chaturvedi had tweeted: “Women participation for a woman centric bill! In a committee of 31 only 1 is a woman.”During the winter session of Parliament, the bill that seeks to increase the age of legal marriage of women from 18 to 21 years was introduced by Union minister Smriti Irani. The bill was sent to a 31-member committee, which only has one woman MP Sushmita Dev in it, for examination and scrutiny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-seek-more-women-in-house-panel-to-discuss-bill-to-increase-age-of-marriage-101641233852441.html
04-01-2022||India||Row erupts after Satya Pal Malik calls Modi ‘arrogant’; Cong seeks PM’s apology||Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik has triggered a massive row after making startling claims against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah over farmers’ issues, remarks that he later clarified but stopped short of retracting. It has created a political storm with the opposition Congress on Monday demanding clarification from Modi and Shah.Malik, who has been publicly criticising the Union government over the farmers’ issue, claimed that Modi showed “arrogance” when he met him recently over deaths of farmers during their year-long agitations.Addressing a function in Haryana, Malik was caught on camera saying, “When I went to meet the Prime Minister to discuss the farmer issue, I ended up fighting with him within five minutes. He was very arrogant. When I told him that 500 of our own (farmers) had died… he said, ‘Did they die for me?’ I told him yes, since you are the king. I ended up having an argument with him. He told me to meet Amit Shah and I did.”Malik added, “When I met Amit Shah, he said ‘Satya Pal, he (PM Modi) has lost his mind. You be carefree and keep meeting us’.”When contacted by HT on Monday, Malik, however, said, “I didn’t say the PM was arrogant; he was just adamant about his position.” He also clarified that the home minister did not speak ill of Modi and told him that people are telling Modi all kinds of things and so he must meet and give him the right picture.Meanwhile, the Congress was quick to corner the government on Malik’s remarks. “The real face of PM Modi, the anti-farmer face of PM Modi, the insensitive face of PM Modi, the face of Bharatiya Janata Party and Modi government, which actually truly works for crony capitalist friends and to the peril and prejudice of India’s 62 crore farmers and farm labourers now stands exposed,” said Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala while briefing the media.Surjewala asked the Union government to sack and register an FIR against Malik if he was lying. “If not, then PM Modi and Amit Shah must come forward and apologise. Otherwise, they (farmers) will never pardon you, nor will the souls of 700 farmers who sacrificed their lives,” he added.Sharing the video of Malik addressing the function, Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge tweeted, “Constitutional authorities speaking about each other with such contempt!”HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video.The BJP has not reacted to the governor’s comment and there was no response to HT’s queries by the party’s spokespersons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-erupts-after-satya-pal-malik-calls-modi-arrogant-congress-seeks-pm-s-apology-101641233252444.html
04-01-2022||India||Omicron variant watch: More hospital risk insight in South African data||Several cities in India, including Delhi and Mumbai, are now firmly in the middle of an Omicron wave. Both cities are high-density urban centres – bearing some similarities to Gauteng province in South Africa, which is regarded as the epicentre of the highly transmissible variant.Gauteng is also home to Johannesburg, the largest city in South Africa.South African experts have submitted a new study analysing the early days of the Omicron outbreak in the province, including the first age-wise break-up of hospitalisation rates. The report, undergoing a peer review in The Lancet journal, is based on cases that were recorded in the early phase of the wave between November 14 and December 11, a period when 133,551 Omicron infections are estimated to have taken place.Also Read| Omicron cases in India rises to 1,700; Maharashtra, Delhi worst-hitIn terms of headline numbers, the report reinforces the conclusion that the variant is leading to less severe cases: the authors found only 4.9% of cases were hospitalised, compared to 18.9% during the early phase of the Beta variant outbreak and 13.7% during the early phase of the Delta outbreak.A crucial caveat here is that a large number of people were vaccinated in South Africa between the Delta and Beta waves and the Omicron wave, and experts in the country have previously cited this as a possible factor for the reduced severity.This appears to bear out in a particular age group: those under 20, most of whom were not eligible for vaccines. “While admission rates during the fourth wave dropped substantially in those aged [over] 20 years in whom vaccination coverage was higher, this was not observed in the largely unvaccinated [under] 20 years age group. In the [less than] 20 years group, the proportions of cases admitted to hospital was similar -- 7.1% (Beta wave) vs 3.8% (Delta wave) vs 6.1% (Omicron wave) -- and the proportion with severe illness among admitted patients, was similar -- 22% vs 23.0% vs 20.4% -- in the three waves, in contrast to the reductions in both admission rates and disease severity observed in the fourth wave in adults,” said the authors from South Africa’s National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) in their report.Also Read| Omicron spreading among over-50s, says UK minister amid rapid surge in cases“Possible reasons for this could be that children have lower rates of prior infection and/or vaccination,” they added.The authors add that these were still early findings. “While these considerations apply to the early part of all three waves, these results may not represent the entire Omicron-dominated wave’s disease severity and may change when patient data for this entire wave are available,” they said.In another study of likely implication for India, researchers in Japan found that hybrid immunity – people vaccinated and previously infected – may have strong protection even in the case of an Omicron variant infection and the longer the gap between an infection and vaccination, the more protection there is likely to be.
04-01-2022||India||Month after botched op, Nagaland’s wounds refuse to heal||Sheiwang Konyak, 22, has lost vision in his right eye after a retinal detachment. There are injuries on his chest and leg; he has been recovering at the district hospital for the past month.Even then, Konyak is fortunate.On December 4, in the botched operation based on flawed intelligence, the armed forces shot 13 civilians dead -- six coal miners returning home in a van in Nagaland’s Mon district, and seven others in the subsequent violence. One security personnel was also killed in the clashes, while one other civilian died at in a clash with Assam rifles the next day.Also Read| ‘Positive’ development on AFSPA in Assam, Nagaland soon’: HimantaKonyak was one of the only two survivors of that first burst of fire at the van near Oting village. And one month later, he only longs for one thing: “I just want to go home.”The vision in his eye may now be impaired, but the sights and sounds from that night flash before him constantly. “We were returning from the coal fields, when I heard gunshots. Some of my friends fell down. I got shot in my stomach and arm, and got injured in my leg and eye too. We didn’t even get the chance to jump out of the van,” he said.Konyak lost consciousness, and when he came to, he was at the district hospital, where he has been since.Over the course of a month, there have been multiple surgeries, the pain has heightened his anguish at not being able to mourn with the families of the friends he lost. “I don’t know how Christmas and New Year’s Day went by. I don’t know anything anymore. I just want to go home and cry,” he said from his hospital bed.Back home in Oting, there have been no festivities. A month later, there is anger and disbelief at an incident that brought national headlines and attention to this remote part of the North-East, and has relaunched a conversation about the continued implementation of Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, or Afspa, with the Nagaland assembly unanimously calling for its removal.THE INCIDENTAccording to the Indian Army, a specific operation was planned in the Tiru area, “based on credible intelligence”, of likely movement of insurgents in the area. Subsequently, a unit of the Indian Army’s 21 Para Commando laid an ambush in the suspected area near Oting village on the afternoon of December 4 afternoon, during which, a mini pickup truck carrying eight persons was fired at, killing six on the spot.Villagers later said that these were youth from Oting village who were returning home after working for days at a coal field in Tiru. When people in the village heard gunshots from a distance, they assumed it was an exchange of fire between the Assam Rifles and insurgents from the NSCN (K) Yung Aung. However, as time went by, and the young men who were expected to return from the coal fields before sundown failed to return, the villagers sounded an alarm and gathered a search party.Also Read| SIT meets soldiers in Nagaland firing case“When we saw their vehicle (pickup truck), we asked the army personnel where our brothers were. They said they did not know, but some of our people went and searched one of the pickup trucks of the army and found the bodies piled under a tarpaulin. We thought they could have been detained for questioning but when we saw their dead bodies we were aghast,” said a village guard, among the search party, but asking not to be named.According to him, when the villagers started retrieving the bodies, the para commandos reportedly opened fire again, which killed seven more civilians. A soldier lost his life in the violence as well.“They (security forces) were firing at everyone,” said Nyawang Konyak, one of the primary eyewitnesses, who has recorded his statement with the Army’s Court of Inquiry that visited the village on December 29.Nyawang is also the president of Mon district’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit and was among the first responders who rushed to the site. He said he had rushed to reach the spot to pacify the situation but claimed that when he was on the way, personnel fired at his vehicle and his driver was injured.THE PROBEIn the immediate aftermath of the incident, the state government set up a special investigation team (SIT) headed by additional director general (law and order) Sandeep M Tamgadge to probe the killings within 30 days. He is yet to submit his report. The army has also instituted a court of inquiry (CoI), and investigations are ongoing.What has incensed the residents of Oting further is a government statement in Parliament on December 6 that security personnel opened fire after the vehicle was signalled to stop, but did not do so.Also Read| Afspa renewed in Nagaland: GovtSheiwang said that there was no signal made to the vehicle to stop at all.In light of the contrasting versions, the Oting citizens’ forum made an appeal on December 10 asking for facts to be ascertained from the ground. There were also widespread protests across Nagaland, and a complete bandh was called on Mon district against the killings on December 10.The group boycotted the visit of Court of Inquiry headed by a Major General to the spot on December 29 with only Nyawang and Lewang, a village guard, recording their statements. A local, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that others refused to meet the army team which was at the Tizit police station for about two hours.“Around 20 of them (army inquiry team) came to Tiru. I told the army team everything that transpired that day. I have also asked them to take back their statement which was presented in Parliament that army personnel had fired only when the vehicle in which the villagers were travelling did not stop after being signalled to,” Nyawang said.Public relations officer Lieutenant Colonel Sumit K Sharma said the team also took along the witnesses to the spot for a better understanding of how events would have unfolded. “The inputs received will be a part of the inquiry findings,” he said.THE AFSPA DEBATEThe Oting firing revived the public outcry for the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act 1958 (AFSPA) from Nagaland. The Act grants sweeping powers to security forces to operate in “disturbed areas” including powers to search, seize, to arrest without warrant, and to use firearms on mere suspicion.The law came into force in 1958 in the entire North-East and according to Section 3 of the Act, an entire state or part of it can be designated as “disturbed” by the governor of a state, an administrator of a Union Territory, or the Centre if they feel the situation requires use of armed forces to aid the civil force. In Nagaland, the law has been in force since 1963, when the state was created.Naga lawmakers are now of the view that there is no need to term Nagaland a “disturbed area” with a vastly improved law and order situation, particularly with the government of India in dialogue with a majority of Naga political groups, and the existence of a ceasefire with groups such as the NSCN(IM). On December 20, the chief minister Neiphiu Rio-led United Democratic Alliance (UDA) government adopted a resolution to demand the repeal of Afspa in a special session of the state assembly.In this backdrop, Union home minister Amit Shah convened a meeting with Rio and his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma in late December, and subsequently a high-level committee was constituted to examine the question of AFSPA on December 26. The committee is expected to submit its recommendations within 45 days.In the meantime, however, the Centre has extended the operation of Afspa in Nagaland for six more months from December 30, 2021 in a routine order.SUBDUED FESTIVITIESBack in Oting, these deliberations around the law bring little solace. Monglong, 34, married her husband Hokup, 37, on November 25, promising in her wedding vows to love each other till death did them part. Nine days later, she was a widow. “I keep praying to God to make me strong. As a church women leader, I try to put up a brave face and continue my work, but inside, I’m heartbroken. And I break down every time that I’m alone,” she said.On January 1, Monglong visited her husband’s grave, where the victims of the shootings are buried, laying a wreath of flowers made from the ones used at their wedding. Next to her, there were other families mourning their loved ones too. Everyone who died in Oting was under 40. Langwang and Thapwang were identical twins, and inseparable; C Shomwang was the president of the youth wing of the Oting Church, and owned the pickup truck; Khawang was father to a five-month-old baby.In grief, there is resolve too. The village has barred the entry of outsiders as a mark of protest. “Our struggle will continue till we achieve justice,” the Oting citizens’ group said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/month-after-botched-op-nagaland-s-wounds-refuse-to-heal-101641233134033.html
04-01-2022||India||4.2 million kids vaccinated against Covid-19 as next phase kicks off||More than 4 million teens, or over 5,500 every minute, were given coronavirus vaccines in a mere 12 hours after they became eligible for shots on Monday, sending a perceptible sense of relief among parents and children who queued up at vaccine centres under the shadow of a budding third wave of cases.Between 8am and 8pm, 4.12 million doses were delivered, data from the Union government’s Co-Win dashboard showed. This age-group accounted for 42% of all doses delivered till that time on Monday.Also Read| Omicron cases in India rises to 1,700; Maharashtra, Delhi worst-hit“Well done Young India! Over 40 lakh (four million) between 15-18 age group received their first dose of #COVID19 vaccine on the 1st day of vaccination drive for children, till 8 PM. This is another feather in the cap of India’s vaccination drive,” said Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in a tweet.The turnout was encouraging also because, just on the first day of the vaccine drive being expanded, it accounted for 5% of the estimated eligible population in this cohort, and 79% of the 5.1 million who signed up for shots under this age group.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India has taken an important step in protecting its youth against the disease. ‘’Congrats to all my young friends between the age group of 15-18 who got vaccinated. Congrats to their parents as well. I would urge more youngsters to get vaccinated in the coming days!’’ he said on Twitter.If this rate is maintained – although the opening day of a new phase typically has the highest demand – all of the estimated 74 million children are likely to be covered with the first doses within this month.The Day 1 excitement was palpable at the vaccination centres at schools, hospitals, and special vaccination sites.Also Read| Centre terms reports of using expired Covaxin ‘misleading’“I was looking forward to the vaccinations being opened for my age group. We have been cooped up inside our houses for nearly two years now, with schools being opened only on-and-off. Offline classes have not been very helpful. I am hoping that with maximum children coming for vaccinations, physical classes will finally resume,” said Rishvi Rajvanshi (16), a resident of south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar.Parents accompanying their children, too, said getting children at least the first dose was their priority.“I cannot tell you how anxious we were to get our children vaccinated, especially after the havoc that the second Covid wave wrecked. We lost my father to the virus in May and we have seen what this virus can do. As soon as the vaccination for children was announced, we have been on the lookout for registrations. I am glad that my son and my niece got their first doses,” said Arunima Singh, who was accompanying 15-year-old Niha and 17-year-old Dhruv to the Kautilya Sarvodaya School in Greater Kailash.Officials at the vaccination centres said the process went smoothly. “Everything went very smoothly today. Children were excited and parents were also relieved to have their kids protected. Many children were also curious about how the vaccination will protect them,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak Hospital.At present, only Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is approved to be administered to recipients under the age of 18.The new phase of the vaccine drive comes at a time of a sharp acceleration in cases, driven largely by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. The variant is the most transmissible yet and is more resistant to immunity from past infection or vaccines than other configurations of the virus. But it is linked to significantly lower odds of hospitalisations, especially among those who have some immunity.Several countries accelerated their vaccination and booster drives last month when the variant began spreading after being first detected by South Africa in mid-November.“It is day one of children getting jabbed, and just into the new years which usually was going to add to vaccine hesitancy; however, given the circumstances, the response has been good. It could also do with the fact that the numbers have suddenly started to rise again and it has brought people out of their comfort zone that many were in. We should see further rise in vaccination numbers,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, senior paediatrician, and group medical director, Apollo Hospitals.Overall, the 45-60 age group population has the biggest two-dose vaccine coverage at 73.2%, data from the Co-WIN dashboard analysed by HT showed, followed by people in the 60-plus age group at 68.5%.Among states, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh administered the highest share of doses to children, while Punjab, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh recorded the least turnout in this age group.On January 10, India’s coronavirus vaccination drive will further open up by allowing people above the age of 60 with certain illnesses and those in health care and front-line jobs to take their third doses, which the government has called “precaution doses”. These doses can only be taken if the primary vaccination course was completed more than nine months prior.According to estimates by HT based on 2021 Census projections, these newly eligible people – including the adolescent age group -- will add demand for another 104 million doses this month. As on Monday, according to the Union government’s daily vaccine supply bulletin, states already have close to 200 million doses at hand, indicating that the number of doses will not be a problem.Gagandeep Kang, vaccine expert, and senior faculty, Christian Medical College, Vellore, said, “Eventually, we will have to vaccinate everyone, but it makes sense to protect subsets as much as possible and as early as possible such as those who are immunocompromised, elderly, comorbidities.”(With inputs from Rhythma Kaul)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/42mn-kids-vaccinated-as-next-phase-kicks-off-101641233072137.html
04-01-2022||India||Pakistan urges India to join Saarc summit virtually||Pakistan on Monday reiterated its offer to host the long-pending summit of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc), with foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi saying India could attend the meet virtually if it does not wish to participate in-person.Qureshi made the remarks while addressing a news conference in Islamabad, where he presented a review of Pakistan’s foreign policy during 2021. He reiterated Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s remarks that the onus is on India to take steps to create an environment conducive to dialogue between the two sides.The 19th Saarc Summit was to have been held in Islamabad in November 2016 but it was called off after New Delhi pulled out over the Uri terror attack that was blamed on Pakistan-based terrorists. There is also uncertainty about the status of Afghanistan, one of the eight members of the grouping, following the Taliban takeover of the country last year.Qureshi, who was speaking in Urdu, described Saarc as an “important forum” and said: “Unfortunately, India has made this forum dysfunctional because of its stubbornness. They are not ready to come to Islamabad, they are hesitant.”He added: “Because of India’s obstinacy, this forum is suffering. If India does not want to come [for the Saarc Summit], then new means are available. I reiterate our invitation to all Saarc members and Pakistan is willing to host the 19th Saarc Summit in Islamabad. If India doesn’t want to come, they can attend virtually.”Qureshi further said, “If they (India) have problems coming here physically, they can attend virtually but they shouldn’t stop others. They should let others come and not affect this forum.”There was no immediate response by Indian officials to Qureshi’s comments.Saarc operates on the principle of consensus and the summit cannot be held if even one member decides not to attend. With India-Pakistan relations at an all-time low following a string of terror attacks blamed on Pakistan-based groups, New Delhi has said there cannot be any dialogue between the two sides if Islamabad does not act against terrorist groups operating from its soil.In recent years, India has also focused on other regional groupings, such as the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (Bimstec) to take forward developmental cooperation.Qureshi further told the news conference that prospects for durable peace and stability in the region and the potential for economic development and regional cooperation had been “held hostage by the hegemonic and hostile behaviour of India”, whose leadership has adopted a “particularly irresponsible and politically motivated anti-Pakistan posture”.He contended that India’s “unilateral and illegal actions” in Jammu and Kashmir since August 2019 had “vitiated the environment and threatened international peace and security”. Qureshi said, “Resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute is a prerequisite for durable peace and stability in South Asia.”He added that Pakistan will continue to extend “moral and diplomatic support” to the Kashmiri people in their struggle for self-determination.
04-01-2022||India||China building bridge across Pangong Lake: Satellite imagery||China has played up the hoisting of its national flag by soldiers at Galwan Valley as part of New Year celebrations as satellite imagery emerged of a new bridge being built by the Chinese to link both banks of Pangong Lake, highlighting the continuing tensions in the Ladakh sector.The messaging by China’s state-run media regarding the celebrations by Chinese troops at Galwan Valley was in marked contrast to images shared by the Indian side on January 1 of troops of the two countries exchanging sweets and greetings on New Year at several locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The state media shared two videos – one showing People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops training on the Tibetan plateau saluting the national flag, and another more pointed one of PLA soldiers sending New Year greetings to the Chinese people from Galwan Valley, “near the border with India”, while standing under Mandarin characters painted on a rock that read: “Never yield an inch of land.”A report on New Year celebrations by the nationalist Global Times tabloid mentioned the raising of the national flag at places across China in its opening paragraph, but named only two locations – Hong Kong special administrative region and the Galwan Valley. Representatives of the state media tweeted the flag raised at Galwan was special as it once flew over Tiananmen Square in Beijing.These videos were followed by the emergence of satellite imagery that showed a new bridge being constructed by the Chinese side to link the north and south banks of Pangong Lake. Twitter user Damien Symon, who uses the handle @detresfa_, posted an image of the bridge, being built in territory held by the Chinese side, that would cut the distance between several PLA positions on both banks of the lake.The bridge – which spans a narrow section of the 134 km lake and is almost complete – is expected to enhance road connectivity for the PLA in the area and allow the speedy movement of both troops and heavy equipment.There was no immediate response to these developments from Indian officials. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off in Ladakh sector of the LAC since May 2020. Following the disengagement of frontline troops on the banks of Pangong Lake and at Gogra last year, the two sides have been unable to make headway on de-escalation at several other friction points such as Depsang.People familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity that the video showing Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley appeared to have been made in an area held by the Chinese side. They noted that it was not made in the so-called two-kilometre “buffer zone” created around the scene of a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020 that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops.“They’ve deliberately not shown the bend of the Galwan river, which is with the Indian side,” said one of the people cited above. Another person added that the video, though shared widely by the Chinese media on January 1, appeared to have been shot some time ago as there is no snow visible on the nearby mountains.The people said that the new Chinese bridge spanning the Pangong Lake appeared to be located about 40 km from Finger 4 and would drastically reduce the distance between several PLA locations. They noted that India too is developing infrastructure on its side in this region and said the new Chisumle-Demchok road at Umling pass, located at a height of more than 19,000 feet in southern Ladakh, will allow troops to be speedily moved to several strategic positions on the Indian side.Maj Gen (retired) Ashok Kumar, a visiting fellow at the Centre for Land Warfare Studies (CLAWS), said the combination of China’s new land border law and the accelerated construction of infrastructure and “Xiaokong” or model villages along and inside disputed regions has created “conditions for a militarised solution to the boundary issue”.“Frankly, China’s political establishment wishes to win wars without fighting in the real sense. They’re mobilising public opinion, including in the opposing nation and resorting to psychological warfare to highlight their own strengths and beating down the opponent,” he said.“The new boundary law is the manifestation of a long-standing Chinese ploy of using ‘lawfare’ for gaining territorial concessions. The Chinese use legal norms to highlight what they believe is right in legal terms, and they are not in a hurry to resolve disputes unless the resolution is favourable to them,” Kumar added.
04-01-2022||India||Omicron cases in India rises to 1,700; Maharashtra, Delhi worst-hit||India reported 175 new cases of Omicron on Monday, taking the total number of individuals infected with the heavily mutated Sars-Cov-2 virus across states in the country to 1,700.The worst affected states include Maharashtra (460), Delhi (351), Gujarat (136), Tamil Nadu (117) and Kerala (109) that have reported at least 100 cases of the recently identified and highly transmissible variant of concern.Also Read| Omicron variant watch: More hospital risk insight in South African dataIndia reported its first two Omicron cases on December 2.While the central government revised international travel, testing, containment and surveillance guidelines amid concerns over Omicron, states have also begun aggressively implementing measures to curb the spread as Covid cases have begun to rise at a rate consistent with the recent global surge.At least 81% of the total Covid-19 cases reported over the past two days in the national capital were infected with the Omicron variant. On Monday, 4,099 cases were reported from Delhi, with case positivity reaching almost 6.5%, indicating a rapid spread.Goa recorded four more cases of the Omicron variant with reports of samples sent to the lab of National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune returning on Monday. “One patient is from within Goa with no travel history indicating indigenous spread which needs to be further examined,” said Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane. With this, Goa’s total Omicron tally touched five.The state also reported a big spike in infections, with 631 fresh cases reported while the caseload crossed the 2,000 mark.Maharashtra reported 68 cases of the Omicron variant. Of them, 40 from Mumbai, 17 from Pune, four from Nagpur, three from Panvel, and one each from Navi Mumbai, Raigad, Satara and Kolhapur tested positive for the new variant. The total number of Omicron cases reached 578 in the state. So far, 259 cases have been discharged following negative RT-PCR test reports.Jammu & Kashmir has reported three Omicron positive cases. “Only three cases of the Omicron variant were detected in Jammu & Kashmir to date and all of them have recovered fully. All three patients belonged to Jammu city. Two were women from Talab Tillo area and third one was a 15 year old girl, a student of Class 10 at CRPF headquarters in Ban Talab. All three had no history of foreign travel,” said Dr JP Singh, chief medical officer, Jammu.In West Bengal, 20 Omicron cases were detected till Monday, out of which 14 are active.On Monday, four international passengers (two from Sweden and two from France) were found to be Covid-19 positive. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing. The state health department is waiting for genome sequencing reports of 13 passengers as of now.Also Read| India sees sharp spike in Covid infections with 33,750 fresh cases, deaths dipKerala also reported 29 new Omicron cases on Monday, taking the total number of Omicron infected cases to 181. Among 29, at least two people have been infected locally.The Haryana health department’s data showed 2,284 infections were reported between December 27 and January 2 as compared to 436 the week before. The last the state recorded more than 1,500 infections in a week was during June 14-20 last year, when 1,557 infections were reported during the ebbing period of the devastating second wave.India held its first high-level meeting to discuss measures that needed to be taken to deal with the heavily mutated new variant soon after the World Health Organization declared Omicron a variant of concern on November 27. South Africa announced Omicron’s presence in its population to the world on November 24.Experts say the way numbers are rising, the surge appeared to be driven by Omicron. “This is no surprise that it is Omicron as Delta was not spreading this fast. We will have to keep an eye at the rate of hospitalisations now, as even a small percentage can be huge for a country like India,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, All India institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-rises-to-1-700-maharashtra-delhi-worsthit-101641232831906.html
04-01-2022||India||66 of 2,000 people on board Goa cruise ship tests positive for Covid||As many as 66 out of more than 2,000 passengers on board the Cordelia cruise ship, which came to Goa from Mumbai, have tested positive for Covid-19, state health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Monday.Cordelia is the same cruise ship where the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) busted a high-profile rave party in October last year. The ship, operated by a private firm, was carrying hordes of New Year revellers when it arrived at Mormugao Port Trust in Goa on Sunday, and a crew member tested positive for the virus.In a tweet, Rane said: “Out of 2,000 samples tested from Cordelia cruise ship, 66 passengers tested positive for #Covid19 Respective collectors & MPT (Mormugao Port Trust) staff have been informed. The government will take appropriate measures to discuss disembarking of passengers,” Rane said.The minister’s remarks came on a day the state reported a jump of 16% in the positivity rate. While the positivity rate crossed the 10% mark a day earlier, it rose to 26.43% percent on Monday, prompting the state government to shut schools and colleges till January 26.According to officials familiar with the matter, the ship was initially made to wait at anchorage for a few hours on Sunday as authorities discussed steps to be followed before asking the ship operators to get all the passengers tested. Subsequently, a medical team in PPE kits arrived to conduct RT-PCR tests of the passengers and crew members, and the sample testing process continued till Monday afternoon.Meanwhile, the state reported four more cases of the Omicron variant, taking the overall tally to five. One among the four patients who tested positive for the Omicron variant during the day has no history of travel, the health minister said. The overall Covid caseload in the state rose to 1,82,201 with 631 new infections. Sawant, who chaired a meeting of the Task Force earlier in the day, told reporters that the government would also impose a night curfew.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/66-of-2-000-people-on-board-goa-cruise-ship-tests-positive-for-covid-101641232774483.html
04-01-2022||India||6 visitors at Bihar CM Nitish Kumar’s janata darbar test positive for Covid||Six persons who had come for grievance redressal at the weekly town hall meeting of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday along with five catering staff, as coronavirus infections seem to be spreading rapidly in the state. “At the initial check-up before the start of the programme, one out of the total 186 complainants, who poured in at janata darbar, was diagnosed with Covid infection,” Kumar said at a media briefing. “Later, it was found that six persons were positive for the disease. One of the staff, who takes care of meals for the participants, was also detected suffering from Covid. It’s becoming a matter of concern.” Four more catering staff were later found to be infected as well, a government official said. All participants at the janata darbar, or open house, have to take the rapid antigen test. “Those tested positive will undergo confirmatory RT-PCR tests,” the official said, requesting anonymity. The Bihar government will immediately take stock of the sudden upsurge in Covid-19 cases and take all measures to contain it, the chief minister said. There are currently 1,385 active cases in Bihar, which reported 344 new infections on January 2, the highest in a day since June 29. The positivity rate in the state stands at 0.1% in the week ended January 2, a health department officer said. Bihar might enforce night curfew, partial lockdown, and strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour for a limited period to bring the situation under control, a meeting convened by the chief minister decided, another state official said, declining to be named. The state’s health system was on high alerts and the pace of pathological tests to confirm infections has been enhanced, chief minister Kumar said. “Genome sequencing to isolate the Omicron variant of Covid19 has also been launched in the state. The isolation centres that were raised to treat the people suffering from Covid are being readied. There is no dearth of medicines and oxygen. People need to be sensitised to deal with the renewed challenge,” he said. The situation was not so alarming to postpone assembly elections in five states, Kumar said. “Assembly elections in Kerala were held during the pandemic phase. Even Bihar underwent for the polls in the midst of rise in Covid cases with precautions. There are people to take care of poll preparedness in view of the pandemic,” he said. Reiterating his stand on the caste-based census, Kumar said the date for an all party meeting on the issue will be finalised once the Bharatiya Janata Party gave its consent for it. “All parties have given their go ahead to the meeting. There is no hint of discord from the BJP so far. They (BJP leaders) are in the process of seeking nod from their seniors in Delhi. I have reminded the local BJP leaders to expedite the process of approval,” he said. Meanwhile, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, his wife Shanti Devi, and 13 other family members were found to be infected with Covid-19. Manjhi’s personal assistant Ganesh Pandit and two security staff have also been diagnosed positive. 
04-01-2022||India||Can’t let mob lynching over cow slaughter go on: SC on Bulandshahr cop’s murder||Lynching because of suspected cow slaughter cannot be permitted, observed the Supreme Court on Monday as it sent a former Bajrang Dal leader back to jail for allegedly leading a mob that killed a police officer in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district in December 2018.The leader was out on bail since September 2019, and the petition in the Supreme Court was filed by Rajni Singh, the wife of police inspector Subodh Kumar SIngh, who was killed in the mob attack.“The matter is quite serious where under the pretext of cow slaughter, a police officer has been lynched. We are of the prima facie view that this is a matter of law being taken into their own hands by the accused,” said a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh.“We can’t permit these things to go on. We are very sure about it. We can’t permit lynching at all,” said the bench, underscoring its disapproval of mob lynching in the name of protecting cows or preventing cow slaughter.The court emphasised that everyone who is a part of such an unlawful assembly must be taken to task and face prosecution under appropriate charges of Section 34 (acts done by several persons with common intention) or Section 149 (act committed by any member of an unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code.A mob violence incident at Syana in Bulandshahr on December 3, 2018, left police inspector Subodh Kumar Singh, who was handling complaints against cow slaughter, and a local resident, dead with bullet wounds. The violence erupted after cattle carcasses were reportedly found in a nearby village. Yogeshraj and others were accused of leading the mob and instigating it to attack police with illegal firearms, sharp objects, and lathis.The apex court, in its order, directed accused Yogeshraj, who was let out on bail in September 2019, to surrender before the trial court within a week, and sent back behind bars. In May 2021, Yogeshraj won the Uttar Pradesh panchayat election from ward number 5 of Bulandshahr for the post of district panchayat member.“You will have to go back to jail. We can’t let these things go on,” the judges told Yogeshraj’s lawyer, who argued that he was not named in the charge sheet as the accused who shot at Singh.During the hearing, the bench also pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for not challenging the bail granted to Yogeshraj, but acting only after the police inspector’s widow moved the top court.“If you say that his bail has to be cancelled, why did you not file an appeal against the high court order? You don’t take any step yourself, but now you come forward to say that you are supporting the petition,” it told the state’s additional advocate general Ajay Kumar Misra.The court expressed its dismay when the state’s lawyer argued that the policeman’s widow was too quick to file an appeal against the bail order. “It is surprising that a complainant can follow and a track a case, but a state cannot do it, and it keeps waiting,” remarked the bench.The first information report (FIR) into the incident named 27 persons, apart from 53 unidentified people, including Yogeshraj and local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Shikhar Agarwal, and charged them with murder, sedition, attempt to murder, rioting and dacoity, among other charges. Yogeshraj absconded for around a month before he was arrested on January 2, 2019.In September 2019, he was released on bail by the Allahabad high court, compelling Singh’s wife Rajni to move the Supreme Court against the order. Arguing for her, advocate Sanjay Hegde raised objections to the grant of bail, contending that such an order would only result in encouraging mob lynching and people resorting to violence. Hegde further pointed out that Yogeshraj, who was the Bulandshahr unit convenor of the Bajrang Dal in 2018, is a key accused who led the mob and instigated it to attack Singh.Asked to respond, Uttar Pradesh police supported Rajni’s petition and said Yogeshraj’s bail should be cancelled. But the court expressed displeasure at the state government for not acting by its own to get the key accused’s bail nixed.During the proceedings on Monday, the bench told the state’s lawyer that instead of supporting Rajni’s petition, the state should have appealed through a separate special leave petition.Another aspect that the court highlighted was the absence of charges relating to common intention or unlawful assembly in the charge sheet filed in the case. “Unfortunately, there is no mentioning of section 34 or 149 in the charge sheet. If they are not charged under any one of these, many people in the mob will escape prosecution. What steps the state has taken to add these charges?” the bench asked Misra. The lawyer responded that he would revert with instructions on this aspect.The bench ordered the cancellation of Yogeshraj’s bail and further asked the trial court in Bulandshahr to send a report on the status of the case and charges against all the accused. The court will take up the matter after three weeks.
04-01-2022||India||Centre terms reports of using expired Covaxin ‘misleading’||The Union health ministry on Monday dismissed reports that India was using expired vaccines to inoculate people under its Covid-19 immunisation programme, calling them “false and misleading”, and based on incomplete information.As India began vaccinating children aged 15-18 on Monday, some people took to social media to say that the vaccine doses being administered were past their expiration date, and that when they voiced concern, they were shown a document stating that the national drugs regulator had extended the vaccine’s shelf life.“The Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) on 25th October 2021... approved the extension of shelf life of Covaxin from 9 months to 12 months. Similarly, the shelf life of Covishield has been extended by the National Regulator from 6 months to 9 months on 22nd February 2021,” the Union health ministry said after the reports emerged.“There have been some media reports alleging that expired vaccines are being administered in India under its national COVID-19 vaccination programme. This is false and misleading and based on incomplete information.” the ministry said.The statement came after some social media posts raised concerns over the vaccines.“So my son went to get his first vaccine, the drive for kids begin today and realized that the vaccine had already expired in November. Then a letter was shown wherein it seems the shelf life has been extended!!How, why, on what basis? To clear stock you experiment on kids?” tweeted Navanita Varadpande.The document that was shown to her was from KR Krishna Murthy, assistant general manager, distribution, Bharat Biotech International Ltd. “This is to inform you that we have received emergency use approval for Covaxin from Drugs Controller General (India) with shelf life of 6 months when stored at 2 degree C- 8 degree C. Further, Drugs Controller General (India), CDSCO approved for extension of shelf-life 12 months from the date of manufacture. The revised expiry date dates are detailed in the table below,” the letter said.The shelf life of vaccines was extended by the drugs regulator based on comprehensive analysis and examination of stability study data furnished by the vaccine manufacturers, the ministry said. “Stay Informed, Stay Safe! Media reports claiming that expired vaccines are being administered are false & misleading. CDSCO had earlier approved the extension of shelf life of Covaxin & Covishield vaccines to 12 months and 9 months, respectively,” health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted.As Covaxin’s shelf life was increased first to nine months and later to 12 months recently, there could be vials with old expiration date pasted on them, according to people familiar with the matter. However, it does not mean the vaccine being administered is expired, an official said, asking not to be named.Bharat Biotech said it had begun lifting unused stock from hospitals. “The company, after receiving the approval from the regulator on the extension of shelf life to 12 months, have immediately begun lifting the unused stock from hospitals for relabelling,” the company said in a statement. It will conduct testing and inspection before relabelling, the company said. “All hospitals that have placed new orders have started receiving fresh stocks,” it said.
04-01-2022||India||Census activities postponed amid Covid surge||Census 2021 and activities around it have been postponed until further orders due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the home ministry told Parliament last month. In line with the decision, the Registrar General of India (RGI) and Census Commissioner Vivek Joshi is learnt to have written to the states and union territories last month, extending the date for making changes to administrative boundaries till end of June. During a Census operation – both the house-listing phase and the population enumeration, the states and union territories are not supposed to change the boundaries of districts, towns, villages and tehsils. Joshi’s letter means the freezing of boundaries of administrative jurisdictions will take place on June 30. The exercise was previously extended from December 31, 2020 to December 21, 2021. Originally, the field work of house-listing and housing Census, the first phase of Census 2021, along with the updating of National Population Register (NPR) was to be conducted in a period of 45 days during April 2020 to September 2020 in different states and territories, depending on their local conditions and other priorities. After the house-listing, the population enumeration was to be carried out between February 9 and 28 last year. To be sure, the home ministry or Census Commissioner’s office have not issued any official order or circular to postpone the exercise and extending the freezing date to June 30 is being seen as further delay. Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai informed the parliament on December 7, 2021 that Census 2021 and Census related activities have been postponed due to Covid-19 Pandemic. The government has said the forthcoming Census, in which data is collected on demographic and various socioeconomic parameters like education, SC/ST, religion, language, marriage, fertility, disability, occupation and migration of the individuals, is to be the first digital Census. A mobile app for collection of data and a Census Portal for management and monitoring of various Census related activities has already been developed. An official familiar with the development said with new date for administrative boundaries, the exercise may not begin before third quarter of 2022, which also depends on the Covid-19 situation in the country. The decadal census is the largest data collection exercise, which is important to assess the population growth as well as analyse the access to basic facilities such as housing, drinking water, sanitation, housing and electricity. This exercise was last held in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/census-activities-postponed-amid-covid-surge-101641232471939.html
04-01-2022||India||State of economy amid a surge in Covid infections||India is clearly witnessing the beginning of a third wave of Covid-19 infections. The seven-day average of daily new cases was 6,780 on December 27 and 18,236 on January 2. This number has been increasing continuously for exactly seven days now. How are economic indicators reacting to this development? What is the state of the Indian economy at the cusp of yet another wave of the pandemic? Here are four charts to put this in perspectiveStocks markets seem unperturbed at the momentThe BSE Sensex, India’s benchmark stock market index, gained 929 points on January 3 to close at 59,183. This is the highest single-day gain in the past 26 days, and the market has closed at the highest level since November 18. Among subindices, BSE Bankex that tracks the banking sector saw the highest increase at 2.55%. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer at 3.51% among the Sensex stocks.NIBRI at an all-time high in the week ended January 2The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) reached an all-time high of 120.3, gaining marginally over the reading of 120.2 in the previous week. To be sure, the rise in NIBRI seems mainly on account of an increase in the Apple driving index, which increased by 10.4 percentage points. Workplace mobility actually fell by six percentage points, and even labour participation rate fell marginally from 40.7% to 40.6%.“States have announced more restrictions, but elevated mobility and a rising positivity rate suggest a further rise in new cases. While early signs point to a lower mortality rate, it bears close monitoring. The restrictions could derail the recovery in contact-intensive services in Q1, but global experience suggests a smaller impact than previous waves and a swift growth rebound once cases peak,” Nomura Global Markets Research said in a research note.Manufacturing PMI continued to be in expansion zone in DecemberThe IHS-Markit Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for manufacturing was 55.5 in December 2021, the sixth consecutive month when it was above 50. However, the December value is lower than the November value of 57.6. A PMI value above 50 signifies an expansion in economic activity over previous month.“Manufacturers were optimistic that output would continue to increase in 2022, but business sentiment was somewhat tamed by worries surrounding the path of the pandemic, inflationary pressures and lingering supply chain disruptions,” Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit said in a statement.“We note that the (PMI) survey does not fully cover the Omicron impact on domestic producers’ perception as it was conducted between December 6-17 2021,” Madhavi Arora, lead economist at Emkay Global Financial Services, said in a note. Services PMI for December will be released on January 5.But the index of core sector industries suggests a moderation in NovemberThe index of eight core sector industries grew at an annual 3.1% in November, a sharp decline from the 8.4% growth seen in October, and also the lowest annual growth since March. When seen on a cumulative basis (April-November), the index was marginally above the pre-pandemic value of 129.9 in 2019-20 and 131.2 in 2021-22.Mixed signals on capital expenditure frontThe revival of investment remains critical for long-term growth prospects of the economy. The capital expenditure database of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) offers mixed evidence. While the value of new project announcements fell in the second consecutive time to reach ₹2.1 trillion in the quarter ended December, the value of projects completed actually increased in the September and December quarters. The value of investment projects also fell in the September and December quarters. “Completions in the quarter of December 2021 were the highest compared to the levels achieved in any of the past six quarters,” Mahesh Vyas, chief executive of CMIE, wrote in an article on its website.To be sure, the jump in project completions might have an election bias to it. “The pick-up in completion of projects seen in the quarter ended December 2021 has been partly influenced by political activism. The largest project completed during the quarter was the Purvanchal Expressway. This 341km, ₹225 billion project was inaugurated by the Prime Minister in November 2021. The 257km, ₹98 billion Sarayu Nahar project was inaugurated by the Prime Minister in December 2021. In December 2021, the Prime Minister also inaugurated the Rs.86 billion, 1.27 million tonnes of urea per annum FCI fertiliser plant at Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. During the quarter, the Prime Minister also inaugurated the Rs.26 billion Arjun Sahayak Irrigation project in Uttar Pradesh. Just these four projects inaugurated by the Prime Minister during the quarter of December 2021 add up to projects worth Rs.435 billion or over 30 per cent of the total projects completed during the quarter,” Vyas wrote in his article.
04-01-2022||India||What NCR needs is a comprehensive and convenient public transport plan||New Delhi: At a time when efforts are being made to redraw the boundaries of the National Capital Region (NCR) for better planning and “harmonious development”, transport experts say, there is an urgent need for a detailed transport plan and a common regulatory authority.
04-01-2022||NA||Breaking news highlights: Punjab adds 419 new Covid-19 cases||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Punjab adds 419 new Covid-19 cases; active cases at 1,741COVID19 | Punjab reports 419 new cases; active cases at 1,741. 3,071 children were administered the Covaxin on the first day of vaccination for children in the 15-17 age group. pic.twitter.com/2etmf3vEGjBuildings can be sealed if over 20% flats have Covid patients in them: BMCMumbai | Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation issues fresh guidelines for sealing, says that the whole building or a wing shall be sealed if more than 20% of the occupied number of flats in the building or wing has Covid19 patients pic.twitter.com/FRgbctz89IThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said that a building or a wing can be sealed if more than 20% of the occupied number of flats in them have Covid-19 patients in them, reports ANI. PIL in Calcutta HC seeks cancellation of Ganga Sagar Mela this year due to Covid surgeA PIL has been filed in Calcutta High Court today for cancelling the Ganga Sagar Mela this year due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, reports ANI. The matter will be heard on January 5. Bullibai app case: Culprits will soon face the law, says Maharashtra minister after Bengaluru youth detained“@MumbaiPolice has got a breakthrough.Though we cannot disclose the details at this moment as it may hamper the ongoing investigation, I would like to assure all the victims that we are proactively chasing the culprits & they will face the law very soon,” said Maharashtra minister of state for home (urban) Satej Patil. Mumbai police detains 21-year-old man Bengaluru man in connection with ‘BulliBai’ appThe cyber cell of the Mumbai Police detained a 21-year-old man from Bengaluru in connection with the controversial 'BulliBai' app, reports ANI. Centre restricts physical attendance of govt employees below level of under secretary to 50% as Covid spreads The Union government announced that the physical attendance of government employees below the level of under secretary has been restricted to 50%, with the remaining asked to work from home, due to Covid-19, reports PTI. Maharashtra sees 12,160 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths; Omicron tally at 578Maharashtra reported 12,160 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths as the state's total confirmed cases so far reached 6,712,028 and the death toll climbed to 141,553. The state also reported 68 new Omicron cases, taking the tally to 578. Of the new cases 40 are from Mumbai, 17 from Pune, four from Nagpur, three from Panvel, one each from Navi Mumbai, Raigad, Satara and Kolhapur. So far, 259 people have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test.Amit Shah holds high level meeting with heads of security forcesUnion home minister Amit Shah held a high level national security meeting today with the heads of security forces and intelligence wings of the armed forces.Mumbai reports 8,082 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deaths#CoronavirusUpdates3rd January, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/jbtfkLFb5IWith 8,082 new Covid-19 cases and two more related fatalities, the total caseload in Mumbai reached 807,602 and the death toll climbed to 16,379, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to 'isolate' after family member, staff test positive for CovidA member of my family and one of my staff have tested positive for COVID-19 yesterday. I have tested negative today however the doctor has advised that I remain isolated and test again after a few days.“A member of my family and one of my staff have tested positive for COVID-19 yesterday.I have tested negative today however the doctor has advised that I remain isolated and test again after a few days,” Priyanka Gandhi said. Bengal slightly eases Covid-19 restrictions on local trains in KolkataWest Bengal extended the timings of local train services in Kolkata to function until 10pm, reports ANI. On Sunday, the state announced that local train services will function only till 7pm as part of its Covid-19 restrictions. West Bengal civic body polls: State Election Commission bans bike rallies, roadshowsThe West Bengal State Election Commission (SEC) has banned roadshows and bike rallies ahead of the upcoming municipal polls, reports ANI. Also, five people are allowed for door-to-door campaigning while political meetings at indoor locations can have only 50% capacity. A maximum of 500 people are allowed for political rallies in open space.Sushmita Dev seeks for allowing women MPs to testify on Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill 2021My letter to the Chairman of the Standing Committee for Education, Youth & Sports, Women & Children to ensure that women members of both Houses of Parliament are heard as per rule 84(3) & 275 on the bill on age of marriage for women. pic.twitter.com/VXsIj2eLo2TMC MP Sushmita Dev,the only woman member of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports wrote to Committee Chairperson Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, requesting him to invoke rule no 84(3) to allow all women MPs to testify before the committee regarding the Child Marriage(Amendment) Bill 2021.Over 234,000 in 15-18 age group receive Covid vaccine first dose in TN On the first day the national immunisation program against Covid-19 was open to those belonging to the 15 to 18 years age group, 234,175 beneficiaries in Tamil Nadu received their first dose as of 5.30pm.DDMA to meet on Tuesday to discuss Covid-19 curbs in DelhiAs the daily positivity rate in Delhi reached 6%, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority is set to meet on Tuesday morning to review the prevailing Covid situation in the national capital.  The positivity rate in the city has breached 6% after 4100 new cases were reported in last 24 hours.The DDMA is likely to discuss if more restrictions are needed in the city to tackle the spread.Delhi reports 4,099 new Covid cases, 1 death in last 24 hoursCOVID19 | Delhi reports 4,099 fresh cases, one death in the last 24 hours; Active caseload at 10,986, Positivity rate at 6.46% pic.twitter.com/HfUCkYyJJYDelhi reported 4,099 new Covid-19 cases and one death in the last 24 hours. Active caseload stood at 10,986 and the daily positivity rate is at 6.46%, reports ANI. Mumbai shuts schools for classes 1 to 9 till January 31 amid Covid spreadSchools in Mumbai for classes 1 to 9 will be closed till January 31, in view of rising Covid-19 cases, while classes 10 and 12 will continue as scheduled, reports ANI citing the city's civic body. Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro urgently hospitalised, reports AFPBrazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has been urgently hospitalised, reports AFP.Srinagar police neutralise dreaded LeT terrorist Salim Parray, says IGP Kashmir#SrinagarEncounterUpdate: Only 1 #terrorist neutralized. Terrorist Salim Parray of proscribed #terror outfit LeT Salim Parray neutralized. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow. IGP Kashmir@JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/MGKwkrXf16Kashmir police said that terrorist Salim Parray of Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit has been killed following the encounter at Srinagar.Film director-producer Ekta Kapoor tests positive for Covid-19Film director and producer Ekta Kapoor tested positive for Covid-19, reports ANI.14 people, including 3 cops, set to attend Bihar CM's program, test Covid positive#UPDATE | A total of 14 people including 3 police constables, who were to attend Bihar CM's 'Janta Darbar', tested positive for COVID-19: OfficialAs many as 14 people, including three police constables, who were to attend the ‘Janta Darbar’ by Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, tested positive for Covid-19, reports ANI. 84% Covid-19 cases in Delhi in past 2 days were of Omicron variant: Health minister JainDelhi health minsiter Satyendar Jain said that 84% of the Covid-19 cases reported in the city in the past 2 days were of the Omicron variant, reports ANI.“Delhi's expected to report around 4,000 cases today with the positivity rate rising to 6.5%. Currently, 202 patients are admitted to Delhi hospitals,” he said.ECI writes to poll-bound states to 'accelerate' pace of Covid-19 vaccinationThe election commission of India has written to chief secretaries of five poll-bound states asking them to 'accelerate' the pace of Covid-19 vaccination. The poll body has also expressed concerns over low percentage of first dose inoculation in Manipur, reports news agency ANI, citing sources.Sudan PM resigns as deadly crackdown on protesters goes on: ReportSudan's civilian Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok resigned Sunday, more than two months after a coup and following another deadly crackdown on protesters, with the military now firmly in control. Read moreKarnataka likely to announce more Covid-19 containment measures this week, reports PTIThe Karnataka government is considering more containment measures to control the spread of the Coronavirus disease and the state cabinet is likely decide in this regard later this week after consulting experts, reports news agency PTI.Over 12 lakh registrations for Covid-19 vaccination of teens so far, reports ANI The number of registrations for Covid-19 vaccination of children aged 15-18 has crossed 12 lakh, news agency ANI cites CoWIN data from today.Centre requests SC to urgently hear case relating to reservation of EWS for NEET admissionsThe central government has requested the Supreme Court to hear urgently the case relating to reservation of Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in NEET admissions for PG medical courses, reports news agency ANI. To which, Justice DY Chandrachud said he would consult Chief Justice of India NV Ramana for hearing the case on Tuesday or the day after.Fire breaks out at godown in Mumbai's Ghatkopar; 8 fire engines at spot, reports ANI#WATCH | Fire breaks out a godown in Ghatkopar area of Mumbai; eight fire engines rushed to the spot pic.twitter.com/tij8fX23sZA fire on Monday broke out at a godown in Ghatkopar area of Mumbai. At least eight fire engines are present at the spot, reports news agency ANI.No community spread: Kerala blames Omicron cases on foreign countries“There is no community spread [of Omicron variant] in Kerala,” said the state's health minister Veena George on Monday. “Out of the 152 Omicron cases, 50 are from high-risk countries, 84 are from low-risk countries, and only 18 are their contacts. At present, there is nothing to worry about.”  Covid-19 has weakened, no need to panic: Yogi AdityanathOmicron spreads fast but causes very mild disease. The virus has weakened. It is like viral fever but precautions are necessary. However, there is no need to panic: UP chief minister Yogi AdityanathIndia reports 33,750 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hoursIndia reported 33,750 new Covid-19 cases and 123 deaths in the past 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry data at 8am on Monday. As many as 10,846 people recovered from the disease in the same time span.Active cases: 1,45,582Total recoveries: 3,42,95,407Death toll: 4,81,893Total vaccination: 1,45,68,89,306Read moreHong Kong news outlet to close amid crackdown on dissent: ReportA Hong Kong online news site said on Sunday that it will cease operations in light of deteriorating press freedoms, days after police raided and arrested seven people for sedition at a separate pro-democracy news outlet, reports news agency AP.Death toll in Bhiwani mining incident rises to 5, reports PTIOne more body was pulled out from under the debris at a mining site in Dadam here, taking the death toll to five in an accident triggered by a landslide. Read moreVaccination of children aged between 15 and 18 begins todayAmid concerns over the new, highly transmissible Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, India is all set to begin vaccinating the 15 to 18-year-old age group against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from today. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-3-2022-101641170170956.html
