05-01-2022||India||Bindu Ammini, first woman to enter Sabarimala temple, says she was attacked||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Dalit activist Bindu Ammini, the first woman to enter the hill temple in Sabarimala in 2018, was allegedly attacked by an unidentified man in north Kerala’s Kozhikode on Wednesday evening. In a complaint to the police, Bindu Ammini said she was overpowered by a man on the beach who showered blows on her till she fell on the road.Police said they have registered a case and are looking for the attacker after checking CCTV visuals of the area.Ammini said this was not the first attack and blamed Hindu outfits for targeting her. She was admitted to hospital last month after a speeding autorickshaw hit her but police said later that it was an accident.“I arrived on the beach to consult one of my lawyers. All of a sudden, a person came and blocked my two-wheeler, and started abusing me and showered blows on me. He ran away when some of the onlookers intervened. This was a planned attack,” she said.She was provided with police security earlier but it was later withdrawn.Bindu Ammini was one of first two women to enter the temple on January 2, 2019 after the Supreme Court allowed the entry of female devotees of menstruating age in the shrine. Within hours of their daring entry, the Sabarimala temple area turned into a virtual war zone, and the temple authorities closed the shrine to conduct a purification ritual. On the streets of many of Kerala’s biggest towns, mobs set buses ablaze and hurled bombs at the houses of prominent leaders. Over the next few weeks, police arrested nearly 10,000 people in order to stamp down on simmering tensions across the coastal state.In all, the state witnessed five shutdowns and violence after majority of the devotees resisted the move to allow women in the temple. Later the Supreme Court intervened and referred the issue to a larger bench, which is yet to deliver its verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bindu-ammini-first-woman-to-enter-sabarimala-temple-says-she-was-attacked-101641405385052.html
05-01-2022||India||Punjab CM's explanation doesn't add up, says Sitharaman on PM Modi's 'security lapse'||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi claimed to isolate himself due to his close aide being tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) but addressed the media in person, and that too without a mask, Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled programme in Punjab’s Ferozepur was cancelled following what the ministry of home affairs called a major security lapse.While Punjab chief minister expressed regret over the cancellation of PM Modi’s visit, he insisted that there was no security breach. Addressing a press conference, Channi said the Punjab government had no information about the sudden change in route over bad weather conditions, adding that he couldn’t go to Bathinda airport to receive the prime minister as he was in close contact with someone who tested positive for Covid-19.“I had to receive the PM at Bathinda today but those who had to accompany me tested Covid positive. Hence, I did not go to receive the PM today as I was in close contact with some who tested positive,” Channi said.In a series of tweets, Nirmala Sitharaman noted the incident in Punjab as a cause of concern, arguing that the explanations by the chief minister “do not add up.” The minister said that PM Modi was on his way to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala to pay respects to Bhagat Singh and other freedom fighters and was to launch several developmental programmes.“It is the responsibility of a state’s administration to ensure safe passage for @PMOIndia’s movement. @INCIndia has shown it not only shirks its duties towards the head of Indian government but also cares nothing for his safety,” Sitharaman wrote.“Punjab government claims 10,000 security personnel were deployed. How come they failed to ensure @PMOIndia’s movement? Also CM @CHARANJITCHANNI claimed to isolate himself due to his close aide being COVID +ve,but addressed press in person without a mask? Disgraceful and petty,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-s-explanation-doesn-t-add-up-says-sitharaman-on-pm-modi-s-security-lapse-101641403949293.html
05-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu adds 4,862 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, spike of 4.5 times from Dec 28||Tamil Nadu reported a spike in Covid-19 infections as 4,862 people tested positive in the state on Wednesday while only a day ago 2,731 new cases had been reported. On Tuesday too, the southern state saw a massive jump as cases had more than doubled in just a day from January 3, which saw a total of 1,728 new infections. The increase in number isn’t an outcome of increased testing as Tamil Nadu has been averaging more than one-lakh tests everyday with a marginal increase on Thursday. From January 3 to 5, the number of people tested (in lakhs) has been 1.02, 1.03, and 1.17. Chennai remains the hotspot driving the daily surge in cases. From 876 new cases on January 3, the capital city reported 2,481 cases on January 5. The Greater Chennai Corporation has not yet released its testing numbers. Authorities have said that the Omicron variant is leading to rapid transmission. Tamil Nadu has 121 cases of Omicron of which 110 patients have been discharged. After WHO announced Omicron as a variant of concern on November 26, 2021, cases began rising in Tamil Nadu from November 29, the directorate of public health and preventive medicine (DPH) said in a statement. “The state has recorded around 2,731 new cases on January 4, which is almost a jump by 4.5 times in just a week from 619 cases on December 28,” said TS Selvavinayagam, director of the DPH. “The active cases have also risen to 10,364. The trend from other international countries like the USA, UK, France suggest active cases during the peak period may be 3 to 4 times higher than the previous peak period. So, there is a chance that this surge can lead to healthcare infrastructure being strained if not managed systematically.”On Wednesday, the DPH directed all the deputy directors of health services to upgrade primary and community health centres into interim Covid Care Centres. It included guidelines on how to set them up. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan told reporters in Chennai that all Covid-19 infrastructure such as beds with oxygen supply are in place and medicines are in stock for the next six months. “Cases will rise in the next few days before cases decline again. We are taking several steps to break the chain. People should be careful to prevent transmission so that the health system is not pressurised. And I also want to insist that people should get vaccinated,” he said.Tamil Nadu on Wednesday tightened restrictions in view of the rising Covid-19 cases and the government anticipates more cases as the Tamil festival of Pongal approaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-adds-4-862-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-spike-of-4-5-times-from-dec-28-101641405083892.html
05-01-2022||India||Delhi govt increases Covid beds in its 9 hospitals to 4,350 as infections spike||As the national capital is hit with the fifth wave of coronavirus, the Delhi government on Wednesday increased the number of beds in its nine hospitals. The city now has a total of 4,350 Covid beds. It is increased from 3,316, according to the order by Delhi's health and family welfare department.The list includes India Gandhi Hospital, Lok Nayak Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Burari Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, Ambedkar Nagar Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital.According to the order, the Indira Gandhi Hospital has been asked to increase its Covid bed capacity to 1,500 from 1,181. In Lok Nayak and the Guru Teg Bahadur hospitals, the bed capacity would be increased to 750 from the existing 650 and 600, respectively.Similarly, the administration at the Deep Chand Bandhu, Deen Dayal Upadhyay and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospitals were directed to enhance their respective Covid bed capacity to 150 each, as per the government order. The Burari Hospital will increase its capacity to 400 Covid beds from 300.The Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital will now have an increased Covid bed capacity of 300 beds, up from 150. The Covid bed capacity at the Ambedkar Nagar Hospital will be increased to 200, the order said.This comes as Delhi is seeing a sudden spurt in daily cases of Covid-19 with an emergence of the highly transmissible Omicron variant.On Wednesday, the city logged 10,665 new cases of infections. It is almost double the number of infections logged the day before, with the positivity rate shooting up to 11.88 per cent, according to the daily health bulletin data. On Tuesday, Delhi had reported over 5,000 cases Covid-19 infection.The number of new cases is also the highest since May 12 last year, when 13,287 people were diagnosed with the disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-increases-covid-beds-in-its-9-hospitals-to-4-350-as-infections-spike-101641404164572.html
05-01-2022||India||Maharashtra won't see 100% lockdown as of now, says health minister||Maharashtra will not see a 100% lockdown as of now as it is not required in the present situation, health minister Rajesh Tope said n Wednesday, asserting the need to impose restrictions when there is crowding. The silver lining of the present situation is that 90% of the cases are asymptomatic and among the rest 10%, only one or two per cent require hospitalisation, the minister said. “The Task Force has used the term augmented restrictions, which means if the cases rise like this...we don't have to use the term lockdown. Hundred per cent lockdown is not certainly required as of today,” the minister said.“Wherever crowding takes place, there have to be restrictions, but it is not the case that it (curbs) should be brought today," the minister said after a meeting with the state's Covid-19 task force and the officials of the health, planning and finance departments. The recommendations of the task force will be discussed with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the minister said. The health minister's assertion comes a day after Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said if the daily Covid-19 cases cross the 20,000-mark, a lockdown will be imposed in the city as per the Union government's rules. She had also suggested that people wear triple-layer masks while travelling by public buses and local trains. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 26,538 fresh coronavirus positive cases, including 15,166 in Mumbai, the highest-ever daily count in the metropolis. Compared with Tuesday, the fresh cases in Maharashtra rose by 43.71 per cent or 8,072 in absolute numbers on Wednesday. Mumbai's overall coronavirus infection count jumped to 8,33,628, while the death toll increased to 16,384, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a bulletin.Some restrictions have already been in place since Christmas and New Year eve. The state government also decided to shut all non-agricultural, autonomous universities, technical and affiliated colleges in Maharashtra till February 15. Schools in Nagpur city and some adjoining areas will remain shut for physical classes for students of Grades 1 to 8 from Thursday.Maharashtra also recorded 144 new cases of the highly contagious Omicron variant of coronavirus in the last 24 hours, including 100 from Mumbai, taking their cumulative tally to 797 so far.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-won-t-see-100-lockdown-as-of-now-says-health-minister-101641402994782.html
05-01-2022||India||‘Double-engine govt’s tyres punctured’: Manik Sarkar after PM’s Tripura speech||AGARTALA: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised the “double-engine government” saying it has accelerated development in Tripura, opposition leader Manik Sarkar said that the tyres of the double-engine government have punctured and fallen down. PM Modi, during his visit to Tripura on Tuesday, launched new terminal building of Maharaja Bir Bikram airport, Mission 100 Vidyajyoti school scheme and Mukhyamantri Tripura Grameen Samriddhi Yojana. While hailing the Tripura government, PM Modi in his speech accused the former Left Front government of applying “brakes” to development and not to corruption in their regime. Reacting to PM’s speech, Sarkar said that the modernisation of the airport, development of internet and other connectivity services such as broad-gauge train and Indo-Bangla international railway connectivity through Agartala-Akhaura route came following prolonged movements of the Left organisations. “We were the first to propose to modernise the airport. We had arranged the land and spent ₹35 crore from our own funds. Relocation of 30-33 families for expansion of the airport, excavation and other works began during our regime. Even the third internet gateway was started in our period. How PM is saying that we had applied brakes to development,” said Sarkar at the CPI(M) headquarters on Wednesday. He claimed that PM Narendra Modi’s statement was concocted and said that the Bharatiya Janata Party didn’t have any role in India’s freedom movement, adding that PM Modi’s predecessors worked as agents of the British. Regarding Mission 100 Vidyajyoti school scheme, Sarkar said that it would put the educational scope of poor students in danger. Tripura information minister Sushanta Chowdhury condemned Sarkar’s comments and said, “The former chief minister attempted to pose himself as equal to Prime Minister. People very well know whether BJP or communist party had role in India’s freedom movement. The Left had opposed the freedom that India got in 1947. And did they have any proof of corruption in PM’s cabinet? We all know that Manik Sarkar’s cabinet ministers were involved in corruption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doubleengine-govt-s-tyres-punctured-manik-sarkar-after-pm-s-tripura-speech-101641402623566.html
05-01-2022||India||Trinamool MP Mimi Chakraborty tests Covid positive, says ‘it has got me pretty bad'||Trinamool MP and actor Mimi Chakraborty on Wednesday said on her social media she has tested positive for Covid-19 though she did not have any public interactions in the past few days, she said. "I have tested positive for Covid. however, I have not gone out of my house or had any public interactions in the past few days. It has got me pretty bad guys. I am consulting my doctor and have kept myself in home isolation. I would request everyone to take proper precautions and always wear a mask to avoid any risk. Please be safe and mask up," Mimi tweeted. pic.twitter.com/QT5t5ZobOPIn June 2021, the MP fell ill after being administered with a fake Covid vaccine though it was not known whether her illness was caused by the fake Covid vaccine. Reports said she had complained of dehydration and stomach ache. The MP also took a leading role in busting the fake vaccine racket.The Covid situation in India is deteriorating with 14,022 fresh cases recorded on Wednesday. As per a bulletin provided by the health department, the positivity rate for the day stands at 23.17 per cent. A total of 60,511 samples were tested during the last 24 hours. During the last 24 hours, 6,438 people recovered from the infection, taking the recoveries in the state to 16,25,454.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-mp-mimi-chakraborty-tests-covid-positive-says-it-has-got-me-pretty-bad-101641401906600.html
05-01-2022||India||PM announces ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each kin of deceased in Jharkhand mishap||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed anguish over the road mishap in Jharkhand which killed at least 16 people. The Prime Minister also announced an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each from its National Relief Fund to the next of kin of those who lost their lives in an accident in Pakur. Those who were injured would receive ₹50,000 from the government.A bus carrying 40 passengers collided with a truck in Pakur district on Wednesday morning. The truck was transporting gas cylinders when the mishap took place.The accident happened around 8.30 am on Govindpur-Sahebganj state highway at Paderkola village in the Amrapara police station area.According to reports, the injured people are currently admitted into Sadar hospital in Pakur district for the necessary treatment.During the accident, several people got trapped inside the bus, according to a report by PTI. They were being brought out after dismantling the vehicle with gas-cutters, it also reported citing police.Fortunately, none of the gas cylinders on the truck exploded. Otherwise, the accident could have taken many more lives, police said.Following the incident, state chief minister Hemant Soren also condoled the loss of lives. He also directed the district administration to ensure proper treatment of the injured persons. "May God give peace to the departed souls and give strength to the bereaved families to bear the loss. Appropriate instructions have been given to the district administration to provide proper treatment to the injured," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-announces-ex-gratia-of-rs-2-lakh-each-kin-of-deceased-in-jharkhand-mishap-101641399870129.html
05-01-2022||India||Show 'compassion', forgive 18-yr-old alleged 'Bulli Bai' mastermind: Javed Akhtar||After an 18-year-old woman was arrested by the Mumbai police in connection with the Bulli Bai app controversy, veteran lyricist Javed Akhtar expressed his opinion on the same, urging people to forgive her as the young girl reportedly lost her parents to cancer and Covid-19 recently.Akhtar, who has been actively sharing his opinions on the case, took to his Twitter handle on Wednesday to ask netizens to show compassion and forgive the girl.He tweeted, "If " bully bai" was really masterminded by an 18 year old girl who has recently lost her parents to cancer n Corona I think the women or some of them meet her and like kind elders make her understand that why what ever she did was wrong . Show her compassion and forgive her."For the unversed, on Tuesday, Akhtar had slammed a section of social media users who questioned the honour of his great-great-grandfather Fazl-e-Haq Khairabadi after he questioned PM Modi and raised his voice against the ongoing 'Bulli Bai' controversy.The controversy erupted when photos of hundreds of Muslim women were collected from their social media accounts and were uploaded on an app and it would then encourage people to participate in their auction.Meanwhile, apart from the 18-year-old woman, a 21-year-old engineering student was also held in Bengaluru in a raid by a Mumbai Police team in connection with the 'Bulli Bai' row.Another person whose identity has not been disclosed yet was also arrested on Wednesday in the same case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/show-compassion-forgive-18-yr-old-alleged-bulli-bai-mastermind-javed-akhtar-101641385873276.html
05-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Centre seeks detailed report on PM Modi’s ‘security lapse’, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MHA seeks detailed report on PM Modi’s ‘security lapse’ in PunjabThe Union ministry of home affairs on Wednesday sought a detailed report on the alleged security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rally in Ferozepur district of Punjab that reportedly prompted the latter to cut short his visit. Read more…Omicron alert: Doctor says next two weeks crucial. Here's whyIndia on Wednesday reported 58,097 fresh Covid cases. On Tuesday, the number was 37,379. The spike has been termed as exponential by the Centre. Given this trend, doctors said the next two weeks will be crucial as the surge is likely to reach its peak by the coming two weeks. Read more…Air New Zealand world's safest airline for 2022. Top 20 listAir New Zealand has topped an annual list of the safest airlines in the world for 2022 as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to dominate the conversation around air safety. Read more…Gavaskar lashes out at Rishabh Pant, says 'no excuses for that shot'The legendary Sunil Gavaskar was not at all impressed for Rishabh Pant’s aggressive shot that led to his dismissal on Day 3 of the 2nd Test between India and South Africa in Johannesburg. After taking a blow to his hands the previous delivery, Pant jumped out to Lungi Ngidi, aiming to play a big shot. Read more…Somy Ali says ex Salman Khan told her ‘I have a girlfriend’ when she first declared her loveFormer actor Somy Ali said that she developed a crush on actor Salman Khan after watching Maine Pyaar Kiya and came to India with the intention of marrying him. The two were reportedly in a relationship from 1991 to 1999. Read more…Covid-19 can cause serious kidney damage, warns expertCovid-19 can badly affect kidneys of even those people who did not have any history of kidney diseases earlier. The deadly virus has caused serious long-term kidney damage in people to the extent that they needed dialysis, said a nephrologist. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-seeks-detailed-report-on-pm-modi-s-security-lapse-and-all-the-latest-news-101641394171102.html
05-01-2022||India||Tripura MLA disqualified two months after joining Trinamool Congress||AGARTALA: Tripura Assembly speaker on Wednesday disqualified Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ashish Das as member of state assembly, two months after he switched over to the Trinamool Congress. Das won the 2018 Assembly polls on BJP ticket from Surma constituency in Dhalai district. He joined Trinamool Congress on October 31 during visit of the party’s general secretary Abhishek Banerjee to the state. Das was sent a notice under anti-defection law soon after he joined the Mamata Banerjee-led party. “Ashish Das joined Trinamool Congress and is involved in different party-related activities. He didn’t respond to the show cause notice even after he was given enough time. After considering pros and cons and different aspects of the constitution, the Assembly decided to cancel his membership,” assembly speaker Ratan Chakraborty told reporters at Agartala. He added that they would soon send required documents to Election Commission to disqualify him. In the first week of November 2021, the state government changed pension rules scrapping entitlements such as basic facilities and allowances of ex- legislators if they don’ complete their five-year term.Ashish Das first made headlines in October last year after he shaved his head and took a dip in Ganga and offered prayers at Kalighat temple in Kolkata as mark of penance. He said he made a mistake by believing that BJP would end the alleged two-decade old misrule of the erstwhile Left Front government. “I will keep my head shaved till BJP rule is eradicated in 2023,” he said in Kolkata. Das, who has been in Kolkata for the last three days, earlier praised Bengal chief minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee saying that she has emerged as the face of the opposition for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls after her victory in Bhabanipur by-poll. He also sparked off a controversy after his recent visit to Trinamool Congress office in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-mla-disqualified-two-months-after-joining-trinamool-congress-101641395902997.html
05-01-2022||India||MHA seeks detailed report on PM Modi’s ‘security lapse’ in Punjab||The Union ministry of home affairs on Wednesday sought a detailed report on the alleged security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rally in Ferozepur district of Punjab that reportedly prompted the latter to cut short his visit.Taking to Twitter, Union home minister Amit Shah said accountability will be fixed. "Such dereliction of security procedure in the Prime Minister’s visit is totally unacceptable and accountability will be fixed," Shah wrote.The Ministry of Home Affairs has sought a detailed report on today’s security breach in Punjab. Such dereliction of security procedure in the Prime Minister’s visit is totally unacceptable and accountability will be fixed.Today’s Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity. The topmost echelons of the Congress owe an apology to the people of India for what they have done."Today’s Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity. The topmost echelons of the Congress owe an apology to the people of India for what they have done," he further wrote.Modi was scheduled to visit Ferozepur earlier in the day to lay the foundations for multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore. According to a MHA statement, the PM landed at Bathinda in the morning from where he was scheduled to go to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala by helicopter.Due to poor weather and lack of visibility, the PM had to wait for about 20 minutes, following which it was decided that he would visit the memorial via road and the travel time would be more than two hours.The PM then proceeded to travel by road after necessary confirmation of required security arrangements by the Punjab Police. About 30 km ahead of the memorial in Hussainiwala, when the Prime Minister's convoy reached a flyover, it was found that the road was blocked by some protestors. Modi was stuck on the flyover for 15-20 minutes.Following this, he returned to Bathinda airport and his address had to be cancelled.The incident led to massive uproar with the BJP and Congress indulging in a blame-game. Punjab is scheduled to see Assembly election in the next few months and the BJP is hoping to oust the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government in the state with the help of allies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-seeks-detailed-report-on-pm-modi-s-security-lapse-in-punjab-101641392621531.html
05-01-2022||India||Omicron alert: Doctor says next two weeks crucial. Here's why||India on Wednesday reported 58,097 fresh Covid cases. On Tuesday, the number was 37,379. The spike has been termed as exponential by the Centre. Given this trend, doctors said the next two weeks will be crucial as the surge is likely to reach its peak by the coming two weeks. Talking to news agency ANI, Dr Ashish Khattar, Senior Consultant, Internal Medicine at Delhi's Venkateshwar Hospital said the infections are doubling each day. "In the last three days, we have seen doubling of Covid-19 cases and even more than that. Definitely, over the next two weeks, we can see a certain spurt in COVID-19 cases. By end of January, a major population would have been affected," Dr Khattar said.Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar also said the next four to six weeks are crucial.R-value 2.69, higher than peak of 2nd wave: What Centre said on 3rd wave in India | 7 pointsSeveral scientific projections have claimed that the peak of India's ongoing surge will take place between January last week and February first week. As Dr Sudhakar said in other countries it has been observed that the wave, driven by Omicron, rose very quickly, followed by a quick dip. In South Africa, where the variant was first detected is also believed to be over the wave.Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul acknowledged the global scenario and said that it is a fact that surge driven by Omicron in other countries has come down quickly but that can not be conjectured about India as the characteristics of a surge depends on many factors including vaccine coverage. "Like in the UK, Denmark, it is receding now. In South Africa too, it stayed for a month. But we can't say anything clearly as it depends on our population density, vaccination coverage. So we can't extrapolate that this wave will come down soon, but we can say what we are seeing," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-alert-doctor-says-next-two-weeks-crucial-here-s-why-101641391107848.html
05-01-2022||India||Calcutta HC urges Bengal govt to consider plea to ban Ganga Sagar Mela||Amid an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in West Bengal, the Calcutta High Court has sought a response from the Mamata Banerjee led administration on whether the state wants to impose a ban on this year’s Ganga Sagar mela or go ahead with it with restrictions. In another development the state government decided to postpone the 27th Kolkata International Film Festival. The week-long KIFF was scheduled to take off from January 7. “Having regard for the severity of the spread of the Covid-19 virus, we expect that the state will seriously consider the plea to ban the mela this year,” the court said. A division bench of the high court, headed by Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava was hearing a PIL filed by a doctor, Avinandan Mondol who contended that the Covid-19 infection may spread further if millions of pilgrims are allowed to converge at Ganga Sagar to take the holy dip at the confluence of River Ganges and Bay of Bengal on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on January 15. The court directed the state government to take a decision while considering certain aspects such as possibility of spread of the virus through water when millions of pilgrims, some of whom may be infected, take the holy dip. “The state government has been asked to file an affidavit on Thursday when the matter comes up for hearing again,” said Srijib Chakraborty, advocate representing the petitioner. The daily count of Covid-19 cases has shot up more than 16 times in the last ten days in the state. On Tuesday, West Bengal reported 9,073 new Covid-19 cases up from the daily count of 544 reported on December 26. In Kolkata, 4,759 new cases were reported on Tuesday, the highest among all districts in the state. North 24 Parganas with 1,391 fresh cases came second. Experts have blamed it on the huge congregation of people in Park Street and its surrounding areas on Christmas. Videos and pictures, which went viral, showed thousands of people gathering on Park Street with no regard for Covid-19 safety norms. The state government had relaxed the night curfew (11pm – 5am) from December 24, 2021 to January 1, 2022 in view of Christmas and New Year celebrations. On January 2, however, the West Bengal government imposed stricter restrictions till January 15 by closing schools and colleges, limiting the workforce across offices and restricting flights from Delhi and Mumbai. Swimming pools, spas, gyms, salons and beauty parlours, entertainment parks and tourist places will remain closed, while shopping malls, markets, restaurants and bars will be allowed to operate with 50% capacity till 10 pm. Night curfew, from 10 pm to 5 am, has been re-imposed. But despite the looming threat, the West Bengal State Election Commission has said that elections in four municipalities in the state would be held on January 22 as per schedule. The poll panel has also allowed political meetings with a maximum capacity of 500 people in large open grounds. The Bharatiya Janata Party has postponed the visit of the party’s national president JP Nadda ahead of the municipal polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-urges-bengal-govt-to-consider-plea-to-ban-ganga-sagar-mela-101641390922588.html
05-01-2022||India||‘Who leaked PM route info’: Smriti Irani jabs Punjab govt over security breach||The BJP on Wednesday lashed out at the Congress government in Punjab for failing to secure the route that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cavalcade was to take to address a rally in the state. Union minister, Smriti Irani said there is a need to answer questions on who gave a false go-ahead to the security cavalcade and who leaked information about the route that the PM was to take. “The question we as BJP workers and the nation needs to ask the Congress government in Punjab is why did the DGP give an all clear to the PM‘s security detail for the route that he wanted to take? Who in the Punjab government gave information about the prime minister‘s route to individuals who planted themselves atop the flyover? Video evidence now publicly available brings such questions to the fore,” the minister said addressing the media. Referring to the security breach that forced the PM to return to the Capital without addressing a scheduled rally, she said never before in the history of our country has the state failed to secure the safety of the PM. “When the PM‘s security detail contacted Punjab police about the circumstance of the prime minister‘s cavalcade atop the flyover that there was a 20 minute exposure and a breach of security of the Prime Minister, why did those who lead the security arrangements not respond to any call for efforts to secure the prime minister,” the minister questioned. Sharpening her attack at the administrative lapse, she said, “I am sure the nation shares our outrage at this incident. We know that the Congress party hates PM Modi but today they tried to harm the Prime Minister of India. Such is the breakdown of law and order in the state of Punjab that the DGP police claims he is incapable of providing security support to the Prime Minister‘s security detail.” The Punjab government for its part claimed the Prime Minister was to travel by air but because of the rain, his plan was changed. “The PM decided to travel by road from Bathinda to Ferozepur suddenly. There was no prior information. I worked till 3 am to convince farmers to clear all routes. All roads were cleared by Wednesday morning. There was no programme of the PM’s travel by road. Had they told us about the road travel in advance, we would have made proper arrangements,” Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi told the media. The minister, however, lashed out at the state administration and said the security detail that is a protocol administratively to be followed by the state was dismantled so that the PM could be brought to harm. “What enrages people like us is this that when the PM had his security breached Congress leaders erupted with joy, asking him how his Josh was.” She was referring to a tweet by Congress leader BV Srinivas who tweeted, “Modi ji, How’s the Josh?” The minister also said that the MHA has asked for a report on this issue, “…And my hope is that those who try to bring the prime minister physical harm are met with justice.” 
05-01-2022||India||No painkiller recommended for children vaccinated with Covaxin: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said that no painkillers are recommended for children after being vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with Covaxin. The Hyderabad-based vaccine maker said that certain immunisation centres are recommending three paracetamol tablets of 500 mg for children vaccinated with Covaxin.“We have received feedback that certain immunization centres are recommending taking 3 paracetamol 500 mg tablets along with Covaxin for children. No paracetamol or pain killers are recommended after being vaccinated with Covaxin,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement.India opened up vaccination with Covaxin for children aged 15-18 after the company received approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). Covaxin is currently the only Covid-19 vaccine to receive a nod from India’s drug regulator for vaccination among 15 to 18-years-old children.‘Major safety concerns’: ICMR chief's advice for using MolnupiravirBharat Biotech said that between 10-20 per cent of 30,000 individuals who participated in the clinical trials reported side effects. It added that most of the side effects were mild and disappeared within 1-2 days and do not require medication.“Medication is only recommended after you consult a physician. Paracetamol was recommended along with certain other Covid-19 vaccines and is not recommended for Covaxin,” the company said.Meanwhile, India achieved one crore vaccination milestone for people between the 15-18 age group against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced on Wednesday. The milestone was achieved on the third day of the vaccination drive for children, which opened up on January 3.“Superb enthusiasm among Young India for Vaccination,” the health minister wrote on Twitter.“Over 1 crore youngsters between 15-18 age group have received 1st dose of #COVID19 vaccine that too on the 3rd day of vaccination drive for children. I appeal to all eligible young friends to get vaccinated at the earliest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-pain-killers-recommended-for-children-vaccinated-with-covaxin-bharat-biotech-101641388185748.html
05-01-2022||India||No lapse in PM's security, reiterates Punjab CM; regrets cancellation of Modi's programme||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi presented the state government's side over Wednesday's ‘breach’ in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security near Ferozepur, reiterating that no such lapse took place.Also Read | Punjab CM denies lapse in security during PM Modi’s Ferozepur visitThe Punjab chief minister also said that according to initial itinerary of PM Modi's visit, there was no mention of a visit by road.“Elections are near, and it is common for people to block roads. Neither did any attack take place, nor there was any threat. It is wrong to say that the Prime Minister was in danger," Channi said at a press conference.Also Read | ‘Fix responsibility’: Fuming Centre roasts Punjab govt for breach in PM securityThe Congress leader also expressed his respect for the Prime Minister. “We regret that he had to leave. He is a priceless personality,” the chief minister said, adding that Union home minister Amit Shah had called him up to get protesters removed from the road.“We worked till 3 in morning to ensure that protesters were removed. Central agencies and Union minister and BJP leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat were also in tough with the protesting farmers,” the chief minister elaborated further.Also Read | ‘Criminal conspiracy’: BJP's Punjab in-charge on ‘lapse’ in PM Modi's securityWhatever happened shall be probed, he added.After the breach, Prime Minister Modi was forced to cancel a scheduled rally in Ferozepur in the poll-bound state. Upon arriving at Bhatinda airport to depart for Delhi, he is said to have told airport officials to thank their CM that he (PM Modi) was ‘able to return alive.’Also Read | Apne CM ko thanks kehna ki mein Bathinda airport tak zinda laut paaya: PM ModiThe development has triggered a war of words between the ruling Congress and PM Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress has claimed that the programme was, in fact, cancelled due to poor turnout at the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lapse-in-pm-s-security-reiterates-punjab-cm-regrets-cancellation-of-modi-s-programme-101641386290359.html
05-01-2022||India||‘Major safety concerns’: ICMR chief's advice for using antiviral drug Molnupiravir||The head of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday said that the antiviral drug Molnupiravir has major safety concerns including mutagenicity, muscle and bone damage. Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general of ICMR, told a media briefing that the antiviral Covid-19 pill is not included in the treatment guidelines of the Covid-19 national task force. Bhargava said that contraceptive methods should be used for three months if the drug is administered to women since the child may have problems.“Molnupiravir has major safety concerns including mutagenicity, muscle & bone damage. If this drug is given contraception has to be done for three months as child may have problems,” he said.The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) last week gave emergency approval to Molnupiravir as the country witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases following the emergence of the highly contagious Omicron variant. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that 13 companies will make the antiviral drug in India.Same vaccine to be administered as ‘precaution’ 3rd dose: CentreMerck has entered into licensing agreements with eight domestic drugmakers, including Dr Reddy’s, to manufacture and supply the generic version of Molnupiravir to over 100 low- and middle-income countries. A spokesperson of Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd said that the drugmaker will launch the Molnupiravir at ₹35."Molflu is expected to be available from early next week in pharmacies throughout (India) with particular focus on states with high caseload of Covid-19," the company spokesperson said.India reported 58,097 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the active caseload to over 2,14,000, the health ministry said on Wednesday morning. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of confirmed Omicron cases, followed by Delhi, Kerala, Rajasthan, and Gujarat. India also reported its first death due to the Omicron variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-safety-concerns-icmr-chief-s-advice-for-using-antiviral-drug-molnupiravir-101641386173737.html
05-01-2022||India||Delhi's Covid positivity rate 11.88%; 10k cases register 94% hike from yesterday||Breaching the 10,000-mark of daily cases, as it was expected going by the rising trajectory of Delhi's Covid-19 cases, the Capital on Wednesday reported an alarming 11.88% test positivity rate. According to the Delhi health bulletin, 10,665 positive cases and eight deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Around 11,551 patients are under home isolation, though the number of hospitalisation has seen a sharp uptick. The city has 3,908 containment zones, the bulletin said. Earlier in the day, health minister Satyendar Jain said the third wave of the pandemic has hit Delhi and the daily case was supposed to breach 10,000 on Wednesday and the positivity rate too would cross 10%. On Tuesday, Delhi reported 5,481 fresh Covid cases which makes Wednesday's fresh cases rise by over 94%. The Centre on Wednesday said the pandemic is expanding in the country and the surge is most noticeable in the metro cities, where Omicron has emerged as the main variant. Delhi health ministry Satyendar Jain said the Delhi government had been sending samples of all Covid patients as part of an academic exercise to check whether Omicron is predominant in Delhi. The number of deaths due to COVID-19 as well as that of admissions to hospitals and Covid care centres has seen a significant jump in Delhi amid a spike in the case tally, according to official figures. The national capital recorded eight Covid deaths on Wednesday, the highest number since June 16 last year, while the number was three on Tuesday and one each on January 3, 2 and 1. Delhi had recorded five Covid deaths in September last year, four in October, seven in November and nine in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-positivity-rate-rises-to-11-88-over-3-900-containment-zones-in-capital-101641386102705.html
05-01-2022||India||R-value 2.69, higher than peak of 2nd wave: What Centre said on 3rd wave in India | 7 points||India is seeing an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases, which is believed to be driven by Omicron, the Centre said on Wednesday as the country recorded 58,097 fresh Covid cases. Experts of the health ministry, however, stayed away from officially referring to the third wave.Here are 10 things that the health ministry said on Wednesday regarding Omicron and the rise of cases in India1. It is the reality that the Covid is increasing exponentially. On December 30, the test positivity rate was 1.1%. On January 5, the rate is 5%.2. This is an expanding pandemic, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said.3. Citing data available in the public domain, Dr Paul said India's Covid R-naught value has risen to 2.69, which is higher than the peak of the second wave, 1.69. R-naught value holds the key to understanding the spread of the infection at a given point. R-Value of 2.69 means every 100 infected person can spread the infection to 269 people.Also Read | Same vaccine to be administered as ‘precaution’ 3rd dose: Centre4. The acceleration of cases is steeper than ever, Dr Paul said. Severity, hospitalisation situation is being watched closely, Dr Paul added. "In Delhi, the hospitalisation rate is 4%. In Mumbai, we heard it's 5%. Compared to this, the typical hospitalisation last year was 20%," Dr Paul said.5. The upsurge of infection is happening in cities where Omicron is the prevalent strain, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bhargava said.6. The steeper the rise is, the shorter the wave is, as seen in other countries, Dr Paul said. "Like in the UK, Denmark, it is receding now. In South Africa too, it stayed for a month. But we can't say anything clearly as it depends on our population density, vaccination coverage. So we can't extrapolate that this wave will come down soon, but we can say what we are seeing," he said.7. Different parts of the country will face the rise differently as it has happened in the last two waves too, Dr Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rvalue-2-69-higher-than-peak-of-2nd-wave-what-centre-said-on-3rd-wave-in-india-7-points-101641385221654.html
05-01-2022||India||Govt says death of elderly citizen in Rajasthan ‘technically’ Omicron-related||The Union health ministry on Wednesday said one death in Rajasthan is “technically” Omicron-related.Ministry joint secretary Luv Aggarwal said the deceased was an elderly person and reportedly had comorbidities like diabetes among others.“Technically it is Omicron-related death. He was an elderly person. The person is reported to have comorbidities, like diabetes among others: Aggarwal said during a press briefing the country’s Covid-19 situation.The government’s statement makes it the first confirmed death from the highly transmissible variant of the coronavirus in the country.India on Wednesday reported 58,097 fresh Covid-19 cases and 534 deaths. The country’s Omicron count breached the 2,000-mark after multiple states, including Maharashtra, confirmed fresh cases in the previous 24 hours. According to the Union health ministry, a total of 2,135 Omicron cases have so far been detected in the country, of which, as many as 828 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-death-of-elderly-citizen-in-rajasthan-technically-omicronrelated-101641382986464.html
05-01-2022||India||Three-day RSS meet begins in Hyderabad, Bharat-centric education on agenda||The three-day Akhil Bharatiya Samanvay Baithak (All-India coordination meeting) of the chief functionaries of various organisations inspired by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), began in Hyderabad on Wednesday focussing on Bharat-centric education.RSS national spokesperson Sunil Ambekar said the meeting was attended by as many as 216 office bearers from around 36 organisations affiliated to the RSS, following strict Covid-19 norms.RSS chief Mohan Bhagawat and its all-India general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale, BJP national president J P Nadda and all-India general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh were among the top leaders of the Sangh who attended the annual meeting.Emphasising that it was not a decision-making meeting but was only a meeting for sharing information with the affiliated organisations, Ambekar said the meeting deliberated on the imparting of education with Bharat as the central idea.“Delegates from Vidya Bharati, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), Bharatiya Sikhshan Mandal and other related organisations will deliberate on the subject and share their experiences related to it,” the spokesperson said.The meeting will also discuss the service activities of Seva Bharati during the Covid-19 pandemic and various other initiatives taken up by the RSS to improve health and eradicate malnutrition among children.Ambekar said in a couple of years, the RSS would be completing 100 years of its foundation. “The ongoing meeting will also hold detailed discussions on the initiatives to be taken on paryavaran (environment), parivaar prabodhan (family awareness) and samajik samrasta (social harmony),” he said.Pointing out that all the affiliated organisations of the Sangh are involved in celebrations of 75 years of Independence, the three-day meeting will take stock of the programmes they had organised and discuss special drives to be launched in the coming months.He said at last year’s all-India coordination meeting organised in Karnavati, Gujarat, Sangh-affiliated organizations such as those related to economy like the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, Swadeshi Jagran Manch and Laghu Udyog Bharati among others discussed issues related to economy and plans to improve employment in the country. They discussed government policies and the grass root situation in states.The present meeting will come out with a comprehensive action plan on the concluding day on Friday, Ambekar added.
05-01-2022||India||India seeing 6.8 times spike in cases; Delhi, Maha, Bengal among states of concern: Govt||India reported a 6.8-time increase in its daily count of coronavirus cases in the last eight days, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The positivity rate has also seen a sharp increase as it surged from 0.79 per cent on December 29, 2021, to 5.03 per cent on January 6, 2022, the government said.In a briefing on the pandemic situation in the country, the government said Delhi, Maharashtra and West Bengal are among the states of concern at the moment as they are leading the nationwide surge. Apart from these, the states that are seeing a major rise in cases include Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Jharkhand and Gujarat. "As many as 28 districts in the country are reporting more than 10 per cent weekly positivity," the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.Regarding the highly transmissible Omicron variant, the government said, it is a "predominant circulating strain in the cities across the country". "Mass gatherings would have to be avoided to lower the speed of this spread," Balram Bhargava of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said.India's cumulative Covid-19 tally saw another massive surge on Wednesday as 58,097 tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours, according to the morning bulletin shared by the Union health ministry. The latest figures are a massive 20,718 more from yesterday when 37,379 new infections were recorded in the country. The overall Covid-19 tally of India has now climbed to 3,50,18,358, according to the health minitry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-seeing-6-8-times-spike-in-cases-delhi-maha-bengal-among-states-of-concern-govt-101641381615954.html
05-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 16 killed, 26 hurt as bus and truck collide in Jharkhand, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jharkhand accident: 16 die, 26 hurt as bus collides with truck in Pakur districtThe bus with 40 passengers on board was heading to Jasidih in Deoghar district from Barharwa in Sahibganj district, police said. Read moreBJP chief blasts Channi govt after PM's rally cancelled over ‘security lapse’BJP chief JP Nadda alleged that the Punjab government tried “all possible tricks” to scuttle the prime minister’s programme. Read more'If you have half knowledge, keep your mouth shut': Stump mic records Pant's heated exchange with van der Dussen - WatchRishabh Pant's unpleasant exchange with South Africa's Rassie van der Dussen was picked up by the stump microphone. Read moreRajkummar Rao warns against fake email sent in his name to extort ₹3 croreTaking to Instagram Stories, Rajkummar shared a screenshot of the email and wrote, “#Fake guys please be careful of such fake people." Read moreGroom's family learns, performs dance entirely online. Video impresses peopleThe video opens to show the groom's side of the family performing a collaborative dance that they learnt entirely online. Read moreKim Jong Un's North Korea fires suspected ballistic missile into seaThe South Korean military said the North fired what is ‘presumed to be a ballistic missile’. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-16-killed-26-hurt-as-bus-and-truck-collide-in-jharkhand-and-all-the-latest-news-101641378028060.html
05-01-2022||India||Kolkata Int'l Film Festival postponed as Covid spread sparks alarm||The 27th Kolkata International Film Festival was postponed on Wednesday in the wake of a massive spike in Covid-19 cases in West Bengal. The international film festival was scheduled to be held in the city from January 7 and continue till January 14.The news came a day after it was reported the festival would go ahead as scheduled with 50 per cent seating capacity.Bengal on Tuesday reported 9,073 fresh coronavirus infections, an increase of over 49.27 per cent in a single day, with Kolkata accounting for over half of them, the state health department said in a bulletin.Of the new positive cases, Kolkata recorded 4,759, up from 1,958 registered on the previous day, the bulletin said. The metropolis also reported five fatalities – the highest in the state.A number of political leaders, including film director-turned Trinamool Congress MLA Raj Chakraborty, former India cricketer Laxmi Ratan Shukla, who is also an ex-minister of the state and singer-turned politician Babul Supriyo, and poet Srijato have tested positive for the virus.About 200 doctors of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and other city-based hospitals have been infected.Bengal has been named by the Union health ministry as one of the state states of concern where there has been a major rise in cases.A large number of restrictions have been reimposed in the city, including a closure of schools and colleges, besides capping landing of flights from Delhi and Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-int-l-film-festival-postponed-as-covid-spread-sparks-alarm-101641380870302.html
05-01-2022||India||‘Criminal conspiracy’: BJP's Punjab in-charge on ‘major lapse’ in PM Modi's security||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) in-charge for upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, on Wednesday described as ‘criminal conspiracy’ the ‘security lapse’ which led to the cancellation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi rally in poll-bound state's Ferozepur.Also Read | PM Modi's Ferozepur rally cancelled, home ministry blames ‘major lapse in security’“Leaking route details of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's convoy to agitators, and then allowing them to block the road is a criminal conspiracy,” a rough translation of Shekhawat's tweet, from Hindi to English, read.Also Read | BJP chief blasts Channi govt after PM's rally cancelled over ‘security lapse’“This is a serious compromise in the security of the nation's Prime Minister. Strict action should be taken against whoever is responsible, be it politician, minister or official,” the minister further posted. प्रधानमंत्री नरेंद्र मोदी जी के रूट की जानकारी प्रदर्शनकारियों को देना और फिर उन्हें रास्ता जाम करने की सुविधा देना आपराधिक साज़िश है।ये देश के प्रधानमंत्री की सुरक्षा के साथ गंभीर खिलवाड़ है। इसके लिए जो भी नेता, मंत्री व अधिकारी ज़िम्मेदार हैं, उन पर कड़ी कार्रवाई होनी चाहिए।Meanwhile, hitting out at the Punjab government, former chief minister and Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Captain Amarinder Singh, described the development as a ‘complete failure of law and order in the state.’ Singh tweeted, "This, in particular, is failure of the CM and HM. When you cannot provide smooth passage to the Prime Minister of the country and that too just 10km from the Pakistan border, you have no right to stay in office and should quit!"  Complete failure of law and order in Punjab, CM and HM Punjab, in particular. When you cannot provide smooth passage to the Prime Minister of the country and that too just 10km from the Pakistan border, you have no right to stay in office and should quit!Dismissing the charge, the ruling Congress, Singh's former party, said the rally was, in fact, cancelled due to poor attendance. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, too, denied any security lapse, saying that his government had no information about the PM’s travel via road from Bathinda airport to Ferozepur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criminal-conspiracy-bjp-s-punjab-in-charge-after-major-lapse-in-pm-s-security-in-state-101641379927539.html
05-01-2022||India||'No crowds to listen to Modiji': Congress on PM's rally cancellation over 'security lapse'||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday claimed that the reason for the cancellation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally in Ferozepur was a lack of crowd and not a security lapse. Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda earlier alleged that the Congress-led Punjab government tried “all possible tricks” to scuttle the prime minister’s programme “fearing a resounding defeat” in the upcoming Assembly polls.Nadda said that protesters were given access to the prime minister’s route despite assurances from the Punjab chief secretary and director-general of police that the route was clear.Responding to BJP chief’s, Surjewala said that 10,000 security personnel were deployed for the prime minister’s scheduled rally and all arrangements were made in tandem with the special protection group (SPG) and other security agencies. The Congress spokesperson said that PM Modi’s decision to opt for a road journey to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala was not part of his original schedule.“Kisan mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has been protesting against PM’s visit & Union Min, Gajendra Shekhawat has held two rounds of negotiation with them,” Surjewala wrote on Twitter.PM Modi's Ferozepur rally cancelled, home ministry blames ‘major lapse in security’Listing the reasons for the protest, Surjewala said the protesters are demanding minister of state (Home) Ajay Misra Teni’s resignation over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and withdrawal of criminal cases against farmers in Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. He said the central government has chosen to totally ignore the promises of forming a committee on minimum support price after the end of farmers’ agitation.“Finally, the reason for canceling rally is that there were no crowds to listen to Modiji. Stop blame game & introspect on BJP’s anti-farmer attitude. Hold rallies but listen to Farmers first!” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-crowds-to-listen-to-modiji-congress-on-pm-s-rally-cancellation-over-security-lapse-101641380923923.html
05-01-2022||India||Same vaccine to be administered as ‘precaution’ 3rd dose: Centre||The Centre on Wednesday said the same vaccine will be administered as the third dose of booster or precaution dose of vaccine and no mix and match will be allowed as of now.  This means those who have received Covishield as their first and second dose will receive Covishield as their third dose. Similarly, those who have received Covaxin in their first two doses will receive Covaxin in the third dose, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said during the press briefing of the health ministry. The government has not taken any decision on the mix and match of vaccines in India though Dr Paul had earlier said that there was no problem in principle to mix and match.  As more data is received about a heterologous approach in the administration of vaccines, decisions will be taken going forward, the Centre said. What is ‘precaution dose’ for Covid? Which vaccine will be administered? What all we knowPrime Minister Narendra Modi on December 25 announced the major upgrade of the Centre's vaccination policy which has included teens for their first two doses and frontline staff and senior citizens with comorbidities for booster doses. While vaccination for the population belonging to 15 to 18 years has already started from January 3, the administration of booster doses, being termed as precaution dose in India, will start from January 10. The government so far has not made it clear which vaccine will be administered as the booster shot. India's decision to administer the third dose comes amid an Omicron alert. On the lines of booster doses being administered in their countries, the government has chosen the most vulnerable section for the third dose.The Union health ministry on Wednesday issued a revised guideline for home isolation of mild or asymptomatic Covid-19 cases. It said patients under home isolation will stand discharged after at least seven days from testing positive and no fever for three successive days, in revised guidelines for home isolation of mild or asymptomatic cases. It also advised people not to rush for self-medication, blood investigation or radiological imaging like chest X-ray or CT scan without consultation of treating medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/same-vaccine-to-be-administered-as-precaution-dose-centre-101641380801239.html
05-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave won't last long; 4-6 week crucial, says Karnataka health minister||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar, who is a medical professional, on Wednesday said the possible third wave of Covid-19 won't last long and the next four to six weeks are crucial. "If we remain cautious for at least four to six weeks, we will be able to control it. As we have observed worldwide, it is declining in five to six weeks. This wave will not be for too long, like in the first and second wave that was for three to four months," Dr Sudhakar said.From this week onwards, Karnataka will come under curfew on weekends. All schools, colleges, except classes 10,11,12, medical and nursing colleges, will remain closed from tomorrow and only online classes will be held. The night curfew has also been extended in the state.Karnataka was the first state in India to have recorded Omicron cases. Dr Sudhakar said Omicron is not entering the lungs and this is the reason why the cases requiring oxygen, ventilators and ICU are very less this time. "But, its effect may be more on those who have not taken both the doses of Covid vaccination. So, I request people with folded hands to get vaccinated with both doses mandatorily," Sudhakar said.The Union health ministry on Wednesday said Karnataka is one of the eight states where the Covid-19 situation is emerging as concerning. The other states are Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand and Gujarat. Karnataka on Tuesday reported 149 new Omicron cases which took the state tally of Omicron cases to 226. On Tuesday, the state reported 2,479 fresh Covid cases, 288 recoveries and four deaths recorded in the last 24 hours.While scientists and experts are saying the third wave has set in, the Union health ministry on Wednesday issued revised guideline for home isolation of mild or asymptomatic Covid-19 cases. According to the guidelines, patients under home isolation will stand discharged and end isolation after at least seven days have passed from testing positive and no fever for three successive days, but they shall continue wearing masks. Earlier, the duration of home isolation ended after 10 days of onset of symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-won-t-last-long-4-6-week-crucial-says-karnataka-health-minister-101641379652907.html
05-01-2022||India||Rahul Gandhi slams Centre for failing to reduce fuel rates||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday slammed the Centre for failing to reduce fuel rates in the country despite a dip in international crude oil prices by $7.3 a gallon. “Enough is enough- now reduce the price of petrol and diesel!” he tweeted with the hashtag “FuelLoot”.Congress spokesman Gourav Vallabh separately said if there is an increase in the global crude oil prices, then the burden is transferred to the consumers. “But if there is a downfall in the price, then the benefit will not be shared with them,” he said. He added prior to Diwali, the crude oil price in the international market dropped by ₹8 per litre but the government reduced the excise duty on petrol by only ₹5 per litre.Vallabh referred to fuel prices in 2014. “If the government can maintain the excise duty which was levied in 2014 on fuel, then the price of petrol will reduce to ₹26.42 per litre and diesel price to ₹25.24 per litre.”Bharatiya Janata Party spokespersons were unavailable to comment on the matter.Over the last month, petrol and diesel prices have remained unchanged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-for-failing-to-reduce-fuel-rates-101641379582077.html
05-01-2022||India||Over six feared dead in bus-truck collision in Jharkhand’s Pakur||More than half a dozen people are believed to have died and several others injured in a head-on collision between a passenger bus and a truck carrying LPG cylinders on Wednesday morning, in Pakur district, around 400 km north-east of state capital Ranchi. Pakur superintendent of police Hrudeep P Janardhanan said the final casualty figures are yet to be ascertained as the rescue operation is still underway. “The injured stuck inside the bus are being pulled out. We have information from the ground that around 7-8 could have died. But officially we will declare casualty figures only after doctors confirm the numbers,” Janardanan said. The SP said the injured are being sent to different hospitals as per their injury including the Pakur district hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-six-feared-dead-in-bus-truck-collision-in-jharkhand-s-pakur-101641379462216.html
05-01-2022||India||Jharkhand accident: 16 die, 26 hurt as bus collides with truck in Pakur district||At least 16 people were killed and 26 others suffered injuries in a head-on collision between a bus and a truck transporting gas cylinders in Jharkhand's Pakur district on Wednesday morning.Police said the injured persons are receiving treatment at different hospitals, adding at least three of them are in critical condition.“The reasons behind the accident were rash driving and poor visibility due to fog,” an officer was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The accident happened around 8.30am on the Govindpur-Sahebganj state highway at Paderkola village in Amrapara police station area.The bus with 40 passengers on board was heading to Jasidih in Deoghar district from Barharwa in Sahibganj district, police said.One of the critical patients has been referred to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi and the process to shift the others is underway, the PTI reported.The injured persons were initially admitted to the Sadar Hospital in the district.Several people were trapped inside the bus, and they were being brought out after dismantling the vehicle with gas-cutters, police said.The impact of the accident was such that the front ends of both the vehicles got stuck to each other. Both the bus and the truck were speeding, and it is suspected that heavy fog in the area, which brought down the visibility, led to the accident, they said.The toll could have risen significantly had the gas cylinders on the truck exploded, police said.Chief minister Hemant Soren condoled the deaths and directed the district administration to ensure proper treatment of the injured persons.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-accident-16-die-26-hurt-as-bus-collides-with-truck-in-pakur-dist-101641378523876.html
05-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu imposes complete lockdown on Sundays, night curfew from tomorrow||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday announced that it will impose a complete lockdown every Sunday to curb the rising number of Covid-19 cases, dominated by the Omicron variant. Moreover, a night curfew has been imposed starting Thursday, January 6, from 10pm to 5am.The Sunday lockdown will begin from January 9 and non-essential activities will be completely banned. However, the state government has permitted restaurants to operate food delivery services on the lockdown days between 7am and 10pm.The decision was taken after a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister MK Stalin with  state health minister Ma Subramanian and other senior health officials.Several other restrictions including a closure of creche, play schools, coaching centres has also been imposed.There will be no classes for kindergarten. Online classes will be conducted for students from classes 1 to 9 and physical classes for students of classes 10 to 12, the government stated.Moreover, public buses, metro and local trains will run on 50 per cent of the seating capacity. Amusement parks will be closed on all days, while people will be allowed to walk on beaches with proper Covid-19 norms.The government decided to close all places of worship from Friday to Sunday to avoid crowding and all Pongal-related activities have been put off.According to reports, the state government will also conduct mega vaccination camps every Saturday.Tamil Nadu registered 2,731 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, as per the latest available data, including 121 cases of the Omicron variant. The daily infections have been on a rise for the past week and jumped by over 1,000 cases since the previous day.The state had recorded 1,728 new cases on Monday.Five districts, with the capital city of Chennai leading the chart, accounted for the majority of new infections, pushing the state tally to 27,55,587, the health department said.Nine more people died due to the viral infection, taking the death toll to 36,805, a department bulletin said. Those who tested positive today included 48 returnees from domestic and overseas locations. The sharpest increase in fresh infections was reported from Chennai with 1,489 cases, followed by Chengalpet with 290 cases, 147 in Tiruvallur, 120 in Coimbatore and 105 in Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-imposes-complete-lockdown-on-sundays-night-curfew-from-tomorrow-101641377399717.html
05-01-2022||India||Mild, asymptomatic Covid patients, including Omicron-infected, can home-isolate||NEW DELHI: All mild and asymptomatic Covid patients, including those infected with the highly transmissible Omicron variant, can now isolate at home, the Centre announced on Wednesday as it revised the isolation guidelines.The time for home isolation has been reduced to seven days from testing positive for Covid-19 with no fever for three successive days, compared to 10 days earlier.People with confirmed or suspected Omicron infection were mandatorily isolated in hospitals or placed in home isolation for 10 days until Wednesday’s announcement.“The new home isolation guidelines relate to all Covid-19 cases. Omicron as well a Delta is part of these cases... hence, these home isolation guidelines apply to all Covid-19 cases,” said the Union health ministry in a statement.As per the revised guidelines, home isolation is not recommended for immunocompromised patients such as those with HIV-positive, transplant recipients, cancer patients, etc. Elderly patients aged 60 and above, and those with comorbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung, liver and kidney disease, cerebrovascular disease, etc shall only be allowed home isolation after proper medical evaluation.The Centre also said there should be requisite facilities at homes to quarantine family contacts and ideally a caregiver should be fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The rest of the guidelines are largely the same as those released last year.The asymptomatic are lab-confirmed patients, who are not experiencing any symptoms and have oxygen saturation at room air of more than 93%. Clinically assigned mild cases are patients with upper respiratory tract symptoms with or without fever, without shortness of breath, and having oxygen saturation at room air of over 93%.Also, there is no need for re-testing after the home isolation period is over. Asymptomatic contacts of infected individuals need not undergo Covid-19 tests and can monitor health in-home quarantine.The revised guidelines have been issued after consultation with the subject experts as a number of Covid-19 cases have been rising exponentially across the country primarily driven by the heavily mutated and highly transmissible Omicron variant.“The way the cases are rising and which is expected with the new variant, institutional isolation does not make sense any longer. Experts were consulted and after detailed deliberation, it was decided that those who are mildly symptomatic, or asymptomatic, should be allowed home isolation under certain conditions,” said a public health expert with the government.
05-01-2022||India||21 MBBS students test Covid positive in Karnataka||Twenty-one students pursuing MBBS course from the Vijayanagar Medical college here have tested positive for coronavirus, authorities said on Wednesday. According to college authorities, random tests were conducted among 250 students staying at a hostel, who were exposed to the virus. "The Covid random test was done for all the students in the hostel. Among them 21 were found infected and they have been shifted to the District Hospital for treatment," Dr T Gangadhargowda, Director of VIMS, told PTI. They were first and second year MBBS students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-mbbs-students-test-covid-positive-in-karnataka-101641372739797.html
05-01-2022||India||4 of family killed in collision between car, truck in Rajasthan||Four members of a family were killed after the car in which they were travelling collided head-on with a truck in Bhilwara district of Rajasthan, police said on Wednesday.The accident occurred near Dera village on Tuesday, they said.The car, which was coming from Ajmer, had a head-on collision with a truck. Four passengers of the car were killed in the accident, said Sunil Chaudhary, Station House Officer (SHO) of Raila police station.The deceased have been identified as Pratap Gadri (61), his wife Sohani (60), their son Dalichand Gadri (28) and a relative Devilal (65). The bodies were handed over to their family members after a post-mortem examination, he said.A case has been registered against the truck driver, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-of-family-killed-in-collision-between-car-truck-in-rajasthan-101641376214982.html
05-01-2022||India||Omicron hits Meghalaya just a day after CM Conrad Sangma hails clean slate||SHILLONG: A day after Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma said he was happy with the state not yet being affected by Omicron, five people on Tuesday tested positive for the fast-spreading variant of the Covid-19 virus. The Omicron-infected persons include four women and a man, who were traced to the city of Shillong and Ri-Bhoi district. Meghalaya’s director of health services, Aman War, confirmed the development, adding that three infected persons are from different localities of Shillong, while the remaining two are from Saiden village in Ri-Bhoi district. All five Omicron-infected persons were coping well, the state’s chief medic said. Four of them were hospitalised while one person, who hails from Assam, left Shillong. “We are not taking any chances. All our [Covid-19 situation] stations are in place and fully operational. It’s a continuing process and we have not let our guard down at any point of time, which is why we are able to contain it thus far,” War said. “I urge everybody to cooperate with the government, follow prescribed protocols, and don’t avoid completing vaccination.”Meghalaya’s principal secretary of health Sampath Kumar said, “We were quick to confirm [it was Omicron] since we are one of the few states that have their own genome sequencing facilities, at the Pasteur Molecular Lab in Shillong. It helped us respond quickly.” Meghalaya also relies on MinION-Oxford Nanopore technology, also known as Next Generation Sequencing (NGS), to confirm cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-hits-meghalaya-just-a-day-after-cm-conrad-sangma-hails-clean-slate-101641376341623.html
05-01-2022||India||Channi refused to get on phone, says Nadda after PM Modi's rally cancelled over 'security lapse'||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Wednesday blasted the Congress-led Punjab government for a major security lapse ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally in Ferozepur. In a series of tweets, Nadda alleged that the Punjab government tried “all possible tricks” to scuttle the prime minister’s programme “fearing a resounding defeat” in the upcoming Assembly elections.PM Modi was scheduled to pay tributes to Bhagat Singh and other freedom fighters and lay the foundation stone for multiple development projects during his programme. Nadda said that the Congress-led government in Punjab has shown that they are “anti-development” and have “no respect for freedom fighters”. He alleged that protesters were given access to the prime minister’s route despite assurances from the Punjab chief secretary and director-general of police that the route was clear.“To make matters worse, CM Channi refused to get on the phone to either address the matter or solve it. The tactics used by the Congress government in Punjab would pain any one who believes in democratic principles,” the BJP chief tweeted.PM Modi's Ferozepur rally cancelled, home ministry blames ‘major lapse in security’After Modi’s visit was cancelled at the last moment, the ministry of home affairs said in a statement that the prime minister’s convoy was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes as the road was blocked by some protestors. Modi landed at Bathinda Wednesday morning to go to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala by helicopter. Due to rain and poor visibility, it was decided that he would visit the memorial via road, a journey of more than two hours, according to MHA.“Around 30 kms away from the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala, when the Prime Minister’s convoy reached a flyover, it was found that the road was blocked by some protestors. The Prime Minister was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes. This was a major lapse in the security of the Prime Minister,” the statement read.Nadda alleged that Punjab police was instructed to prevent people from attending the rally, adding that a large number of buses were stranded because of the “high-handedness of the police” and “connivance with protestors.”“It is sad that the PM’s visit to launch development projects worth thousands of crores for Punjab was disrupted. But we will not let such cheap mentality hinder progress of Punjab and will continue the effort for the development of Punjab,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-pm-modi-s-rally-cancelled-over-security-lapse-bjp-chief-blasts-channi-govt-101641375846463.html
05-01-2022||India||Telegram channel targeting Hindu women surfaces after 'Bulli Bai', minister says action taken||Amid the Bulli Bai row, several channels on social media platforms like Facebook and Telegram allegedly targetting Hindu women have been brought to the notice of IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Wednesday. Talking about a particular channel on Telegram, the minister said the channel has already been taken down. A verified user complained against this particular Telegram channel which was created in June 2021 and has been targeting Hindu women, sharing their photos and abusing them. "Channel blocked. Government of India coordinating with police authorities of states for action," the minister tweeted. Channel blocked. Government of India coordinating with police authorities of states for action. https://t.co/kCB6Ys8TI2Uttarakhand girl arrested in Bulli Bai app case is a class 12 pass-out. She’s 18The abusive pages come amid the ongoing Bulli Bai app case, in connection with which three people have been arrested so far, including two from Uttarakhand and one from Bengaluru. Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale said some more people could be involved in this matter. "The probe in the case is on and anyone involved in the crime directly or indirectly will be arrested and prosecuted,” he said.The Mumbai police had registered an FIR against unidentified persons following complaints that doctored photographs of hundreds of Muslim women were uploaded for ‘auction’ on the app called `Bulli Bai', hosted on the open-source software platform GitHub. While there was no actual `auction' or `sale', the purpose of the app seemed to be to humiliate and intimidate the targeted women, many of whom are active social media users. The Mumbai cyber police station has also registered a case against the app's unidentified developers and Twitter handles which promoted it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telegram-channel-targeting-hindu-women-surfaces-after-bulli-bai-minister-says-action-taken-101641372628385.html
05-01-2022||India||Odisha reports five-month high of 1,216 Covid-19 cases, daily tally doubles in a day||Odisha on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 tally in five months with 1,216 cases being registered in the last 24 hours. The latest figures pushed the active caseload to 3,981. The daily count has nearly doubled from the previous day, when it was 680.The total caseload of Odisha now stands at 10,57,876. With two more related deaths, the fatality tally touched 8,466. On August 8, the coastal state had registered 1,243 infections.Besides, 53 other coronavirus patients in the state have died due to comorbidities. As many as 121 patients were cured in the last 24 hours, taking the overall recovery to 10,45,376.Also Read | India's Omicron tally rises to 2,135 amid Covid spread, check full list hereAccording to government data, 187 of the 1,216 new patients are children. A total of 710 people have been quarantined.Khurda district, of which capital Bhubaneswar is a part, reported the maximum number of new cases at 456, followed by Sundargarh at 166, Sambalpur at 99 and Cuttack at 80.In the wake of the latest surge, chief minister Naveen Patnaik met senior officials and district collectors on Tuesday and directed them to speed up safeguards taken to combat the pandemic.Health officers were mandated to make sure government and private hospitals were prepared within the next 10 days, for a potential third wave.“Odisha is also witnessing an increase in the number of Omicron patients. Therefore, we need to take immediate measures to ensure better COVID-19 management, without causing much inconvenience to the people”, said Patnaik.Also Read | Third wave of Covid-19 has hit Delhi, 10,000 new cases expected today, says Satyendar JainThe vaccination campaign for children between the age group of 15 and 18 years has also begun in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reports-five-month-high-of-1-216-covid-19-cases-daily-tally-doubles-in-a-day-101641371684421.html
05-01-2022||India||Yogi Adityanath slams previous governments, says now all crimes are curbed in UP||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday slammed previous governments over the issue of law and order while adding that Uttar Pradesh is now known as the best state in which every form of crime is curbed."The state which was once prone to riots and used to give protection to criminals is now known as the best state in which every form of crime has been curbed," said Adityanath.The Chief Minister made the following comments after attending the convocation parade of female recruits in Lucknow Police."Before 2017, questions were used to raise on the law and order situation and safety of women in the state. We decided that 20 per cent of police recruits should be women," he said."The state which used to be 'Prashn Pradesh,'(question) today has become an 'Uttar Pradesh' (answer) for the whole country," he added."We have fast-tracked the Police Recruitment Process. After 1947, today we have passed the maximum budget of the UP Police Force. We have given police forensic institutes to the state. It has been my belief from the beginning that the stronger the police force, the more positive the state will be. Due to the good law and order situation prevailing in the state right now, investments in the state have increased," said Adityanath.Uttar Pradesh is slated to go to the Assembly polls early this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-slams-previous-governments-says-now-all-crimes-are-curbed-in-up-101641370983195.html
05-01-2022||India||Heavy snowfall affects air traffic from Srinagar, 8 flights cancelled||Air traffic between Kashmir and the rest of the country remained affected for the second consecutive day on Wednesday due to inclement weather as intermittent snowfall was reported from most parts of the valley over the past 24 hours.Srinagar Airport said on Twitter that eight flights were cancelled today."Poor visibility due to light snow prevails at our airport. Following flights have been canceled till now:- Indigo 137 to Delhi, Indigo 6738 to Jammu, Indigo 2015 to Delhi, Indigo 2364 to Delhi, GoFirst 358 to Delhi, GoFirst 193 to Delhi, GoFirst 267 to Delhi and Vistara 611 to Jammu," a tweet from Srinagar Airport said.Poor visibility due to light snow prevails at our airport.Following flights have been cancelled till now:-Indigo 137 to Delhiindigo 6738 to JammuIndigo 2015 to DelhiIndigo 2364 to DelhiAn official of the Airport Authority of India (AAI) told news agency PTI that flight operations have not been possible at Srinagar airport due to bad weather.He further said the resumption of air traffic would depend on the weather conditions.The suspension of air traffic has resulted in hundreds of tourists getting stranded in the Valley.Officials in the tourism department said that a good number of tourists had arrived in Kashmir for celebrating New Year and were planning to return home now.It has been snowing in most places of the valley intermittently over the past few days but the arterial Srinagar-Jammu national highway is open for vehicular traffic.The traffic department has advised motorists to exercise caution while travelling on the national highway in view of the snowfall.Due to the snowfall, Srinagar recorded a minimum temperature of 0.8 degree Celsius on Tuesday night, up from the previous night's 0.6 degrees Celsius.Gulmarg, the famous skiing resort in north Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 4 degrees Celsius.The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of zero degrees Celsius.The Kashmir valley is currently under the grip of the 40-day harshest winter period known as 'Chilla-i-Kalan' which began on December 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-snowfall-affects-air-traffic-from-srinagar-8-flights-cancelled-101641370571624.html
05-01-2022||India||Omicron alert: Union health ministry revises home isolation rules for Covid-19 patients. Details here||Amid a ‘third wave’ warning as India records a whopping spike in daily Covid-19 cases, the Union health ministry on Wednesday released revised guidelines for home isolation for mild and asymptomatic infections and said that such patients will “stand discharged and end isolation after at least seven days have passed from testing positive and no fever for 3 successive days”.“There is no need for re-testing after the home isolation period is over,” the guidelines stated.Although Omicron is taking over the world and India at a rapid speed, most cases so far have not resulted in hospitalisation. Even in the case of the previous, more severe variants like Delta, the majority of the infections had resulted in home isolation.“It has been seen globally as well as in India that majority of cases of Covid-19 are either asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms. Such cases usually recover with minimal interventions and accordingly may be managed at home under proper medical guidance and monitoring,” the health ministry stated.Here are the revised guidelines for home isolation:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-alert-union-health-ministry-revises-home-isolation-rules-for-covid-19-patients-details-here-101641367887727.html
05-01-2022||India||India's Omicron tally rises to 2,135 amid Covid spread, check full list here||In little over a month after India first detected cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the country is now attempting to check the transmission of the highly infectious strain. There have been as many as 2,135 people confirmed so far with the new "variant of concern," according to data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The consistent surge in Omicron cases is fueling the rise in Covid-19 caseload of the country as India reported a massive jump in new infections for the eighth consecutive day on Wednesday. A total of 58,097 fresh Covid-19 cases were logged in the country in the last 24 hours along with 534 deaths due to the virus. The active case count has risen to 214,004 and accounts for 0.61% of the total 3,50,18,358 infections confirmed in India since the pandemic first struck.The rise has triggered multiple states and Union territories (UTs) to impose restrictions, including night curfew, ban on the unvaccinated individuals in public places and shutting of educational institutions, cinemas and gyms.Delhi, which is one of the top contributors to India's Omicron tally, is currently under yellow alert and imposed weekend curfew on Tuesday. As part of the fresh curbs, no non-essential movement will be permitted on Saturday and Sunday along with an already existing night curfew between 10pm and 5am.Also Read | Delhi weekend curfew: List of those exemptedKarnataka government also announced a weekend curfew across the state for the next two weeks in wake of rising Covid-19 cases. State revenue minister R Ashoka said that the curbs will remain in effect from Friday 10pm to Monday 5am starting January 7.Maharashtra and Delhi are the worst-hit by Omicron, while Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat are some other states that fall in the list.Here's the complete tally of India's Omicron cases:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-rises-to-2-135-amid-covid-spread-check-full-list-here-101641362154706.html
05-01-2022||India||Rajnath Singh briefed by team that probed CDS Bipin Rawat’s helicopter crash||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh was on Wednesday informed of the findings of a tri-services investigation into the helicopter crash that killed Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and 13 others on December 8, people familiar with the matter said. The investigation team has completed its probe into the crash of the Russian-origin Mi-17V5 helicopter near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, the people said on condition of anonymity. There was no official word on the development. The court of inquiry into the crash was headed by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh of the Indian Air Force (IAF). A senior helicopter pilot of the Indian Navy and an army officer were part of the investigation team. Singh, who heads the IAF’s training command in Bengaluru, is considered a leading air crash investigator. Reports have suggested that the crash didn’t happen due to a technical fault in the IAF helicopter. According to the reports, the helicopter was flying at a low altitude while following a railway line when it suddenly encountered thick clouds. See photos: 2021, an unforgettable year remembered in imagesThe entire crew of the helicopter was highly qualified and some reports have suggested that the crash was due to a “controlled flight into terrain” due to lack of situational awareness. Besides the CDS, his wife Madhulika, his defence adviser Brig LS Lidder, staff officer Lt Col Harjinder Singh and Group Captain Varun Singh were among those killed in the crash. The investigation team examined all likely scenarios for the crash, including possible human error or the crew being disoriented, the people said. The team is also believed to have framed certain recommendations for revising standard operating procedures for helicopters carrying senior officers of the armed forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-briefed-by-team-that-probed-cds-bipin-rawat-s-helicopter-crash-101641369020487.html
05-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Five ministers in Bihar cabinet test Covid positive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid scare: In Bihar, two deputy CMs, three ministers found infectedAt least two deputy chief ministers and three ministers in Nitish Kumar’s cabinet in Bihar tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Read MoreRajnath Singh to be briefed on CDS chopper crash inquiry todayUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh will on Wednesday receive a briefing from the Indian Air Force (IAF) regarding reasons behind the Mi-17V5 chopper crash on December 8, in which the late Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, his wife and 12 other military personnel were travelling. Read MoreIndian Army likely to get French ‘Killing Machine’ Leclerc Main Battle TankThe Indian Army aims to acquire around 1,700 main battle tanks under the Future Combat Eady Vehicle (FCRV) programme. The objective of India's FCRV programme is to replace the Soviet-era T-72 tanks. Watch NowAdd sarson ka saag to your winter diet for these amazing benefitsSarson ka saag, the rich and creamy winter delight that everyone waits for especially in North India is enjoyed with makki ki roti and a dollop of butter along with accompaniments like onion, pickle, whole chilli and jaggery. Read More'15 years ago, we had the same problems': Ex-SA captain, India WK debate Pant's controversial catch of Van Der DussenThe dismissal of Rassie van der Dussen had been a point of contention during Day 2 of the second Test between South Africa and India in Johannesburg. Read MoreSony electric vehicle raring for commercial launch, may be an SUV: Details hereSony Group Corp is reportedly planning to dive into the world of electric mobility with what well could be its first car for commercial launch ever. Read More&amp;nbsp;Amitabh Bachchan reveals he is ‘dealing with some domestic Covid situations’ as staff member tests positiveAmitabh Bachchan has talked about “dealing with some domestic Covid situations” in his latest blog. The actor had tested positive for the virus last year and was in the hospital for a few weeks. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-five-ministers-in-bihar-cabinet-test-covid-positive-and-all-the-latest-news-101641365571036.html
05-01-2022||India||Maharashtra Police take custody of Kalicharan Maharaj||The Maharashtra Police on Wednesday took the custody of Hindu seer Kalicharan Maharaj from the Chhattisgarh Police. Kalicharan Mahraj was arrested from a town near Khajuraho in Madhya Pradesh last month in connection with his alleged derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi.A court in Raipur granted transit remand of the seer to Maharashtra Police. He will be produced before a court in Pune on Thursday.Kalicharan Maharaj was apprehended from a rented room near Bageshwar Dam, about 25 km from Khajuraho town in Madhya Pradesh. The other accused in the case include Mohanrao Shete, Dipak Nagpure and Capt. Digendra Kumar.Also Read | Kalicharan Maharaj arrested for derogatory remarks against Mahatma GandhiThe seer had moved a court in Raipur seeking bail but it was rejected on Monday.On December 31, he was sent to judicial custody till January 13 by Raipur court.The seer allegedly used abusive words against the Father of the Nation during a Dharma Sansad (religiour parliament) and asked people to elect a staunch Hindu leader as the head of the government in order to protect the religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-police-take-custody-of-kalicharan-maharaj-101641363784767.html
05-01-2022||India||Covid scare: In Bihar, two deputy CMs, three ministers found infected||At least two deputy chief ministers and three ministers in Nitish Kumar’s cabinet in Bihar tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Deputy chief ministers Renu Devi and Tarkishore Prasad, ministers Ashok Choudhary and Vijay Choudhary and state minister Sunil Kumar were reportedly found infected with coronavirus that has been spreading its tentacles fast across the state and other parts of the country.Bihar's single day infections tally shot up two-and-a-half times to 893 on Tuesday, forcing the government to order a 14-day night curfew and other restrictions that will come into effect from Thursday. So far, there has been only one confirmed Omicron case in the state.Also read | India's daily Covid tally rises by 58,097 cases, Omicron count touches 2,135Also, parks, gyms, swimming pools and malls will remain shut in the state during the period.Besides, Kumar decided to cancel his ongoing Samaj Sudhar Yatra (social reforms campaign) - it started on December 22 and was scheduled to conclude on January 15 - and the weekly Janata Darbar.Over 150 doctors have also tested positive for the viral disease in the state in the last two hours. Seventy two more doctors of the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna were found infected on Tuesdayhave tested positive for COVID according to the Medical Superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-scare-in-bihar-2-deputy-cms-three-ministers-found-infected-101641363537945.html
05-01-2022||India||Third wave of Covid-19 has hit Delhi, 10,000 new cases expected today, says Satyendar Jain||Delhi is likely to report as many as 10,000 Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, said city health minister Satyendar Jain, adding that the national capital’s daily positivity rate will inch closer to 10 per cent. “The third wave of Covid-19 has set in,” he said.The development comes on a day when India reported 58,097 cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry bulletin showed this morning. The number of cases have doubled in just a span of four days.Speaking on genome sequencing of Covid-19 samples, Jain said that it was not possible to conduct genome sequencing of all samples now. “Only 300-400 samples are being sequenced,” he said.Meanwhile, Covid-19 testing has been increased and around 90,000 tests were conducted on Tuesday, the Delhi health minister noted.Jain said that the Delhi government has instructed private hospitals to increase the number of reserved beds for Covid-19 patients to 40 per cent from the earlier 10 per cent capacity. Nearly 2 per cent of beds are occupied in the government hospitals, he said.Earlier on Tuesday, the Delhi health minister confirmed that there would be no lockdown in the national capital; however, a weekend curfew has been imposed due to the surge in cases. A meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) was held on Tuesday after which a decision to impose the weekend curfew was taken.According to the latest available data, Delhi reported 5,481 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday as the Omicron outbreak grips the capital city. A total of three patients succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 25,113. The case positivity rate of the city touched 8.37%, the highest since May 17 last year when it stood at 8.42%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-may-report-10-000-covid-19-cases-today-satyendar-jain-101641363303095.html
05-01-2022||India||Mamata Banerjee birthday: Leaders wish Bengal CM ‘health and long life’||It's West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee's 67th birthday today (January 5). Many leaders and celebrities have wished the politician on the occasion."A very happy birthday @MamataOfficial didi. May God bless u wid all happiness, success, health and long life," Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Twitter.A very happy birthday @MamataOfficial didi. May God bless u wid all happiness, success, health and long life.Actor Riteish Deshmukh tweeted, "Wishing @MamataOfficial Didi, a very happy birthday- may god bless you with great health and long life. May you forever work for the betterment of the people."Banerjee was born on January 5, 1955 in Kolkata. She started her political journey in mid-70s at the age of 15. She quickly rose the ranks and became the general secretary of Mahila Congress and later All India Youth Congress.In 1984, Banerjee was elected as a Member of Parliament in the 8th Lok Sabha becoming one of India's youngest parliamentarians. She founded the Trinamool Congress in 1997 after a disagreement with the Congress party.Mamata Banerjee worked with three Prime Ministers including PV Narasimha Rao, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Dr Manmohan Singh. She had been a Union minister in both National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and United Progressive Alliance (UPA) governments and held portfolios like Human Resource Development, Youth Affairs and Sports, Women and Child Development, Coal and Mines and the Railways.She did her graduation in Law and Master of Arts from Calcutta University.Banerjee became the chief minister of West Bengal for the first time in 2011, ending the 34-year-long rule of the Left Front, one of the longest-serving governments in the world.The TMC chief endorses her governance as the rule of three M's - 'Ma', 'Mati' and 'Manush' (mother, soil and people). It later became the signature slogan of Banerjee and her party.Nandigram, Singur and the slogan were used by the TMC as weapons against the Left Front and made the party victorious in the electoral battle.The West Bengal chief minister is also a self-taught painter, poet and writer. She has authored more than 100 books.In last year's assembly elections, her party emerged victorious, defeating the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-birthday-leaders-wish-bengal-cm-health-and-long-life-101641361868012.html
05-01-2022||India||Bulli Bai app case: 3rd accused arrested from Uttarakhand||The Mumbai Police late on Tuesday arrested a third accused from Uttarakhand in connection with the web pages that put hundreds of Muslim women on “auction” and provoked outrage, people aware of the matter said on Wednesday.Shweta Singh, 18, a resident of Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district, and engineering student Vishal Kumar Jha, 21, were earlier arrested on Tuesday. Investigators said the two met on social media due to their common interest in Hindutva ideology and allegedly put up the web pages.The third accused has been identified as Mayank Rawat, 21. A three-member Mumbai Cyber Police team arrested him from Kotdwar in Pauri Garhwal district. Rawat’s father is in the army and posted in Jammu, a police officer in Pauri Garhwal said on condition of anonymity. He added Rawat was pursuing his BSc in chemistry (honours) from Delhi University’s Zakir Hussain College. “He was home in Kotdwar because of offline classes.”Senior police superintendent (Pauri Garhwal) Yashwant Singh said the Mumbai Police traced Rawat by tracking his mobile which he allegedly used to share the links of the webpages. “Before arresting him, they asked us for assistance as per interstate protocol which we provided. The Mumbai Police team would present him (Rawat) before a court today (Wednesday) for a transit remand before taking him to Mumbai for further probe,” he said.Mumbai Police are probing two web pages hosted on the code-sharing platform, GitHub. The first web page was floated in July 2021 and the second, Bulli Bai, surfaced on January 1. The web pages were named after derogatory references to the Muslim community. Hundreds of Muslim women, including vocal activists and top professionals, were listed for “auction” along with their photographs sourced without permission and doctored. Activists have pointed out that despite complaints, no action was taken in the July case. They added the pages were meant to demean Muslim women.Also Read | Act against developers of Bulli Bai app, Maharashtra minister tells policeJha was arrested first in Bengaluru for allegedly running one of the Twitter handles used to upload links to the websites. Singh, the second accused to be arrested, was deeply involved in Hindutva ideology and often posted such content on social media, said a police officer with knowledge of the matter.Rawat also allegedly promoted Bulli Bai on Twitter. He stopped it after the content provoked outrage. The two arrested accused from Uttarakhand were expected to be flown to Mumbai together by Wednesday night, said a police officer. Singh was produced before a local court in Udham Singh Nagar, which granted her transit remand on Tuesday.A Mumbai court has remanded Jha in police custody even as his lawyer insisted his client was “falsely implicated”.Investigators said the three like-minded accused appeared to have come in contact online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulli-bai-case-3rd-accused-arrested-from-uttarakhand-101641361219182.html
05-01-2022||India||India's daily Covid tally rises by 58,097 cases, Omicron count touches 2,135; Maharashtra and Delhi remain most hit||India's cumulative Covid-19 tally saw yet another massive surge after as many as 58,097 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the morning bulletin shared by the Union health ministry. The latest figures are a massive 20,718 more from yesterday when 37,379 new infections were recorded in the country. The overall Covid-19 tally of India has now climbed to 3,50,18,358, the health ministry data showed.Also Read | Omicron variant watch: Fast, even if not as furious, needs disciplined responseThe single-day death count also saw a huge jump after 534 patients succumbed to the virus on Wednesday as opposed to 124 on the preceding day. With this, India's Covid-19 death toll has gone up to 482,551.Further, active case count in the country has surpassed the 2 lakh-mark, accounting for 0.61% of the overall tally. India's daily case positivity has touched 4.18%.Also Read | Flights from Mumbai, Delhi can reach Bengal thrice a week from today as Covid-19 curbs beginFresh recoveries maintain the hope amid the grim scenario as 15,389 people recuperated from the virus, up from 11,007 on Tuesday. The total number of individuals who have successfully battled the virus has now reached 3,43,21,803.Meanwhile, the Omicron count of the country exceeded the 2,000-mark after multiple states, including Maharashtra, confirmed fresh cases in the previous 24 hours. According to the Union health ministry, a total of 2,135 Omicron cases have so far been detected in the country, of which, as many as 828 have recovered.Also Read | Night curfews in Punjab, Bihar; more curbs as Covid-19 infections riseMaharashtra and Delhi remain the leaders in the chart with 653 and 464 Omicron cases, respectively. Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu - all of which feature in the top 10 most-affected states by Omicron, have confirmed more than 100 cases till now.As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), India's total number of Covid-19 tests' coverage has reached 68,24,28,595, with 11,54,302 conducted in the past 24 hours.As far as vaccination coverage is concerned, as many as 96,43,238 eligible beneficiaries, including individuals aged 15-18, were inoculated with doses in the last 24 hours. Over 40 lakh teenagers got jabbed with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine across the country on the second day after the drive was launched on Monday. Notably, India has so far vaccinated more than 147 crore of its citizens, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-spike-in-india-s-daily-covid-tally-with-58-097-new-cases-over-500-deaths-101641355520062.html
05-01-2022||India||Bulli Bai app: IWPC condemns harassment of Muslim women||The Indian Women’s Press Corps (IWPC) has condemned the harassment and degradation of Muslim women through the “Bulli Bai” app, used to put them on “auction” with photographs sourced without permission. The IWPC thanked Mumbai police for prompt action and arresting those allegedly involved in developing the controversial app.“What we understand by Bulli Bai App is that it is a well-planned conspiracy to persecute minority and promote gender-based violence against Muslim women. India Women’s Press Corps strongly condemns this act of degradation and indecent conspiracy against women,” IWPC said in a statement and expressed solidarity with the victims of the app.It paid tribute to the courageous women who did not stop fighting despite the conspiracy of hatred against them. “... we will not allow our voices to be suppressed against violence or injustice against women.”The Mumbai Police on Tuesday arrested an 18-year-old woman and a 21-year-old engineering student, who allegedly met on social media due to their common interest in Hindutva ideology and later allegedly collaborated to put up webpages where hundreds of Muslim women were “auctioned”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulli-bai-app-iwpc-condemns-harassment-of-muslim-women-101641359058286.html
05-01-2022||India||Rajnath Singh to be briefed on CDS chopper crash inquiry today||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will on Wednesday receive a briefing from the Indian Air Force (IAF) regarding reasons behind the Mi-17V5 chopper crash on December 8, in which the late Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, his wife and 12 other military personnel were travelling.The tri-services inquiry team headed by an Indian Air Force officer will make a detailed presentation to Rajnath Singh, reported news agency ANI.The team probing the chopper crash comprised a senior Indian Navy chopper pilot and an Army officer, the report quoted people familiar with the matter as saying.ANI further reported that the tri-services inquiry team has also made some recommendations for revising the standard operating procedures while operating choppers carrying senior officials of the defence forces.Also read | Review of VVIP flying protocols after probe report on CDS chopper crashAmong the many recommendations, it has been suggested that the crew should be a mix of master green and other category pilots. The 'Master green' category is given to the best of pilots in the transport aircraft and helicopter fleets of the three forces as they are the ones who can land or take off in low visibility as well.General Rawat and the 13 others were killed in a Mi-17V5 crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. A PTI report quoting sources said that the crash was not a result of any technical error in the Mi-17V5 helicopter of the IAF. However, there is no official confirmation on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-be-briefed-on-cds-chopper-crash-inquiry-today-101641355808261.html
05-01-2022||India||HC likely to hear PIL on Ganga Sagar Mela today||The Calcutta high court is likely to hear a plea seeking cancellation of the Ganga Sagar Mela as the government is gearing up to organise the event in mid-January.Abhinandan Mondol, a doctor, filed the plea on Monday amid a rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. His lawyer told the media the matter may come up for hearing before a division bench.On Tuesday, West Bengal reported 9,073 Covid-19 cases and 6,078 on Monday. In Kolkata, 4,759 cases were reported on Tuesday, the highest in the state.Millions of pilgrims from across India are expected to take the holy dip at the confluence of the Ganga and Bay of Bengal during the Mela.The organisers of the 27th Kolkata International Film Festival have separately decided to go ahead with the event. The festival will be inaugurated by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on January 7.The West Bengal State Election Commission too has decided to hold elections to four municipalities in the state on January 22 as per schedule. It has issued guidelines for political campaigns and the polling day to check the Covid-19 spread.The state government has put a cap on social, cultural, and religious gatherings, allowing only 50 people at a time. The commission has allowed 500 people to attend political meetings in open and 200 in closed areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-likely-to-hear-pil-on-ganga-sagar-mela-today-101641353958245.html
05-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to visit Punjab's Ferozepur today for key projects and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to visit Punjab's Ferozepur today, launch new medical infrastructure in three townsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore, in Punjab's Ferozepur, on Wednesday. Read moreEWS quota in medical seats: Supreme Court to hear NEET-PG case todayPetitions challenging reservations in the national quota of seats in postgraduate medical courses will be heard in the Supreme Court on Wednesday after the central government persuaded it to urgently list the matter. Read moreNight curfews in Punjab, Bihar; more curbs as Covid-19 infections riseAmid rising Covid-19 cases, the governments of Punjab and Bihar introduced night curfews and more restrictions. Read moreSonu Nigam says 'it's a happy Covid family' as he tests positive with wife, son in DubaiSinger Sonu Nigam, who is currently in Dubai with his family, has announced that he has tested positive for Covid-19, along with his wife, son and sister-in-law. Read more‘Not many teams can beat New Zealand in their backyard’: Cricket fraternity lauds Bangladesh on historic Test winEbadot Hossain took a career-best 6-46 as Bangladesh beat World Test Champions New Zealand by eight wickets in the first Test of the two-game series on Wednesday, capturing their first-ever win in New Zealand. Read moreSanya Malhotra is weightlifting through the week like this...Sanya Malhotra is back to the gym. The actor who spent Christmas and New Year in style, is back to doing what she really loves doing – her fitness routine. See here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-visit-punjab-s-ferozepur-today-for-key-projects-and-all-the-latest-news-101641352328564.html
05-01-2022||India||Union minister Shantanu Thakur quits Bengal BJP WhatsApp groups||Union minister Shantanu Thakur has quit the WhatsApp groups of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s West Bengal unit, saying he had become redundant and therefore left them. “I will not say anything now. I will act when time is right,” Thakur told reporters on Tuesday. Earlier in December, at least nine legislators quit the party’s WhatsApp group for lawmakers after the state unit was reshuffled and new district presidents were appointed. Thakur is associated with the All India Matua Mahasangha, an influential Matua community body. The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP have been focussing on the Namasudra vote bank, which includes the Matuas. Thakur has spoken out multiple times over the delay in the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which seeks to fast-track citizenship process for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan. In 2021, he was inducted into Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s council of ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-shantanu-thakur-quits-bengal-bjp-whatsapp-groups-101641352697942.html
05-01-2022||India||'Big success': 3 Jaish terrorists, including Pak national, killed in Pulwama encounter||Three terrorists have been killed in an encounter with the security forces in Chandgam area of Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir. The police tweeted earlier on Wednesday about the start of the gunbattle which is still continuing.These terrorists belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and one of them if a Pakistani national, said Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar.“Incriminating materials and arms and ammunition, including 2 M-4 carbine and 1 AK-series rifle, have been recovered from them. This is a big success for us,” Kumar added.Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Chandgam village which turned into an encounter, a police official said.With this, eight terrorists have been eliminated in the Kashmir valley in the first five days of this year. While seven of them were killed in three encounters, the sixth was gunned down when the security forces stopped an infiltration attempt from across the border. These include Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander from Hajin, Saleem Parray, who was killed along with a foreign militant in Shalimar Garden area of Srinagar on Monday.On Tuesday, two terrorists were killed in an encounter in Kulgam district. As per an official statement from the police, based on a specific input generated by police regarding presence of terrorists in village Okey area of Kulgam, a joint cordon and search operation was launched by police, 9RR and 18Bn CRPF in the said area.Police said that during the search operation, as the joint search party proceeded towards the suspected spot, the hiding terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which was retaliated effectively leading to an encounter.Two terrorists were killed in the gun fight. The police recovered incriminating materials, and arms and ammunition, including one AK-47, and a pistol from the two terrorists.Another terrorist was killed in Jumagund area of Kupwara on January 1 while attempting to infiltrate from across the Line of Control (LoC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-security-forces-eliminate-1-terrorist-in-pulwama-encounter-6-killed-in-5-days-101641351088519.html
05-01-2022||India||7 injured, boats set on fire as fishermen clash over use of 'ring net' in Visakhapatnam||Seven people were injured and at least six boats set on fire during clashes between two groups of fishermen in Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday. The clashes broke out over the use of 'ring net' in the restricted area of the Bay of Bengal.Police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha told news agency ANI that prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC have been imposed in Vasavanipalem and Jalaripeta areas, where violence took place.According to the police, the fishermen attacked each other in their mechanised boats and started chasing each other in the waters. Many of them also fell off the boats.A large group of policemen rushed to the spot to pacify the fishermen and prevent further incidents. Police pickets have also been set up to prevent further clashes between the two groups.Earlier too, such clashes have taken place between fisherfolk who use traditional nets and those who use ring nets. While ring net fishing is banned within eight kilometres of the coast, the practice continues unabated.A ring net is a long net that is used to surround fish with a 'wall' of netting. It is similar to purse seine but without any running purse line. It is usually used on a smaller scale, to capture shoal fish.The fishermen are opposed to the use of these nets because it captures everything that it encloses. They say that the ring net used by trawlers leaves local fishemen with no catch.The ban on using the ring nets was announced by the Andhra Pradesh government in December, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-injured-as-fishermen-clash-over-use-of-ring-net-in-visakhapatnam-101641347072380.html
05-01-2022||India||Night curfews in Punjab, Bihar; more curbs as Covid-19 infections rise||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, the governments of Punjab and Bihar introduced night curfews and more restrictions.The night curfew in Punjab will be in effect from 10pm to 5am each day till January 15, according to a government statement.A similar statement was issued by the Bihar government imposing a night curfew from 10pm till 5 am till January 21.The ongoing Samaj Sudhar Yatra of chief minister Nitish Kumar and weekly Janata Darbar have also been cancelled. On Monday, 11 people tested positive at the CM’s Janata Darbar.The Punjab government has also issued orders for all bars, cinemas halls, malls, restaurants, spas, AC buses to operate at 50% capacity.Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said: “Bars, cinemas halls, malls, restaurants, spas, AC buses will operate at 50 percent capacity subject to staff being fully vaccinated. Swimming pools and gyms remain closed. Only fully vaccinated staff will be able to attend government and private offices.”The Bihar government, which had already announced closure of schools up to classes 8, has decided to continue classes for students of classes 9-12 with 50% attendance. The government has also ordered the closure of coaching institutes but they can be operated conduct classes online.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfews-in-punjab-bihar-more-curbs-as-covid-19-infections-rise-101641343602218.html
05-01-2022||India||Flights from Mumbai, Delhi can reach Bengal thrice a week from today as Covid-19 curbs begin||The recently announced restrictions by the West Bengal government limiting the number of domestic flights from Delhi and Mumbai will come into force from Wednesday (January 5) onwards. Flights from the two metros will be permitted to land in the eastern state thrice a week - Monday, Wednesday and Friday - and the state government said the situation will soon be reviewed again depending on the Covid-19 situation.On Sunday, the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government announced multiple restrictions in the state owing to the massive spike in single-day Covid-19 cases. These included limiting incoming flights from Delhi and Mumbai, which have been majorly affected by the outbreak of the new Omicron variant.Initially, flights from the two cities were allowed to operate twice a week in West Bengal, but the decision was reviewed and in a fresh letter, the state government on Tuesday informed that the same has been changed to thrice a week.Issued by West Bengal's additional chief secretary BP Gopalika, the letter said that the state government is “extremely sensitive towards the inconvenience" that passengers may face but the “restrictions are absolutely essential for containment of Covid cases in the state”. The letter was addressed to the secretary of the Civil Aviation ministry, Rajiv Bansal.The restrictions on flights from Delhi and Mumbai come after the West Bengal government last week announced a ban on all international flights coming to Kolkata from the United Kingdom. The suspension order, which came into effect on January 3, will remain in place until further orders.On the decision, Banerjee said that a majority of the Omicron cases are being detected in individuals coming on flights from the UK. “It's a fact that the Omicron carriers are coming via international flights,” she added.As per the new directive by the West Bengal government, all international passengers need to undergo Covid-19 tests upon arrival at the Kolkata airport. The airlines have been asked to “randomly" select 10% of the passengers for RT-PCR test while the remaining 90% will have to undergo Rapid Antigen Test.West Bengal, especially Kolkata, has witnessed a 14-fold surge in Covid-19 cases in the last few days. On Tuesday, as many as 9,073 infections were logged, of which Kolkata accounted for 4,759. This was a jump of 2,995 cases in only a day after the state reported 6,078 infections on Monday.Meanwhile, Delhi and Mumbai recorded over 5,000 and 10,000 Covid-19 cases, respectively, on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flights-from-mumbai-delhi-can-reach-bengal-thrice-a-week-from-today-101641340703374.html
05-01-2022||India||‘Rise in foeticide, unwed mothers: Odisha child rights panel opposes marriage age law||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (OSCPCR) has opposed the proposed law to raise the marriage age for women to 21, saying it will create a new set of problems such as an increase in instances of foeticide and unwed mothers. The commission chairperson also said it will leave people rescued from child marriages in the 19-21 age group in the lurch as existing laws only support vulnerable children up to the age of 18 years.“Acts like Juvenile Justice Care and Protection Act and schemes like Integrated Child Protection Scheme have scope to extend support to vulnerable children only up to the age of 18. In such circumstances, there will be no space to provide support to a child bride or groom between the age of 19 to 21 if rescued from child marriage,” Sandhyabati Pradhan, who leads Odisha’s child rights panel, said in a letter to Vinay P. Sahasrabuddhe, chairperson of the parliamentary standing committee on education, women, children, youth and sports that is examining the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021.Pradhan also underlined that laws such as the child sex abuse law, Pocso only bars consensual sex up to the age of 18. “This implies that someone may have sexual act after 18 but won’t be able marry till 21 which will create new sets of issues like increasing unwed mothers and foeticide thereafter,” she said in her letter.Pradhan underlined that change of legislation in isolation will never be able to stop child marriages unless there is socio-behavioural change among parents and community.“The National Crime Record Bureau data says that only 785 cases have been registered under Prohibition of Child Marriage in 2020 which is 523 in 2019 and 501 in 2018. On the other hand, 23.3% girls are marrying before the legal age as captured by NFHS-5 (National Family and Health Survey),” she said.Pradhan said factors such as distress and poverty, patriarchal norms and practices, lack of opportunity for schooling, employment and the like are still contributing to the prevalence of child marriage to a large extent. “There is also a need to strengthen families by providing appropriate livelihood opportunity,” she said.OSCPCR, a statutory body, is a key stakeholder of the state government is spearheading the campaign to end child marriage in the state by 2030. A high power committee at the state has been formed to facilitate the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-in-foeticide-unwed-mothers-odisha-child-rights-panel-opposes-marriage-age-law-101641325804966.html
05-01-2022||India||5,644 drug peddlers held in city in 2021, say Bengaluru police||On August 17, 2021, the central crime branch of the Bengaluru police had raided a drug manufacturing unit in Bengaluru and seized 4kg MDMA, a psychoactive drug.For police who are used to seeing drugs coming in from outside state and country to Bengaluru, witnessing a manufacturing unit in city was new.According to police, the raid was a part of the renewed effort from the police department to crackdown on drug peddlers in city for the past two years. The data released by the city crime records bureau shows that the efforts have shown results.In 2021, the Bengaluru police have arrested 5,644 drug peddlers in 4,275 cases and seized drugs worth around ₹59 crore. This has been the highest narcotics-related arrests and recovery in the city police’s history so far. In comparison, 2,766 cases were registered with 3,673 suspects being arrested in 2020. The figure was of 768 cases and 1,260 arrests in 2019.According to data, of the 4,475 cases registered in 2021, 4,275 cases were related to seizure of marijuana, followed by 103 cases of MDMA, 39 cases of synthetic drugs and other narcotic substances ecstasy, hashish and LSD.Total 3,641.756kg drugs worth ₹592,775,690 were seized in 2021 against 3,912.826kg drugs worth ₹213,856,550 in 2020, and 1053.188kg drugs worth ₹34,686,700 in 2019.In 2021, 173 foreign nationals were arrested and 137 cases were booked against them of which, 105 accused were Nigerian. In 2019, 38 foreign nationals were arrested and 33 cases were booked; and in 2020, 84 foreigners were arrested with 66 cases being registered against them.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), in 2020, Bengaluru had reported the highest number of cases related to narcotics in country. “These numbers are the result of a campaign started by the Bengaluru police early in 2020. We have been cracking down on drug suppliers in city. We are confident that the numbers will be much higher in the coming days as we have increased the intensity of operations,” said Karnataka police chief, DG&IGP Kamal Pant.Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said in the last two years, there was an emphasis on cracking down on drug rackets in the city. “All DCPs were asked to give special focus on drug cases. We were constantly in touch with other departments and central agencies to track inter-state peddlers,” said Pant.According to a CCB official, in the last two years, police have been focusing on drug purchases through the dark web as well. “We have found that many criminals have procured synthetic drugs from abroad, especially the Scandinavian countries. First, we cannot track who is purchasing what from the dark web. Second, it is hard to track them when they arrive in country. To give an example, in a case of LSD, also known as acid, it is a sheet of paper. When the order arrives at an airport in India, it is difficult to find it among other larger consignments. But we have been improvising to tackle such cases,” the officer added.On November 18, while interrogating eight men who were arrested for possessing hydro-marijuana, police learnt that a man had helped the gang procure the drug from Amsterdam.The arrest of hacker Srikrishna, who procured these drugs via the dark web, had opened the Pandora’s box and resulted in political controversy.
05-01-2022||India||State has entered third wave of Covid 19: Karnataka health minister||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday said the third Covid-19 wave has set in the state, and Bengaluru will be an epicentre this time. Sudhakar said the Covid-19 infections went up to 1.6% from a mere 0.4% in the state, of which 90% cases were reported in Bengaluru. “What’s the present scenario? Isn’t it the third wave? For six months, Karnataka did not have 0.1% cases. If it has gone up to 1.6% on a single day, this is the beginning of the third wave,” Sudhakar said. Karnataka logged 2,479 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, of which 2,053 are from Bengaluru. While the positivity rate increased to 2.59%, the state also witnessed four deaths. The state had on Monday recorded 1,290 infections, out of which 1,040 were reported in Bengaluru. Over the last week, Karnataka, particularly Bengaluru, has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases with daily cases crossing over the 1,000 marks in the state and in the city. The state has reported 149 new cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus. As of now, the state’s Omicron tally is 226, said the health minister.The minister said since Bengaluru has an international airport and many people arrive in the city, which is why there’s a need to implement special measures. “Bengaluru will become an epicentre. It was an epicentre in the first wave and second wave. It will be the epicentre during the third wave as well,” Sudhakar told reporters. “If you look at the national figure, maximum cases are coming in the metropolitan cities. Almost 90% are in those cities. Hence, we are concentrating on Bengaluru with a focus on the formation of micro-containment zones and screening at the airport,” the minister added. He further added, there are 43 lakh children in the state within the age group of 15 to 18 and the state government wants to vaccinate them all in 10 to 15 days. “Yesterday (Monday), we vaccinated 4,22,252 children, though our target was 6.38 lakh. We could achieve 66% on the first day. We were in fourth place in the country in vaccinating teenagers. We want to increase the number of vaccinations,” he said. 
05-01-2022||India||Will continue padyatra even if lockdown is imposed: Karnataka Congress||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar Tuesday said even if the government imposes a lockdown, the Opposition party will take out the padayatra (political march) demanding implementation of Mekedatu project. The 10-day padayatra, scheduled to start from Mekedatu on January 9 morning, will culminate with a public meeting at Basavanagudi grounds. “We have information that BJP is attempting to stall the march citing Covid. The government may forcefully impose a lockdown too to stop us. But we would rather go to jail than drop the march,” Shivakumar told media. “I have been charged with violations of Covid-19 guidelines and have been served summons. Chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai who violating restrictions and attended a wedding ceremony. What action has been initiated against him?” he asked. He said the party will adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour during the rally. “The party has ordered one lakh masks. We have also been procuring sanitisers and a process is in place to sanitise all choultries and mutts along the route where we will be staying. Also, 100 doctors from the KPCC doctors’ cell and 10 mobile health check-up units will be deployed as well,” he said. Despite the promises, Shivakumar’s Twitter handle on Tuesday released photos, where he could be seen standing with a large group of followers, without masks or mandatory social distancing. On Monday, the Congress party took out a mammoth rally in Mysuru as a prelude to the padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru to build pressure on the BJP government in the State to start work on the project. Covid norms were followed during the rally as photographs of the gathering around Shivakumar and Siddarmaiah were released by the party after the event. Speaking to reporters, Karnataka health minister Sudhakar said the Congress will have to take responsibility if the infections in the state increase because of the padayatra. “It is good that they are doing it for implementation of the Mekedatu project which would provide drinking water to the city. The project was conveniently forgotten when they were in power for six years. They will have to take responsibility if the march causes the spread of infection,” he warned. Responding to the health minister, Opposition leader Siddarmaiah said it was the government’s responsibility to contain the pandemic spread and they have failed at it. “Why would the cases in state increase if the government had taken strict measures? Since they have failed to do so, the cases are increasing. We will follow all precautions during the march. We are not doing this for politics but for people,” he said. Siddaramaiah said the BJP questioning the Congress is just showing double standards. “When Prime Minister Narendra Modi was holding rallies in Uttar Pradesh, they didn’t have any concerns? Does Modi have a law of his own? Does Amit Shah have a different set of laws? Go tell them first,” said Siddaramaiah. Meanwhile, Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra in Chikkamagaluru said Congress should postpone the march considering the prevailing situation. “The opposition party has the freedom to organise such events but not when people’s lives are at stake,” he said. Karnataka cooperation minister ST Somashekar said, “In the interest of the people, the march should be deferred.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-padyatra-even-if-lockdown-is-imposed-karnataka-congress-101641324726655.html
05-01-2022||India||Schools shut, Karnataka govt imposes weekend curfew from January 6 as Covid cases surge||Owing to the increase in the number of infections,the Karnataka government on Tuesday announced to shut down schools, except Classes 10-12, in Bengaluru city. A weekend curfew has been announced in the city for two weeks starting from January 6 and the night curfew which is already in effect has also been extended by two weeks. “In Bengaluru urban district, all schools and colleges except, medical and para medical will remain closed with effect from Thursday except Class 10, 11 and 12,” read an order issued by the Karnataka government. These decisions were announced by the Karnataka revenue minister R Ashok, following a meeting called by chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday evening. The meeting called by the chief minister was attended by senior cabinet ministers, members of the technical advisory committee and other senior officials. Addressing the media, Ashok said that the daily increase in the cases crossing the 10,000-mark in the state is inevitable and since most of the cases are reported in Bengaluru, special guidelines have been planned for the city. “Pubs, clubs, restaurants, bars, hotels and other eating places will function with 50% of the seating capacity while strictly adhering to Covid protocols. Also, entry to such places will be restricted to fully vaccinated persons,” read the guideline issued by the government. “Cinema halls, multiplexes, theatres, rangamandiras, auditorium and similar places to also operate with 50% of the seating capacity in keeping with the Covid appropriate behaviour. Admission to these places will also be restricted to fully vaccinated persons,” the guideline added. Ashok further added that the RT-PCR test will be mandatory for all the passengers coming from Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra. “For international passengers, the guidelines issued by the central government will be applicable,” he said. The minister added that the number of people at a wedding will be restricted to 100 for indoor functions and 200 for outdoor functions. He also said that all forms of political functions, marches and protests will not be allowed. When asked if these restrictions will be applicable to the Congress, which is planning a padayatra, the minister said that restrictions will be applicable to everyone. “We are not making these restrictions keeping any particular party in mind, these restrictions are in place to keep people of Karnataka safe,” he said. These restrictions will be in effect from Wednesday morning, said the minister. Check points to be set upEarlier in the day, CM Bommai said checkpoints will be set up in places where there are village-to-village contacts between Karnataka and neighbouring states. He also said the police station under the jurisdiction will be responsible for such checkpoints. “Our experiences since the first and second wave have been that the infections in Karnataka rise whenever Covid-19 cases spiral in our neighbouring states, with whom we have daily business activities. We have to focus on that area,” Bommai told the reporters. When asked about the laxity in the border regions, the CM said the border is vast and inspection is happening at the main checkpoints only. However, there are contacts with neighbouring states at the village-level. “I’m going to issue a direction to hold the police stations responsible for places where there is village-to-village contact. We will also set up check posts in such villages and deploy people,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-shut-karnataka-govt-imposes-weekend-curfew-from-january-6-as-covid-cases-surge-101641324433728.html
05-01-2022||India||Kerala says no to night curfew, curbs to stay||Kerala on Tuesday decided not to re-impose night curfew but announced some restrictions in keeping with the Covid protocol. The state is at the third spot with 181 Omicron cases after Maharashtra and Delhi. The decision was taken at the core committee meeting on pandemic, chaired by chief minister (CM) Pinarayi Vijayan. During the meeting, some experts contended that there was no point in continuing with the night curfew as movement of people during night hours is limited in the state. Night curfew was in force for four days from December 30 to January 2 to avoid big gathering during New Year celebrations. As per the latest restrictions, the maximum number of people attending closed-door functions will be 75 and outdoor 150. Earlier, it was 150 and 200 respectively, said a statement from chief minister office (CMO). The government will also screen the visitors from abroad and quarantine them for two weeks. The CMO said around 15 lakh students have enrolled for the vaccine and their schedule will be completed at the earliest. The state detected the first case of the new variant on December 7. Experts said Omicron cases are likely to peak in the state in two months. The government said it has taken enough precautions to meet the exigency. At least 98.6% of eligible population in the state has received the first dose of vaccine and 80% both. Experts said good vaccination rate will help contain the Omicron threat but they warned it is too early to lower guard. Meanwhile, the state reported 3,640 Covid-19 cases after 71,120 samples were tested. It also reported 30 deaths taking the toll to 48,637.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-says-no-to-night-curfew-curbs-to-stay-101641323526384.html
05-01-2022||India||Holkars’ property case: SC fines petitioner for allegations against high court||“Enough is enough,” the Supreme Court remarked on Tuesday, as it fined a petitioner ₹25 lakh for raising “contemptuous allegations” against the Uttarakhand high court in a case pertaining to the sale and transfer of properties by a trust of the erstwhile royal family of Holkars.“You cannot slap and then say sorry...this practice must stop now,” observed a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar, as it came down heavily on Vijay Singh Pal, who claimed to be a whistleblower of the alleged scam in sale and transfer of properties by the Indore-based trust that managed properties in several states.Pal had moved an application before the Supreme Court, levelling a spate of allegations against the judges of the high court, besides accusing officials of the Uttarakhand government as well as solicitor general Tushar Mehta of not acting fairly in a matter relating to the case. Mehta appeared for the Madhya Pradesh government in the case.“Averments made in the application are unacceptable. The applicant has the audacity to make allegations against the entire Uttarakhand high court and officials of the state government. In our view, an applicant who wants itself impleaded in a case that involves complex issues must show some restraint and must eschew on making unfounded allegations, as has been made in this application,” stated the court order.“We deprecate the casual manner in which this application has been drafted,” the order said. “We outrightly reject this application while imposing an exemplary cost of ₹25 lakh.”Pal must deposit the penalty with the court’s registry within four weeks, failing which the amount shall be recovered from his assets as arrears of land revenue, the court clarified. The district collector of Haridwar has been directed by the court to comply with the order of recovery from Pal after four weeks.In October 2020, the Madhya Pradesh high court had ordered an investigation by the economic offence wing (EOW) into sale and transfer of properties by Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Charities) Trust while holding all transfers as null and void. It also ruled that the properties managed by the trust will lie with the state government.The trustees include Usha Devi (daughter of late king Yashwant Rao Holkar), her spouse Satish Malhotra, justice PD Mule (retired), two representatives of the state government as ex-officio members, revenue commissioner of Indore and superintending engineer of the public works department, Indore, and a representative of the central government.The Khasgi Trust manages 246 properties spread over 12,000 acres of land in various states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The properties include 138 temples, 18 dharmshalas and 34 ghats, among others.The trust challenged the high court order in the Supreme Court, which stayed the investigation by an order on October 16 and ordered a status quo with respect to possession and management of properties.On Tuesday, Mehta and advocate Prashant Bhushan, who appeared for an applicant in the case, urged the bench to vacate the stay, and let the investigation continue, but the court declined this plea.It noted that the interim order on October 16, 2020, was passed after hearing all the parties, and there was no new ground to modify it until the case is finally heard. Senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Abhishek Manu Singhvi appeared for the trust and some of the trustees.
05-01-2022||India||Stalin distributes face masks on Chennai roads amid Covid surge||As Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Tamil Nadu, chief minister M K Stalin on Tuesday stepped out of his car and began distributing masks to people who weren’t wearing one on a busy road in Chennai. In a video Stalin shared on Twitter, he is seen helping a man wear a surgical mask and distributing masks to people and children. He said he saw some people without masks on the streets and did this as a precautionary measure and to create awareness amidst the rapid transmission of the Omicron variant of concern. “Do not come out without wearing a mask,” he is seen telling people on the road.Tamil Nadu reported 2,731 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with Chennai registering the highest-- 1,489, according to the health department. The number of new cases reported on Monday was 1,728, showing that cases have doubled in a day when tests on both days were almost similar in the 100,000 range. The state currently has 118 cases of Omicron variant. Stalin distributed face masks to people on the arterial Anna Salai near Omandurar government hospital on his way from the secretariat at Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government, to his residence. In a longer video shared by the government, Stalin is seen making several stops and distributing masks and advising people to wear one. “He did this through an 8-km commute,” said a government official not wishing to be named.The chief minister’s action comes a day after authorities of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) collected a fine amount of over ₹2.18 lakh from more than a 1,000 people who were not wearing masks in the city. Stalin has been emphasising mask compliance and vaccination. He stressed on the two aspects while launching the vaccination drive for children in the 15-18 age group on Monday. On December 3, a total of 430,000 people were vaccinated across the state, which include 330,000 children. Stalin chaired a high-level meeting on the Covid-19 situation in Tamil Nadu with senior officials on Tuesday. More restrictions are expected to come into effect. 
05-01-2022||India||Farmers’ stir over new Amaravati municipality||A gazette notification issued by the Andhra Pradesh government regarding a decision to convert a part of the capital region Amaravati into a municipal corporation has triggered a fresh protest from the local farmers who had given away their lands for the formation of the capital city in 2015..According to the notification, which was issued on Monday, the state government has proposed to the Amaravati Capital City Municipal Corporation (ACCMC) to develop the area into a full-fledged urban agglomeration.While the planned capital city comprised 29 villages, the proposed ACCMC compromises only 16 of them, which fall under the Thullur block. They would be merged with three other villages falling under the Mangalagiri block of Guntur district to form ACCMC, according to the notification.The notification issued in the name of Guntur collector Vivek Yadav called for the conduct of “grama sabhas” (village meetings) in these 19 villages, starting from January 6, seeking the people’s opinions on the formation of the new corporation.“The grama sabhas would be conducted with the help of revenue and police officials strictly following the existing Covid-19 protocols and ensuring that there are no law and order issues. The opinions of the villagers would be consolidated and sent to the government for further action,” Thullur mandal parishad (block parishad) development officer A Srinivas Rao said.The development comes at a time when the farmers of Amaravati are fighting a legal battle in the state high court challenging the Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s decision to form three capital cities for the state and asking for retention of Amaravati as only capital.In November, the Jagan government repealed the laws seeking to create three capitals in the state legislature on technical grounds and declared that it would reintroduce fool-proof bills on the three capitals later, without giving scope for any legal hassles. The high court deferred the hearing to January 28.Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi (Amaravati protection committee) joint action committee (JAC) convenor A Shiva Reddy said there is something fishy in the government’s proposed plan to create a separate municipal corporation for Amaravati capital city only with 16 villages.According to him, nearly 24,000 farmers belonging to 29 villages in Tadepalli, Mangalagiri and Thullur mandals (blocks) gave away 33,000 acres of lands for the capital city of Amaravati in 2015.“These lands are under the control of AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA), with whom the farmers agreed in the development of capital. When there is already such authority, where is the need for a separate municipal corporation for the capital city?” Reddy asked.The APCRDA, which was constituted by the previous Telugu Desam Party government for the development of the capital city, was abolished by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government through legislation in June 2020 and its place, it created Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA).However, with the repeal of the three capitals bill last month, the AMRDA ceased to exist,, and the APCRDA was restored.Reddy pointed out that in March 2021, the state government had separated seven villages – Nidamarru, Navuluru, Atmakuru, Yerrabalem, Bethapudi, Vundavalli and Penumaka villages – from the Amaravati capital region and included them under Tadepalli-Mangalagiri Municipal Corporation.“We have challenged the move in the high court, and the case is still pending. The government now seeks to separate another 16 villages from Amaravati to form a separate corporation. The remaining six villages are likely to merge with Tatikonda municipality. So, the government wants to divide the original capital region of Amaravati into three parts,” Reddy alleged.One of the farmers of Amaravati, K Anil Kumar of Venkatayapalem village, said the villages would oppose this divide-and-rule policy of the government in grama sabhas.“We shall demand that if at all the government wants to create a separate municipal corporation for Amaravati, it should comprise all the 29 villages falling under the capital region. I don’t think the government will proceed without the approval of the grama sabhas,” he said.The JAC convenor said nobody knew the state government’s plan. “But it appears there is a conspiracy to modify the master plan of the Amaravati capital city by dividing the 29 villages among the three civic bodies. When the government forms three capital cities finally, there would be no capital region development authority at all,” Reddy added.Do we have an Oppn reaction?
05-01-2022||India||Jagan seeks Centre’s nod for new national highway||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday requested the Centre to approve a national highway from Visakhapatnam port to Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram district, where a new greenfield international airport is coming up.An official release from the chief minister’s office (CMO) stated that he had made a representation to this effect to union minister for transport and highways Nitin Gadkari during an hour-long meeting in New Delhi on Tuesday morning. He explained the steps being taken for the preparation of a detailed project report for the national highway.He said the Visakhapatnam-Bhogapuram national highway that would pass through Rushikonda and Bhimili beach corridor projects along the coast, would contribute to the development of tourism in the region, besides easing the traffic for the passengers to reach the international airport.Jagan said the highway would also reduce the distance from Visakhapatnam to Odisha and Chhattisgarh.The chief minister also requested the Union minister to consider the state government’s earlier appeal to grant a bypass road on the eastern side of Vijayawada and said land acquisition would be completed as soon as possible. “The state government would also give exemption from State GST and royalty to reduce the cost of the project,” he said.He also requested extension of the four lane road in Bapatla as a part of construction of NH-216 of Kathipudi – Ongole Corridor as there is a possibility of traffic jams again due to educational institutions, tourists and the air base.On Monday night, the chief minister met union minister for civil aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia and requested him to extend support to the development of the Bhogapuram airport.He reminded that at the time of the bifurcation of the combined Andhra Pradesh, the Centre had promised to provide financial assistance for the development of the residuary AP in all sectors, including aviation, for a period of 10 years.He said the new airport was being built at Bhogapuram, as there is no possibility for expanding the current airport in Visakhapatnam, which is adjacent to Eastern Naval Base. He urged the Union minister to extend support for completing the airport in the next three years.The chief minister also met union minister for education Dharmendra Pradhan and sports minister Anurag Thakur before returning to Vijayawada.
05-01-2022||India||Centre aims for digital push in revamp plan for cooperatives||India will soon have a digital database of cooperatives being worked on by the new ministry of cooperation, which will help overhaul a sector the government hopes will propel the economy’s size to $5 trillion, a senior official aware of developments said.The move is aimed to help reposition cooperatives as business entities with an online presence. A national database is also necessary to formulate an upcoming new policy for cooperatives, the official added, requesting anonymity.Prime Minister Narendra Modi shuffled his cabinet in July, carving out a new ministry of cooperation, which was earlier a department under the agriculture ministry. Home minister Amit Shah heads the new ministry.The ministry will focus on building cooperative societies as the pivot of a whole gamut of economic activities, from financial services to production of finished goods.Cooperatives are essentially collectives of small producers who pool their resources to achieve scale and collective bargaining power in markets. While there are some iconic cooperative businesses in the country, such as dairy giant Amul, seasoned flatbread-maker Lijjat Papad and fertiliser major IFFCO (Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative), the sector in many areas is hobbled by inefficiencies and opaque patronage systems.Financial cooperatives, a key segment within cooperatives, play a key role in lending and saving operations. State cooperative banks, according to Nabard’s annual report of 2019-20, had a total paid-up capital of ₹6,104 crore and deposits of ₹1,35,393 crore.Primary agricultural credit societies (PACS) will be a key thrust area of the digitisation push, officials said. PACS are village or district-level last-mile institutions that deliver agricultural credit to millions of farmers.A national software platform, which will be available in local languages, will link PACS, district cooperative banks, and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), potentially creating an integrated financial grid. The digital database is aimed at boosting their reach and transparency.India’s cooperative sector is the world’s largest, and covers almost 98% of the countryside, with over 900,000 societies with a membership of about 290 million people, according to data from the National Cooperative Union of India.Along with the technical framework, the government is also likely to bring statutory changes in the cooperatives sector. Addressing a cooperatives’ meet in January last year, Shah said that the government will bring changes to laws governing the sector to “smoothen processes in areas such as multisector cooperatives”. The minister added that this would a “big step in our march towards development”.The cooperatives sector policy was last revised by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 2002. “Now, the current government is looking to update the policy in step with newer economic realities,” the official cited in the first instance saidCooperatives are governed by two main pieces of legislation, the Cooperative Societies Act, 2012, and the Multi-state Cooperatives Act, 2002.Cooperative banks, both urban and rural, are lending institutions registered under the Cooperative Societies Act,1912. They are usually run by an elected committee.In March 2021, Parliament passed a law to bring them under the oversight of the Reserve Bank of India.“We welcome the government’s move to re-energise cooperatives. Cooperatives are the only way to ensure inclusive growth,” said Rattanlal Malik, the president of Saharanpur Gramin Sehekarita Bank.“I think the government will need to hold consultations with states before it can finalise a new cooperative policy for the country because the majority of cooperatives fall in the domain of the states,” said Amrit Pritam, director of the Navinttam, a development NGO that works with rural collectives.
05-01-2022||India||Punish erring University of Madras officials: High court||Deploring the fast falling trend of the reputation of the University of Madras, the Madras High Court has suggested to the authorities concerned to award capital punishment to the erring officials.The court made the observation while making a scathing attack on the officials concerned, who had played a ‘fraud’ on the University by giving promotion to two persons the posts of Assistant Librarian, though they were to be made only through direct recruitment.“Of late, it is painful to record here that the University of Madras now-a-days loses its reputation in a rapid manner and in olden days, it was very proud to say that the degree was obtained from the University of Madras and was, once upon a time, regarded as a precious one. The existence of such reputation in the present days is a million dollar question. It is apposite to mention here that appropriate disciplinary proceedings for capital punishment shall be initiated against the officials concerned for not maintaining absolute integrity and devotion to duty, which is unbecoming of a member of the service and such irresponsible officials should be dismissed from service and their dereliction should be entered into their Service Register, so that their promotions and other benefits should be deprived.” “The umbrella of moral turpitude should be widened to deprive gratuity to the officials and before depriving the gratuity, an opportunity shall be given to the person concerned, as on technical ground, on the failure to give an opportunity, the persons, who are involved in the act of moral turpitude, etc., should not be allowed to succeed to get their benefits,” a division bench of Justices S Vaidyanathan and A A Nakkiran said.The bench was passing final orders on a writ appeal from the University challenging the orders dated October 23, 2017 of a single judge, recently.The bench set aside both the orders of the University giving promotions to the two persons -- Veerapandi and Selvi, as well as that of the single judge who had held that the original petitioner Dr S Bhaskaran, should also be given the promotion to the post.Though they could smell a rat in the action of the University, they have no other option but to interfere with the order of the single judge, as they do not want to continue the illegality for ever and two wrongs cannot make a right, the judges said.The judges also observed that they find the order of the single judge has no legs to stand and is liable to be set aside. To be more precise, none of the persons, including the two -- Veerapandi and Selvi, are eligible to be promoted to the post of Assistant Librarian, without adhering to the proper selection process, on account of the fraud committed by the University. Since the University had extracted work from them in the post of Assistant Librarian, the salary, if any paid to them shall not be recovered, however, they are not entitled to any benefits for the past services rendered in that post, for, as stated supra, their promotion to the said post itself perpetuated illegality, the judges added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punish-erring-university-of-madras-officials-high-court-101641322868443.html
05-01-2022||India||Charge sheet filed in Lakhimpur Kheri case: SIT used 208 testimonials of witnesses, 24 photos and videos to build case||Lucknow:Investigators have used testimonials of 208 witnesses, 17 items of scientific and electronic evidence, and 24 photographs and videos to build their case in a 5,000 page charge sheet filed in the Lakhimpur Kheri case, officials said on Tuesday.The special investigation team probing the October 3 violence filed charges against 14 people on Monday, naming the son of junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni as the main accused, and citing witness statements to confirm his presence at the spot during the incident.The team used 24 photographs, CCTV footage and videos shot by independent witnesses to establish the sequence of events when four farmers and a journalist were allegedly mowed down by the minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, and others during a farm protest, a SIT official said.Three more people were killed in subsequent clashes. The SIT called it a “well-planned conspiracy”.The violence sparked nationwide condemnation and energised opposition parties to demand the minister’s resignation months before high-stakes polls in the crucial state. Several opposition parties disrupted proceedings in the winter session of Parliament to demand Ajay Mishra’s removal.There were 17 pieces of evidence, including ballistic reports of three firearms and forensic reports of the bullet shells and charred vehicles recovered from the site, the official said. Reports on the phone call details and cellphone locations of Ashish Mishra have been included as evidence. “In addition, the SIT included the statements of 208 eyewitnesses and witnesses to prove the presence of Ashish Mishra and others at the spot. The statements of over 90 witnesses were recorded before the judicial magistrate so that they could not retract from their version later,” the official said, requesting anonymity. The initial complaint into the case only named Ashish Mishra and unknown people. Subsequent investigation by the SIT identified 12 other accused. In the charge sheet, the SIT added a 14th accused – Virendra Shukla, a relative of the minister who is yet to be named in the charge sheet.The 13 accused were charged under sections 147(rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons), 149 (unlawful assembly ), 307(attempt to murder), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy), 427(mischief causing damage), 34 (acts done with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Section 177 (wilfully disobeying directions) and B177 of the Motor Vehicle Act, said prosecution officer SP Yadav.The victims’ kin and some opposition parties have alleged that the government was protecting Ajay Mishra by not naming him in the charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charge-sheet-filed-in-lakhimpur-kheri-case-sit-used-208-testimonials-of-witnesses-24-photos-and-videos-to-build-case-101641322864730.html
05-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu govt begins distribution of Pongal gifts to 2.15 cr ration card holders||Tamil Nadu will hand over an assortment of rice, ghee and other grocery items to 2.15 crore ration card holders in the state for the three-day harvest festival of Pongal that starts on January 14. Chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday launched this welfare move at the state secretariat by handing over the gifts to ten families. The Pongal gifts to the beneficiaries have a total of 21 grocery items, including 100 gram of ghee produced by the state-owned Aavin, different varieties of dhal and also a full sugarcane which is an integral part of the festival. The government announced that the sugarcane provided with the gift hampers be procured directly from farmers who have cultivated sugarcane. Tokens for distribution of the hampers have been issued and the 2.15 card holders can collect it from the ration shops run by the state public distribution system.The erstwhile AIADMK government in 2019 and 2021 added a cash gift along with the hampers distributed for Pongal in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the DMK government has not included a cash dole. The grocery items are packed inside a cloth bag which says “Tamizhar Thirunaal Vaazthukkal” (Tamil festival greetings). After the launch, Stalin said in a tweet, “We are one race – Tamils. Pongal is the festival of Tamils during which we thank the sun and cattle.” Pongal is an important festival in the state. In January 2020, Pongal was when most parties informally kick-started their campaign ahead of the assembly election held in April with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, BJP leader JP Nadda and RSS chief Mohan Bhawat taking part in Pongal festivities. This year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to fly down to the state for the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-govt-begins-distribution-of-pongal-gifts-to-2-15-cr-ration-card-holders-101641322744688.html
05-01-2022||India||Nadda vows to pull down TRS govt, slams Telangana chief minister over leader’s arrest||Declaring a war on the alleged dictatorial and corrupt rule of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi led by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Bharatiya Janata Party national president J P Nadda on Tuesday said the battle will continue till the TRS is pulled down from power.Nadda was in Hyderabad to take part in a “peace rally” organised by the Telangana BJP to protest against the arrest of state party president Bandi Sanjay in Karimnagar on Sunday night.The Hyderabad police initially denied permission to the one-km peace rally on the ground that it would cause inconvenience to the people on the busy road and might lead to law and order issues. But later, the police relented and gave the permission on the condition that there should not be a large number of participants in the rally.Nadda, however, confined himself to garlanding the Mahatama Gandhi statue at MG Road, Secunderabad, while the party leaders and activists took out a rally by wearing black badges and tying their mouths with black ribbons.Speaking to reporters at the state party office, the BJP national president said as a disciplined citizen, he had strictly followed the Covid-19 protocol and not participated in the rally.He alleged that the arrest of Bandi Sanjay was undemocratic and nothing but murder of democracy. While the TRS leaders gave a go-by to Covid-19 norms in taking out rallies, holding meetings and staging dharnas, Sanjay confined himself to his MP office with a few people, strictly following the Covid-19 norms, he pointed out.“Yet, the police broke open his office with gas-cutters to arrest him. They used teargas shells and water cannons and beat up the BJP workers indiscriminately. This clearly shows KCR has lost his mental balance, ever since his party lost the Huzurabad by-election. Vinash kale viparitha buddhi (When one nears the doomsday, one would get such destructive thoughts),” Nadda said.Describing the BJP’s fight as “Dharma Yudh” (righteous war), the BJP chief said the fight would continue in a democratic way on all fronts, including political and legal. “We are not going to stop with this rally. We shall intensify our fight and take it to a decisive end. The fight will continue till the TRS is pulled down from power,” he said.The BJP leaders decided to continue their struggle for the next 14 days in protest against the 14-day judicial remand of Sanjay.Earlier in the day, the state high court refused to entertain the petition of the state BJP chief seeking quashing of the FIR filed against him by the Karimnagar police. The high court asked the BJP leader to move the local court which is hearing the cases filed against the MLAs and MPs. 
05-01-2022||India||CCTVs in spas violate right to privacy, says Madras high court||The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday said installation of CCTV cameras in a spa violates the right to “bodily” privacy of a person. The bench also said that an order passed by another judge of the Madras high court in 2020 was in violation of the Supreme Court order defining right to privacy as a fundamental right. “The installation of CCTV equipment inside premises such as a spa would unquestionably infract upon a person’s bodily autonomy. These are inviolable spaces where the prying eye of the state simply cannot be allowed to enter,” Justice Swaminathan said in his orders on Tuesday. He said the Supreme Court had held that privacy as guaranteed in Article 21 takes different forms -- it includes a right to bodily autonomy, a right to informational privacy and a right to a privacy of choice.The case in the Madurai bench relates to that of a petitioner, Payel Biswas who is running a spa, named “Queen Ayurvedic Cross Spa Centre”, in Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district. After a gazette notification in 2018, obtaining of licence has been made mandatory for spa businesses and the petitioner applied for such licence. Since no action was taken on his request, he filed a writ petition for directing the respondents, the Trichy police, to issue a “no objection certificate”. He also wanted the court to restrain the police from interfering with the running of the spa relying on other orders made by other judges of the court.During the hearing, the government counsel informed the court about an order on December 12, 2020 passed by Justice S M Subramaniam on a similar petition. He had directed the installation of CCTV cameras in all spas, massage and therapy centres, across Tamil Nadu to prevent illegal activities and allowed police to take action if there is a complaint.Justice Swaminathan said that Justice S M Subramaniam order was contrary to a Supreme Court order on privacy.Justice Swaminathan concluded that in his “humblest opinion” and “the greatest of respect” to his “revered brother Judge”, his the judgment appears to run counter to the law laid down by the Supreme Court’s 9-judge bench judgment in the K S Puttaswamy versus Union of India case of 2017. He quoted justice Chandrachud’s order from the concluding part of the Puttaswamy case that states, “While the legitimate expectation of privacy may vary from intimate zone to the private zone and from the private to the public arena, it is important to underscore that privacy is not lost or surrendered merely because the individual is in a public place.”Suspicion that immoral activities are taking place in massage centres cannot be reason enough to intrude into an individual’s right to relax, for it intrinsically is part and parcel of his fundamental right to privacy, said Justice Swaminathan in his orders. The court then directed the police to consider the petitioner’s representation for availing of licence on merits within four weeks.
05-01-2022||India||Money laundering case: Anil Deshmukh moves special court to seek default bail||Mumbai: Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh approached a special court here on Tuesday, seeking default bail in connection with a money laundering case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate.Deshmukh was arrested by the ED on November 2, 2021 and is currently in judicial custody.In his plea filed through advocate Aniket Nikam, Deshmukh said the special court had not taken cognisance of the prosecution complaint (charge sheet) filed by the ED before remanding him to further judicial custody.Deshmukh pointed out that he has been in custody for 60 days and since the court has not yet taken cognisance of the charge sheet, he should be granted default bail under the provisions of Section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).As per Section 167 of the CrPC, if a charge sheet is not filed and its cognisance is not taken within 60 days from a person’s arrest, then he/she can seek default bail.Deshmukh in his application claimed that on December 29, 2021, the ED in a “surreptitious manner”, without informing the court that the statutory period of 60 days expires on January 1, 2022, obtained his further judicial custody till January 9, 2022.“As per provisions of law, if on the expiry of the said period of 60 days, investigation is not complete and cognisance of the charge sheet is not taken, an indefeasible right of statutory bail accrues to the accused,” the application said.The applicant (Deshmukh) was ready and willing to furnish bail/surety to the satisfaction of the court, it added.The special court, designated to hear cases under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), is likely to take up Deshmukh’s bail plea for hearing on Wednesday. The ED had on December 29, 2021 filed a 7,000-page supplementary charge sheet against Deshmukh and his sons. The agency had earlier filed a charge sheet against 14 people, including Deshmukh’s private secretary (an additional collector-rank officer) Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde.The Enforcement Directorate had launched a probe against Deshmukh and others after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed an FIR against the senior NCP leader in April 2021 on charges of corruption and misuse of official position.The ED’s case is that while serving as state home minister, Deshmukh allegedly misused his official position and through dismissed cop Sachin Waze, who is behind bars in the ‘Antilia’ bomb scare and Mansukh Hiran killing cases, collected ₹4.70 crore from various bars in Mumbai.As per the prosecution, Deshmukh and his family members owned several companies which were used to launder the money. Deshmukh, who resigned from the post of state home minister in April 2021, has repeatedly denied the charges against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-case-anil-deshmukh-moves-special-court-to-seek-default-bail-101641322144585.html
05-01-2022||India||HT THIS DAY: January 5, 1978 — India record epic victory at Melbourne cricket ground||MELBOURNE- It took India 39 minutes this morning to clinch the third Test against Australia at the Melbourne cricket ground and register their first-ever Test win on Australian soil, the margin of India’s victory was 222 runs. This was easily the biggest gap to separate the two sides in the current series. Australia, who are now 2-1 up, won the first Test at Brisbane by a mere 16 runs and the second at Perth, by just two wickets. The fourth Test starts in Sydney on Saturday and the fifth at Adelaide, on Jan. 28. Overall, this was India’s fourth Victory over Australia, the first having been notched up at Kanpur in Dec. 1959. India have won at Bombay in 1964 and at Delhi in 1969. Skipper Bishen Bedi, who took both of Australia’s two remaining wickets, said afterwards that he was pretty confident that India would level the score in Sydney where the wicket, he said, gave bowlers a lot of hope, even though it produced a lot of runs. Australian captain Bobby Simpson said that his side had lost the match by batting badly in the first innings He said: “We got rolled over for 213 when we were looking for something like 400.” He added that the second innings collapse of his side was understandable, because the pitch had deteriorated. Simpson said he thought that if India were going to win anywhere, it was going to be in Melbourne, where the pitch would suit their bowlers and deaden the edge of Australia’s pace-oriented attack. He said that in spite of this heavy reverse, he considered Australia favourites for Sydney. In analysing the Indian win, Bedi said that it was an absolute team effort. “There was not one man who did not make a contribution”. But he was high in praise of his bowling companion, Chandrasekhar, who took 12 wickets in the match. Said Bedi: “When Chandra bowls as he did here, he is as exciting and aggressive as any fast bowler. It was the same when we won our first Test in England .. Chandra is a match, winner.” Australia’s tail-enders did not go down meekly There were some violent blows by Wayne Clark and he and Thomson added 28 runs in as many minutes before Thomson drove back a return catch to Bedi.Chandrasekhar could have increased his tally of wickets for the match to 13, but Mankad, at mid-wicket, put down a hard catch from Clark in the over before Bedi had him caught in the same position, by Ghavri Score board India - 1st Innings : 256 Australia - 1st Innings : 213 India - 2nd innings : 343 Australia - 2nd innings: 164 (Cosier b Chandrasekhar 34, Dyson lbw Bedi 12, Ogilvie c Chauhan b Bedi 0, Serjeant b Chandrasekhar 17, Simpson lbw Chandrasekhar 4, Toohey c Chauhan b Chandrasekhar 14, Maan c Gavaskar b Chandrasekhar 18, Rixon C and b Chandrasekhar 12, Clarke c Ghavri b Bedi 33, Thompson c and b Bedi 7, S. Gannon not out 3Fall of wickets :1- 42, 2-42, 3-52, 4-60, 5 77, 6- 98, 7-115, 8-122, 9 -151. Bowling : K Ghavri 4-0-29-0: M. Amarnath 3-0-10-0: E Prasanna B-4b 216.1-5-58-4, B. Chandrasekhar 29-2-12-6||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-january-5-1978-india-record-epic-victory-at-melbourne-cricket-ground-101641321784941.html
05-01-2022||India||Four girls injured after stampede-like situation in Congress’s Bareilly event||Four girls were injured in a near-stampede during a run organised by the Congress party in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly district on Tuesday, police said. The injured were sent to a nearby hospital. They have been discharged after treatment, district officials said.The event was organised by the district unit of the Congress under its Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon (I am a girl and I can fight) poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh.The injured were sent to a nearby hospital. They have been discharged after treatment, district officials said.The event was organised by the district unit of the Congress under its Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon (I am a girl and I can fight) poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh, where assembly elections are due in a few months.Soon after the incident, videos of the event were circulated on social media. In one of the videos, some girls running in front can be seen tripping and falling to the ground, forcing those behind to stop suddenly. This almost resulted in a stampede and some of the participants were injured. Most participants were neither wearing masks nor following Covid protocols.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the videos.The incident occurred at the beginning of the race. No complaint has been lodged in the matter, police said.Congress leader and former Bareilly mayor Supriya Aron dismissed the incident. “When a stampede can happen in Vaishno Devi, these are just girls. It is human nature. But I want to apologise.” Her reference is to a recent stampede at Katra, on the route to Vaishno devi, which resulted in the death of 12 people.She further claimed that the whole incident might even be a conspiracy.Terming the incident unfortunate, Geeta Shakya, the Uttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) women’s wing chief, slammed the Congress for its “irresponsible” statements.“First the Congress leaders lured these girls, using them for political gains, and then after the incident, the way they reacted on the incident was shameful. They did not provide first aid to the injured girls and later on, held them responsible for the incident,” Shakya said.Close to 10,000 girls registered for the run, local Congress leaders said. The prizes included a scooter, smartphones, smart watches and medals.“The Congress shamelessly compared the incident with the stampede at the Vaishno Devi temple. BJP cadres and local administration helped the students but the Congress leaders were only seen trying to cover up their mistake,” Shakya added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-girls-injured-after-stampede-like-situation-in-congress-s-bareilly-event-101641321666345.html
05-01-2022||India||EWS quota in medical seats: Supreme Court to hear NEET-PG case today||Petitions challenging reservations in the national quota of seats in postgraduate medical courses will be heard in the Supreme Court on Wednesday after the central government persuaded it to urgently list the matter.A two-judge bench of justices DY Chandrachud and AS Bopanna will hear the petitions challenging reservation for other backward classes (OBCs) and economically weaker sections (EWS) in the all-India quota NEET-PG seats on Wednesday.Resident doctors who have qualified for postgraduate courses have been protesting the delay in counselling because the matter of reservations is pending in court.Appearing for the Centre, solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta on Tuesday told a bench headed by chief justice of India NV Ramana that the protesting resident doctors had genuine concerns, which can only be addressed only if the matter is listed urgently.“These matters relate to persons belonging to EWS. A statement was made by us that prevent further counselling for PG admissions. The resident doctors are protesting for this reason. Their concerns are genuine,” Mehta said.He requested that, for a limited purpose, even a bench of two judges headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud could be constituted to hear the pending petitions. On Monday, Mehta made a similar request before justice Chandrachud, seeking an early listing for Tuesday instead of the prefixed date of January 6. Justice Chandrachud assured him at the time that he would take this up with the chief justice.Counselling is the process by which the successful candidate can exercise choice of institute based on his/her eligibility decided by the marks/rank secured. The decision of the government to introduce OBC and EWS reservation in medical and dental courses was made applicable to 50% PG and 15% UG AIQ seats. The Government announcement on July 29 had said, “This decision would benefit every year nearly 1500 OBC students in MBBS and 2500 OBC students in PG and also around 550 EWS students in MBBS and around 1000 EWS students in PG.”A total of over 89,000 doctors had qualified in the NEET-PG examination conducted in September out of over 160,000 who appeared.The matter pending before the court has been filed by resident doctors who have challenged a July 29, 2021 notification by the Centre introducing 27% OBC quota and 10% EWS quota in the NEET all-India quota seats. The petitions questioned the basis for applying the EWS quota, and said that such reservation would exceed the 50% benchmark set by the top court in its earlier decisions since there is also 22.5% reservation for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes.In October, the top court raised doubts on whether EWS beneficiaries can be uniformly clubbed together as persons belonging to households with annual earnings below ₹8 lakh without considering the rural-urban divide, purchasing power in different regions, and other factors that vary across states. To quell these doubts, the Centre formed a three-member committee to revisit the criteria for identifying EWS in November, and put the counselling process of Neet-PG seats on hold.The committee, which revisited the January 17, 2019 order passed by the Centre prescribing criteria to identify EWS, concluded that the ₹8 lakh limit is not “over-inclusive”. It, however, omitted the residential asset criterion prescribed under the government notification. The Centre presented the report to the Supreme Court along with its affidavit filed on January 1, supporting the recommendations of the committee.The committee proposed that its recommendations can be implemented from the next admission or advertisement cycle, and that the existing criteria applicable for EWS be followed till then.The resident doctors had gone on strike protesting the delay in NEET-PG counseling. Their 14-day strike ended last Friday after an assurance was given by the Union health ministry to come out with the NEET-PG counselling schedule soon after the hearing in the court on January 6. The federation of resident doctors’ association had even demanded cancellation of the FIRs registered against doctors after they were manhandled by Delhi police while marching to the Supreme Court as part of their protest. This demand was also accepted by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ews-quota-in-medical-seats-supreme-court-to-hear-neet-pg-case-today-101641321367284.html
05-01-2022||India||GitHub row: 18-year-old U'khand woman, Bengaluru engineering student arrested||An 18-year-old woman and a 21-year-old engineering student, who allegedly met on social media due to their common interest in Hindutva ideology and later allegedly collaborated to put up webpages where hundreds of Muslim women were “auctioned”, were arrested on Tuesday.The arrests were made by Mumbai Police, which is probing two such controversial webpages hosted on the code sharing platform, GitHub. The first web page was floated in July 2021 and the second, Bulli Bai, surfaced on January 1. The webpages, which were named after derogatory references to the Muslim community, sparked outrage because hundreds of Muslim women -- most of whom were vocal activists or top professionals -- were listed for “auction” along with their photographs, which were sourced without permission and doctored.Activists pointed out that despite complaints, no action was taken in the July case, and that the pages were meant to demean Muslim women.The man, Vishal Kumar Jha, was allegedly running one of Twitter handles that was used to upload links to the websites, said an officer from the Mumbai cybercrime cell. Singh’s alleged role was not clear.The woman, Shweta Singh, lived in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district with her three siblings and had lost her father to Covid-19 in May last year and her mother to cancer in 2011. She was deeply involved in Hindutva ideology and often posted such content on social media, said a senior Uttarakhand police officer with knowledge of developments.“They both came in contact on the microblogging platform while commenting on a right wing post. Following that, they became friends and shared their contact numbers. They then started speaking to each other and chatting on WhatsApp sharing their common ideology,” said the senior Uttarakhand police officer quoted above, requesting anonymity.“She had no regrets for what she did,” he added.Jha was held in Bengaluru for questioning on Monday and brought to Mumbai in the evening, said joint commissioner of police (crime), Milind Bharambe.”He was questioned and several facts were verified. and after his role was found involved in the crime, he was arrested,” he added.Kumar was remanded to cyber police custody till January 10, the officer said.“There seems to be a much bigger network behind such coordinate crimes and I am confident that Mumbai Police will soon unearth the entire nexus that is enabling such hate crimes against women in our country,” said Maharashtra minister Satej Patil.A Mumbai Police team arrested Singh from Rudrapur city in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district.A second Uttarakhand police officer said the woman hailed from an economically weak background, had lost both her parents and was living with three siblings. “She had passed class 12 examinations but was yet to take admission in the college for higher studies,” said the officer, requesting anonymity.During her questioning, she told the police that she took the help of an acquaintance in Nepal and added that this man -- who she allegedly identified as Giyou -- had uploaded the women’s photos, said the second police officer.The woman was produced before a local court for transit remand, the officer added. The court granted the transit remand of the woman to Mumbai police.Uttarakhand director general of police Ashok Kumar confirmed the development.“Uttarakhand police only provided them (Mumbai police team) assistance in their action by sending a woman constable to arrest the accused. Uttarakhand police didn’t question the accused as the probe is conducted by the Mumbai police,” he said.Jha’s advocate Dinesh Prajapati said, “My client is falsely implicated in the case. During an argument i requested before the court for short police custody which was granted.”On January 2, Mumbai cyber police registered a First Information Report under sections 153A (to punish persons who indulge in wanton vilification or attacks upon the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc of any particular group or class or upon the founders and prophets of a religion), 153 B (Imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) 295A, (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 354D, (Stalking is unwanted or repeated surveillance by an individual or group towards another person), 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 500 (Punishment for defamation) Indian Penal Code along with section 67 Information technology act against unknown people.. The case was based on statements of some women whose pictures were used on the webpage.The same day, Union minister for electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw said the account of the user who made the webpages had been blocked by GitHub after a government missive. Delhi Police also registered an FIR. “Our cyber cell team is probing the case. The investigation is in on the right track. At this stage, it won’t be appropriate to share further information,” said city police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.(With inputs from HTC, Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/github-row-18-year-old-uttarakhand-woman-bengaluru-engineering-student-arrested-for-auctioning-muslim-women-101641321124566.html
05-01-2022||India||How cruise liner’s New Year dream turned into a Covid nightmare||When Cordelia Cruises’s MV Empress, a 200m-long luxury cruise liner set sail from Mumbai Port on December 31, it promised a perfect holiday for its 2017 passengers, looking forward to celebrating New Year on the high seas.The Empress was to follow an itinerary where it would set sail from Mumbai, stop at Goa, Kochi and Lakshwadeep before heading back. Five days after it set off, the dream has turned to nightmare, the voyage has been truncated, and the ship has been sent back to Mumbai from Goa, after 66 people, including six crew members tested positive for Covid-19.It was almost as if Murphy (of the famous law) was scripting the story of a cruise liner whose name first made the headlines in October last year following a drug bust during a rave party held aboard the then two-month-old ship. Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested during the bust, although no drugs were found in his possession and he was subsequently released on bail.The positive testsThe alarm was first sounded when a crew member on board the ship took ill on January 1 and a rapid antigen Covid test was conducted . A positive test prompted more, finding a total of six crew members positive. The ship’s doctor then informed port authorities and the crew members were allowed to disembark and made to isolate at a local hospital at Goa’s port town of Vasco Da Gama.The ship waited at anchorage as authorities scrambled to decide the best way forward before it was decided that the ship be allowed to berth and all 2017 passengers and crew be tested. By Monday afternoon, another 60 people, all passengers, tested positive.The narrative splits at this point.The ship’s handlers, the JM Baxi Group said that the decision to return to Mumbai was taken after some passengers refused to be admitted to a Covid facility in Goa. Meanwhile, other passengers asked why those who tested negative weren’t allowed to disembark and were made to travel back to Mumbai, alongside those who tested positive. “Due to a change in safety protocols with prevailing Covid-19 restrictions and in compliance with government authorities, we will be suspending our sailing...,” the company said in a statement via Twitter.The director general of shipping has now called for an inquiry and port officials have been asked to review Covid-19 protocols.Controversy on boardOver the weekend, videos of angry passengers on board the cruise ship emerged, with apprehensive guests heckling crew members on the confusion in protocols, the need for repeated tests, as well as the confusion over the next steps.The CEO of Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd, which runs Cordelia Cruises, Jurgen Bailom, reiterated that all protocols were followed and said that the company went “above and beyond” in its attempt to secure passenger safety. “Ever since our cruise set sail in September 2021 with 1,400 guests on board, all crew members as well as guests have had to undertake a RT-PCR test which is no more than 48 hours prior to boarding. The RT-PCR is mandatory as is being doubly vaccinated for, both, the crew as well as all guests on board. In simple terms, even if one is double vaccinated, one has to undergo the RT-PCR test. Such conditions are more onerous than operation of domestic flights in India yet we adhere to the same by going above and beyond,” Bailom said in a statement.Rejecting allegations of laxity, Bailom said that the crew member who showed mild symptoms had done so very close to departure and was “immediately and safely isolated”.“It was Cordelia Cruises’ exemplary proactiveness in not only conducting the rapid antigen test but also, very responsibly informing the concerned authorities of the incident,” Bailom said, adding that there was a “lack of empathy” from authorities in Goa and that the company received “haphazard instructions” from the state administration.South Goa collector Ruchika Katyal denied this, and said authorities didn’t refuse anyone permission to disembark, and claimed that 13 passengers who tested negative did indeed disembark in Goa.“When the ship informed us about a positive case on board, our only instructions were that those who wish to disembark will have to be tested first. It was the ship’s own decision to have all their passengers tested,” she said.“We had asked the ship to give us a list of passengers who wished to disembark and they gave us a list of 13 passengers who disembarked and went their way after testing negative. There were no instructions that even the negative passengers be disallowed,” Katyal added.She further said that a total of 30 positive passengers were taken off the ship and kept in isolation at a local hospital. “However, of the 30, 24 expressed their desire to be taken back to the ship because they didn’t want to be separated from their families and so they were ferried by ambulances back to the ship,” she said.The cruise linerWaterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd, according to its website, “aspires to promote and drive the cruise culture in India through experiences that are stylish, luxurious and most importantly, inherently Indian”. The company is part of the Dream Hotel Group promoted by NRI hotelier Sant Chatwal.The cruise offers on board a casino, children’s activities, pool, dining and entertainment shows. The activities include movie screenings on deck, magic shows, live musical performances, DJ nights, and stand-up comedy acts. Guests can either book the two-night cruise from Mumbai to Goa or choose from a list of options running up to the entire five nights.The cruise liner, however, is no stranger to controversy. It was from the MV Empress that Aryan Khan, the son of Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested on October 2 by the Narcotics Control Bureau under sections that relate to the use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. In a raid on board the ship as it was moored off the Mumbai shore, NCB seized 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of MDMA, 21 grams of marijuana and 22 pills of ecstasy. In a case that grew more and more controversial by the day, Khan, who did not have any drugs on is person, spent 22 days in prison, with opposition parties saying that this was part of a vendetta against the Bollywood superstar and his son.What happens in Mumbai stays in MumbaiOn Tuesday evening, the Empress returned to Mumbai’s Ballard Pier at around 6pm after leaving the Mormugao Port Trust at 11.30pm on Monday. Everyone on board was undergoing tests at the time of going to print. Officials said those testing positive will be shifted to hospitals or Covid care centres, those testing negative will undergo a mandatory one-week home quarantine with a stamp on their hand; however, nobody will be allowed to leave the ship till test results come out on Wednesday.“There are around 2,000 people on-board including the passengers and crew members. We started to collect the samples from 6.30 pm and the entire process of sample collection is likely to take six hours,” said Dr Prajakta Amberkar, Medical Officer of Health (MOH) in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Also on board when the ship docked were 60 positive patients currently; the six others are Goa residents who disembarked before the Empress left MPT for Mumbai.(With inputs from Manish Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-cruise-liner-s-new-year-dream-turned-into-a-covid-nightmare-101641320883744.html
05-01-2022||India||Omicron variant watch: Fast, even if not as furious, needs disciplined response||How fast does the Omicron variant intrinsically spread, and does it have a significantly altered transmission dynamics?The answers to these questions, still being worked out by scientists, will help determine the steps and degree of compliance required to bend the Omicron wave.We know that the variant spreads rapidly and there are at least three factors that are at play: infections now have a shorter incubation period, infected people have high viral load in upper air passages early on, and even brief exposure may trigger infection.These insights have been gleaned from epidemiological tracking and scientific studies. For instance, the UK’s travel advisory issued in early December cited assessments saying the incubation period – the time between infection and symptoms, which is correlated with contagiousness – has likely dropped from a week to three days or fewer.Lab studies in the recent month have shown the virus multiplies more intensely in the bronchus – the passage leading to the lungs – but less efficiently in the lungs. A University of Hong Kong research found the replication in the bronchus may be 70 times more than the Delta variant.The third factor is perhaps best illustrated in a contact-tracing investigation in Hong Kong. Authorities there found that an Omicron-infected person passed on the disease to a person in the opposite room in a quarantine hotel despite them having never interacted -- corroborated by CCTV evidence.Together, they suggest Omicron’s inherent transmissibility is high. Inherent transmissibility is denoted as the basic reproduction number, or R-nought, or R0 — an estimate of the number of secondary infections each infected person will cause on average.Delta’s R0 is estimated to be 5, and that of the ancestral variant from Wuhan was estimated to be between 2 and 3.Omicron’s R0, according to estimates by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine experts, could be as high as 10.To bring an epidemic under control, the effective R number must be brought down to under 1, which means on average, infected people do not pass it onwards.What will it take to get Omicron’s R to under 1?A team of researchers led by scientists from Germany’s Max Planck Institute in a recently released study have estimated how different measures – vaccination, face covering, social distancing and ventilation – can bring down the effective R number of a Sars-CoV-2 variant, and how many people need to follow it.For Delta, they found that if a region has 70% vaccination coverage, and if three out of 10 people are disciplined on social distancing, using masks and ventilation, it will be enough to contain an outbreak by bringing the R number 1. In the case of schools where children are mostly without doses, the effect of lower vaccination rate can be overcome by carrying out 2-3 tests per week, they said.“If the Omicron variant were to reach R0 = 8, it could still be contained with the synergetic measures outlined above,” they said in their report.But there’s a problem if Omicron has an inherent transmissibility like measles, with an R0 of 12 to 18. “In these cases, higher compliances and testing rates or additional measures like general contact reductions would be required,” they added.In other words, more people -- with almost near-complete compliance -- will need to mask up, maintain distancing, be in well-ventilated spaces and, most of all, take doses of vaccines with high efficacy against disease and transmission.Two years after the pandemic, this might seem like a natural conclusion. But Omicron has eroded vaccine efficacy to staggering levels, making protection from symptomatic infection – and thus transmission – below the standard bar of 50% in the case of all vaccines, without boosting.In India, 65% of the adult population has been fully vaccinated and none of them are yet to receive booster doses.And then there is compliance in masking and social distancing, or a stark lack thereof in the country..The variant is up to 70% less likely to lead to hospitalisation. The number is not 100%, which means even a minute risk of hospitalisation is a significant threat for a populous country like India. As the researchers in Germany show, it is now more crucial than ever for the country to adhere to protective measures and boost its vaccination coverage.
05-01-2022||India||Expert panel recommends phase 3 trial for Bharat Biotech’s intranasal vaccine||An expert panel of the central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO) on Tuesday recommended the start of phase 3 clinical trials of Bharat Biotech’s intranasal Covid-19 vaccine, officials aware of developments told HT. The CDSCO’s subject expert committee (SEC) made the recommendation to start phase 3 clinical trials for the vaccine as a booster shot. “It also recommended that Covaxin Intranasal be permitted to go in for phase 3 clinical trial,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity. The intranasal vaccine, BBV154, is a novel adenovirus vectored vaccine for the viral infection, and the company applied to the national drugs regulator to also use it as a booster shot for those who have been vaccinated with either Covaxin or Covishield as the primary dose. Salient features of the intranasal vaccine include stimulating a broad immune response – neutralizing IgG, mucosal IgA, and T cell responses; and immune responses at the site of infection (in the nasal mucosa) – essential for blocking both infection and transmission of Covid-19, according to Bharat Biotech, that is developing the vaccine. The company also says that the nasal route has excellent potential for vaccination due to the organised immune systems of the nasal mucosa. The vaccine is easy to administer as it is non-invasive, needle-free, and does not require trained health care workers. According to an earlier company statement, this intranasal vaccine candidate showed unprecedented levels of protection in mice studies. “Our experience in viral vaccines, manufacturing capabilities, and distribution continues to be our strong suit in ensuring safe, efficacious, and affordable vaccines. It is prudent for Bharat Biotech to be involved in diverse but tenable projects to provide a much-needed vaccine against Covid-19 that reaches all citizens of the world,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech, earlier.
05-01-2022||India||3.7 million children inoculated against Covid-19 on day 2||There were 3.7 million children vaccinated in the 15-18 age group on Tuesday, the second day after they became eligible for doses, the Union government said in a statement.By 10pm on Tuesday, a little over 8.4 million children were given their first doses in all -- translating to 11.3% of the eligible population in this age group being covered.In all, 8.7 million doses were administered between 8am and 8pm on Tuesday, taking the cumulative doses delivered to 1.48 billion since the drive began roughly a year ago. According to the Union government’s Co-WIN dashboard, Uttar Pradesh administered 1,309,645 doses (for all categories), the most across the country, followed by West Bengal, which administered 852,938 vaccine doses, and Maharashtra, which gave out 755,620 shots. In UP, out of the total doses administered, 275,097 were given to teenagers. In West Bengal, between 8am and 10pm, 174,013 doses were administered to the 15-18 years category, while in Maharashtra, 247,467 children were given their first doses. “The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level... The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late tonight,” the statement by the Union health ministry said. In the national capital, on the second day of the vaccination drive, 33,179 children were vaccinated, which was more than Monday’s 20,998. Data shared by Delhi government showed that most teenagers were inoculated in northeast Delhi, with 6,237 first doses being given on Tuesday alone. Southwest district administered 4,402 doses, central Delhi administered 2,028 doses, east Delhi 2,907, New Delhi 2,653 and north Delhi inoculated 1,886 children. A senior official of Delhi government’s health department said that Delhi has made arrangements to vaccinate 300,000 children every day. “We are hoping that the daily vaccination count among children will increase further in the coming days. Most of our centres have been exclusively reserved for children in the 15-18 years age category. In centres where vaccination for general public is on, we have made provisions for a separate entry and exit for this age group, so that it is convenient for them,” the official said.
05-01-2022||India||Two terrorists killed in Kashmir’s Kulgam district||Two terrorists linked to The Resistance Front (TRF), a terror outfit backed by Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), were killed in a gunfight with security forces in Kulgam on Tuesday, a day after a top LeT commander was killed in Srinagar, police said.The police said the two terrorists were involved in several terror crimes. The TRF claimed responsibility for multiple killings of civilians in Jammu & Kashmir last year. The police did not say whether the two terrorists killed on Tuesday were involved in any of these killings.Following a tip-off, a joint team of the police, the Indian Army and the Central Reserve Police Force launched a search operation at Okay village in Kulgam district on Tuesday. The operation turned into a gun battle in which the two local terrorists associated with TRF were killed, the police said.“The two terrorists, who were killed in the encounter, were linked to Lashkar/TRF and were involved in multiple terror crime related activities,” said Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police in Kashmir.The terrorists were identified as Amir Ahmad Wani of Alamgunj in Shopian, and Sameer Ahmad Khan of Tiken in Pulwama. “As per records, Amir Ahmad was a categorised terrorist and had links with terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba. Sameer Ahmad joined the terror fold recently,” a police spokesperson said. Arms and ammunition, including an AK-47 assault rifle and a pistol, were recovered from their possession.On Monday, two terrorists, including LeT commander Saleem Parray from Hajin in Bandipore district, were shot dead in separate gunfights. The other terrorist killed was identified as Hafiz, alias Hamza.The developments come after six terrorists affiliated with Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), including two Pakistani nationals, were killed in two separate encounters in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag and Kulgam districts last week.The Centre told Parliament in November last year that 40 civilians were killed and 72 injured in Jammu and Kashmir in terror-related incidents. Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai also said that 35 personnel of security forces, including Jammu and Kashmir Police, were killed in such incidents till November 15.He said the steps taken by the government to protect civilians included proactive operations against terrorists, identification and arrest of “over ground workers”, action against members of banned organisations and coordination meetings among security agencies.BLURBThe news comes a day after top Lashkar commander Saleem Parray was gunned down during an encounter in Srinagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-district-101641320586432.html
05-01-2022||India||Indian troops celebrate new year at Galwan Valley||Images of Indian soldiers celebrating new year with the national flag at Galwan Valley in Ladakh were released by the security establishment on Tuesday, a riposte to China playing up the hoisting of its flag by troops in the same region amid a dragging standoff. The images of the Indian soldiers were released three days after China’s state-run media extensively reported on new year celebrations by Chinese troops in Galwan Valley, the scene of a brutal clash between troops of the two nations in June 2020 that left 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops dead. Law minister Kiren Rijiju, who belongs to the border state of Arunachal Pradesh claimed by China, tweeted three photos of “brave Indian Army soldiers” in Galwan Valley on new year. He also posted a brief video of himself spending time with troops of the Assam Regiment and Arunachal Scouts near Bomdila in Arunachal Pradesh, where he said the temperature was minus 8°C. The latest images from the Indian side were apparently meant to reflect the army’s continued presence in Galwan Valley following questions raised by opposition parties about propaganda by China’s state-run media. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had asked the Prime Minister to “break the silence” over Chinese “incursions” at Galwan Valley. One of the images showed some 30 Indian soldiers standing near the tricolour. Another showed the group with the flag and another tricolour flying atop what appeared to be an observation post. A flag of the Indian Army’s Dogra Regiment could also be seen above the post. The Indian side had earlier released photos of troops of the two countries exchanging sweets and greetings on new year at 10 points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), including in Ladakh and Sikkim. The videos shared by China’s state media had not been filmed at either the site of the 2020 skirmish or the two-kilometre buffer zone created at Galwan Valley after the clash, which saw troops from both sides fighting each other with rocks, batons and clubs wrapped in barbed wire, people familiar with developments earlier said. China’s state media had played up a video of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers sending new year greetings from Galwan Valley while standing next to a sign painted on a rock that read “Never yield an inch of land”. India-China relations are at an all-time low due to the standoff in Ladakh along the LAC, which began in May 2020. The deaths at Galwan Valley were the first fatalities on the LAC since 1975. India has accused China of amassing tens of thousands of troops on the LAC without any valid reason, attempting to unilaterally alter the status quo and violating several border management agreements. The renaming of 15 locations in Arunachal Pradesh by China last week and new satellite images showing a bridge being built by the Chinese side to connect both banks of the strategic Pangong Lake in Ladakh to facilitate faster troop movements reflect the continuing tensions between the two countries. Such “invented names” would not alter the state’s status as an integral part of India, the external affairs ministry said, responding to the renaming of places in Arunachal Pradesh. Though India and China pulled back frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra last year, they have not been able to move forward with disengagement at several other friction points such as Depsang. The last round of military talks in October ended with the Indian Army saying its “constructive suggestions” were not agreed to by the Chinese side, which is yet to respond on the holding of the next round of talks between army commanders. 
05-01-2022||NA||Breaking news highlights: K'taka reports 149 new Omicron cases||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:K'taka reports 149 new Omicron cases, state tally climbs to 226149 new Omicron cases have been confirmed today taking the overall tally in Karnataka to 226: Karnataka minister Dr K Sudhakar pic.twitter.com/dJi4tReK0KKarnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Tuesday that the state reported 149 new cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 which pushed the tally to 226. Over 54,000 teens in Delhi in 15-17 age group given first vaccine shot: OfficialOver 54,000 teenagers in Delhi belonging to the 15-17 age group have received their first Covid-19 vaccine dose so far, the Directorate of Education said on Tuesday.Karnataka imposes weekend curfew as Covid cases spikeWeekend curfew to be imposed from 10pm of Friday to 5am of Monday in the entire state, in view of rising Covid-19 cases, informs Karnataka minister R Ashoka. “Theaters, malls, pubs and bars are allowed to operate at 50% capacity, no gatherings allowed at public places," he also said.Prince Andrew lawyers say accuser 'waived rights', urge judge to dismiss caseA lawyer for Prince Andrew told a New York judge Tuesday that he should dismiss a sexual assault lawsuit against the British royal because of a settlement his accuser signed in 2009, reports news agency AFP.Andrew Brettler said Virginia Giuffre had "waived her rights" to sue other defendants in relation to alleged sex crimes committed by late disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein.Bihar to impose 10pm-5am night curfew from January 6-21 amid Covid surgeBihar to impose 10pm-5am night curfew from January 6-21 amid nationwide Covid surge. “Night curfew will be imposed from 10 pm to 5 am. Religious places to remain close. Malls, cinemas, clubs, swimming pools, stadiums, gyms, parks will also remain close till Jan 21," reads order.“Pre-school and 1 to 8 classes to remain close, online classes will continue. Educational institutions of classes 9-12 will function on 50% capacity. Restrictions to remain in effect from Jan 6 to 21," the government stated in the order,.West Bengal reports highest-ever single day infectionWest Bengal on Tuesday recorded highest-ever single day infection of 9,073 Covid-19 cases, says health department. The daily death toll was at 16, while the number of recoveries are at 3,768, the government also informed. Randeep Surjewala tests positive for Covid-19 with mild symptomsCongress leader Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19. The Congress general secretary said he got himself tested after experiencing symptoms like mild fever and cold on Monday night. Read MoreMaharashtra reports 18,466 cases of Covid-19 in 24 hoursAs fresh surge sweeps the country, Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 18,466 new cases and 20 deaths today. The number of active cases stands at 66,308. Omicron case tally reaches 653, of these 259 have been discharged.‘Continuously reviewing health infrastructure in all states': Mansukh MandaviyaWe are continuously reviewing the existing health infrastructure and preparedness in all States in the country, says Union Health Minister Dr. Mansukh Mandaviya on the Covid-19 situation, as per ANI.Mumbai reports 10,860 new Covid cases, 2 deaths; active cases now at 47,476Mumbai reports 10,860 fresh infections of Covid-19 and two deaths on Tuesday, according to the health department. The active cases stands at 47,476.West Bengal to allow flights from Mumbai, Delhi on 3 days every week from Jan 5 amid Covid spreadWest Bengal government writes to the Ministry of Civil Aviation informing it of the State govt's decision to allow domestic flights from Mumbai and Delhi only thrice a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 5th January, in view of the current Covid-19 situation.Schools in Pune to remain shut till January 30In Pune, schools to remain shut till January 30, classes from 1 to 8 goes online as Covid spreads.Mossad likely behind bomb attacks on firms linked to Pak nuke programme: ReportIsrael’s intelligence agency Mossad may have been behind a string of bomb attacks in Germany and Switzerland in 1981, targeting companies and individuals that were allegedly linked to Pakistan’s then clandestine nuclear programme, according to a media report. Read More'Bulli Bai' app case accused Vishal Kumar sent to police custody till January 10Bandra court sent 'Bulli Bai' app case accused Vishal Kumar to police custody till January 10. Restraurants, malls, cinema halls to operate at 50% capacity: Amritsar officialBars, cinemas halls, malls, restaurants, spas, AC buses will operate at 50% capacity subject to staff being fully vaccinated. Swimming pools and gyms to remain closed. Only fully vaccinated staff to attend government, private offices, announced Amritsar deputy commissioner in Punjab. Delhi reports 5,481 new Covid cases, 3 deaths; positivity rate rises to 8.37%Delhi reports 5,481 new cases and three deaths, according to the daily health bulletin. The active cases are at 14,889. Positivity rate rises to 8.37%.I assured ‘HIRA' development in Tripura: PM ModiThe previous government had no vision for the state. I had assured 'HIRA' (H-Highways, I- infrastructure, R-Railways, A-Airport) development in Tripura. Work is underway to develop Tripura as a gateway to the northeast, says Prime Minister Modi in Agartala.PM Modi inaugurates airport terminal building in AgartalaPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates new airport terminal building at Maharaja Bir Bikram Airport in Agartala, TripurActivists urge Tesla to close new Xinjiang showroomAmerican activists are appealing to Tesla Inc. to close a new showroom in China’s northwestern region of Xinjiang, where officials are accused of abuses against mostly Muslim ethnic minorities.21-year-old man arrested in 'Bulli Bai' app case identified as Vishal Kumar, main accused a womanIn 'Bulli Bai' app case, the 21-year-old man arrested by Mumbai Police Cyber Cell has been identified as Vishal Kumar. Main accused in the case is a woman detained from Uttarakhand. Both of the accused know each other, reports ANI citing Mumbai Police.Today, Delhi expected to report 5500 Covid cases: JainToday, Delhi is expected to report 5500 Covid cases, with the positivity rate rising to 8.5%, news agency ANI reports Delhi health minister Satyender Jain. Two militants linked with LeT/TRF killed in encounter in J&K's KulgamAs many as two militants, both linked with LeT/TRF and locals, have been killed in the earlier encounter in J&K's Kulgam area.Past govts only worked on ‘don’t look East' but we adopted ‘Act East Policy’: PM Modi in ManipurEven after 75 years of independence, a peak in Andaman & Nicobar Islands was called Mount Harriet. We decided to change it to Mount Manipur. Previous govts only had one policy for North-Eastern states, 'don't look East', but we adopted the Act East Policy for this area: PM Modi pic.twitter.com/PahmhD8vcOAfter inaugurating and laying foundation stone of 22 developmental projects in Manipur on Tuesday, PM Modi said that previous governments in the northeastern state only worked on one policy which was “don't look east” but the BJP government has adopted the “Act East Policy.”DDMA imposes weekend curfew, no non-essential movement allowedThe DDMA has decided to impose weekend curfew in Delhi in which no non-essential movement will be permitted. All government offices, except those dealing with essential services, will work from home. There will be 50% cap on private offices. The move comes amid alarming spike in Covid-19 cases in the city. Read more here.Covid reaching CM not big deal but spreading among people is concern: Delhi health ministerDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has “only mild symptoms” of Covid-19 and that the virus reaching him is “not a big deal,” according to ANI. “But spreading among the people is a matter of concern. We need to be extremely cautious,” he was quoted as saying.DDMA meeting on Covid-19 situation in Delhi beginsThe meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting on the Covid-19 scenario in the national capital commences in virtual format.US sees new daily record of over 1 mn Covid cases in 24 hoursThe United States reported over 1 million Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, setting a global record and doubling the figure from just four days before, Bloomberg reported on Tuesday.Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari tests positive for Covid-19परसों (2 Jan) रात से ही अस्वस्थ महसूस कर रहा था।हल्का बुखार और ज़ुकाम होने के कारण कल उत्तराखंड - रूद्रपुर प्रचार में भी नहीं जा पाया था..टेस्ट में आज पॉज़िटिव आया हूँ..सतर्कता बरतते हुए अपने आप को कल ही isolate कर लिया था. कृपया अपना और अपने परिवार का ध्यान रखें 🙏Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari says he has tested positive for Covid-19.Punjab imposes night curfew from 10pm-5am; closes schools, collegesIn a fresh order issued on January 4, the Punjab government has imposed night curfew from 10pm to 5am in the state and has also shut all education institutions, including schools, colleges, universities and coaching centres. The order will remain in effect till January 15, 2022.China to continue to 'modernise' nuclear arsenal, says foreign ministryChina Tuesday said it will continue to "modernise" its nuclear arsenal and called on the United States and Russia to reduce their stockpiles a day after global powers pledged to prevent such weapons spreading. (AFP)India's Covid-19 case count up by 10.75% with 37,379 new infectionsIndia on Tuesday logged as many as 37,379 fresh cases, which took the overally tally up by 10.75%. The single-day caseload has been on a rise now for seven consecutive days.DCGI's SEC to meet today to examine Bharat's Biotech's application to use its intanasal Covid vaccine as booster jabThe Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) will meet today to examine Bharat Biotech's application for the use of its intranasal Covid-19 vaccine as a booster shot, ANI reported citing sources.Flight services at Patna airport affected due to fogOwing to fog or low visibility at Patna airport, all departures or arrivals and their consequential flights are affected in Bihar and likely to be delayed, ANI reported citing airport authorities.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tests positive for Covid-19I have tested positive for Covid. Mild symptoms. Have isolated myself at home. Those who came in touch wid me in last few days, kindly isolate urself and get urself testedDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter on Tuesday to inform that he has tested positive for Covid-19. He said that he has mild symptoms and have isolated himself at home. “Those who came in touch with me in last few days, kindly isolate yourself and get yourself tested,” the tweet added. Read here.‘Lord Krishna comes to my dream every night saying SP will form government in UP’: Akhilesh Yadav#WATCH | "Lord Sri Krishna comes to my dream every night to tell me that our party is going to form the government,” said Former UP CM and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav yesterday pic.twitter.com/rmq1p8XgwTSamajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said that Lord Sri Krishna to his dream every night to tell him that his party “is going to form the government” in the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, according to a video shared by news agency ANI.At 369, Delhi's AQI is currently in ‘very poor’ categoryDelhi | Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 369 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-IndiaThe Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi on Tuesday morning was recorded at 369 (overall), which is in the 'very poor' category, as per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-live-delhi-s-air-quality-in-very-poor-category-aqi-at-369-currently-101641257602884.html
