06-01-2022||India||Withdraw Covid curbs; will affect trade, livelihood: DK Shivkumar to CM||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar Thursday wrote to Karnataka chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai asking him to withdraw the official government order on closure of bars, pubs, hotels, restaurants and resorts during the weekend curfew from Friday 10pm till Monday 5am throughout the state as it will affect the business, trade and livelihood of lakhs of people. In a letter to the chief minister, copies of which have been released to the media, Shivakumar said that the closure of the hotels, restaurants and other establishments will also affect people depending on them for their food besides seriously affecting the livelihood, business and trade. The letter came after Shivakumar said on Wednesday that the new regulations from the government affect the small business owners in the state. “For the past two years, their condition has been difficult. For their (BJP’s) political gains, because of the grudge they have against us (Congress), they are hurting businessmen. The tourism sector, drivers, street vendors are being targeted. It is as good as them getting murdered, and the government is responsible for it,” Shivakumar has said. Meanwhile, on Thursday, state home minister Araga Jnanedra asked the Congress leaders, to not go ahead with the march. Speaking to the media, he said, “I am asking them to drop the idea or postpone it. Coronavirus is spreading again and their padayatra might cause havoc. If they don’t listen to us or follow the law, we will be forced to enforce it strictly.” The march from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, a distance of around 179 km, will cover 15 Assembly constituencies before culminating with a public meeting at the Basavanagudi grounds in the state capital. Hitting back at Jnanedra, DK Shivakumar said that there was no question of cancelling or postponing the padyatra and the minister was free to do “whatever he wants”. “I know the home minister well. Who is he to threaten us? We are not scared of anyone. We will walk from Cauvery river in Mekedatu to Bengaluru as planned earlier. There will be no violation of Covid-19 guidelines. We are taking all precautions,” Shivakumar said. The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president added that he and the rest of the senior leadership in the party were ready to go to jail but will not back down from taking out the padayatra for the Mekedatu project in violation of the Covid-19 guidelines that has banned all rallies, protests and political events in the state. Meanwhile, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah has said that there is no bar on only two people walking on the road. “Only Shivakumar and I will walk for 10 days. There is no need for our party workers and others to join us. It is organised by the Congress. But we are inviting everyone to join us. We don’t want to go against the rules. But the state government which is scared is using illegal methods to harass us,” the former CM said. Responding to the Congress leaders, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he doesn’t want to respond to the dramatic dialogues of the Congress leaders. “The law is same for everyone… let us set aside DK Shivakumar for now, he is a friend. But Siddaramaiah was the chief minister, now the Opposition leader and a person who was one the guardians of the rule of the law. I hope he will respect the regulations and pandemic laws,” Bommai told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/withdraw-covid-curbs-will-affect-trade-livelihood-dk-shivkumar-to-cm-101641493595166.html
06-01-2022||India||HT THIS DAY: January 7, 2000 — Power breaks down in N. India||New Delhi- A SNAG in the zonal power grid this morning had a cascading effect and left most of northern India in the grip of one of its worst power cuts. Between 10.05 am and 10.30 am, the entire national Capital was “power-dead”. Delhi Vidyut Board officials said the entire network convulsed because of tripping that apparently originated in Dadri. The localised tripping sparked off a “heavy jerk” that resulted in voltage levels sinking abysmally. Generating units and transmission lines on the grid tripped down the line and the frequency came down to 46 hertz from the optimal 50 hertz. Such was the impact of the sub-par frequency, the generating units of Badarpur, IP station and Rajghat in the Capital were rendered non-functional. The gas-turbined part of IP station was the first to recover, about half an hour after it went dead. Power was then prioritised to emergency services such as hospitals. Today’s power breakdown was more widespread and of longer duration than the one that hit the national Capital on December 12 following a similar case of tripping on the Northern Grid. The low frequency today had a snowballing effect on the thermal plants in Panipat and Ropar in Haryana and the hydro-generation power units of Bhakra Beas Management Board. According to officials, though power generation was partially restored at the BBMB plants and the Panipat thermal plant by the evening, the Ropar thermal plant could not be brought back to life even eight hours after it went dead. To add to the woes caused by the power breakdown, Chandigarh experienced its coldest day, with the temperature never topping 10.2 degree Celsius and falling as low as 5.2 degree C during the day. Delhi was relatively better off, with a high of 16 degree and a low of 5.2 degree. Train services on the Delhi-Ambala-Ludhiana-Amritsar-Jammu sector were severely hit by the power failure. Over 20 trains were delayed for over three hours. Electric engines had to be replaced by diesel-powered ones. The normalisation of power supply to Delhi, officials said, was adversely affected by delay in restoration of supply from the Madola sub-station, the national Capital’s single biggest power provider. Over 1,300 of the 1,500 MW of power supplied from the Northern Grid to the Capital is channelled through this sub-station. The generating units at Badarpur took longer and “only three of the five units have been synchronised till now,” DVB officials said, more than eight hours after the crisis began. Senior officers of the Northern Region Load Despatch Centre (NRLDC) held a meeting following the breakdown. The cause of the start of the tripping is being investigated, officials said. DVB officials said they had to resort to loadshedding as there was a shortage of 700 mw during peak-demand hours and about 300 mw otherwise. Powerless with a capital ‘P’•The power breakdown on Thursday proved a great leveller. Even VVIP areas of New Delhi were affected•Traffic lights were on the blink, throwing Delhi’s already stretched roads into disarray•Residents of Ashok Nagar in West Delhi were not impacted by the failure of the Northern Grid. They have not had power for the last 28 hours•Even after many parts of the Capital had power restored in the evening, voltage was so low and this precluded use of most motor-driven and electronic equipment•Long queues were the order of the day in petrol pumps across the Capital. Without electricity, the state-of-the-art pumps were inoperative. Many stations serviced motorists through slow, manual pumps. •The queues were even longer at payment counters of public services, such as MTNL. People waited optimistically for the power to return. The crowing irony: there were long queues at DVB billing counters too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-january-7-2000-power-breaks-down-in-n-india-101641492937738.html
06-01-2022||India||Air India sale: HC scraps Swamy’s plea challenging divestment process||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy’s plea seeking to set aside the Air India disinvestment process, saying that the valuation of the national carrier saw keen competition and was not tailor made or rigged in favour of the Tatas. The court said the plea is “wholly devoid of merit” as the policy decision to disinvest the national carrier was taken after “following transparent procedure through multi-layered decision making”. In October last year, the Centre accepted the highest bid made by a Tata Sons company for 100% equity shares of Air India and Air India Express, along with the government’s 50% stake in ground-handling company AISATS. Claiming that the process was “arbitrary, illegal and against public interest”, Swammy had sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Air India disinvestment process. Swamy had alleged that the entire bidding process was rigged and one of the parties, Tatas, was given undue advantage, a claim vehemently refused both by the Centre and the corporate giant. In his plea filed through advocate Satya Sabharwal, the senior BJP leader submitted that a consortium led by SpiceJet was the other bidder but insolvency proceedings are going on against the airline in the Madras high court. Hence, SpiceJet was not entitled to bid and therefore, effectively there was only one bidder, he alleged. On Thursday, rejecting the Swamy’s argument, a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said that Spicejet Limited was neither a member of the consortium nor an “affiliate” on whose net worth, any of the members of the consortium had relied on, to meet the financial capability criteria of the bidding process. “One of the bidders who submitted the financial bid was a consortium in which the lead member was Ajay Singh, but, in his individual capacity,” the court noted. The court also said that the process of bidding was not tilted towards the Tatas as seven expressions of interest (EOI) were received in December 2020 and two bidders submitted the financial bid in September, 2021. Swamy had also contended that an investigation is ongoing against AirAsia Ltd for breach of Foreign Direct Investment and it has direct and indirect control over Talace Private Limited, a Tata Sons subsidiary that won the bid for acquiring Air India. However, the court dismissed the claim and said that Talace Private Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Tatas and neither of them have any criminal proceedings in connection to AirAsia’s FDI breach. “Both Respondent No 6 (Talace Pvt Ltd) as well as Tata Sons Limited are Indian entities and therefore, no question arises of violation of Foreign Direct Investment Policy, in any event. Moreover, AirAsia (India) Private Limited has no interest in M/s Talace Private Limited, who is the highest bidder,” the court said. It added that no charge sheet has been filed in any criminal proceedings against AirAsia (India) Private Limited or M/s Talace Private Limited or Tata Sons Limited, as on date, in the matter pertaining to AirAsia and accordingly there is no ground for its disqualification. “In fact, in our view, the said petition is wholly irrelevant and unconnected to the present controversy,” the court added. The court said Swamy’s contention that Air India, which was a profitable enterprise until 2004, should not have been privatised neither appeals it nor is even germane to the issue of corruption as the disinvestment process was given in principle approval in 2017. The court said the challenge to the process was “highly belated” as argued by the Tatas. “This was a policy decision by the central government, taken after due deliberations, at various levels and is not open to interference in judicial review by this court… more particularly in the absence of any illegality or arbitrariness being established by the petitioner, in the decision making process..,” the court said. It accepted the submission of Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, who had argued that Air India was incurring losses to the tune of ₹20 crore on a daily basis. “We also find merit in the stand of respondents that they have been working towards closing of the disinvestment process, at the earliest and any further delay shall cause loss to the public exchequer, besides creating uncertainty amongst the existing employees, with regard to their future prospects and it needs no gainsaying that public interest shall be adversely affected,” the court said. The bench said that the apprehension of rigging and corruption in the disinvestment process was based on a news report that the Union government has sought Parliament’s nod to infuse over ₹62,000 crore to its company that holds Air India’s debt, liabilities and some non-core assets, whereas in October, 2021, department of investment and public asset management secretary had stated that net liability on government after Air India’s privatisation amounted to ₹28,844 crore. The court said the article is self-explanatory and indicates the balance amounts due, including interest liabilities towards working capital and aircraft loans, lease rentals, owing to the oil companies and to the Airports Authority of India and does not read in the manner sought to be read by Swamy. The government signed the share purchase agreement with Tata Sons on October 25 last year for the sale of Air India for ₹18,000 crore. The Tatas would pay ₹2,700 crore in cash and take over ₹13,500 crore of the airline’s debt. The Tatas beat the ₹15,100-crore offer from a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of ₹12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100% stake in the loss-making carrier. 
06-01-2022||India||Delhi, Mumbai see massive Covid surge; 'Like Tsunami,' says Tamil Nadu minister | 10 points||Mumbai was hit hard during both waves of the pandemic in 2020 and 2021. But on Thursday, Mumbai reported the highest number of single-day infections with 20,181 cases. Delhi too saw a similar surge as the Capital's positivity rate crossed 15%. However, authorities in both Delhi and Mumbai asserted that there is no need for additional restrictions as the rate of hospitalisation remains low despite the hike in the number of cases.Here are the top 10 developments of the Covid-19 situation and Omicron in India:1. Delhi reported 15,097 fresh cases and Mumbai reported 20,181 new infections on Thursday. Mumbai reported 20,181 new cases, a fresh all-time single-day high. In Delhi's LNJP Hospital, around As many as 20 healthcare workers of Delhi's LNJP hospital tested positive.2. Mumbai municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said Mumbai will not see any further restriction even if the cases are rising as most are asymptomatic and recovering faster.Watch: Top updates of Covid-19 in India3. The Election Commission of India and the top officials of the health ministry met on Thursday to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the impending elections in states.Omicron may be less severe in young and old, but not 'mild': WHO4. The Delta and Omicron variants of the coronavirus were spreading like a 'tsunami' wave in Tamil Nadu, State Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian said on Thursday as the state recorded 6,983 fresh cases5. Odisha on Thursday reported an Omicron-related death though it has not been asserted by the authorities whether the death of a 45-year-old woman could be linked with Omicron as there are some protocols to declare a Covid death.6. The Centre on Thursday asked States and Union Territories to set up control rooms at district and sub-district levels to ensure ease of access to services for Covid management. The Centre also wrote a letter to Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir and Bihar flagging a considerable decline in COVID-19 testing amid rising cases and positivity rate and said it is a "cause of concern"7. Union health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday met healthcare workers admitted at AIIMS. "I personally meet doctors, healthcare workers and asked about their medical conditions," the minister said.8. The Gujarat government has decided to postpone the 10th Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2021 in view of the Covid spread. In a press release, the government said, "Due to the spread of new variant of Coronavirus, Omicron, the Chief Minister, Bhupendra Patel, has decided to postpone to Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2021, which is scheduled from January 10 to 12."9. Karnataka on Thursday recorded 5,031 fresh cases with 4,324 cases from Bengaluru alone. The government has plans to relax Covid restrictions at places with less positivity rates and will review the current containment measures next week.10. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tested Covid positive on Thursday with mild symptoms. Home minister of state Nityanand Rai has also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-mumbai-see-massive-covid-surge-like-tsunami-says-tamil-nadu-minister-10-points-101641489258782.html
06-01-2022||India||Security lapse', 'political gimmick': Who said what on alleged breach during PM's Punjab visit||A war of words has broken out between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress party after Prime Minister Narendra Modi cut short his Punjab over an alleged security breach during his visit to the Ferozepur district on Wednesday.Reacting sharply to the incident, several BJP leaders including Smriti Irani, Union minister Amit Shah have slammed the ruling Congress government led by Charanjit Singh Channi. Meanwhile, several opposition leaders have alleged conspiracy to defame Punjab which is set to hold assembly elections this year.Taking the severity of the incident into consideration, the ministry of external affairs has constituted a panel to probe serious lapses in security during the visit that led to the exposure of VVIP to grave risk. The Punjab government has also announced a two-member committee to probe the incident.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on President Ram Nath Kovind to brief him about the alleged breach. The Supreme Court also took note of the matter.What happened?On Wednesday, PM Modi was scheduled to inaugurate various development projects in the Ferozepur district. During the event, he was also scheduled to address a rally. However, it was cancelled abruptly.According to the statement by the home ministry, the PM landed at Bathinda in the morning from where he was scheduled to go to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala by helicopter before the inauguration event.But the visit got hampered due to the rainy weather and poor visibility, security officials decided to take the road to visit the memorial. This eventually led to PM's convoy being stuck at a flyover for 15-20 minutes as activists of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) blocked the road near village Piareana on Ferozepur-Moga road as part of their protest.Faced with the blockade, the PM's convoy drove back to Bathinda airport, resulting in the event being cancelled.Who is to blame?The central government has blamed the Congress government in Punjab for the breach. Punjab Chief Minister, however, claimed that a last-minute change of travel plans by the PM led to the situation and there was no security threat to him.What do protesting farmers say?On Thursday, the chief of a farmer outfit, which had blocked the route of the convoy in Ferozepur, said his group was told by the district police chief that the Prime Minister would be travelling by this road, but “we thought it was a bluff to get the road vacated," according to a report by ANI. “We initially thought they were bluffing us. The PM will not come. (If he comes) he will come by air as a helipad was set up there,” said Surjeet Singh Phul as per ANI report.Punjab governmentThe Punjab government has denied that a breach of security took place during the incident. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, chief minister Channi also said that according to the initial itinerary of PM Modi's visit, there was no mention of a visit by road. "Elections are near, and it is common for people to block roads. Neither did any attack take place, nor was there any threat. It is wrong to say that the Prime Minister was in danger," he said.CongressTargeting the Prime Minister, the Congress earlier in the day tweeted: "Is it a security lapse for Punjab Chief Minister Channiji? You could also meet the protesting farmers, move forward towards the rally, but you had to create a political gimmick and defame Punjab. But like your black laws, black intentions have collapsed."प्रधानमंत्री जी - क्या ये पंजाब के मुख्यमंत्री चन्नी जी की सुरक्षा में चूक है?आप भी प्रदर्शन कर रहे किसानों से मिल सकते थे, रैली की तरफ आगे बढ़ सकते थे, मगर आपको राजनीतिक हथकंडा रचना था और पंजाब को बदनाम करना था।मगर आपके काले कानूनों की तरह काले मंसूबे भी ध्वस्त हो गए। pic.twitter.com/LPibTb0wydDemand for impartial probeMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Sikkim Chief Minister Prem Singh Tamang were among those who demanded an impartial probe into the turn of events in Punjab on Wednesday.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati said the security lapse during the prime minister's visit to Punjab was "extremely worrisome" and called for a "high-level, impartial probe" to punish the culprits and ensure that such incidents do not recur in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-lapse-political-gimmick-who-said-what-on-alleged-breach-during-pm-s-punjab-visit-101641489214481.html
06-01-2022||India||Odisha woman who died a week after stroke tests positive for Omicron: Official||BHUBANESWAR: A 45-year-old housewife who died in a Bolangir hospital in Odisha on December 27 tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease, a senior Odisha health department official said on Thursday.She is the second person infected with the Omicron variant in the country to have died. A 73-year-old man suffering from multiple co-morbid conditions who died on December 31 was earlier classified as the first death due to the Omicron variant in the country. The Odisha woman died four days earlier.The government is treating the woman’s death to be caused by the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in line with the Supreme Court ruling on Covid-19 deaths that covers anyone dying within 30 days of testing positive for Covid, said Odisha’s director, health services, Dr Bijoy Mohapatra.Bolangir’s chief district medical officer Dr Snehalata Sahu said the woman from Agalpur block was admitted to the Bhima Bhoi Medical College and Hospital on December 20 after suffering a stroke.“After undergoing treatment at the hospital for two days, she was referred to Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research hospital in Burla of Sambalpur district where she tested positive for Covid-19 on December 22. Her swab samples were sent for genome sequencing to Bhubaneswar, but before the results could be known she passed away on December 27,” said Dr Sahu.The Institute of Life Science in Bhubaneswar, which does genome sequencing of Covid, confirmed on Thursday that the woman was infected with the Omicron variant.Odisha has so far confirmed 71 Omicron cases, of which 5 have recovered.Dr Sahu said a health team has been sent to the woman’s house for contract tracing and will collect the swab samples of the family members.“She was asymptomatic and came to the Bolangir hospital for treatment of stroke. However, we are yet to find out whether she died due to heart attack or Omicron infection,” the CDMO said.The confirmation of Odisha’s first Omicron death came on the day the state recorded 1,897 cases, 50% more than the figure reported by the state on Wednesday. The daily positivity rate which was below 1% for most of December has risen to 2.62%.Dr Mohapatra said the State is likely to see a spurt in the Covid-19 growth rate over the next few days. “Omicron variant of the virus is prevalent in most parts of the State. Hence, the number of cases will increase further in Odisha in coming days like all other states of the country,” said Mohapatra.Mohapatra said at least 27 lakh people in the state are yet to get their first shot of the Covid vaccine while around 26 lakh people are yet to get their second dose.Odisha has suspended physical classes in schools across the State up to class 12 from January 7 to February 1. The class 10 summative assessment examination of class 10, which started on Wednesday, will continue.Night curfew from 9pm to 5am has been imposed in all urban centres of the state. A maximum of 100 people will be allowed for marriage receptions, the procession from the groom’s house to the bride’s for the wedding cannot have more than 30 people. Cinema halls will have to run on 50% of capacity while jatra and open-air theatres can operate with only 1,000 spectators. In small shops and roadside outlets, only a maximum of five people will be allowed to stand at a time. Hotels and bars can accommodate guests up to a maximum of 50% of their seating capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-woman-who-died-a-week-after-stroke-tests-positive-for-omicron-official-101641487414309.html
06-01-2022||India||ECI raises election expenditure limit: Here are fresh ceilings for candidates in states, UTs||In a major decision, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced on Thursday it is raising the cap on election expenditure for candidates in case of both assembly and parliamentary constituencies. For assembly constituencies, the ceiling has been increased from ₹20 lakh to ₹28 lakh, and ₹28 lakh to ₹40 lakh, in respective states and Union territories.Also Read | Ahead of assembly polls, ECI raises election expenditure ceiling for candidatesMeanwhile, for parliamentary constituencies, the ceiling has been raised from ₹54 lakh to ₹75 lakh, and ₹70 lakh to ₹95 lakh. A press release from the poll panel stated that the new limits will be in effect for all upcoming elections.
06-01-2022||India||Centre forms 3-member committee to probe into PM Modi's security lapse||The ministry of home affairs on Thursday constituted a three-member committee to probe into the serious lapses in the security arrangement during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Punjab's Ferozepur. The ministry announced that the committee will be led by Sudhir Kumar Saxena, secretary (security), Cabinet Secretariat.The two other members are Balbir Singh, Joint Director, intelligence bureau, and S. Suresh, IG, special protection group (SPG).The committee is advised to submit the report at the earliest, the ministry said.Prime Minister Modi's scheduled visit to National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala and a programme in Ferozepur got cancelled after his convoy was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on Wednesday. The home ministry stated that the convoy was stuck on a flyover around 30 kilometres away from the memorial of freedom fighters as the road was blocked by some protestors."This was a major lapse in the security of the Prime Minister,” the ministry said in a statement following the incident.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has blamed the Congress-led Punjab government over the alleged security breach, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has maintained that there were no lapses in the security. Channi argued that the road was blocked by some unarmed protesting farmers, saying they were no threat to life for PM Modi.A state BJP delegation earlier called on Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit and demanded that deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio, and acting director-general of police Sidharth Chattopadhyaya be sacked immediately over the alleged security lapse.Samyukt Kisan Morcha said in a statement that some affiliated farmer organisations had announced a symbolic protest over the arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni and other outstanding demands. SKM stated that farmers had no concrete information that the PM's convoy was going to pass through the flyover where it got stuck."It's clear from video of the occasion that protesting farmers didn't even make any effort to go towards PM's convoy. Only a group with BJP flag& raising 'Narendra Modi Zindabad' slogan had reached near that convoy. Therefore, threat to the life of PM seems completely concocted," it claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forms-3-member-committee-to-probe-into-pm-modi-s-security-lapse-101641483189509.html
06-01-2022||India||Bulli Bai mastermind Neeraj Bishnoi suspended from college, admits role behind app||Neeraj Bishnoi, the second-year engineering student, who was arrested on Thursday from Assam on charges of creating and conspiring for the Bulli Bai app admitted his role behind the app, the Delhi Police said on Thursday.  Bishnoi wil be presented in Delhi court on Thursday night, cops said. Police said they have acquired technical evidence from his laptop and mobile and with his arrest, the entire network has been busted.During interrogation, Bishnoi disclosed that the app was developed in November 2021 and was updated in December 2021. "He said he created one more Twitter account to talk about the app. Using another account he tweeted 'You've arrested the wrong person'," an official said.Bulli Bai row: 'I am the real mastermind', claims Twitter user; asks police to stop targeting 'innocent' peopleThe Vellore Institute of Technology, Bhopal, where Bishnoi was studying suspended him from the university with immediate effect. "Mr Niraj Bishnoi, 20BCG10103 studying BTech since September 2020 via Online has been arrested by Delhi Police in connection with his alleged involvement in Bulli Bai App. Accordingly, Mr Niraj Bishnoi is suspended with immediate effect from the university until further notice, in view of bringing disrepute to the University and defaming the name of the Institute," said Vice-Chancellor in its order.Bishnoi's arrest also involved a hot chase by the Mumbai and Delhi Police, reports said. The cyber cell of the Mumbai Police, which had made the earlier arrests in connection with the case, set out for Assam but was delayed slightly because of flight time. Meanwhile, the Delhi Police's special cell, which is also probing another complaint in connection with the app, tracked Bishnoi down and rushed to nab him.Bishnoi, who was operating the Twitter handle @giyu94, gave interviews to local media, following which his whereabouts came to light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulli-bai-mastermind-neeraj-bishnoi-suspended-from-college-admits-role-behind-app-101641482907256.html
06-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: India skewers China over letter to MPs, Pangong bridge, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India skewers China over letter to MPs over Tibet meet, Pangong Lake bridgeIndia lashed out at China on Thursday, accusing the Chinese side of building a bridge across Pangong Lake in an area it has illegally occupied for 60 years and describing the tone of a letter sent by a Chinese official to MPs and ministers who attended a meeting on Tibet as unacceptable. Read more…Mamata Banerjee ‘very offended’ as his brother roams around despite wife Covid positiveWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged people to abide by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocol and restrictions imposed by the government to contain the spread of the virus. Speaking to reporters through virtual mode, she also expressed displeasure over her brother roaming around despite his wife testing positive for Covid-19. Read more…West Bengal man behind Ajnala sacrilege, say policeAmritsar Police have identified the man, accused of committing sacrilege at the Jastarwal village of Ajnala sub-division on Wednesday afternoon, as Jedaroll of Malda district in West Bengal. After the incident, Jedaroll stayed inside Gurdwara Nanaksar in the village for at least 25 minutes, before locals detained him and handed him over to the police about 2:30am on Thursday. Read more…Aakash says IND's Wanderers Test star is perfectly filling Hardik's shoesFormer Indian cricketer Aakash Chopra feels that India's Johannesburg Test star Shardul Thakur is perfectly filling up the role of all-rounder Hardik Pandya, who has long been out of action in Test cricket owing to prolonged back injury. Read more…Anushka Sharma’s Bengali accent, dusky complexion in Chakda Xpress make Twitter ‘cringe’Anushka Sharma shared the teaser of Chakda Xpress on Thursday and Twitter has a lot to say. Chakda Xpress, the biopic of cricketer Jhulan Goswami, marks Anushka’s first film in three years - she was last seen in 2018's Zero. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-skewers-china-over-letter-to-mps-pangong-bridge-and-all-the-latest-news-101641480566487.html
06-01-2022||India||Ahead of assembly polls, ECI raises election expenditure ceiling for candidates||Ahead of crucial assembly elections in five states, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced on Thursday it has enhanced election expenditure ceiling for candidates in assembly constituencies from the existing ₹20 lakh to ₹28 lakh, and from ₹28 lakh to 40 lakh, in respective states and Union territories.In case of parliamentary constituencies, the limit has been raised from the current ₹54 lakh to ₹75 lakh, and ₹70 lakh to ₹95 lakh, the poll panel informed, adding that these new figures will be applicable in all the upcoming elections.
06-01-2022||India||India skewers China over letter to MPs over Tibet meet, Pangong Lake bridge||NEW DELHI: India lashed out at China on Thursday, accusing the Chinese side of building a bridge across Pangong Lake in an area it has illegally occupied for 60 years and describing the tone of a letter sent by a Chinese official to MPs and ministers who attended a meeting on Tibet as unacceptable.The external affairs ministry also reiterated its rejection of China’s move to rename 15 locations in the northeastern state of Arunachal Pradesh, saying that instead of engaging in “such antics”, Beijing should work with New Delhi to address the friction points in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The criticism from the Indian side followed the government’s prolonged silence on both the construction of the bridge linking the north and south banks of the strategic Pangong Lake and the Chinese embassy official’s unprecedented action of writing directly to ministers and lawmakers who attended a meeting of the recently revived All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet.WATCH: Tibet govt-in-exile slams China's recent letter to Indian MPsBoth issues had been raised by the opposition, who sought an explanation from the government on the Chinese actions against the backdrop of the standoff on the LAC that is well into its second year. China’s state-run media also played up New Year celebrations by People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops at Galwan Valley, the scene of a brutal clash in June 2020.Also Read: In China moving goalposts, India sees a not-so-new plan to drag Ladakh frictionExternal affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government has been closely monitoring the construction of the bridge on Pangong Lake by the Chinese side. “This bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years now. As you are well aware India has never accepted such illegal occupation,” he told during a regular media briefing.The government has been taking “all necessary steps to ensure that our security interests are fully protected”, Bagchi said. As part of these efforts over the past seven years, the government has been significantly funding for developing border infrastructure and “completed more roads and bridges than ever before”, he said.These actions have provided much-needed connectivity to the local population and logistical support to the armed forces, and the government remains committed to this objective, he said.Recent satellite imagery has shown that the Chinese bridge spanning a narrow section of the 134-km lake is nearly complete. Experts believe it will drastically reduce the time needed by the Chinese side to move troops and equipment from in-depth bases to forward locations near the LAC.Referring to the letter written by the Chinese embassy’s political counsellor to Indian MPs and ministers over their participation in the event focused on Tibet, Bagchi said: “The substance, tone and tenor of the letter are inappropriate. The Chinese side should note that India is a vibrant democracy and [the] MPs, as representatives of the people, undertake activities as per their views and beliefs.”He added, “We expect the Chinese side to refrain from hyping normal activities by [the] MPs and complicate further the situation in our bilateral relations.”The Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile and the India Tibet Coordination Office had organised a dinner reception on December 22 to announce the revival of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet. The meeting was attended by social justice minister Ramdas Athawale, minister of state for skill development Rajeev Chandrasekhar, and nine members of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, including Maneka Gandhi, Jairam Ramesh and Manish Tewari.Subsequently, the Chinese embassy’s political counsellor, Zhou Yongsheng, sent the letter to the MPs and ministers expressing his country’s concern over their participation in the meeting.Also Read: At Line of Actual Control counter China’s belligerence | Editorial“As is known to all, the so-called ‘Tibetan Government in-exile’ is an out-and-out separatist political group and an illegal organization completely in violation of China’s Constitution and laws. It is not recognized by any country in the world. Tibet has been an inseparable part of China since ancient times, and Tibet-related affairs are purely China’s internal affairs that allow no foreign interference,” the strongly worded letter said, adding that the lawmakers should refrain from providing support to “Tibetan independence” forces.Bagchi also referred to the Chinese side naming 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh last week, and described it as a “ridiculous exercise to support untenable territorial claims”.He said, “Calling Tuting as ‘DouDeng’ or river Siyom as ‘XiYueMu’ or even Kibithu as ‘Daba’ does not alter the fact that Arunachal Pradesh has always been and will always remain an inalienable part of India. We hope that instead of engaging in such antics China will work constructively with us to resolve the outstanding friction points in areas along the western sector of the LAC in India-China border areas.”
06-01-2022||India||Mamata Banerjee ‘very offended’ as her brother roams around despite wife Covid positive||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged people to abide by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocol and restrictions imposed by the government to contain the spread of the virus. Speaking to reporters through virtual mode, Banerjee said that all the important government officers, including Kolkata police commissioner Vineet Kumar Goyal, have tested positive for Covid-19. She also expressed displeasure over her brother roaming around despite his wife testing positive for Covid-19."I am very very offended and have asked him not to leave the house from tomorrow," she said.The chief minister stressed that the next 15 days will be “very crucial” in the fight against the virus.“Take proper care of yourself as well as that of your near and dear ones. Try to use gloves, cover your head using a cap and maintain hygiene after returning home. Only then can we save ourselves," she added.Mamata Banerjee directed the police to take stricter measures to enforce the Covid-19 protocol and cautioned that she may opt for further restrictions if the Covid-19 cases continue to increase."We have imposed the restrictions taking into account people's lives and livelihood of the people. But if we see that despite all these restrictions the pandemic is still rising, we may opt in for stricter restrictions".Banerjee informed she will not come to the secretariat on Friday as both her drivers have tested positive, however, she will attend the inauguration of the second campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute via video conferencing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the second campus of CNCI built at a cost of over ₹530 crore, out of which around ₹400 crore has been spent by the Union government and the rest by the West Bengal government.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-very-offended-as-his-brother-roams-around-despite-wife-covid-positive-101641479635515.html
06-01-2022||India||20,181 new Covid-19 cases in Mumbai in highest-ever daily surge, positivity rate nears 30%||Mumbai on Thursday reported 20,181 fresh Covid cases, breaking all records of the first and the second waves of the pandemic. With Thursday's surge, the positivity rate in the city stood at 29.90%. On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 15,166 new infections which was the highest daily count since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020. On Thursday, as it was expected, the daily caseload breached the 20,000-mark. Mumbai's Dharavi, which is Asia's biggest slum area, on Thursday reported 107 fresh infections, which is also the highest in Dharavi since the beginning of the pandemic.On April 4, 2021, Mumbai had logged 11,163 Covid-19 cases, which was the highest daily spike before Wednesday.Will Mumbai see a huge spike in Covid cases in 10 days? What scientists sayMaharashtra reported 36,265 new cases and 13 deaths in the last 24 hours, while the state's Omicron tally reached 876 with 79 additions on Thursday.Though the rise in the number of infections in Maharashtra is alarming, the number of hospitalised patients is still low and that's why there is no immediate plan to impose additional restrictions, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said. “Shutting down local trains is definitely not under consideration. Inter-district restrictions are also not being considered,” the health minister said. However, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar earlier said a lockdown will be necessary if the daily Covid-19 cases in the city cross 20,000.Mumbai's Covid-19 situation in 5 figures17,154 patients out of 20,181 fresh cases reported on Thursday are asymptomatic.70 days is the current doubling rate of Covid in Mumbai, which means the number of infections is getting double in 70 days.502 is the number of sealed buildings in Mumbai, while the number of active containment zones is 32.57 is the number of Omicron cases reported from Mumbai on Thursday.106 patients in Mumbai are on oxygen support||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20181-new-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-in-highest-ever-daily-surge-positivity-rate-nears-30-101641479278268.html
06-01-2022||India||PM Modi to inaugurate second campus of Kolkata's Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday virtually inaugurate the second campus of the Kolkata-based Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in what will be his first programme of any kind since Wednesday's security breach in Punjab, which led to the cancellation of a scheduled rally in Ferozepur.Also Read | PM security breach: Narendra Modi faced outburst of farmers in Punjab, says Navjot Sidhu“At 1pm tomorrow, 7th January, I will join the programme to virtually inaugurate the second campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in Kolkata. This Institute will augment healthcare capacities in Eastern India and in the Northeast,” PM Modi shared on Twitter. At 1 PM tomorrow, 7th January, I will join the programme to inaugurate the second campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in Kolkata. This Institute will augment healthcare capacities in Eastern India and in the Northeast. https://t.co/M853GC1T2bAccording to a statement issued by his office, the institute's second campus has been constructed at a cost of ₹530 crore, of which the Union government and the West Bengal have contributed ₹400 crore and ₹130 crore respectively. The new campus, said the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), has 460 beds, and is equipped with ‘cutting-edge’ infrastructure cancer-diagnosis, staging, treatment and care.Also Read | PM-President meeting: Kovind calls Modi’s security incident a ‘serious lapse’Providing more details on the new complex, the statement also noted that it will feature modern facilities such as Nuclear Medicine (PET), 3.0 Tesla MRI, 128 slice CT Scanner, Radionuclide therapy unit, endoscopy suite, modern brachytherapy units etc.Also Read | Punjab forms high-level panel to probe security lapses during PM Modi's visit“The campus will also work as an advanced cancer research facility and will provide comprehensive care to cancer patients especially those from Eastern and North-Eastern parts of the country,” the statement further said.Also Read | War of words, Channi govt in dock over PM Modi convoy collapseOn January 4, Prime Minister Modi visited the northeastern states of Manipur and Tripura. In Imphal, the capital city of poll-bound Manipur, he launched and laid foundation stone of as many as 22 projects. Then, in Tripura's capital city of Agartala, he inaugurated the integrated terminal of the city's Maharaja Bir Bikram (MBB) Airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-second-campus-of-kolkata-s-chittaranjan-national-cancer-institute-101641478231904.html
06-01-2022||India||The growing rift between the BJP and its Matua leaders||Kolkata: In the latest sign of problems within the BJP in West Bengal, the Union minister of state for ports, shipping, and waterways Shantanu Thakur quit the WhatsApp groups of the party’s state units earlier this week. This comes days after at least five other BJP legislators from the districts of North 24 Parganas and Nadia quit the party’s WhatsApp group for its legislators. The included Asok Kirtania, BJP MLA from Bongaon North, Subrata Thakur from Gaighata, Asim Sarkar from Haringhata, Ambica Roy from Kalyani and Mukutmoni Adhikari from Ranaghat South.
06-01-2022||India||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot tests positive for Covid-19||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "This evening, I got my Covid test done, which has come positive. I have very mild symptoms and no other problems," tweeted the senior Congress leader.Gehlot also asked people who came in contact with him in recent times to isolate and get their Covid-19 test done. "All the people who came in contact with me today are requested to isolate themselves and get their Covid19 test done," he wrote.This is the second time that the chief minister has been diagnosed with Covid-19. During the second wave in April, Gehlot had tested positive for the viral infection.On Thursday, the chief minister spoke about his post Covid recovery and asked people to remain cautious in a series of tweets. "According to the doctors, one of the reasons for the problem related to the artery blockage I had in August 2021 is also the post covid problem," he said. "Therefore, taking Omicron also seriously, follow the Kovid protocol and get both doses of the vaccine," he added"There is a belief among the general public that the Omicron variant of Corona is not fatal, so people are being careless. Experts are of the opinion that post covid problems after recovery from Omicron can be as severe as the earlier variants," he also said.Earlier in the day, his son and Congress leader Vaibhav Gehlot tested positive for Covid-19. He is asymptomatic and taking rest at home adopting all Covid-19 protocols, according to doctor's advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-tests-positive-for-covid19-101641475893260.html
06-01-2022||India||‘Area under illegal occupation for 60 years’: India on Chinese bridge over Pangong Lake||The central government on Thursday said it is closely monitoring the construction of a new bridge by China over Pangong Lake and is taking necessary steps to ensure that India’s security interests are protected. The spokesperson for the ministry of external affairs told a regular press briefing that the bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years.HT earlier reported on the emergence of satellite images showing the construction of a new bridge by the Chinese side linking the north and south banks of Pangong Lake. The bridge over the narrow section of the 134 km lake is reported to be almost complete and is expected to enhance the road connectivity for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).“Government of India monitoring this closely. This bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years. The government is taking steps to ensure our security interests are protected,” MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.The ministry also dismissed the reports of Chinese soldiers hoisting its national flag in Galwan Valley as “factually incorrect”. Chinese state media earlier posted videos of PLA soldiers hoisting their national flag at an unknown location, claiming it was Galwan Valley.“Media houses in India have released pictures contradicting the claim,” Bagchi said.The ministry also flagged the tone and tenor of a letter by the Chinese embassy to Indian lawmakers over their participation in an event hosted by the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile. The Chinese embassy had asked some of the members of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet to refrain from providing support to Tibetan forces.“The substance, tone and tenor of the letter are inappropriate. The Chinese side should note that India is a vibrant democracy and Indian MPs as representatives of people undertake activities as per their beliefs,” Bagchi said.“We expect the Chinese side to refrain from hyping the normal activities by Indian MPs and complicate further the situation in our bilateral relations,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/area-under-illegal-occupation-for-60-years-india-on-chinese-bridge-over-pangong-lake-101641472744356.html
06-01-2022||India||Centre asks states, UTs to set up control rooms for Covid management: All you need to know||The Centre on Thursday wrote to the governments of all states and union territories, asking them to set up district, sub-district control rooms for Covid-19 management. According to the release, the governments are required to ensure that these control rooms are adequately staffed with necessary medical staff including doctors, counsellors and volunteers. It shall also be equipped with ample phone lines to cater to the assigned population, the government stated in the release.The notice comes as the country is witnessing exponential growth in the daily Covid-19 cases, led by the highly transmissible Omicron variant. On Thursday, the country reported as many as 90,928 cases of infection in the last 24 hours. It is a growth of more than 50 per cent than the previous day when there were over 57,000 cases."Enabling infrastructure in terms of computers and broadband must be provided to the control rooms for uninterrupted connectivity," the government also stated, while listing out instructions for the control rooms.One of the core responsibilities of these control rooms will be to collate the daily status report of all patients under home isolation in their jurisdiction and submit the same to the district administration.The respective governments are also directed to assign nodal officers for different levels of control who can be in touch with each other at all times and provide seamless services to citizens, according to the release.Depending on the caseload, the control rooms shall remain functional round the clock to provide guidance and support to the patients, as per the release.Here are key things to know about the Control rooms:> Control rooms to have real-time data on the availability of Covid testing centres, ambulances and shall be able to guide the caller on the process for availing these services.> Control rooms would also monitor the availability of different types of beds across the assigned health facilities. The staff will also counsel the patients to avail the required services based on clinical symptoms and availability of beds.> The rooms will also ensure a clear and transparent mechanism for the allotment of beds to the patients.> Dedicated ambulances will also be allotted to each control room based on area caseload for transportation of patients, as per the need.> The control rooms shall also be responsible to make outbound calls to the patients under home isolation for regular monitoring of their status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-uts-to-set-up-control-rooms-for-covid-management-all-you-need-to-know-101641473004427.html
06-01-2022||India||Video of Jawed Habib spitting on woman's hair goes viral, Women's commission takes note||A video of celebrity hairstylist Jawed Habib using his spit to style a woman's hair during a workshop has gone viral on Twitter inviting sharp criticism. The National Commission for Women on Thursday said it has taken cognisance of the incident and chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to UP DGP to immediately investigate the veracity of the viral video and take appropriate action."@NCWIndia has taken cognizance of the incident. Chairperson @sharmarekha has written to @dgpup to immediately investigate the veracity of this viral video and take appropriate action. The action taken must be apprised to the Commission at the earliest," it said in a tweet.The workshop took place in Uttar Pradesh's Muzzaffarnagar. HT Online did not independently verify the authenticity of the viral video. This video is too disgusting to post. But I think this should reach everyone! Shame on you #JavedHabib pic.twitter.com/aP9HJjYiJ9In the vial video, Jawed Habib can be seen using his saliva as he was parting the hair of the woman and said, 'If you don't have water...this spit has life." There were instant reactions from the audience which, however, turned into thunderous applause. Another video of the woman recounting the experience has also surfaced on social media. In that video, she identified herself as Pooja Gupta, an owner of a beauty parlour. "Yesterday I attended a workshop of Jawed Habib sir. There he invited me on the stage to give me a haircut and he misbehaved with me. He said if there is no water in your parlour, you can use spit. I did not get my haircut. It's better I will go to my streetside barber and get a hair cut, but won't go to Habib's," Pooja Gupta said. In an interview to TV channels, the woman said, "I attended the workshop to learn something. But he was not answering my questions. Then he called me to the stage to teach hair cutting. He pushed my head, I objected and said I have cervical issues. Then he spat twice on my hair and said that if you don't have water in your parlour then you can spit. My husband was making the video. After I came down from the stage, Habib's assistant said he was just joking."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-jawed-habib-spitting-on-woman-s-hair-goes-viral-women-s-commission-takes-note-101641471514497.html
06-01-2022||India||As Telangana Police's FRT runs into legal issues, the larger debate around tech||The use of facial recognition technology by the Telangana police as part of their smart policing mission, reportedly to profile criminals and keep a watch on their activities has now come under legal scrutiny.
06-01-2022||India||In China moving goalposts, India sees a not-so-new plan to drag Ladakh friction||NEW DELHI: India and China have been unable to agree on a date for the next round of military talks on disengagement and de-escalation in Ladakh sector because of Beijing’s steadfast opposition to New Delhi’s proposal that all remaining friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) be handled in one go.Since the 13th round of talks between senior military commanders of the two sides was held at the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on October 10 last year, the Indian side has sent several proposals for the next round of talks along with agenda items, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.In these proposals, the Indian side maintained that all friction points between Depsang and Chumar should be collectively tackled in the talks between the military commanders so that there can be comprehensive disengagement and de-escalation in the Ladakh sector of the LAC, the people said.“The Chinese are not agreeing to this. Their response to every proposal from the Indian side has been different. Their goalposts keep changing and we aren’t even sure which of their proposals should be taken seriously,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Beijing’s dithering has continued despite a decision at the last meeting of the India-China Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on November 18 that the 14th round talks between military commanders should be held at “an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC...in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols”.At the 13th round of talks between military commanders, the people said, the two sides were close to forward movement on disengagement at Hot Spring. However, the Chinese side was represented by the deputy to the corps commander, who stayed away, and the deputy was not authorised to make a decision, the people added.A statement issued by India after the last talks had noted that “the Indian side...made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”.These tactics adopted by China, coupled with mounting evidence of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) beefing up infrastructure, roads, bridges, helipads, dual-use airports and missile and air defence positions on its side in Ladakh sector, has forced the Indian security establishment to conclude that the Chinese side is not serious about the negotiations.“They seem intent on dragging this process out. They aren’t serious about disengagement,” a second person said, referring to the Chinese side’s responses to the agenda items communicated by the Indian side.Tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have dug in for the second successive winter in the Ladakh sector, with no immediate signs of an end to the standoff that began in May 2020 and resulted in the first fatalities along the LAC since 1975. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020.The two sides withdrew frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra last year after several rounds of talks, but there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August 2021. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff.The latest evidence of the PLA settling in for thelong haul was satellite imagery showing a new bridge being built to link the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in order to drastically cut down the time needed to deploy large numbers of troops from positions in depth to key friction points. The Chinese side has also built or improved roads and bridges in multiple sectors, including repaving existing roads constructing alternate routes.India China friction pointsThe area between Depsang and Chumar has several friction points. PLA troops have sought to block Indian patrols for more than two years in the strategic Depsang region, some 30 km south of Daulat Beg Oldi, which is home to a key airbase. Depsang also witnessed a three-week-long standoff in 2013.At Chumar, the key problem has been Chinese construction activities around Chepzi-Chumar road. This area too witnessed a brief face-off in 2014 that began on the eve of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to India.Another friction point is Demchok, which too witnessed a standoff in November 2016.
06-01-2022||India||Cabinet approves MoU between India, Nepal for bridge construction over Mahakali river||The Union Cabinet on Thursday approved phase 2 of the green energy corridor under an intra-state transmission system to facilitate grid integration and power evacuation of approximately 20 gigawatts of renewable energy projects in 7 states. The scheme is expected to help achieve the target of 450 GW installed renewable energy capacity by 2030 and contribute to the long term energy security of the country.“This scheme will add approximately 10,750 circuit kilometres of transmission lines and approx. 27,500 Mega Volt-Amperes transformation capacity of substations,” Union minister Anurag Thakur told a media briefing.With central financial assistance at 33% of project cost, the total estimated cost of phase 2 of the project is ₹12,031 crore. Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Rajashthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh will be covered under this phase.Thakur also informed about the approval of a memorandum of understanding which will be signed between India and Nepal to construct a bridge over River Mahakali. The minister stressed that the bridge will help the people living in Uttarakhand’s Dharchula and in the area under Nepal territory.CCS takes up PM security breach in Punjab, Prime Minister meets PresidentThe Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) also met Thursday where the issue of a security lapse during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Punjab was taken up, according to people familiar with the development.When asked to comment on the incident, Thakur said there was a big lapse in the security of the prime minister, adding that some people have gone to the Supreme Court, the ministry of home affairs has also sought a report.“Everyone has seen the big security breach. I will just say that some people have gone to Supreme Court, the home ministry is also inquiring and will take big, tough decisions. All the steps that need to be taken will be taken,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-mou-between-india-nepal-for-bridge-construction-over-mahakali-river-101641468315500.html
06-01-2022||India||Will Mumbai see a huge spike in Covid cases in 10 days? What scientists say||Mumbai is expected to cross 20,000 Covid cases on Thursday, Maharashtra Covid task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said urging the citizens to mask up and avoid unnecessary travel. India is seeing an exponential rise in the number of daily Covid infections, contributed by the huge spike being recorded by the states. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 26,538 fresh Covid cases; the tally in Mumbai was 15,166. The city is likely to add around 20,000 cases on Thursday, Dr Joshi said on his social media. Mumbai expected to cross 20k cases today ,stay home if not essential ,properly mask and stay connected with your doctor if symptomatic. Be Vigilant ,Be Alert Stay Safe .Most cases are still mild 🙏Protect the vulnerables🙏Be Responsible 🙏Analysing the case trajectory of Mumbai, IIT professor Manindra Agarwal said the current parameter values suggest that a peak is going to take place around January 15, which is around 10 days away. "Need to wait for a few more days for parameters to stabilise (of course, if lockdowns are imposed, it will change the parameters again)," Agarwal wrote on his social media. According to his projection, Mumbai will record over 25,000 daily infections between January 15 and January 20. In the last week of January, the curve will start to be flattened and in the middle of February, the number of cases will again go below 5,000. Agarwal, however, said India's trajectory is rising faster than it was projected earlier.Also Read: Maharashtra won't see 100% lockdown as of now, says health minister Current parameter values suggest a peak around 15th Jan. Need to wait for a few more days for parameters to stabilize (of course, if lockdowns are imposed, it will change the parameters again). pic.twitter.com/5QVqz5RmtKThe threats of more restrictions in Mumbai loom large as cases are now projected to reach beyond 20,000. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday said a lockdown will be necessary if the daily Covid-19 cases in the city cross 20,000. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said 100% lockdown is not required in the state as hospitalisation has not gone up.Maharashtra health department on Thursday said there is no consideration of lockdown as of now. Further lockdown-like restrictions will be considered only if the medical oxygen demand goes beyond 800 metric tonnes per day.The Union health ministry has noted that the increase of Covid-19 cases in the country is exponential with Omicron emerging as the dominant strain in cities.Scientists and experts are saying that the coming few weeks are crucial. As seen in other countries, the Omicron-driven surge is not staying for long. Since a surge has already begun in India, experts think it will peak in the coming two weeks and then will gradually die down.Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said, "In Denmark, the UK and South Africa, cases started declining within a month or a month and a half. We cannot say this clearly for our population. How it behaves will depend on past infections, the vaccination status and our own characteristics and population density. It cannot be extrapolated that just like the cases behaved there within a month, it will happen here also.""Saying it at this stage that it will go on till which point and for how long will be premature. If any scientific data comes, we will share it. I would not venture into that except to say that like the previous waves, different parts of our nation will be in different stages. It starts in some states and then goes on and on. We are watching the dynamics of the pandemic carefully," Dr Paul added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-mumbai-see-a-huge-spike-in-covid-cases-in-10-days-what-scientists-say-101641468590224.html
06-01-2022||India||Mamata to meet PM Modi on Friday as Covid-19 situation worsens||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday to discuss the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country. A possible third wave of the Covid-19 has gripped the country with the number of daily cases rising exponentially.On Thursday, the country logged more than 90,000 cases, a rise of over 50 per cent in the last 24 hours. Along with the national capital and Maharashtra, West Bengal is among states of concern.According to the state health department, 2,075 Covid-19 patients were hospitalised in West Bengal. A total of 403 containment zones have also been detected in the state, with the positivity rate surging to 23.17 per cent.The fatality rate has climbed to 1.18 per cent, Banerjee also informed as she announced about the meeting with the Prime Minister.The state government also made a negative RT-PCR report for interstate border area movement. Speaking on the Covid surge, Banerjee also said, "Next 15 days are important." The state government will also increase restrictions, she also informed.The state's Covid-19 tally climbed to 16,78,323 on Wednesday after the state logged 14,022 fresh cases, according to the health department.Out of the fresh cases, Kolkata accounted for 6,170 new infections. It is followed by North 24 Parganas at 2,540 and Howrah at 1,280. With 17 fresh fatalities, the death toll mounted to 19,827, a bulletin issued by the health department said.The state now has 33,042 active cases, while 6,438 patients were discharged since Tuesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 16,25,454.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-to-meet-pm-modi-on-friday-as-covid-19-situation-worsens-101641468601632.html
06-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Congress MP wants sitting HC judge to probe PM Modi's security breach, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM security breach: Congress MP Manish Tewari seeks probe by sitting HC judgeAnandpur Sahib Congress MP Manish Tewari on Thursday sought a probe into the entire sequence of events by a sitting judge of the high court to establish the facts. Read moreUP govt renames Sainik School after General Bipin RawatThe Mainpuri-based school, one of three in the state, will now be known as ‘General Bipin Rawat Sainik School,’ the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. Read more'I am certain Dravid must have given him a 'bamboo'': Gavaskar tears into Pant again, says 'that's not the way to play'Sunil Gavaskar has added to his criticism of Rishabh Pant, once again pointing out his dismissal during India's second innings against South Africa on Day 3 in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Read moreWhen 17-year-old Karisma Kapoor was asked about women of Kapoor family not working in filmsKarisma Kapoor was just 17 when she faced the camera for the first time without ever giving a screen test. She was also the first daughter of the Kapoor family to join the film industry. Read moreDeepika Padukone's perfect fitness routine is our midweek inspoDeepika Padukone celebrated her 36th birthday on Wednesday. Wishes and appreciations for the actor poured from all parts of the world. Read moreSkoda Enyaq electric vehicle to make India debut in 2023 as FBUSkoda has its eyes firmly set on the electric mobility space in the country and has revealed that the Enyaq will arrive here in 2023 as Fully Built Unit (FBU). &lt;strong&gt;Read more&lt;/strong&gt;Explore the Monkey Head Nebula with Nasa’s visualisation videoNasa often takes to their Instagram page to share various kinds of visualisation videos. Just like their latest share that showcases Monkey Head Nebula. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-mp-wants-sitting-hc-judge-to-probe-pm-modi-s-security-breach-and-all-the-latest-news-101641462581799.html
06-01-2022||India||No need to shut schools yet, says Kerala minister as Omicron count reaches 280||Amid growing threat of new Covid-19 variant Omicron, Kerala education minister V Sivankutty on Thursday said there is no plan to shut schools now. He said the government is in constant touch with experts and will go by their recommendations. “We are closely monitoring the situation. As of now, there is no need to shut schools and colleges. The government will go by the advice of the core committee on pandemic and experts’ opinion,” he said in the state capital. After neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka tightened measures to check the spread of the new variant, there was pressure on Kerala as well. Experts last week said night curfew would not do any good in Kerala as travel and movement during night hours was limited in the state. On Thursday, the country witnessed a big jump in Omicron cases with highest single-day rise of 495, taking the total number of cases to 2630. Maharashtra topped with 797 cases, Delhi 465, Rajasthan 236 and Kerala 234. The country also reported highest number of new coronavirus cases on Thursday, 90,928, the highest in six months. On Thursday, the state reported 50 new cases of Omicron taking the total to 280. This is the highest single-day tally since the first case of Omicron was reported on December 7. Of the new cases, 45 came from at-risk countries and 5 came from low- risk countries, said the minister. Among new cases, 18 are reported from Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram 8 and Pathanamthitta 7 cases. Among the 50 new cases, the maximum (13) came from the United Arab Emirates. The minister asked people to continue to be careful. “The time is not right to lower our vigil. We have to ensure Covid-appropriate behavior strictly,” said the minister adding the state is well prepared with enough oxygen stock and beds. Experts have warned that Omicron cases would peak in the state in two months.The government said it has taken enough precautions to meet the exigency. At least 98.6% of eligible population received the first dose of vaccine and 78% have received both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-shut-schools-yet-says-kerala-minister-as-omicron-count-reaches-280-101641468031766.html
06-01-2022||India||160 passengers on chartered flight from Rome tested in Amritsar. 125 are Covid+ve||NEW DELHI: Nearly 80% of the 160 passengers on a chartered flight from Rome who were tested after landing in Amritsar have tested positive for the coronavirus disease, airport officials at the Amritsar airport said.The flight, which took off from Rome with a stopover at Georgia capital Tiblisi for refuelling, landed at Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, at 11.20am on Thursday with 179 passengers. There were 19 children below the age of five on the flight. Children under 5 years of age are exempted from post-arrival testing, according to the union health ministry guidelines on international travel.An airport official said the 160 remaining passengers this flight were tested for Covid-19 using the RT-PCR test at the airport.“160 passengers were tested after arrival out of which 125 of them have tested positive.” one official at Amritsar airport said.“These 125 passengers of the chartered flight are being sent for institutional quarantine in their respective districts,” said VK Seth, airport director of Amritsar airport.Initial reports of the large number of passengers testing positive for Covid-19 suggested the plane was operated by Air India. The airline rebutted this version. “Several media houses has reported that passengers of Air India flight from Rome to Amritsar have been tested Covid positive. This is wrong and baseless. Air India doesn’t operate any flight from Rome currently,” Air India tweeted. An airline official said Air India hasn’t operated on this route for months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/160-passengers-on-chartered-flight-from-rome-tested-in-amritsar-125-are-covidve-101641467252016.html
06-01-2022||India||'Cannot afford doctors falling sick': AIIMS doctor as Covid spreads among medics||As the national capital is in the grip of a fresh surge, a large number of doctors and paramedics are testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). A doctor from Delhi's All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Thursday also raised concerns on the same, saying that the capital city "cannot handle" the burden of overwhelmed medical staff."Say, we have 25 million (people) in Delhi, even if 1% hospitalised, Delhi NCR cannot handle it," Dr P Sarat Chandra, professor of neurology at AIIMS, was quoted as saying by ANI. "We cannot have a double jeopardy of health care workers also collapsing," he added.Stressing on the need to protect our healthcare workers, Dr Chandra said in his unit "almost 50 per cent residents are sick, they have mild symptoms, but they have not been able to work...We cannot afford doctors falling sick." "They (medical staff) have to take full precautions because they are the frontline soldiers," Dr Chandra stressed.Further speaking, the professor urged everyone to actively follow health protocol to curb the rapidly spreading infection. "Even if 1 per cent of the population requires hospitalisation, it would be a huge number. So it's our responsibility to not let our guards down thinking it's a mild infection," he also said, as per the ANI report.Over a score of medical staff in Delhi have tested positive for viral infections over the last few weeks, according to a report by news agency ANI. In AIIMS, at least 50 doctors have tested Covid positive, while 26 others have been diagnosed with the disease at the Safdarjung Hospital.In Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, forty-five healthcare workers, including 38 doctors, have contracted Covid in the last few days, ANI reported quoting officials.At the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital at least 20 doctors have contracted Covid while at the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital it is seven, according to the report.Meanwhile, in view of the alarming spike in daily Covid cases, the Delhi government on Wednesday increased the number of beds at nine hospitals. The city now has a total of 4,350 Covid beds. It is increased from 3,316, according to the order by Delhi's health and family welfare department.The list includes India Gandhi Hospital, Lok Nayak Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Burari Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, Ambedkar Nagar Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-afford-doctors-falling-sick-aiims-doctor-as-covid-spreads-among-medics-101641465643530.html
06-01-2022||India||Manipur attack: Cash rewards for info leading to arrest of 10 insurgents||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has announced cash rewards ranging from ₹4 lakh to ₹8 lakh for information that leads to the arrest of 10 insurgents involved in the terrorist attack in Manipur that left five Assam Rifles personnel, including a colonel, his wife and child dead in November.Colonel Viplav Tripathi, the commanding officer of the 46 Assam Rifles, and his team were returning from the Behiang border post and heading to the battalion headquarters at Khuga when the insurgents affiliated to People’s Liberation Army and Manipur Naga People’s Front attacked them.An NIA spokesperson said the bounty of ₹8 lakh was announced for Chaoyai alias Pukhrambam Mani Meetei and Sagolsem Inaocha alias Ranjit Naorem and ₹6 lakhs for Sanatomba. ₹4 lakh each was announced for Khaba, Khwairakpa, Nongyai alias Nongphai, Joseph, Rocky, Balin, and Kanta. The 10 are from Manipur and are currently in hiding.The NIA, which took over the probe in the case on November 27, in a statement, said: “If any person is having any information of importance on the suspects leading to their arrest or apprehension, the information may be shared on numbers and email-address as NIA.” It said the name of the informant will be kept secret.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-attack-cash-rewards-for-info-leading-to-arrest-of-10-insurgents-101641465152151.html
06-01-2022||India||Keeping up with UP | The silence of Mayawati||Mayawati, the daughter of Prabhudas, a clerk in the Post and Telegraph Department and Ramrati, a housewife, once dreamt of becoming a bureaucrat. Soon those personal ambitions were to change, around the time she met a man named Kanshi Ram. At the time, Kanshi Ram was struggling to unite the ‘Bahujan Samaj’ under the banner of All India Backward (SC, ST and OBCs) and Minorities Communities Employees' Federation (BAMCEF) he had floated in 1973.
06-01-2022||India||125 passengers of Italy-Amritsar flight test Covid positive||A total of 125 passengers flying from Italy to Amritsar have tested Covid positive on arrival at Amritsar airport. The flight had 179 passengers on board. This comes amid heightened testing at all airports across the country, especially those that receive international passengers. India earlier identified several countries as ‘at risk’ in the wake of the outbreak of Omicron. Italy was one of them.Airport director VK Seth has confirmed the number of passengers who were found Covid positive on Thursday.  The flight was a chartered flight though earlier it was reported that it belonged to Air India. "Several Media houses have reported that Passengers of Air India flight from Rome to Amritsar have been tested covid positive. This is wrong and baseless. Air India doesn't operate any flight from Rome currently," Air India tweeted.The Centre on Thursday wrote to 9 states and UTs to step up testing as the country is battling possible a fresh wave of the pandemic. Punjab is one of the states where insufficient testing has been flagged.On Thursday, India recorded the biggest single-day jump of 495 Omicron cases, taking the total tally of the new variant to 2,630, according to the health ministry data. Health ministry officials have said that in bigger cities Omicron has become the predominant strain.So many passengers testing positive like a cluster outbreak throw a major challenge for the airport officials.In Mumbai, hundreds of passengers on board the Cordelia cruise ship that returned from Goa tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/125-passengers-of-air-india-s-italy-amritsar-flight-test-covid-positive-101641462073648.html
06-01-2022||India||‘Should Congress be forgiven?’: Rajnath Singh on PM's security lapse in Punjab||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday addressed a public rally in Uttarakhand, where he asked if the Congress party should be forgiven for “serious lapses” in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security when the latter was on a visit to Punjab. Pointing out that the Prime Minister is a key representative of the country, the defence minister said that such lapses in his security have to be considered a serious matter.“In Punjab, there were lapses in the Prime Minister's security,” said Rajnath Singh during the ‘Vijay Sankalp Yatra’ in Uttarakhand. “Yet the Congress is talking nonsense. The Prime Minister is a representative of the country; such lapses in his security are a serious matter.”The defence minister addressed the crowd gathered at the public rally and asked, “I want to ask you whether Congress should be forgiven for this.”पंजाब में प्रधानमंत्री की सुरक्षा में चूक हुई, मगर कांग्रेस के द्वारा अनाप-शनाप बातें की जा रही है। प्रधानमंत्री देश का प्रतिनिधि होता है, उसकी सुरक्षा में चूक हो जाना गंभीर मामला है। मैं आपसे पूछना चाहता हूँ कि क्या ऐसी कांग्रेस को माफ़ किया जाना चाहिए। श्री @rajnathsingh जी pic.twitter.com/6aUm3ytwheFurther pointing out the grave nature of the security lapses, Rajnath Singh said, “The Prime Minister of India is not a person, he is an institution. Everyone should be respectful of this institution.”“In a democracy, if such an institution becomes weak, it means that the democracy is on the way towards destruction,” he added.The Punjab government on Thursday formed a two-membered high-level committee to probe the alleged security lapses during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the state on Wednesday. According to an official release issued by the Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's office, the panel would comprise Justice (Retd.) Mehtab Singh Gill and Anurag Verma, the principal secretary of home affairs and justice.A senior official of the Union ministry of home affairs, cited by the ANI news agency, had claimed earlier that despite having prior intelligence inputs about protesters blocking the road during Prime Minister Modi's visit, the Punjab Police did not follow the ‘Blue Book’ of security protocols.“This was a major lapse in the security of the Prime Minister,” read a statement issued by the home ministry. “The Prime Minister's schedule and travel plan were communicated well in advance to the Punjab government. As per procedure, they have to make necessary arrangements for logistics, security as well as keep a contingency plan ready.”The MHA has demanded a detailed report in this regard from intelligence agencies and is seeking details of deployment, picket, rooftop deployment, barricades, and other security measures taken by Punjab Police during the Prime Minister's visit, the senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-congress-be-forgiven-rajnath-singh-on-pm-s-security-lapse-in-punjab-101641459713800.html
06-01-2022||India||Singapore jails 3 Indian students in transnational money mule syndicate case||Three Indian nationals, who had initially come to Singapore to study, were sentenced to prison for participating in a transnational money mule syndicate that was perpetrating "tech support scams," a media report said.On Wednesday, Nandi Niladri, 24, was handed the stiffest sentence of 18 months in prison, after he pleaded guilty to three charges under the Payment Services Act and one count of obstructing the court of justice, the Straits Times newspaper reported.Niladri had dealt with cash to the tune of SGD 30,500.Another man, Akash Deep Singh, 23, who dealt with cash totalling more than SGD 118,000, pleaded guilty to three charges, including an offence under the Act, and was sentenced to a year in jail, the report said.The third offender, Giri Debjit, 24, was sentenced to seven months' jail after he pleaded guilty to two charges, including an offence under the Act.He had received multiple inward transfers totalling more than SGD 61,000, it said.Giri and Nandi came to Singapore to study in 2019, while Akash arrived the following year. Court documents, however, did not disclose details of the colleges they were studying in.The trio were the last offenders linked to the case to be dealt with in court.Their accomplices, including Tirth Singh, 22; Tenzing Ugyen Lama Sherpa, 23; Mukherjee Sukanya, 24; and Jaspreet Singh, 26, were handed sentences by the court earlier, the report said.According to a statement from the Singapore Police Force, the group faced charges linked to the retention of proceeds by a transnational criminal syndicate that was perpetrating "tech support scams".In 2020, Tenzing introduced Giri and Nandi to a money laundering scheme in which participants were allowed access to their bank accounts to receive cash."(Nandi) was instructed to recruit individuals who were willing to use their bank accounts to receive monies as coordinated by (people known as) 'Sandeep Jha' and 'Aman Kumar'. (Nandi) was promised a commission of 2 per cent of the monies received (and he) agreed," Deputy Public Prosecutor Matthew Choo said.Sometime in August 2020, Akash overheard three of his housemates discussing and came onboard.Nandi, Giri and Akash later carried on the business of providing cross-border money transfers in Singapore.The trio received cash in their bank accounts, before transferring them out to people, including their accomplices, according to the report.On September 16, 2020, Singapore's Commercial Affairs Department (CAD) received a complaint from a victim in Canada, stating that he had lost more than SGD12,500 after falling prey to a scam, the police said.The offenders were caught after CAD officers conducted a raid at their home on September 22 last year.The three men who were dealt with in court on Wednesday have made no restitution, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-jails-3-indian-students-in-transnational-money-mule-syndicate-case-101641461223297.html
06-01-2022||India||PM-President meeting: Kovind calls Modi’s security incident a ‘serious lapse’||NEW DELHI: President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday expressed concern over the breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security during the latter’s visit to Punjab a day earlier as the two met and discussed the issue.In a tweet, the president’s secretariat said Kovind met Modi at the Rashtrapati Bhavan and received from him a first-hand account of the breach. “The president expressed his concerns about the serious lapse,” the tweet said.Modi also tweeted about the meeting. “Called on Rashtrapati Ji. Thankful to him for his concern. Grateful for his good wishes, which are always a source of strength,’’ said the prime minister.Modi’s first rally in poll-bound Punjab was cancelled on Wednesday following the breach as protesters blocked a route and forced his convoy to spend about 15-20 minutes on a flyover.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed regret over the incident, but rejected the Bharatiya Janata Party’s allegations about lapses in Modi’s security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kovind-expresses-concern-over-modi-s-security-breach-101641461190769.html
06-01-2022||India||‘Cheap way to garner public sympathy’: Rakesh Tikait on breach in PM Modi's security||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the breach in latter's security in Punjab, describing it as a ‘stunt to garner public sympathy.’Also Read | CCS takes up PM security breach in Punjab, Prime Minister meets President“We are hearing since yesterday, that he (PM Modi) said that he made it back alive. Therefore, this looks like a stunt. If he survived, then why he went there in the first place? This is nothing but a cheap way to garner public sympathy,” Tikait, the BKU spokesperson said, according to news agency ANI.The farmer leader, one of the major faces of the ‘suspended’ agitation against the three central farm laws, was referring to a remark reportedly made by PM Modi to officials at Bathinda airport, when he asked them to thank their chief minister (Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi) that he (Modi) was able to ‘return alive.’Also Read | 'Apne CM ko thanks kehna...': PM Modi to officials after security breach during Punjab visit“Central government says there was a security lapse, while the Punjab government says that the Prime Minister did not go there because chairs in his rally were empty. Both are only trying to defend themselves. The Prime Minister should not have gone there,” Tikait further said, talking about the war of words that has broken out between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre and the Congress-led state government, as well as the two parties, over the lapse. Central Govt says that there was a security lapse and the Punjab Govt says that Prime Minister did not go there because chairs in his rally were empty. Both are only trying to defend themselves. The Prime Minister should not have gone there: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait pic.twitter.com/SNd87tGmmfOn Wednesday, in his first visit to poll-bound Punjab since the repeal of the farm laws, Prime Minister Modi was scheduled to launch various projects and address a public rally in Ferozepur. The programme was, however, cancelled after the breach took place, for which the Union home ministry has sought a detailed report from the Punjab government.Also Read | MHA seeks detailed report on PM Modi’s ‘security lapse’ in PunjabThe Channi government has formed a 2-member committee to look into what went wrong. A public interest litigation (PIL) over the ‘serious and deliberate lapse’ has been filed in the Supreme Court as well, which the apex court will take up on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cheap-way-to-garner-public-sympathy-rakesh-tikait-on-breach-in-pm-modi-s-security-101641458935083.html
06-01-2022||India||Who created Bulli Bai? 4 arrests made so far; all students||With the arrest of a second-year engineering student from Jorhat in Assam, now there are four alleged culprits in connection with the Bulli Bai app case which had listed hundreds of Muslim women for 'auction'. All four are students and in their early 20s.Here is what we know about those behind the Bulli Bai app1. Niraj Bishnoi, arrested on Thursday, is apparently the main conspirator in the case. Bishnoi, a resident of Jorhat who studies in Bhopal, is also the creator of the "Bulli Bai" app on the platform GitHub as well as the main Twitter account holder of "Bulli Bai". Bishnoi is a second-year B.Tech student from the Vellore Institute of Technology in the Madhya Pradesh capital.2. The Mumbai Police made the earlier arrests. Shweta Singh, a 19-year-old woman, arrested from Uttarakhand, was said to be another mastermind of the case. Reports said she was planning to pursue an engineering course after her class 12. She had lost her father to Covid recently.3. A 21-year-old engineering student, Vishal Kumar Jha, was arrested from Bengaluru was arrested earlier. Vishal Kumar's lawyer said his client has been falsely implicated in the case.Bulli Bai row: 'I am the real mastermind', claims Twitter user; asks police to stop targeting 'innocent' people4. Mayank Rawal (21), another conspirator, was arrested from Uttarakhand. He is a student of Delhi University, studying Chemistry honours from Zakir Hussain College. He is the son of Army Subedar Pradeep Rawat. He admitted to the police that he had received a link on Twitter on December 31 and was asked to join. He said he took some screenshots and shared them on his timeline.What is the Nepal connection of Bulli Bai?Police said Shweta Singh was acting on the instructions of some Twitter user 'Giyou' who is based in Nepal. "You have arrested the wrong person, Mumbai police. I am the creator of #BulliBaiApp. Got nothing to do with the two innocents whom u arrested, release them asap," the user, who goes by the handle @giyu44, said in a tweet.What is the Sikh connection of Bulli Bai?The accused shared photos from the Bulli Bai app on Twitter by using handles like @bullibai_, @sage0x11, @jatkhalsa7, @wannabesigmaf, @jatkhalsa and @Sikh_khalsa11. Police said Sikh names were used on the online platform deliberately to mislead people about their identity. "As per the status of the handle (linked to the app), it says Bulli Bai is a community-driven open source app by Khalsa Sikh Force. So why this (alias) is there, that is part of our investigation," Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-created-bulli-bai-4-arrests-made-so-far-all-students-101641460345356.html
06-01-2022||India||‘Cause of concern’: Centre on decline in Covid-19 testing in 9 states, UT amid Omicron surge||The Centre has expressed concern over a considerable decline in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing in eight states and a Union territory while the country is witnessing a rapid rise in infections. The central government urged the states and the UT to ramp up Covid-19 testing to ensure that infected people do not spread the highly contagious Omicron variant.In a letter dated January 5, additional secretary of Union health ministry Arti Ahuja said that the decline in Covid-19 testing and rise in positivity rate is a “cause of concern”. She underlined that the true level of virus spread in the community is impossible to determine in absence of sufficient testing. The official advised them to ensure the availability of sufficient stock of testing kits and prompt arrangement of testing facilities, consumables and logistics."With the increased detection of the Variant of Concern (VOC), Omicron, and a majority of countries seeing multiple surges in cases despite high levels of vaccination, there is a need for continued vigil and efforts to prevent any deterioration of the Covid-19 scenario,” Ahuja said in the letter to Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Bihar, and Jammu and Kashmir."Keeping in mind the unpredictable and highly transmissible behaviour of Omicron and the larger preponderance of asymptomatic cases, ramping up testing in the initial days itself will help to ensure that the infected individual does not spread the virus to others," she added.India reported over 90,000 new Covid-19 cases and the biggest single-day jump of 495 Omicron cases in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Thursday morning. A total of 2,630 confirmed cases of Omicron has been reported in India so far, according to the health ministry data.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cause-of-concern-centre-on-decline-in-covid-19-testing-in-9-states-ut-amid-omicron-surge-101641460281362.html
06-01-2022||India||Omicron spreads in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata but hospitalisations still low||Indian megacities Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata are experiencing a surge in Covid-19 cases, although without a corresponding rise in hospitalisations, but fears are growing about a spread to rural areas in coming days.India reported 90,928 new daily Covid-19 cases on Thursday, up nearly four-fold since the start of the year, mostly from cities where health officials say the Omicron variant has overtaken Delta. The bulk of those infected have shown no or only mild symptoms and have recovered quickly at home, officials said.The federal health ministry on Wednesday identified Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai and Bengaluru as some of the main regions of concern, although state officials worry the disease will soon spread to the countryside where health facilities are weaker.Kolkata, a city of about 15 million, accounted for half of the new cases in the eastern state of West Bengal until a few days ago, but cases are now rising in neighbouring districts. The state has reported one of the highest rates of infections in India."We are watching the situation in the districts and rural belts where the numbers are also growing," said Ajay Chakraborty, director of the West Bengal health services who has isolated himself at home after contracting the virus.Many Covid beds in Kolkata were still empty, Chakraborty said. In the government-run Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital, only 75 admissions were recorded on Tuesday despite more than 9,000 new cases, he added.In the west, Mumbai recorded a new daily infection peak of 15,166 on Wednesday, well up on its previous high of just over 11,000 hit last year. Nearly 90% of new patients had shown no symptoms and only 8% were hospitalised, city officials said in a daily health bulletin.Covid-19 cases nearly doubled in a day in Delhi to 10,665 on Wednesday, but the state said only 7% of its Covid beds were occupied.Federal health officials, however, have warned even a large number of mild cases could put pressure on the health system.India has confirmed at least 2,135 Omicron cases and one death linked to the variant, in an elderly man who was suffering from diabetes.Daily Covid-19 deaths rose by 325 on Thursday, taking the total to 482,876. Total infections are at 35.11 million, only behind the U.S. tally.As cases rise, the western state of Gujarat on Thursday indefinitely postponed a Jan. 10-12 biennial investment summit that was to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and previously attended by the country's top billionaires. Modi's home state reported 3,350 infections on Wednesday.Many Indian cities have already imposed night curfews and weekend lockdowns, as well as closed schools. Political rallies, however, have continued in several states where elections are due in the next few weeks and months.Health authorities will discuss the matter with election commission officials on Thursday amid rising concerns about such rallies that led to a devastating second wave in the country in April and May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-spreads-in-delhi-mumbai-kolkata-but-hospitalisations-still-low-101641458265261.html
06-01-2022||India||Delhi Police's special cell arrests mastermind and creator of 'Bulli Bai' app from Assam||A special cell of the Delhi Police on Thursday arrested the mastermind and creator of the controversial ‘Bulli Bai’ app from Assam. According to the Delhi Police, the accused has been identified as Neeraj Bishnoi, a 21-year-old engineering student who is also the main Twitter account holder of the mobile application where hundreds of Muslim women were listed for “auction” with photographs sourced without permission and doctored.Also Read | Bulli Bai row: 'I am the real mastermind', claims Twitter user; asks police to stop targeting 'innocent' peopleKPS Malhotra, the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) of the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) special cell which made the arrest, said that Bishnoi, a resident of Jorhat in Assam, is the “main conspirator and creator” of the Bulli Bai app on internet hosting website Github.Identifying Neeraj Bishnoi as a second-year B.Tech student in Computer Science Engineering from the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) in Bhopal, the police official added that the 21-year-old is also the main Twitter account holder of ‘Bulli Bai’.The special cell team, with Bishnoi under cuffs, will be reaching the Delhi airport at around 3:30pm today, the senior official added.Also Read | 'Bulli Bai' app row: Key accused detained from Uttarakhand, engg student held in MumbaiNotably, Bishnoi's is the fourth arrest in the controversial case, which saw an outcry on social media after the mobile application created on the repository hosting service appeared to upload photos of Muslim women without their consent and “auctioned” them off among unidentified internet users.The ‘Bulli Bai’ app appeared to be a clone of “Sulli Deals”, which triggered a similar row last year.On Saturday, the Delhi Police registered an FIR against unknown persons for allegedly uploading a doctored picture of a woman journalist on a website. The journalist had lodged a complaint and shared a copy on Twitter.The cyber cell of Mumbai Police, which is also probing the case, has made three arrests – a 19-year-old woman, alleged to be the main culprit, from Uttarakhand, a 21-year-old engineering student from Bengaluru, and another 21-year-old, also from Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-s-special-cell-arrests-mastermind-and-creator-of-bulli-bai-app-from-assam-101641456299655.html
06-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Weekly positivity rate over 10% in 41 districts across 17 states, says Centre||As many as 41 districts across 17 states reported a weekly Covid-19 positivity rate of above 10%, according to Union health ministry on Thursday. The positivity rate was found to be ranging between 5% and 10% in 63 districts across 21 states, it further said.Lahaul and Spiti district in Himachal Pradesh witnessed a 64.71% increase in Covid cases, the highest among all districts in the country for the week, according to the ministry. Kolkata and Howrah in West Bengal followed with a spike of 49.60% and 35.33% respectively in their weekly cases. At least 7 districts have reported a weekly positivity rate of over 20%, the health ministry further said.In West Bengal and Mizoram, there were seven districts reporting more than 10% weekly positivity rate, the highest among individual states, while there were six such districts in Maharashtra and five in Delhi.Also read | Omicron spread: States driving infection surge as Covid-19 cases gallopOther states and Union territories (UTs) that contributed to the list are Andaman and Nicobar islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Chandigarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Sikkim and Uttar Pradesh.Among other major districts, Mumbai suburban reported 22.65% weekly positivity rate while it was 20.70% in Mumbai. In Delhi, the North West district reported 14.23%, South district reported 11.84%, East district reported 11.12% and the West district 10.11%. Serchchip district in Mizoram reported 29% positivity rate for the week.On Wednesday, the ministry said that eight districts – Mumbai, Kolkata, Thane, Mumbai Suburban, Bengaluru Urban, Pune, Chennai and 24 Paraganas North – were emerging districts of concern as the daily Covid-19 cases in the country increased.Meanwhile, the first dose vaccination coverage among those above 18 years of age was 90.8% and the second dose coverage was 65.9%, the ministry said. Among those between 15 and 17 years of age, for whom the vaccination drive was thrown open on January 3, over 1.06 crore doses were administered, the ministry also said.India reported 90,928 new Covid-19 cases and 325 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The active caseload reached 285,401.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-weekly-positivity-rate-over-10-in-41-districts-across-17-states-says-centre-101641456157151.html
06-01-2022||India||CCS takes up PM security breach in Punjab, Prime Minister meets President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday expressed concern about the alleged security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on Wednesday. PM Modi met the President today and gave him a first-hand account of the security breach, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said.A meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) was held where the issue was discussed, people aware of the developments said.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu also spoke to the Prime Minister about the incident and expressed his deep concern at the security breach. Naidu hoped that stringent steps will be taken to scrupulously adhere to established security protocol and ensure such a situation doesn’t recur in future, the Vice President's Secretariat said on Twitter.PM Modi was scheduled to address a rally in Ferozepur yesterday and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore. But the event was cancelled because of the security breach. After landing at the Bathinda airport, the Prime Minister was heading to a memorial in Hussainiwala when a road he took was blocked by some protesters. This forced the PM’s convoy to spend about 15 -20 minutes on a flyover.The Centre, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), security experts and former senior police officers all stressed on the dangerous precedent set by the incident, with both the Union government and the BJP pointing to lapses by the Punjab police and the state government, and alleging that dirty politics was at play.“Today’s Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity,” tweeted Union home minister Amit Shah.Union minister Smriti Irani asked if information about the PM’s route was leaked.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed regret over the incident but rejected the BJP’s allegations.“There was no prior information. I worked till 3am to convince farmers to clear all routes. All roads were cleared by Wednesday morning. Had they told us about the road travel in advance, we would have made proper arrangements,” Channi said at a press conference on Wednesday.The Punjab government has formed a two-member panel to investigate the incident. A petition has also been filed in the Supreme Court, which will he heard on Friday.Meanwhile, the Bhartiya Kisan Union ( Krantikari), one of the 32 farm organisations involved in the year-long protests against the now repealed farm laws, took responsibility for the blockade.
06-01-2022||India||Covid vaccination for teenagers: These 5 states have administered most shots so far||More than 1 crore individuals aged 15-17 have been inoculated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccines in India so far, according to data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The figures are the latest update to the drive that was launched three days before on January 3.As many as 40,80,263 teenagers were administered the vaccine jabs in the last 24 hours. Following the latest additions, the overall vaccination coverage among 15-17 year olds in the country has reached 1,27,60,148.The achievement was appreciated by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya after he took to Twitter on Wednesday to laud the “superb enthusiasm among young India” to get vaccinated.Since the start of the drive, some states have given the vaccine doses to more than one lakh teens while there are some that have administered over 10 lakh individuals aged 15-17 with the shots.Here are top five states that have administered the most Covid-19 vaccine shots to 15-17 year olds:2. Gujarat (13,63,147)3. Andhra Pradesh (13,02,027)4. Rajasthan (11,82,158)5. Karnataka (11,21,569)This development is especially important at a time the country is combatting the highly infectious Omicron variant, which was first discovered in South Africa and has been classified as a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organisation (WHO). So far, India has confirmed 2,630 cases of the new strain, with Maharashtra and Delhi remaining the most-affected by it.Furthermore, India has been witnessing high single-day Covid-19 cases for the last few weeks amid the Omicron outbreak. On Thursday, the country logged a whopping 90,928 new cases, up from 58,097 on the preceding day, which is a jump of 56.5 per cent in 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-for-teens-these-5-states-have-administered-most-shots-so-far-101641447381000.html
06-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: SC to hear PIL against Punjab govt on PM's security breach and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Modi’s security breach: Supreme Court to hear PIL against Punjab govt on FridayThe Supreme Court has agreed to hear on Friday a public interest litigation (PIL) demanding judicial cognizance of what it called a “serious and deliberate lapse” on the part of the Punjab government concerning the security and the movement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read MoreIndia Covid cases up by massive 90,928 infections, over 56% surge in 24 hoursIndia on Thursday witnessed an enormous spike in its daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after as many as 90,928 new infections were logged in the last 24 hours, according to morning update by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.  Read MoreBCCI announces India women's squad for 2022 World Cup; no place for Jemimah Rodrigues, Mithali Raj to leadThe BCCI on Thursday announced India women’s squad for ICC Women’s World Cup 2022 and the New Zealand series. Read MoreAnushka Sharma as Jhulan Goswami in biopic Chakda Xpress: ‘Eye-opener into the world of women’s cricket’. Watch teaserOn Thursday, Anushka Sharma shared the first look teaser of Chakda Xpress, the biopic of the former captain of India national women's cricket team Jhulan Goswami. Read MoreDespite SUVs, Maruti Suzuki confident hatchback will remain superstar segmentMaruti Suzuki, the country's largest car maker, has been dominating sales charts in the Indian passenger vehicle segment for decades. Read MoreVidya Balan looks like a beautiful 'guldasta' in floral print blouse and palazzo: Here's what is costsActor Vidya Balan's love for prints and made in India brands reflects in her sartorial choices. The star rarely shies away from experimenting and manages to serve voguish fashion moments with every look. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-to-hear-pil-against-punjab-govt-on-pm-s-security-breach-and-all-the-latest-news-101641452960701.html
06-01-2022||India||Amid Covid-19 surge in Delhi-NCR, home secretary to chair review meeting today||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla will be chairing a review meeting on Thursday evening over the rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi-NCR, said officials of the home ministry familiar with the development. Notably, several states have sounded an alarm over the new, highly transmissible Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, which is said to be highly mutated and is responsible for a large chunk of infections in the country right now.India reported almost 500 new Omicron infections on Thursday as the total tally of this latest variant of Covid-19 touched 2,630, according to the Union health ministry update. The new variant of coronavirus has now reached 26 states, the health ministry update further showed.Maharashtra continues to be the leading contributor with 797 Omicron cases, followed by Delhi (465), Rajasthan (236), Kerala (234), Karnataka (226), and Gujarat (204).National capital Delhi has decided to impose a weekend curfew. No non-essential movement is being allowed in the city during the weekend curfew and as per the latest Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) orders, government offices, barring essential services, have implemented work from home for employees while private offices are operating at 50 per cent capacity.The number of daily new Covid-19 infections in the country, too, saw a huge spike on Thursday as more than 90,000 people tested positive (90,928 exactly) for the viral illness in the last 24 hours, much higher than the 58,097 cases reported on Wednesday. The active caseload also witnessed an increase and stood at 285,401, according to the latest data from the Union health ministry. Meanwhile, the number of Omicron cases witnessed a significant increase and was recorded at 2,630.The health ministry said that active cases accounted for less than 1 per cent and recorded at 0.81 per cent of the total confirmed infections in the country.According to Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Omicron is currently the predominant circulating strain in India. “Mass gatherings should be avoided to lower the speed of this spread,” he advised during a health ministry briefing the evening prior.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-surge-in-india-home-secretary-to-chair-review-meeting-today-101641450865592.html
06-01-2022||India||On Covid protocol breach, Madhya Pradesh minister says may set up ‘open jails’||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra has said that there is currently no proposal to impose a lockdown or shut down markets despite a spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.The minister added that the Madhya Pradesh government is planning to increase the penalty amount for not wearing face masks in markets."There is no proposal with the home department to impose lockdown or shut down markets in Madhya Pradesh. We are planning to increase the penalty amount for not wearing face masks and also considering to set up open jails," Mishra told mediapersons in Bhopal.The Madhya Pradesh government imposed a fine of ₹200 on those who are found violating the Covid protocols in public places. The state government is running the 'Roko Toko' programme to ensure more and more people wear masks and follow Covid protocols.Mishra's remarks came after Madhya Pradesh reported 1,033 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours."This is around double the number recorded the day before which is a matter of concern. But we should not panic. We must observe all Covid-appropriate behaviour," Madhya Pradesh Medical education minister Vishvas Sarang told news agency ANI on Thursday."Daily positive cases are rising rapidly. We imposed some more restrictions yesterday, including a cap of 250 people at wedding gatherings. Only 50 people are allowed to attend final rites. I instructed officials to increase beds in hospitals," he further said.On Wednesday, the state recorded 594 new cases of Covid-19. This number was 308 on Tuesday.A government release said 10,46,75,955 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-covid-protocol-breach-madhya-pradesh-minister-says-may-set-up-open-jails-101641450534837.html
06-01-2022||India||IIT Guwahati declared containment zone after 60 people test Covid-19 positive||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Guwahati had been declared a containment zone after 60 people tested Covid-19 positive, according to Assam's district disaster management authority."North Guwahati Revenue Circle has submitted a report on IIT Guwahati, where 60 persons were sick and tested positive for Covid-19 with details of their place of stay and their boundaries," according to a statement by the authority on Wednesday."North Guwahati Police Station will prepare the list of persons who came with direct contact or indirectly to the above mentioned affected person during the event of their recent history and ensure sample collection of all the contracted personnel (directly or indirectly) by deploying the medical persons," it added."It should also be ensured that the confirmed case be isolated and given medical care," stated the press release."Ms. Rashmi Pratap, ACS, Circle Officer, North Guwahati Rev. Circle, will ensure that the orders promulgated under containment zone are strictly followed and no law and order situation arise thereof," according to the statement."She will also monitor the entire situation and ensure that proper facilities like food, sanitizers, health check-ups, collection of samples, etc. go on unhindered," as per the statement.Earlier on Wednesday, Assam reported 591 new Covid-19 cases and 4 deaths during the last 24 hours.The positivity rate on Wednesday stood at 1.72 per cent. A total of 34,314 samples were tested during the last 24 hours, stated the health department on Wednesday.With this, the total cases of Covid-19 in the state have gone up to 6,22,488.On Wednesday, 196 people recovered from the infection, taking the total recoveries in the state to 6,12,988. The recovery rate in the state stood at 98.47 per cent.The death toll in the state on Wednesday due to the disease stood at 6,174. While the death per cent in the state stood at 0.99 per cent.There were 1,979 active Covid-19 cases in the state yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-guwahati-declared-containment-zone-after-60-people-test-covid-19-positive-101641450260356.html
06-01-2022||India||On PM Modi security breach, Supreme Court to hear petition tomorrow||The Supreme Court has agreed to hear a petition on alleged security lapses during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to poll-bound Punjab on Wednesday. The petition has been filed by an organisation, Lawyer's Voice, and will be taken up by the top court on Friday.Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana has asked petitioners to serve a copy on the Centre and Punjab government today.Watch: 'Nation won't forgive', BJP leaders slam Congress after lapse in PM's security in PunjabThe Prime Minister’s rally in Ferozepur had to be cancelled yesterday because of the unprecedented breach with some protesters blocking a route and forcing his convoy to spend about 20 minutes on a flyover. After landing at Bathinda airport, PM Modi was on his way to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala when the incident took place.The Centre, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), security experts and former senior police officers all stressed on the dangerous precedent set by the incident.Also Read | Punjab Police ignored intelligence, 'Blue Book' rulesThe Union home ministry and the BJP pointed to lapses by the Punjab police and the state government, and alleged that dirty politics was at play.“Today’s Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity,” tweeted Union home minister Amit Shah.Union minister Smriti Irani asked if information about the PM’s route was leaked.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed regret over the incident but rejected the BJP’s allegations. At a press conference, Channi said that his government had no information about the PM’s motorcade taking the road route.The state government today set up a high-level committee to probe lapses during PM Modi's visit to the state.A Punjab government spokesperson said that the committee would comprise Justice (Retd.) Mehtab Singh Gill and Principal Secretary, home affairs and Justice, Anurag Verma. The panel has been asked to submit its report within three days, the spokesperson added.Also Read | PM's security explainedFormer Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has sought resignation from Channi saying that the Punjab government cannot provide smooth passage to the Prime Minister of the country and that too just 10 kilometres from the Pakistan border.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed concern at the incident, but slammed the BJP for allegedly politicising the issue and held the Special Protection Group (SPG) responsible for the matter."This is a serious issue for which the responsibilities of SPG, IB and other agencies should be fixed rather than doing politics. The remarks being made by the BJP against Congress and Punjab Chief Minister on this issue dilute the seriousness of the issue. It should be condemned," Gehlot said on Twitter.The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari), one of the 32 farm organisations involved in the year-long protests against the now repealed farm laws, took responsibility for the blockade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-pm-modi-security-breach-supreme-court-to-hear-petition-tomorrow-101641448846838.html
06-01-2022||India||Punjab forms high-level panel to probe security lapses during PM Modi's visit||The Punjab government on Thursday formed a two-membered high-level committee to probe the alleged security lapses during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the state on Wednesday. According to an official release issued by the Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's office, the panel would comprise Justice (Retd.) Mehtab Singh Gill and Anurag Verma, the principal secretary of home affairs and justice.Also Read | MHA seeks detailed report on PM Modi’s ‘security lapse’ in PunjabA senior official of the Union ministry of home affairs, cited by the ANI news agency, had claimed earlier that despite having prior intelligence inputs about protesters blocking the road during Prime Minister Modi's visit, the Punjab Police did not follow the ‘Blue Book’ of security protocols.What happened during PM Modi's visit?The Prime Minister was scheduled to visit Ferozepur on Wednesday to lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore. He landed in Bathinda in the morning and was thereafter supposed to fly to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala on a helicopter, but had to wait for about 20 minutes due to rain and poor visibility.When the weather did not clear out, it was decided that Prime Minister Modi would visit the memorial via road, which would take more than two hours. After confirmation of necessary security arrangements by the director-general of Punjab Police, the Prime Minister's car was on the track.Around 30 km away from Hussainiwala, the Prime Minister's convoy was met on a flyover with protestors, who had blocked the road. Due to this, Modi was stuck on the flyover for about 15-20 minutes.Reports of security lapse“This was a major lapse in the security of the Prime Minister,” read a statement issued by the home ministry. “The Prime Minister's schedule and travel plan were communicated well in advance to the Punjab government. As per procedure, they have to make necessary arrangements for logistics, security as well as keep a contingency plan ready.”According to the senior home ministry official quoted by ANI, the Special Protection Group's (SPG) ‘Blue Book’ lays down security guidelines for the protection of the Prime Minister.WATCH | PM Modi's security lapse triggers war of words; Channi says 'respect our PM'“As per the Blue Book, the state police have to prepare contingency route for the protectee in case of any adverse situation like the one that happened in Punjab during PM's visit,” said the MHA official, adding that officials of the Intelligence Bureau had been in contact with the Punjab Police and alerted them regarding protesters' movement. The Punjab officers, in turn, had assured them of complete protection to the VIP.However, since there was definitely a lapse in security, the MHA has demanded from intelligence agencies and is seeking details of deployment, picket, rooftop deployment, barricades, and other security measures taken by Punjab Police during the Prime Minister's visit, the senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-forms-high-level-panel-to-probe-security-lapses-during-pm-modi-s-visit-101641446997336.html
06-01-2022||India||Omicron spread: States driving infection surge as Covid-19 cases gallop||The number of daily new Covid-19 infections in the country saw a huge spike on Thursday as more than 90,000 people tested positive (90,928 exactly) for the viral illness in the last 24 hours, much higher than the 58,097 cases reported on Wednesday.The active caseload also witnessed an increase and stood at 285,401, according to the latest data from the Union health ministry. Meanwhile, the number of Omicron cases witnessed a significant increase and was recorded at 2,630.The health ministry said that active cases accounted for less than 1% and recorded at 0.81% of the total confirmed infections in the country.Also read | India Covid cases up by massive 90,928 infections, over 56% surge in 24 hoursAmid worries of an impending third wave and an alarming increase in the Covid-19 infections in the country, here is a look at the states that are driving the surge:Also read | India's Omicron tally reaches 2,630; 26 states now have cases of the new variantOmicron variantGlobal health agencies such as the World Health Organization (WHO) and several governments have warned of healthcare systems being strained or burdened due to the increased number of hospitalisations caused by the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant.Here is the list of states that have detected the maximum number of Omicron cases:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-spread-states-driving-infection-surge-as-covid-19-cases-gallop-101641445858922.html
06-01-2022||India||India Covid cases up by massive 90,928 infections, over 56% surge in 24 hours||India on Thursday witnessed an enormous spike in its daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after as many as 90,928 new infections were logged in the last 24 hours, according to morning update by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. This is a surge of 56.5 per cent from Wednesday when 58,097 fresh cases were reported. The cumulative tally of the country has now climbed to 3,51,09,286, the health ministry update showed.The active case count of the country also saw a severe spike as it neared the 3-lakh mark with 285,401 infections. It accounts for 0.81 per cent of the overall caseload of the country.Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu account for the majority of the active cases in the country. There are as many as 91,204 active infections in Maharashtra as per the Union health ministry update.Also Read | Omicron alert: Union health ministry revises home isolation rules for Covid-19 patients. Details hereMeanwhile, the single-day deaths witnessed a dip after a total of 325 patients succumbed to the virus as opposed to 534 on the preceding day. With this, India's death toll due to Covid-19 has reached 482,876, according to the Union health ministry update.Fresh recoveries continue to show hopes as over 19,000 people recuperated from coronavirus in the previous 24 hours, taking the total number of recovered cases in the country to 3,43,41,009. The recovery rate in India stands at 97.81 per cent.The Omicron count of India has maintained its upward trend with the figures increasing to 2,630 on Thursday. Maharashtra and Delhi, once again, have retained the top spots in the chart with 797 and 465 cases, respectively. Rajasthan, Kerala, Karnataka and Gujarat - all of which are among top 10 most-hit states in India by Omicron, have confirmed over 200 infections of the new variant so far.Also Read | India’s first Omicron death recorded in Rajasthan: GovtAs far as vaccination coverage is concerned, a total of 91,25,099 doses were administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours, including individuals aged between 15 and 18. As many as 40,80,263 teenagers took the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours, according to data shared by the Union health ministry. Notably, India opened vaccination to those aged 15-18 on January 3 and more than one crore of them have so far taken the jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-cases-up-by-massive-90-928-infections-over-56-surge-in-24-hours-101641441309519.html
06-01-2022||India||PM security breach: Punjab Police ignored intelligence, 'Blue Book' rules||Despite having intelligence inputs about protesters, Punjab Police did not follow the 'Blue Book' and had not prepared a contingency route for Prime Minister's visit, said a senior Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) official.Special Protection Group's (SPG) Blue Book lays down security guidelines for the protection of the Prime Minister."As per the Blue Book, the state police have to prepare contingency route for the protectee in case of any adverse situation like the one that happened in Punjab during PM's visit," said the MHA official.He added that officials of the Intelligence Bureau were in contact with Punjab Police and have alerted them regarding protesters movement and Punjab Police officers assured them of complete protection to the VIP.Special Protection Group (SPG) personnel remain in close proximity to the PM while the rest of the security measures are taken care of by the state government. In case of any sudden developments, the state police update SPG and the movement of VIP are changed accordingly, added the official.In 2021, around 150 drone sightings were recorded on the Punjab border from Pakistan and many such sightings remained uncounted. Many of the drones were also loaded with tiffin bombs, hand grenades, pistols and cash.A team of MHA is seeking details of deployment, picket, rooftop deployment, barricades and other security measures taken by Punjab Police during the Prime Minister's visit."A report has been demanded from intelligence agencies over the security lapse," he added.On November 4, Punjab Police recovered an explosive-filled tiffin box hidden in an agricultural field near the Indo-Pak border in the Ferozepur district.Prime Minister Narendra Modi was scheduled to visit Ferozepur on Wednesday to lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore.The Home Ministry has taken cognizance of the "serious security lapse" and has sought a detailed report from the Punjab government. The state government has also been asked to fix responsibility for this lapse and take strict action.The Home Ministry said in a statement that PM Modi landed at Bathinda on Wednesday morning from where he was to go to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala by helicopter. Due to rain and poor visibility, the Prime Minister waited for about 20 minutes for the weather to clear out.The statement said that when the weather did not improve, it was decided that he would visit the National Martyrs Memorial via road, which would take more than two hours. The Prime Minister proceeded to travel by road after necessary confirmation of necessary security arrangements by the DGP Punjab Police.Around 30 km away from the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala, when the Prime Minister's convoy reached a flyover, it was found that the road was blocked by some protestors.The Prime Minister was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes."This was a major lapse in the security of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister's schedule and travel plan was communicated well in advance to the Punjab Government. As per procedure, they have to make necessary arrangements for logistics, security as well as keep a contingency plan ready," the statement said."Also in view of the contingency plan, the Punjab Government has to deploy additional security to secure any movement by road, which were clearly not deployed. After this security lapse, it was decided to head back to Bathinda Airport," it added.It said only Punjab police knew the precise route of the PM and "never has such police behaviour been witnessed".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-security-breach-punjab-police-ignored-intelligence-blue-book-rules-101641443140863.html
06-01-2022||India||India's Omicron tally reaches 2,630; 26 states now have cases of the new variant||India’s tally of Omicron-positive cases went up by nearly 500 on Thursday morning to reach 2,630, according to the Union health ministry update. The new variant of coronavirus has now reached 26 states, the health ministry update further showed.Maharashtra continues to be the leading contributor with 797 Omicron cases, followed by Delhi (465), Rajasthan (236), Kerala (234), Karnataka (226) and Gujarat (204).Tamil Nadu too has more than 100 cases of the new variant (121 to be exact). Telangana is also close to 100-mark, with 94 Omicron cases.The new variant has led to a massive surge in India’s Covid-19 tally, which reached close to one lakh on Thursday morning. On Wednesday, the number was 58,097.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said on Wednesday that Omicron is the predominant circulating strain in India."Omicron is the predominant circulating strain in cities in the country. Mass gatherings should be avoided to lower the speed of this spread," Dr Bhargava said during the briefing of the health ministry.The ministry said that Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Jharkhand and Gujarat are states of concern where there has been a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases.Assam on Wednesday reported its first Omicron case after a Saudi Arabia returnee tested positive for the new coronavirus variant.The daily number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital almost doubled on Wednesday, rising to 10,655 infections from 5,481 a day earlier, with the positivity rate shooting up to 11.88 per cent.The data of the health department further showed that 65 per cent of Covid samples in Delhi, whose genome sequencing reports came out between January 1 and 3, were found to have the Omicron variant as against 28 per cent from December 1 to 31.India also reported its first confirmed death due to Omicron on Wednesday. A 73-year-old man had died in Rajasthan’s Udaipur on December 31, but the fatality was reassigned as being linked to Covid-19 yesterday.The man was suffering from multiple comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-reaches-2-630-26-states-now-have-cases-of-the-new-variant-101641443125363.html
06-01-2022||India||Gujarat HC bans entry of public, mandates Covid negative report for others||In the wake of increasing cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Gujarat high court has prohibited entry of litigant public to its premises and also mandated negative test report not beyond 48 hours for others.In a circular issued on Wednesday, the court said that the new directions have been issued by chief justice Aravind Kumar on the recommendation of the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) committee constituted for the same purpose, according to news agency ANI.According to the order, the party in-person will only be permitted entry to the court premises after he/she produces a negative Covid-19 test certificate not more than 48 hours to the date of the hearing.Furthermore, the canteen of the court has also been closed.It has also been made mandatory to screen all persons entering the court premises, and only individuals found to be asymptomatic will be allowed entry.“Persons entering the court premises shall strictly follow social distancing and cooperate with the medical screening team,” ANI reported quoting the circular.Gujarat on Wednesday reported as many as 3,350 fresh Covid-19 cases, with the active caseload of the state touching 10,994. Meanwhile, a total of 50 Omicron cases were detected that shot up the state's tally of the new ‘variant of concern’ to 204. Gujarat is one of the top five worst-affected states in India by the Omicron variant.Notably, several courts in the recent weeks have shifted to online or ‘hybrid’ hearing - a mix of both offline and online - amid the rising trend of Covid-19 cases in the country owing to the Omicron outbreak.The Calcutta high court and district courts have been functioning in a virtual mode with certain exceptions since January 3. The Bombay high court also went into hybrid mode from January 4 onwards, and also put restrictions on entry of litigants and lawyers as required, a statement read.The Supreme Court has also suspended physical hearings for two weeks starting January 3 owing to increasing coronavirus cases amid the Omicron outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-hc-bans-entry-of-public-mandates-covid-negative-report-for-others-101641436571715.html
06-01-2022||India||Snowfall in J&K: IMD issues avalanche warning, asks people to take precaution||The weather department in Jammu and Kashmir issued an avalanche warning after “moderate to heavy snowfall” in the region. The snowfall, which started on Wednesday, is expected to continue till January 8, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).“The higher reaches of J&K have received moderate to heavy snowfall and have become vulnerable to avalanches,” the MeT department said in its advisory.“People residing in these areas are requested to take precautions and avoid venturing out in the avalanche prone areas,” it further said.Heavy rainfall in plains and snowfall in upper reaches have intensified cold wave conditions across Jammu region and thrown normal life out of gear.Traffic movement on 278-km-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway has also been suspended. There were reports of shooting stones and mudslides from the hills overlooking the highway from various places, including Karol, Samroli, Digdole and Ramsu.A 29-year-old man died and another person was injured on Wednesday when a boulder from a hillock hit their car on the national highway near Ramban, prompting the authorities to suspend the traffic on the strategic road.Due to inclement weather the pilgrimage to Vaishno Devi shrine was also suspended will Thursday morning.The moderate snowfall also led to reduced visibility, and cancellation of 37 flights from Srinagar International Airport on Wednesday.The flight cancellations led to chaotic scenes at the airport as hundreds of passengers were left stranded. They had come to Kashmir to celebrate New Year amid snowfall that took place around Christmas in most places in the Valley.The IMD said in its forecast on Wednesday that the western disturbances are likely to leave the northern region of the country on January 8 or 9, leading to improvement of weather conditions.“There is no other western disturbance from 9 January onwards in our monitoring. After that, the weather will improve," senior IMD Scientist RK Jenamani told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-in-j-k-imd-issues-avalanche-warning-asks-people-to-take-precaution-101641439859304.html
06-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 6 dead, 20 injured after gas leak in Gujarat mill and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gujarat: At least 6 dead, 20 in critical state after gas leak at Surat millAt least six people died and 20 others were admitted to the civil hospital in an injured state early morning today after an incident of gas leakage at a company in Gujarat's Surat, reported the ANI news agency. Read more'Will be a wonderful birthday gift': Gavaskar urges Team India to win Johannesburg Test for 'India's greatest cricketer'The second Test match between India and South Africa at Johannesburg is tantalizingly poised heading into the fourth and what promises to be the final day. Read moreVir Das announces Mumbai gig after controversial US show, promises it will be ‘distanced, sanitised'Comedian-actor Vir Das has announced he will be performing back to back 10 shows in Mumbai at the iconic Jamshed Bhabha Theatre at the NCPA (National Centre for the Performing Arts). Read moreLoved Kareena Kapoor's vintage black T-shirt with shorts for dinner with Manish Malhotra? It costs ₹40kActor Kareena Kapoor Khan loves mixing loose silhouettes in her casual and everyday wardrobe. The star has made several style statements on the red carpet. Read more'Nation won't forgive..': BJP leaders slam Congress after lapse in PM's securityBJP leaders hit out at Congress after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Punjab visit was cut short as he was stranded on a flyover for 20 minutes due to a blockade by protesters. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-6-dead-20-injured-after-gas-leak-in-gujarat-mill-and-all-the-latest-news-101641439130287.html
06-01-2022||India||As Covid-19 cases rise, BSF again stops entry of public at Wagah border military parade||In view of rising concerns over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, the Border Security Force (BSF) said in an official statement on Thursday morning that it has decided to suspend the entry of the public at the daily lowering of the flags ceremony at the Attari-Wagah border. Also known as the “Beating the Retreat” ceremony, the military display on the India-Pakistan border is witnessed daily by hundreds of citizens from both countries, who line up across galleries to cheer for soldiers marching in a drill, going through the steps of bringing down their respective national flags.Also Read | Pakistan reiterates its offer to host Saarc Summit, then throws darts at IndiaThe BSF statement read, “In view of the Covid-19 situation in the country and latest guidelines issued from the office of the district magistrate, Amritsar, BSF authorities have reviewed the situation and taken a decision to stop the entry of public to witness the “Retreat Ceremony” at JCP Attari with immediate effect.”Notably, the daily flag-lowering retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah border had only just resumed last November after remaining suspended for 20 months since March 7, 2020, due to Covid-19. Now, in view of a Covid-19 surge once again –  driven by Omicron – the military display and parade are being barred from the public yet again.Also Read | ‘Killed Pak terrorist, take body’: Indian Army messages Pak on hotline after Kupwara opsWagah, an army outpost on the India-Pakistan border between Amritsar and Lahore, sees the elaborate military parade conducted by soldiers from both sides, who engage in maneuvers that are seen as a signifier of the India-Pakistan rivalry, as well as brotherhood and cooperation among the armed forces.Every evening immediately before sunset at the Wagah-Attari border, the ceremony starts with a blustering parade by the soldiers from both sides and ends up in the perfectly coordinated lowering of the two nations' flags. This display is known as the “Beating Retreat” border ceremony on the international level.Similar parades are also organised at the Mahavir-Sadqi border near Fazilka and the Hussainiwala-Ganda Singh Wala border near Firozpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-bsf-again-stops-entry-of-public-at-wagah-border-military-parade-101641437989180.html
06-01-2022||India||Gujarat: At least 6 dead, 20 in critical state after gas leak at Surat mill||At least six people died and 20 others were admitted to the civil hospital in an injured state early morning today after an incident of gas leakage at a company in Gujarat's Surat, reported the ANI news agency. Citing Omkar Chaudhary, the in-charge of the civil hospital, the report said the incident took place in the Sachin GIDC area of the city.As per HT's sister publication Livehindustan, the local police are still carrying out relief and rescue operations in the area. A report carried by the publication indicates that the accidental gas leakage occurred when a tanker driver was pouring chemicals into a drain near the printing mill. By the time people in the vicinity understood what was happening, the poisonous gases had already whisked across through the open outlets and taken the lives of as many as five people in the moments after, the report said.It was later reported that another person had also succumbed to internal injuries in the gas leakage incident.As soon as news broke out, the Surat Police rushed to the spot and ensured that the rest of the injured are taken to the civil hospital for urgent medical care.Further details are awaited in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-at-least-6-dead-20-in-critical-state-after-gas-leak-at-surat-mill-101641436575733.html
06-01-2022||India||Rahul Gandhi may return to India from foreign trip in second week of Jan: Report||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is on a ‘personal visit’ abroad, is likely to return to India on the second week of January ahead of the high-profile assembly elections in five states this year, reported the ANI news agency. The former Congress president had embarked on the trip in December, months before the crucial state elections which are lined up for the months of February and March. Although the party did not disclose the place of his visit, reports suggested that Gandhi had gone to Italy.Preparations of the assembly elections in five states – Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand – are already in full swing. They are being considered as a crucial test for the Congress, not only in terms of its ability to contain the BJP but also for the space as the main challenger to the ruling party at the Centre.Among the poll-bound states, Congress is seen to have better prospects in Punjab and Uttarakhand but the situation has been complicated over a series of decisions over the past few weeks, according to the news agency. The party is witnessing infighting in both the states and Rahul Gandhi, who takes crucial decisions without a formal senior party position, is being seen as “missing from action”, the report said.Now, the Congress leader is likely to return to the country next week and take charge of the situation himself, reports the ANI news agency, citing party functionaries familiar with the matter. According to the report, Gandhi is in touch with senior officials of the party and has taken stock of the entire electoral situation across several states.Notably, Rahul Gandhi had earlier too travelled abroad just ahead of the winter session of Parliament and is learnt to have returned a day before the commencement of the session. Meanwhile, his foreign trips have been panned by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and other parties in a move to secure the electoral positions ahead of polls.Mamata Banerjee, whose party is keen to emerge as the main challenger to BJP, had said taken a swipe at Rahul Gandhi and said no one can do politics by staying abroad “half the time”.Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala, however,  said that Rahul Gandhi is on “a brief personal visit” and that the BJP and “its media friends” should not spread rumours unnecessarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-may-return-to-india-from-foreign-trip-in-second-week-of-jan-report-101641432950104.html
06-01-2022||India||Bulli Bai row: 'I am the real mastermind', claims Twitter user; asks police to stop targeting 'innocent' people||A Twitter user, suspected to be from Nepal, claimed on Wednesday that he is the real creator and mastermind behind the Bulli Bai app. The user slammed also the arrest of three people in the case and said the police should stop targeting 'innocent' youth or there will be Bulli Bai 2.0.The Twitter user offered to share the real username, password and source code which were used to create the Bulli Bai app and also published an archive link.Watch: How the plot unfolded as cops arrest 3rd accused from Uttarakhand in Bulli Bai case"You have arrested the wrong person, slumbai police. I am the creator of #BulliBaiApp. Got nothing to do with the two innocents whom u arrested, release them asap," the user, who goes by the handle @giyu44, said in a tweet.“When this fiasco started I wasn’t even aware of what it might entail, so I use my friends accounts. Both Vishal and that Swati girl, I use their accounts.. They didn’t even know what I was going to do. Now they got arrested coz of me... Feel free to abuse me in comments,” the user further said.In a subsequent tweet, the user said, "I will personally surrender if someone arranges for my travel by flight."Mumbai Police officers, on condition of anonymity, said they are trying to trace the owner of the handle @giyu44 to verify his claims.Three people have been arrested so far in connection with webpages where hundreds of Muslim women were “auctioned”. These are 18-year-old Shweta Singh from Uttarakhand, who the police claim is the mastermind. Her friend Mayank Rawat, 20, is the latest to be arrested; he is also from Uttarakhand. Vishal Kumar Jha, 21, was detained from Bengaluru on Monday and arrested a day later.Also Read | Show compassion, forgive 18-yr-old alleged 'Bulli Bai' mastermind, says Javed AkhtarThe police said the accused appeared to have used names related to the Sikh community in their Twitter handles which promoted the webpages in order to mislead people about their identity and add a communal angle.The Mumbai Police are probing two such controversial webpages hosted on the code sharing platform, GitHub. The first web page was floated in July 2021 and the second, Bulli Bai, surfaced on January 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulli-bai-row-i-am-the-real-mastermind-claims-twitter-user-101641434646367.html
06-01-2022||India||I-T dept: ₹45 cr undeclared income found in raids on SP MLC||Six days after raids on premises linked to Samajwadi Party (SP) lawmaker Pushpraj ‘Pampi’ Jain, the income tax department said on Wednesday that it found undeclared income worth ₹45 crore linked to him.In a statement, the I-T department said Jain’s group, primarily based in Mumbai and Uttar Pradesh, “is involved in tax evasion by underreporting sale of perfumes, stock manipulation, fudging books of account to shift profits from taxable unit to tax exempt unit, inflation of expenditure, etc”. Raids were carried out at 40 places, including the premises of Jain, on December 31. Pushpraj is a member of the legislative council in Uttar Pradesh as a Samajwadi Party nominee. He launched the Samajwadi ittar (perfume) on November 9.“Evidence found in the sales office and main office has revealed that the group makes 35% to 40% of its retail sales in cash by ‘kucha’ (temporary) bills and these cash receipts are not recorded in the regular books of account, running into crores of rupees. Evidence of booking purchases from bogus parties to the extent of about ₹5 crore has also been unearthed,” it added.The SP, on the day of the raids, said the I-T action was an “open misuse of central agencies by a scared Bharatiya Janata Party” ahead of polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-dept-45-cr-undeclared-income-found-in-raids-on-sp-mlc-101641434406581.html
06-01-2022||India||20-yr-old from U’khand is 3rd arrest in GitHub case||Three people have been arrested so far in connection with webpages where hundreds of Muslim women were “auctioned”, the Mumbai Police said on Wednesday, apprehending a 20-year-old a day after two accused were arrested from Bengaluru and Uttarakhand.The police said the accused appeared to have used names related to the Sikh community in their Twitter handles which promoted the webpages in order to mislead people about their identity and add a communal angle.“The probe is on and anyone involved in the crime directly or indirectly will be arrested and prosecuted,” Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said. Some more people were likely to be involved in the matter, he said at a news briefing.Eighteen-year-old Shweta Singh, who is understood to be the main accused, created some of the social media handles that promoted the webpages. On Wednesday, her friend Mayank Rawat, 20, was also arrested from Uttarakhand. Vishal Kumar Jha, 21, was detained from Bengaluru on Monday and arrested a day later.The Mumbai Police are probing two such controversial webpages hosted on the code sharing platform, GitHub. The first web page was floated in July 2021 and the second, Bulli Bai, surfaced on January 1. The webpages, which were named after derogatory references to the Muslim community, sparked outrage because hundreds of Muslim women – most of whom were vocal activists or top professionals – were listed for “auction” along with their photographs, which were sourced without permission and doctored.When asked if Sikh names were used by social media handles which promoted the webpages, Nagrale said it appeared that such attempts were made. Some of these handles had names such as “Khalsa Supremacist”, “Jatinder Singh Bhullar” and “Harpal’, he said. “As per the status of the handle (linked to the app), it says Bulli Bai is a community driven open source app by Khalsa Sikh force. So why this is there, that is part of our investigation,” the commissioner said. “It is too early to say exactly what was the aim of the entire exercise,” he added.“Jha was using the Twitter handle by name Khalsa Supermecist and was using a proxy location from Canada to misguide the law enforcement agencies. He would use such fake names to regularly post messages on Twitter,” an officer involved in the probe said. The officer said there was an attempt to give a communal angle to the webpages.Nagrale said: “In order to ensure that no such incident is repeated again we urge people and the especially the victims of Bulli Bai or any such crime or incident to report the matter to police and share information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20yrold-from-u-khand-is-3rd-arrest-in-github-case-101641433414996.html
06-01-2022||India||Assam reports 1st Omicron case in state, 591 new Covid-19 infections in 24 hours||Assam on Wednesday reported its first Omicron case after a Saudi Arabia returnee tested positive for the new coronavirus variant, even as the number of Covid cases detected during the day increased by over 100 compared to the previous day to 591 fresh infections, a National Health Mission (NHM) bulletin said.Kamrup Metroplitan, which primarily comprises Guwahati city, recorded 279 new cases during the day, a sharp rise from 190 and 164 respectively on Tuesday and Monday.The day's positivity was 1.72 per cent, higher than the 1.29 per cent the previous day.Covid-19 claimed four lives during the day, with two deaths reported from Tinsukia and one each from Barpeta and Sonitpur. The total death toll in the state has touched 6,174 with the death rate remaining at 0.99 per cent.The 35-year-old man, who returned from Saudi hails from Hojai district, was found infected with the Omicron variant, Health Minister Keshab Mahanta said.His sample was sent to the Jorhat-based North East Institute of Science and Technology as he had tested positive for Covid-19 after his return from the West Asian country, the minister said."His report for genome sequencing came during the day. But by this time, he has already recovered from the infection," Mahanta said.A teenager from Digaru area in Kamrup metropolitan district had also tested positive for the new strain of coronavirus, but his sample was taken to Meghalaya, the minister said."Once we were alerted about his status, we started contact tracing of his family members and others. All protocols are being followed," Mahanta said.The minister said the state government has been monitoring international travelers with rising cases of Omicron variant in the country.During the period between December 1, 2021 and January 4 this year, 3,198 people had entered the northeastern state from foreign countries, and of them, 52 were found infected with Covid-19, including the one who contracted the Omicron strain, the minister said.Since December 12, the state has sent 1,598 samples of Covid-positive patients to a Kolkata laboratory for genome sequencing, he said.Of these, reports of 1,348 samples have been received, and all were found negative for the new variant, the minister said, adding that besides monitoring the situation in view of the rising Omicron cases in the country, the authorities are also gearing up to tackle any increase in overall Covid infections.He pointed out that the state had reported 150 and 156 new Covid-19 cases on January 1 and 2 respectively, and the numbers had shot up to 351 and 475 on the next two consecutive days, with the most infections being reported from Kamrup Metropolitan district.The district comprises the state's largest city Guwahati. Mahanta said the government is strengthening infrastructure in hospitals and Covid care centers to manage hospitalization of at least 25,000 patients.At least 8,539 beds, including 4,991 isolation and 935 ICU beds, are already ready, the minister said, adding that only five per cent of these beds are currently occupied."We will hold a meeting with the chief minister on Thursday morning. Decisions on how to tackle the emerging situation will be taken," Mahanta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-reports-1st-omicron-case-in-state-591-new-covid-19-infections-in-24-hours-101641432814931.html
06-01-2022||India||War of words, Channi govt in dock over PM Modi convoy collapse||An unprecedented breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security in Punjab on Wednesday sparked a major political row with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying the Congress was targeting the PM and putting him in harm’s way, and the ruling party in the state blaming a last-minute schedule change for the lapse.Union home minister Amit Shah attacked the Congress, saying it owed an apology to the people, and the home ministry has asked the Punjab government for a detailed report, even as several BJP leaders said the buck must stop with the state’s chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi.“Today’s Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity,” he said, adding that the home ministry sought a detailed report on the incident.Channi dismissed the allegations, and said his government had no information about the PM’s plan to travel via road from Bathinda airport to Ferozepur.“There was no prior information. I worked till 3am to convince farmers to clear all routes. All roads were cleared by Wednesday morning. Had they told us about the road travel in advance, we would have made proper arrangements,” Channi told reporters. “We respect our PM...there was no security lapse of any kind and there was no situation of any attack.”Modi was travelling by road from Bathinda to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala, around 120km away. He was supposed to take a helicopter, but inclement weather force prevented the chopper from taking off. After travelling for about 100km, the PM’s convoy was blocked by around 200 protesters near Piareana village in Ferozepur district on the Moga-Ferozepur national highway.After being stuck for around 15-20 minutes, the PM headed back to Bathinda airport, cancelling his visit to the memorial and a rally in Ferozepur.Punjab goes to the polls in early 2022.BJP president JP Nadda accused the Punjab government of trying all “possible tricks” to scuttle the PM’s programme. “Protesters were given access to the PM’s route while the Punjab CS (chief secretary) and DGP (director general of police) gave assurances to SPG (special protection group) that the route is clear,” Nadda tweeted.He also claimed that Channi refused to get on the phone to address the matter.Congress accused the BJP of “doing politics” over the issue. Channi alleged that the attendance at the BJP’s rally in Ferozepur was thin, and that only 700 people had turned up for arrangements made keeping 70,000 people in mind. “May be this was why the PM decided to go back,” he added.“Modi ji, How’s the Josh?” tweeted Youth Congress chief BV Srinivas -- a statement that led to strong criticism from BJP leaders, including Union minister Smriti Irani and Rajya Sabha MP Sudhanshu Trivedi.Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar broke ranks with his party colleagues. “It is against Punjabiyat. A secure passage for the Prime Minister of India to address BJP’s political rally in Ferozepur should have been ensure. That’s how democracy works,” he said.Former chief minister Amarinder Singh, a BJP ally, called for Channi’s resignation, and asked for President’s Rule in the state.At a press conference in Delhi, Irani said there was a need to answer questions on who gave a false go-ahead to the cavalcade and who leaked information about the PM’s route. “Who in the Punjab government gave information about the Prime Minister‘s route to individuals who planted themselves atop the flyover?” she asked.“I am sure the nation shares our outrage at this incident. We know that the Congress party hates Modi but today they tried to harm the PM of India. Such is the breakdown of law and order in the state of Punjab that the DGP police claims he is incapable of providing security support to the Prime Minister‘s office, the Prime Minister security detail,” she added.The Shiromani Akali Dal, an erstwhile ally of the BJP, said there was a complete breakdown in law and order. “The CM is incompetent to run the state,” said Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-of-words-channi-govt-in-dock-over-pm-modi-convoy-collapse-101641432453890.html
06-01-2022||India||One Assam Rifles jawan killed, another injured in Manipur blast||One Assam Rifles jawan was killed while another sustained injuries when a suspected improvised explosive device exploded in Manipur’s Thoubal district on Wednesday, police said.It is learnt that the device exploded around 1.45pm when personnel of 16 Assam Rifles were on patrol near a water reservoir located on the eastern side of Imphal-Moreh highway at Usoipokpi Sangomsang area - about 4km south of Lilong police station.The Assam Rifles has identified the deceased jawan as L Wangshu (30) and the injured soldier as Pinku Das (25).Soon after the explosion, security forces rushed to the site to conduct a search operation, but there was no report of any arrest till the time of going to press.No outfit has taken responsibility, the statement added.An officer of the Lilong police station said: “A case has been registered in connection with the incident and investigation is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-assam-rifles-jawan-killed-another-injured-in-manipur-blast-101641432064359.html
06-01-2022||India||NEET-PG: Demands by docs genuine, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that the demands of resident doctors to hold counselling for NEET-PG seats were “genuine” as it set out to examine the Centre’s request to allow the process pending a constitutional challenge to the introduction of reservation for other backward classes (OBC) and economically weaker section (EWS) in all-India quota seats for graduate and postgraduate medical courses.Resident doctors who have qualified for postgraduate courses have been protesting the delay in counselling because the matter of reservations is pending in court.“We want to bring an end to this uncertainty as there is a genuine demand from resident doctors,” said a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna which began to hear the petitioners on the short question of allowing counselling for NEET-PG courses. In October last year, counselling was stalled after the Centre put in abeyance pending the legal challenge to a July 29, 2021 order introducing 27% OBC quota and 10% EWS quota in 15% undergraduate medical courses and 50% PG seats under all India quota (AIQ).Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the bench: “When we made the statement (putting counselling on hold), we did not anticipate this situation. We are at a stage where counselling is stuck and we need to respond to the bona fide demands of resident doctors. Let the stage of counselling get over.”The petitioners opposed the suggestion, and proposed that the July 29 government order not be given effect to for admissions in this admission cycle. Senior advocates Arvind Datar and Shyam Divan, for the petitioners, said the NEET-PG 2022 is to be held in March, and the order of July 29 was passed after the process for conducting NEET-PG 2021 started in February last year.SG Mehta said, “As a government we would not accept any position whereby the OBC or EWS, whether pre or post this exercise is deprived of what is legitimately due to them.”In October, the top court raised doubts on whether EWS beneficiaries can be uniformly clubbed together as persons belonging to households with annual earnings below ₹8 lakh without considering the rural-urban divide, purchasing power in different regions, and other factors that vary across states. To quell these doubts, the Centre in November formed a three-member committee to revisit the criteria for identifying EWS, and put the counselling process of Neet-PG seats on hold.Mehta pointed out to the report by a three-member committee found no fault with the ₹8 lakh income limit for EWS, and said: “In deference to the court’s order of November 25, we formed a committee. Now the report has been filed. The court may examine and see if the reservation serves the poor and that it is not over-inclusive. We are ready to assist but let the counselling go on in the meantime.”Divan said that the petitioners should be given the opportunity to present their concerns as they had concluded their submissions before a three-judge bench, and now there was a change of bench with the exception of justice Chandrachud. The court allowed Divan and Datar to make brief submissions and posted the matter for Thursday as arguments remained inconclusive.Divan said that AIQ seats were carved out by the Supreme Court in 2007, when it permitted reservation for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes. He submitted that OBC and EWS reservation in the AIQ category cannot be made by an executive order as this would go against judicial decisions and deprive general category students of nearly 3,500 seats in government medical colleges.Datar submitted that the three-member Committee report does not show what exercise was carried out prior to settling the income cutoff for EWS at ₹8 lakh per annum.Interventions were also filed by pro-reservation quota groups and individuals. Supporting OBC quota in NEET-PG, senior advocate P Wilson told the court that he represents the voice of OBCs, who secured a favourable order from the Madras high court, which was later upheld by the top court. The court agreed to hear the intervention applications on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neetpg-demands-by-docs-genuine-says-supreme-court-101641424775025.html
06-01-2022||India||Minor landslide at new track to Vaishno Devi; yatra suspended due to bad weather||A minor landslide was reported on the new track to the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine on Wednesday due to heavy rainfall, news agency PTI reported. The helicopter services were also suspended due to inclement weather.After the incident, the authorities stopped the pilgrimage (yatra) to the holy shrine till Thursday morning.The landslide struck the new track at Panchi on Wednesday afternoon amid heavy rains, prompting the authorities to suspend the battery car service, PTI reported quoting officials at the cave shrine situated in Trikuta Hills.They said the movement of the pilgrims was diverted to the old track but was later resumed after the debris were cleared. Though the yatra was stopped, pilgrims who were on their way to the cave or had reached the Bhawan were allowed to perform ‘darshan’.Most parts of the Kashmir valley and high-altitude areas in the Jammu region, including the Jawahar Tunnel, recorded moderate snowfall on Wednesday. In the plains, including Jammu city and Vaishno Devi base camp Katra, intermittent rainfall continued since Tuesday.According to an advisory issued by the meteorological department, moderate to heavy rain or snow is expected to continue till January 8.The weather office said Katra recorded 84.2 mm of rainfall from January 3 (8.30 am) till January 5 (5.30 pm), which was the highest in Jammu region. Jammu city witnessed 48.3 mm of rainfall during the same period.The officials said despite inclement weather, 18,000 pilgrims visited the cave shrine during the day.Twelve people were killed and 15 others injured as hundreds of thousands of pilgrims rushed to offer prayers on the first day of 2022 leading to a stampede.According to the police, the stampede occurred after an altercation between some boys among the pilgrims. However, the witnesses alleged mismanagement on part of the shrine board.The Jammu and Kashmir administration has constituted a three-member panel to investigate the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-landslide-at-new-track-to-vaishno-devi-yatra-suspended-due-to-bad-weather-101641428856241.html
06-01-2022||India||PM Modi, German Chancellor agree to focus on climate, green energy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Wednesday agreed to diversify bilateral cooperation and to focus on collaborations in the field of climate action and green energy.In his first phone conversation with the German leader since he assumed office, Modi congratulated Scholz on his appointment and expressed appreciation for the “immense contribution” of his predecessor Angela Merkel in strengthening the India-Germany strategic partnership.Modi said he looked forward to “continuing this positive momentum under the leadership” of Sholz, according to a readout from the Indian side.“They reviewed the potential of ongoing cooperation initiatives, including for promoting investment and trade links. They agreed on the potential for further diversifying cooperation and exchanges in new areas,” the readout said.“In particular, they expressed the hope to commence new cooperation initiatives in the areas of climate action and green energy, to enable both countries to achieve their respective climate commitments.”Modi and Scholz also agreed there is “significant synergy in the governance priorities announced by the new German government and India’s own economic vision”. Modi also said he looked forward to meeting Sholz soon for the next meeting of the bilateral inter-governmental consultations.“Spoke to @OlafScholz today and congratulated him on assuming charge as German Chancellor. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the India-Germany Strategic Partnership, and to meeting him soon for the 6th Inter-Governmental Consultations,” Modi tweeted after the conversation.Separately, external affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke to his counterparts from Australia, Bhutan, Indonesia and the Maldives and reviewed bilateral relations.“A New Year call with Australian FM and Quad partner @MarisePayne. Confident that 2022 will see even greater advancement in our ties,” Jaishankar said in a tweet.“A warm conversation and New Year greetings exchange with @FMBhutan. Assessed the continuing progress in our Development Partnership. Our unique relationship stands even stronger amidst the Corona challenge,” Jaishankar said about his conversation with his Bhutanese counterpart Tandi Dorji.Jaishankar tweeted that he had a “good talk” with Indonesian foreign minister Retno Marsudi, and that they had agreed to take forward bilateral ties. He said they also exchanged views on the situation in Myanmar and Afghanistan, and that they would work closely in the G-20 troika.Italy, Indonesia and India currently make up the G20 troika. Italy held the G20 presidency in 2021, Indonesia holds it for 2022 and India will take over in 2023.“Recognized the great progress in bilateral cooperation in my talk with FM @abdulla_shahid. Its mutual benefits are very visible. Conveyed my New Year’s greetings to the people and Government of Maldives,” Jaishankar tweeted about his conversation with his Maldivian counterpart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-german-chancellor-agree-to-focus-on-climate-green-energy-101641410486652.html
06-01-2022||India||Two days after BJP minister and Congress MP spar, Karnataka home minister orders police probe||Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra on Wednesday sought a report from police on the failure to anticipate protests at the Ramanagara district event, where Karnataka information technology minister Ashwath Narayana and Congress MP DK Suresh had a face-off on the stage on Monday.The home minister sought the report to be submitted at the earliest while citing intelligence failure on the part of police to provide adequate security against protesters. Both leaders almost came to blows in the presence of chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai during an event in Ramanagara district.The event was organised by the state government to unveil the statues of Dr B R Ambedkar and Bengaluru founder Kempegowda. The function was also Bommai’s first event in the district after he took over as the chief minister.A senior police officer present at the event, pleading anonymity, said, “The problem started when Congress workers walked onto the stage where CM Bommai was sitting and raised slogans supporting Shivakumar. They were also waving black flags before the event started. Police cleared them and the function continued.”The officer said the probe has been ordered to identify if there was a failure on the police’s part to identify the protests or on the part of Congress workers. The protest had resulted in a standoff between the two leaders.During his speech, Narayana attacked Congress leaders and questioned the action of party workers who walked onto the stage and shouted slogans. “Is this how you behave when a chief minister comes? Should you shout like this to ruin the district’s reputation? If you are a man, show it in your work. We did not come here to cheat people; we came here to work.”Following this, Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar’s brother Suresh walked towards Narayana. Seeing this, the MP charging towards him, the minister stopped the speech and got into a heated argument with Suresh. Suresh was joined by Congress’ Bangalore Rural MLC S Ravi, who even tried to throw the mike to stop Narayan from speaking.“The superintendent of police (SP) of the district has been accused of not making enough security arrangements to prevent the workers from getting on the stage. The SP has said that they had reviewed the security system in advance and created a special team to protect the CM. These claims will be investigated now,” said another officer pleading anonymity.Meanwhile, five Congress workers were booked for creating ruckus at the event. The police, who didn’t disclose the details of the workers, said that one of them have been booked under the Goonda Act and further probe is on.Meanwhile, Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra called the incident a public exhibition of muscle power by the Congress leaders. “I condemn the gross misconduct of the Congress leaders at the function organised by the Ramanagara district administration. The Congress leaders’ attempt to manhandle the higher education minister, Dr Ashwath Narayan, in a public meeting is obnoxious. People of Karnataka will not tolerate this kind of culture,” the home minister said in a statement.DK Shivakumar said that a minister’s arrogance was at display in Ramanagara. “The minister (Narayan) has done everything to make sure that his CM is humiliated in public and this is a part of the conspiracy to bring the CM down (by publicly humiliating him),” said Shivakumar.
06-01-2022||India||Petition in Supreme Court against Bombay HC norms on sexual harassment cases||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court against a Bombay high court order which laid down guidelines to protect identities of parties under the Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH Act) and Rules.The order, passed by Justice G S Patel of the high court on September 24 last year, mentioned a slew of guidelines related to conducting hearings, passing and uploading of orders, and reportage on cases of sexual harassment of women at workplaces, and made it clear that such cases can be either heard “in-camera” or in the judge’s chamber, and no reporting without the nod of the judge will be permitted. Any breach of these directions would amount to contempt of court, the court had observed. The plea in the top court challenged the high court’s decision, terming the directions a “death blow” to the freedom of speech and expression.“The high court has failed to take into consideration that any blanket ban or gag order in the form of an injunction restraining the broadcast of true and accurate facts will encroach upon the people’s right to know and violate their right to information, which is an integral part of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. This will have a devastating and detrimental effect on the society at large,” the plea, drafted by advocate Abha Singh on behalf of the victim, said. Singh also pointed out that the high court order was passed suo moto in a suit filed by the victim seeking compensation for wrongful termination. “This gag order will serve as a tool for powerful men to continue to sexually harass women and thereafter suppress women’s voices on social media and in news media with the help of such gag orders,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-in-supreme-court-against-bombay-hc-norms-on-sexual-harassment-cases-101641410183866.html
06-01-2022||India||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai seeks active participation of BJP workers in containing Covid pandemic||With surging coronavirus cases in Karnataka, chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday asked the BJP cadre to involve themselves in Covid-19 management in the state.“I have asked the BJP workers to actively involve themselves in Covid management in the interest of public health,” Bommai told reporters after a meeting with party state president Nalin Kumar Kateel and other office bearers.Bommai said that the BJP workers have been asked to involve themselves actively in the campaign to tackle the spread of Omicron, the new variant of the novel coronavirus.They can play a role in providing useful information to the public, spreading awareness about precautionary measures, assisting in quarantine, getting ambulance services and vaccination, he said.The Karnataka government on Tuesday announced fresh restrictions, including closure of schools and pre-university colleges except for Classes 10 and 12, weekend curfew and extension of night curfew.The government also restricted congregation of people in large numbers and banned rallies and protests. The measures were taken after a sudden spurt in Covid cases since January 1 when the health department started reporting more than 1,000 infections daily.On Wednesday, Bengaluru alone reported 3,605 Covid cases, according to health minister Dr K Sudhakar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-seeks-active-participation-of-bjp-workers-in-containing-covid-pandemic-101641410008897.html
06-01-2022||India||Be cautious for 4 to 6 weeks to contain third Covid wave, says K’taka health minister||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said that people need to be cautious for the next four to six weeks to control a possible third wave of Covid-19 and the spread of the Omicon variant in the state.“New Covid guidelines have been released after a meeting chaired by the chief minister (CM). My appeal to the people is four to six weeks is crucial. As we have observed worldwide, it is declining in five to six weeks. This wave will not be for too long, like in the first and second wave that was for three to four months,” he told reporters.Meanwhile, Dr Vishal Rao, member, committee for Covid-19 whole-genome sequencing said that a study led by researchers from the LKS Faculty of Medicine at The University of Hong Kong (HKUMed) provides the first information on how the novel variant of concern (VOC) of SARS-CoV-2, the Omicron SARS-CoV-2 infects the human respiratory tract.“The researchers found that Omicron SARS-CoV-2 infects and multiplies 70 times faster than the Delta variant and original SARS-CoV-2 in the human bronchus, which may explain why Omicron may transmit faster between humans than previous variants. As per the study, the Omicron infection in the lungs is significantly lower than the original SARS-CoV-2, which may be an indicator of lower disease severity,” he said.He, however, added that this research is currently under peer review for publication.Karnataka on Wednesday reported 4,246 new cases of Covid-19, the second consecutive day where the new cases reported in city are showing massive increase. Out of the new cases, 3,605 were reported in Bengaluru. The positivity rate in the state stands at 3.33%. On Tuesday, Bengaluru saw the number of new cases jumping from 1,040 to 2,058. On Wednesday the city witnessed a 75% increase in the number of cases.A 15-year-old girl was among the two people who succumbed to Covid-19 in Karnataka, as per the bulletin from the Karnataka health department on Wednesday. The girl who had influenza-like illness had shown only fever as a symptom. She was admitted to a private hospital on Monday and succumbed on the same day, added the bulletin.Sudhakar said that Karnataka government vaccinated 7.96 lakh children in the age group of 15-17 years in just two days. “That is 25% of the total target population of 31 lakh in this age group. We are hopeful of completing this in next 7 to 10 days,” he said.Meanwhile, the government has issued new guidelines for hospital bed reservations. As per the new orders, the private hospitals and private medical college hospitals have been asked to immediately reserve and keep ready 30% beds in each category, ie, intensive care unit (ICU), ICU with ventilator, high definition unit (HDU)/oxygenated and general beds for treatment of Covid-19 patients referred by the public health authorities.“The complete quote of 50% beds of each category, ie, ICU, ICU with ventilator, HDU/oxygenated and general beds of private hospitals to be reserved for treatment of Covid 19 patients referred by the public health authorities in a manner that the beds are free for occupation by January 7,” read the order.It further added that the private medical college hospitals will keep ready and reserve beds under each category, i.e, ICU, ICU with ventilator, HDU/oxygenated and general beds for treatment of the public health authorities referred cases up to 50% by January 7 and up to 75% by January 10.Owing to the increase in cases, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Tuesday instructed the chief health officer Dr Balasundar to identify one Covid-19 care centre in all Assembly constituencies in BBMP limits. Speaking after inspecting the Covid-19 care centre established at Kempegouda community hall Bengaluru’s Nandini Layout in Mahalakshmi constituency, he said that as Covid-19 cases are increasing by the day, one centre in each Assembly constituency should be reopened.“It is instructed to identify one Covid-19 care centre each in all Assembly constituencies as the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing. Persons with mild symptoms, if they are unable to take treatment under home isolation, can get treatment at Covid-19 care centres,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-cautious-for-4-to-6-weeks-to-contain-third-covid-wave-says-k-taka-health-minister-101641409889377.html
06-01-2022||India||Kerala actor’s abduction, assault case drags on||The Kerala actor abduction and assault case saw two special public prosecutors resign, 38 witnesses turned hostile, and prosecution moved higher courts, seeking a change of the trial judge. In the last two days, the case was heard in the special court in Kochi without a public prosecutor, and the government is busy searching for a third one. On Wednesday, the state government moved the Supreme Court seeking an extension of the trial for another six months after film director Balachandra Kumar came out with new revelations against actor Dileep, an accused in the case.After the revelation, the investigating officer Baiju Paulose had moved a fresh plea in the Kerala high court requesting to question the main accused Pulsar Suni, who is in judicial custody. On Wednesday, Dileep, along with a co-accused, wrote a letter to Kerala police chief Anil Kant seeking the removal of Paulose. The letter came two days after the victim, a 35-year-old woman actor, now settled in Bengaluru, wrote to Kant and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking speedy justice and examination of new evidence.In the letter, Dileep said the officer was trying to influence some of the film workers with whom he has uneasy relations and forcing them to depose against him. He said the controversial interview of director Kumar was part of this plot and sought to examine phone call details of Paulose to buttress his charge. Paulose, known to be a tough officer and often called ‘Action Hero Biju’ (a recent Malayalam movie name), was trying to cover up the prosecution’s mistakes by coming out with trumped-up leads, Dileep alleged in the letter. Kumar told a Malayalam news channel that he met the prime accused in the case Suni at actor Dileep’s residence in 2016 when he went to discuss a new project. He also claimed that the latter had a video clipping of the assault. He also alleged that Dileep tried to influence a key witness, Sagar Vincent, a film crew member, two years ago, after which he turned hostile. But Dileep downplayed his utterances saying, “He (Kumar) was using his old enmity to settle scores with me.” He said Kumar was upset with him after he refused to take up his project. When contacted, Kumar said he delayed his disclosure because he feared for his life and denied any blackmail tactics. “I was scared to come out. Whatever I want to say, I shared it with the SIT,” he said, adding that since the investigation was on it was unfair on his part to explain it again. Soon after the new disclosure, the prosecution moved the trial court for a fresh investigation, and the court asked the prosecution to file fresh charges by January 20. New allegations against Dileep and the prosecution’s fresh demand for a probe surfaced at a time when the trial court’s six-month extension given by the Supreme Court last August is set to expire on February 16.The attack on a woman actor took place in 2017 when she was returning to Kochi after a shooting assignment on the outskirts of the city. Her vehicle was allegedly waylaid, and she was abducted by a criminal gang in a closed van. She was allegedly assaulted in the moving van by them. They also took video clippings of the sexual assault and let her go after a three-hour ordeal and threatened to release the video if she approached the police. In her statement to the police, she said she promised them a hefty amount to leave her safe, but they continued to torment her. During the attack, the first accused, Pulsar Suni, a notorious history-sheeter in the port city, had reportedly told the victim that he was given a contract and he was forced to do this. The actor complained to police the next day, and all nine accused were arrested and the vehicle used for assault was seized.Six months after the case was registered, the Special Investigation Team led by Paulose arrested Dileep, who spent three months in jail. He is the eighth accused in the case and faces charges under criminal conspiracy (Section 120 A) and abetment to crime (Section 107 of the IPC). The case witnessed many twists and turns since then. Some of the police witnesses had turned hostile, and at one point, the state government told the high court that Dileep was filing unnecessary pleas in different courts to delay the trial. But the HC and later apex court rejected the prosecution plea to shift the trial judge Honey M Varghese. In August last year, the Supreme Court had directed the special court to complete the trial in six months. The Malayalam film world is also totally divided over the case. While one section insists that the victim should get justice at the earliest, the others say it was unfair to target Dileep and force his detractors to come up with fresh disclosures. “Where was Balachandra Kumar all these days? He could have deposed while the trial was on. As an observer, I feel he was propped up by the prosecution at the eleventh hour when the wind was going against it,” said film producer Saji Nanthayad. Women in Cinema Collective (WCC), an outfit formed in the wake of the attack on the actor, asked the government to inquire about new revelations and get speedy justice to the victim. “Time and again in this excruciating fight for justice, many such questions need to be asked and answered to learn the truth,” the WCC said in a statement. After the assault, the WCC started a hashtag campaign called #Avalkoppam# (with her) which turned viral on social media. It also wrote to the CM last week to ensure speedy justice to the victim. “It is a peculiar case. Many witnesses have turned hostile weakening the prosecution. It is natural for the prosecution to go after fresh development in the case. But it seems some of the claims of the director seem to be quite weird. Let the court decide it,” said a former lawyer associated with the prosecution team, who was not willing to be named. “The Supreme Court had in the past extended such deadlines set for criminal trials multiple times. It may extend the deadline after examining disclosures in detail otherwise it may be construed as a miscarriage of justice,” said senior Supreme Court lawyer M R Abhilash. 
06-01-2022||India||Weekend lockdown plot to stop Mekedatu project implementation: Cong||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said that the Karnataka government’s decision to impose a weekend lockdown and ban public rallies due to the surge in Covid-19 cases was a conspiracy to stop the party from taking out a protest rally demanding the Mekedatu drinking water project. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, reacting to a protest ban issued on Tuesday night, said the Sunday (January 9) march would not be cancelled. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is holding a series of rallies, but the BJP government in Karnataka wants us not to conduct a walk for water?” he asked. The march from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, a distance of around 179 km, will cover 15 Assembly constituencies before culminating with a public meeting at the Basavanagudi grounds in the state capital. Talking to the media on Wednesday, Siddaramaiah said that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to stop the protest since the government has no plans to implement the drinking water project. “Their intentions are not visible to anyone. They have no intention to go ahead with the project since they want to expand their political presence in Tamil Nadu. Their state leader Annamalai is holding protests. Can it happen without the blessings of the BJP leadership? Because of this, we are doing this protest to demand water for the people of the state,” said Siddaramaiah. He added that the government was trying to divert attention from its failure during the first and second waves of Covid-19. “The government didn’t work during the first and the second waves. They couldn’t provide medicines, ambulances, ICUs, Oxygen and other facilities. The experts had warned about the third wave in February. They should have taken the precautions,” he added. The veteran leader said that Congress would take out the rally without breaking any guidelines issued by the government. “We have taken all the precautionary measures. If required, only DK Shivakumar and I will walk,” he said. Shivakumar said that he was more concerned about the small business owners, who are getting affected by the BJP’s political games. “What concerns us the most is that hit taken by small businessmen in the state. They are in pain. For the past two years, their condition has been difficult. For their (BJP’s) political gains, because of the grudge they have against us (Congress), they are hurting businessmen, the tourism sector, drivers, street vendors are being targeted. It is as good as them getting murdered, and the government is doing it,” he said. According to Shivakumar, the party has ordered sanitisers and 100,000 masks for the participants of the padayatra. Also, 100 doctors from the party’s doctors’ cell and 10 mobile health check-up units will be deployed during the 10-day event, he said. Over 4,817 people, mostly party workers, are said to have registered online for the event. Responding to the Congress, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said that the spread of the virus is happening in front of everyone’s eyes, and he hopes that Congress will take the right steps. “People are watching, and they will make a decision. We didn’t bring out the guidelines because of any ill intention. The virus is spreading in front of our eyes. It is spreading fast. I hope Congress changes its mind looking at the situation now. The Congress has a former chief minister and many leaders who have held important posts. I want to believe that they will take the right steps,” said Sudhakar. Asked if action will be taken against Congress for violating the Covid guidelines, he said, “the laws will take its course.” 
06-01-2022||India||Jayalalithaa’s chennai residence:Madras high court rejects AIADMK appeal over house acquisition||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed an appeal filed by the AIADMK and the party’s former law minister C V Shanmugam challenging a single judge’s order in November 2021, which had scrapped their acquisition of J Jayalalithaa’s residence ‘Veda Nilayam’. A division bench of justices Paresh Upadhyay and Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup said that they agree with judge S Seshasayee’s 2021 order that the acquisition of Veda Nilayam is procedurally illegal & doesn’t fall under ‘public purpose’. The original case pertained to petitions filed by Jayalalithaa’s niece and nephew J Deepa and J Deepak, who had challenged the AIADMK acquisition and attempting to convert the former chief minister’s residence into a memorial. On November 24, the single bench’s 114-page judgement set aside the acquisition of Veda Nilayam and directed the Chennai district collector J Vijaya Rani to hand over the residence’s keys to Deepa and Deepak. The court had also said that the Income Tax department is free to proceed for recovering any arrears of tax payable by Jayalalithaa, which is chargeable on her estate as per law. Following the order, the keys went to Deepa and Deepak in December 2020. Though the court, in an interim order in January 2021, allowed the AIADMK to inaugurate the memorial, it was not open to the public, and the final judgment came after a change in government in May 2021. On Wednesday, having heard the arguments and considered the material on record, the division bench found three issues before it–whether the impugned judgement can be said to be erroneous; whether the said acquisition could be said to be for any ‘public purpose’ as defined under section 3 of the under ‘The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013’ and lastly, whether the ‘appropriate government’ under the Act of 2013 can still be directed to continue with the said acquisition proceeding, by initiating the exercise afresh. The court observed that if the acquisition is examined, keeping in view the ‘objects and reasons’ and the definition of the ‘public purpose’ in the Act of 2013, then the bench would be unable to bring the acquisition of the property within ‘public purpose’. “Having held as above, it may not be required to examine whether the ‘appropriate Government’ still needs to be directed to continue with the said acquisition proceeding,” the court said. The then AIADMK government enacted legislation in 2020 establishing a foundation for the sprawling white bungalow’s upkeep to be turned into a memorial and stated that the property was acquired legally after depositing a compensation of ₹67.9 crores before the civil court in Chennai. Jayalalithaa lived in the property, which she purchased in the 1960s, until her death in December 2016. She died intestate. According to the revenue department, the three-storey residence is on a ten-ground plot. It has 32,721 moveable items, including 8,376 books and 394 mementoes. Fourteen items of gold weighing 4.4 kgs and 867 items of silver weighing 601 kgs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jayalalithaas-chennai-residence-madras-high-court-rejects-aiadmk-appeal-over-house-acquisition-101641409825227.html
06-01-2022||India||Telangana high court grants bail to BJP Telangana unit chief Sanjay||Bharatiya Janata Party Telangana unit president and Lok Sabha member from Karimnagar Bandi Sanjay was on Wednesday released from Karimnagar jail, after the state high court granted him bail and ordered his immediate release.Sanjay was arrested by the Karimnagar police on the night of January 2 after he made an abortive attempt to stage a “Jagran” deeksha at his camp office in protest against a government order relating to transfer of government employees and teachers.On Wednesday, a high court bench headed by Justice Ujjal Bhuyan heard the arguments on his bail petition and set aside the orders of the Karimnagar court. It ordered the release of Sanjay on personal surety.Noting that Sanjay was arrested at 10.50 pm and an FIR was registered at 11.15 pm, the high court asked how the FIR was registered in such a short time. It also sought to know why Section 333 (causing injuries to the public servant) of the Indian Penal Code was added to the FIR, as there was no medical report about the injuries to policemen in the remand report submitted to the lower court.The high court also issued a notice to the state government to submit all the details and adjourned the hearing to February 7. Sanjay was released from the jail at around 7.45 pm.The arrests had led to strong protests from BJP. The party had called for state-wide protests for 14 days. BJP national president J P Nadda also took part in the protests at Secunderabad on Tuesday.Welcoming the high court verdict, the BJP general secretary in-charge of Telangana Tarun Chug said it was a slap on the face of the TRS government. He said the party was not afraid of false cases and arrests and would continue to fight on behalf of people.Chug alleged that the K Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) government was trying to stifle the voice of the opposition for questioning its anti-people policies. He alleged that the police booked false cases against Sanjay and arrested him.The BJP leader said Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had served a privilege notice on Karimnagar police for manhandling the state BJP president. “The police used ropes and gas cutters to enter Sanjay’s office in Karimnagar to arrest him. Is Sanjay a criminal or a gangster, like Dawood Ibrahim?” Chug asked.Meanwhile, Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and state minister KT Rama Rao lashed out at BJP national president J P Nadda for calling the chief minister corrupt and a person who had lost mental balance.Describing the BJP as a ‘Bakwas Jumla Party’, KTR said Nadda had spoken nonsense and made useless comments. He said there was no difference between Nadda and Sanjay in using nasty comments against the chief minister.He alleged that several poll promises made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi were not fulfilled.QUOTE?
06-01-2022||India||Ex-IFS officers say outrage on Haridwar hate speech a ‘smear campaign’||A group of former ambassadors and senior diplomats has criticised activists, retired bureaucrats, military officers and journalists for conducting what it claimed was a “sustained smear campaign” against the government over controversial statements made at the Dharam Sansad in Haridwar in December last year.The group of 32 diplomats, which included former foreign secretary Kanwal Sibal, contended in a statement issued on Wednesday that all calls for violence “must be unequivocally condemned regardless of their religious, ethnic, ideological or regional origin”.The group claimed a “motley group of activists”, some former civil servants and military figures were involved in the “smear campaign against the present government on its presumed violations of the secular ethos of the country”.“This has taken effectively an increasingly anti-Hindu tenor under the guise of anti-Hindutva. The latter has become a convenient peg for ‘secular’ posturing, adopting virtue-signaling ‘constitutional’ positions, relying on bloated vocabulary of ‘Nazism’ and ‘genocide’ to gather international attraction and leverage it to bring odium to the Modi government,” the statement said.The group specifically referred to the activists and former bureaucrats and military officers raising the issue of “some objectionable anti-minority statements made at a religious gathering at Haridwar”.The former diplomats contended these statements should be “condemned by all right thinking people”, but added that “when the import of these is exaggerated out of all proportion and the ranting by fringe elements are seen as representative of the sentiments prevailing in ruling circles, and as laying the agenda of what lies ahead at the national level, then the political leanings and moral integrity of the critics can be rightly questioned”.After several videos of leaders at the religious congregation emerged on social media, Uttarakhand Police registered an FIR that named several Hindu leaders for allegedly making hate speeches. Five former chiefs of staff of the armed forces and more than 100 prominent citizens wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Justice NV Ramana on December 31, condemning speeches made at the meeting in Haridwar.However, the group of former diplomats contended that a “tirade of accusations and calumny has been let loose in an effort to falsely portray the Haridwar speeches as a force very much larger than the fringe groups they represent”.“Overwrought fears are expressed about an irreversible fragmentation and disintegration of the country by what is described as brazen and violent attacks against minorities throughout the North Indian heartland by supposedly not fringe elements but ones dangerously close to mainstream, and holding that the instruments of state are being bent to advance this communal agenda,” the statement said.The group claimed that under the current government, welfare schemes for minorities had seen increases in expenditure, including on rural housing, scholarships for students, priority sector lending by banks and the rural and urban livelihoods mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exifsofficers-say-outrage-on-haridwar-hate-speech-a-smear-campaign-101641409584333.html
06-01-2022||India||Telangana’s facial recognition technology comes under scanner||The use of facial recognition technology by the Telangana police as part of their smart policing mission, supposedly to profile criminals and keep a watch on their activities has come under legal scrutiny.Acting on a public interest litigation petition filed by a social activist S Q Masood, a division bench of the state high court comprising chief justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili on Monday issued a notice to the state government and the Hyderabad city police commissioner, seeking an explanation over the propriety of the usage of technology and whether it infringes on one’s privacy while being in public places. The case has been posted for January 15 for further hearing and a response has been sought from the Telangana police.Masood in his petition claimed that on the night of May 19 last year, he was stopped by a group of policemen while he was returning home. The police allegedly forced him to remove his mask and took his picture without taking his consent. Next day, he wrote to the Hyderabad police commissioner asking him the reason why the police had taken his photographs, where they were stored and who would have access to them.When there was no response from the police, Masood sent a legal notice with the help of an NGO Internet Freedom Foundation on May 31. Subsequently, he moved the high court.The petitioner argued that he had come to know that his photograph was being used by the police as part of profiling the people using facial recognition technology (FRT). He said it was arbitrary and an infringement on the right to privacy of an individual. He said it had no safeguards for the citizens, no redress mechanism and no legal backing or guidelines for implementing FRT. Unlike the 12-digit biometric based unique identification number called Aadhaar, which is mandated through an act of Parliament, there is no such regulation for FRT.Masood explains it. He said the police had discretionary powers to use the FRT on anyone, apart from covertly capturing photographs through CCTV cameras. The technology is not for a specific purpose but is used for mass surveillance, he alleged, a view of also several pro-privacy activists.WHAT IS FRT?According to Ramesh Kanneganti, executive director of Centre for Human Security Studies and an expert on internal security issues, FRT involves processing digital images of individuals’ faces for verification or identification of those individuals using artificial intelligence.“It extracts specific data from a face, based on facial expressions or hair style or shape of the face and uses the data to compare with the images of the persons who have already been profiled in their database,” he said.Launched in August 2018, the FRT, by design, requires external cameras to capture sensitive personal data and photographs which are compared with those maintained on pre-existing lists compiled for purposes of either identification or verification of persons.The deployment of FRT is being done through an existing setup of Close-Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras, without giving notice to individuals about them being subjected to intrusive surveillance and without providing them information about the manner in which their sensitive personal data is stored, shared, and used.Alternatively, the police on ground can also capture the pictures of the people on their smart phones and send them to the database using a mobile-phone based application “TSCOP.” There has been a lot of criticism over the use of mobile application to capture pictures of residents of Hyderabad during police patrolling.According to Telangana government, there are nearly six lakh CCTV cameras across the state, but mostly in the state capital region. According to the year-end data released by the police, there are 440,299 CCTV cameras in Hyderabad alone, followed by 126,760 in Cyberabad and 23,700 in Rachakonda police commissionerate limits.In its report released in November 2021, Amnesty International declared Hyderabad as one of the most surveilled cities in the world, which is putting human rights at risk. “Hyderabad is on the brink of becoming a total surveillance city. It is almost impossible to walk down the street without risking exposure to facial recognition,” said Matt Mahmoudi, Amnesty International’s AI and Big Data researcher in the report.He said in addition to CCTV, the matter of concern was the way the police are using tablets to stop, search and photograph civilians that could be used for facial recognition.Masood, in his petition filed in the high court pointed out that the images captured by the CCTV cameras and analysed using FRT, were being linked to the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) under Union ministry of home affairs, a national database with biometrics of persons apprehended by state and central law enforcement agencies in connection with any case.“The use of the FRT and other such biometric data is a gross violation of the right to privacy and right to freedom as per the Supreme Court judgement in 2017. We strongly oppose the same,” said noted lawyer and human rights activist Ch Prabhakar.Internal security expert Kanneganti said though the FRT can be an effective prevention and pre-emptive measure to contain many law and order challenges but the law enforcement agencies have to maintain caution and respect privacy laws of the citizens.“There is every possibility of the technology being misused, as it depends on what data one would feed. Even if there are 10-15 percent of similarities between an innocent and criminal in terms of facial features, there is a scope for the police harassing the innocents,” he explained.He suggested that the police should observe utmost caution in using such predictive policing techniques. He said the police should not use it in racial, religious and caste based profiling in the name of national security.Hyderabad police commissioner C V Anand allayed fears of the misuse of FRT being used by the police. “We don’t infringe into the privacy of any individual, as we are not barging into anybody’s house to take pictures. The technology is being used only to keep surveillance on criminals or suspected criminals,” he said.He claimed that the FRT was also serving as a deterrent for the criminals, especially those from other states indulging in crimes in Hyderabad. “Three years ago, there were more than 1,300 such criminals caught based on the CCTV footage in a year. It has come down to around 300 now, thanks to the technology,” he explained.Activists said the police needs to understand that people have privacy rights also in public places. “The Supreme Court in its Aadhaar ruling clearly defined privacy as a fundamental right which person exercises at his home and also in public places. One has a right to move freely without being watched by the state,” said Apar Gupta, a lawyer who is also executive director of Internet Freedom Foundation, a Delhi based advocacy group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telanganas-facial-recognition-technology-comes-under-scanner-101641409527024.html
06-01-2022||India||Four dead, two injured as fire breaks out in Tamil Nadu firecracker factory||Four people died and two injured after a fire broke out at a firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu’s Virudhunagar district on Wednesday, the police said. The two injured are currently undergoing treatment at a government hospital for burns. This comes just days after five people died in a firecracker factory explosion in the same district, a firecracker manufacturing hub in Tamil Nadu. The January 1 fire accident killed five people and left eight others injured. Both accidents happened at firecracker units that hold a licence, the police said.On Wednesday, the accident happened near Sattur. “Four people, including the owner, are dead. Two people are being treated,” said Nagaraj, deputy superintendent of police, Sattur in Virudhunagar. The deceased owner, A Karuppasamy (40), holds a licence to run the firecracker manufacturing unit under Sri Solai FireWorks.On Wednesday, Karuppasamy and an employee, K Senthi (35), were in the room where they were mixing chemicals, which led to the fire breaking out due to friction and quickly spreading. Fire and rescue service officials were immediately pressed into service, and the fire was eventually put out. Offering his condolences, chief minister M K Stalin announced a solatium of ₹3 lakh to the families of the deceased and ₹1 lakh each for the injured. Stalin announced the same amount of compensation for the January 1 accident too.“It is a case of carelessness in both accidents that led to the fire,” said Nagaraj when asked what caused two back-to-back accidents, particularly since both units were licensed and had safety norms in place. Fires at factories have been recurring in the state, questioning the safety of employees. Besides, two recent accidents related to fireworks also shocked the state. A shop in Kallakurichi district had stored up firecrackers in October, a few weeks before Diwali, which led to a massive explosion killing seven people, including an 11-year-old boy. In November, a man and his seven-year-old son were killed on the spot when they were riding a two-wheeler with a bag of country-made firecrackers that exploded on the road between Puducherry and Tamil Nadu’s Villupuram district. Following the accidents Virudhunagar district collector, J Meghanath Reddy issued a statement that if irregularities are found in licensed factories, authorities will permanently revoke their license.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-dead-two-injured-as-fire-breaks-out-in-tamil-nadu-firecracker-factory-101641409524038.html
06-01-2022||India||PM Modi’s convoy held up: Role of Punjab Police in focus over security fiasco||Was the protest by farmers and a possible road blockade by them during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit in Punjab discussed during the advance security liaison (ASL) meeting? Why wasn’t an alternative route identified during the meeting, which is always done before deciding on a route for the Prime Minister’s convoy?HT spoke to many officers across various agencies who explained the security protocol for the PM and the reasons why they believe that the Punjab Police and the Intelligence Bureau are at fault for Wednesday’s security breach.The PM’s immediate security is by the SPGThe PM is guarded round-the-clock by the Special Protection Group (SPG). At any given time, at least 40-60 officers of the SPG including an SPG commandant — equivalent to a Superintendent of Police (SP) — are always present with the PM. This is called the inner ring. Outside this inner ring, there are other layers of security provided by police and those from the paramilitary forces. For example, if the PM is addressing a rally at a ground, the main stage will have SPG personnel. Even the local police will not be allowed inside the ring.But local police is in charge of the routeWhenever the Prime Minister moves in any part of the country, the route is secured by the local police (Punjab Police in this case). The PM is accompanied only by SPG. Personnel from the paramilitary forces are put on duty to guard the route. If there are towers or tall building along the route, snipers from the paramilitary forces are posted . The local state police has to ensure that no person — especially those who live or work on the roadside — breaches the security of the route. This is very clear.“The sanitisation of the road is done 3-4 hours in advance. The PM’s visit was not an impromptu one. The local police had enough time to check for mobilisation in the villages nearby, especially in the backdrop of the recent farmers protest. The local police must sanitise the road and cannot make exceptions for even fire or ambulance vehicles to stop the convoy,” said one officer who asked not to be named.The first two vehicles of the convoy called Escort Number 1 and 2 are always provided by state police. The personnel inside these vehicles coordinate with the local police and are informed if there is any disturbance.Everything is discussed at an advance security liaison or ASL meetingThis is one of the most important security preparedness meetings ahead of the PM’s visit anywhere. Even if the PM is attending a rally or a function near his house in New Delhi, the meeting happens. If the PM’s schedule is known in advance, the ASL meeting happens more than a week before the visit. Officers of the rank of deputy inspector general and inspector general from the Intelligence Bureau (IB), SPG, and the local police attend the meeting. “An ASL report is prepared. Wasn’t the threat of protesters spilling on the roads discussed at this? If it was and yet the protesters came on the road, then the Punjab Police is at fault. Also, it would be interesting to see what the IB said in the meeting. Every security detail is planned on the basis of this meeting,” said a second officer who too asked not to be named.There are usually two routesA third officer, who has in the past worked on the PM’s security, said that there are always two routes planned for the PM. The first route is called the contingency (C) route and the second is the main route. “The routes are chosen in such a way that if there is a blockade on the main route, the convoy immediately takes a turn towards the C route. In Delhi, CISF and BSF personnel guard the route till the PM passes through it. If there is a threat or a possible, disruption, the escort vehicles immediately take the second route, which is already sanitised in advance. And until the PM passes, no one is allowed on the route,” the officer added.Usually, one or both carriageways of the road are kept clear for the PMIn Delhi, where the PM mostly travels from his residence to his office or a function, only one carriageway is blocked. CISF and BSF personnel stand on the divider and allow traffic to move in the second carriage. But vehicles cannot stop.“But if the PM is travelling in Jammu & Kashmir or any other sensitive place such as Chhattisgarh, then both carriageways are blocked. CCTV cameras are places and then the security drill is the same. The local police have to sanitise the route, keep miscreants off the roads. They act on their own and also collect inputs from the Intelligence Bureau. Depending on the IB’s inputs a chopper is also kept on stand-by,” a fourth officer, who has worked with in the PM’s security, said.
06-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu issues fresh curbs amid Covid-19 surge||Tamil Nadu has reported a 78 per cent spike in Covid-19 infections as 4,862 people tested positive in the state on Wednesday as against 2,731 new cases a day ago. On January 3, the state had reported a total of 1,728 new Covid cases. The increase in number isn’t an outcome of increased testing as Tamil Nadu has been averaging more than 100,000 tests every day, with a marginal increase Thursday. From January 3 to 5, the number of people tested in lakhs has been 1.02, 1.03, and 1.17. Chennai remains the hotspot, driving the daily surge in cases. From 876 new cases on January 3, the capital city reported 2,481 cases on January 5. The Greater Chennai Corporation has not released its testing numbers. Authorities said that the Omicron variant of the virus is leading to rapid transmission. Tamil Nadu has 121 cases of Omicron variant, of which 110 patients have been discharged. After the World Health Organisation (WHO) announced Omicron as a variant of concern on November 26, 2021, cases began rising in Tamil Nadu from November 29, the directorate of public health and preventive medicine (DPH) said in a statement. “The state has recorded around 2,731 new cases on January 4, which is almost a jump by 4.5 times in just a week from 619 cases on December 28,” said T S Selvavinayagam, director of the DPH. “The active cases have also risen to 10,364. The trend from other international countries like the USA, UK, France suggest active cases during the peak period may be 3 to 4 times higher than the previous peak period. So, there is a chance that this surge can lead to healthcare infrastructure being strained if not managed systematically.”On Wednesday, the DPH directed all the deputy directors of health services to upgrade primary and community health centres into interim Covid care centres. It included guidelines on how to set them up. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan told reporters in Chennai that all Covid-19 infrastructure, such as beds with oxygen supply is in place, and medicines are in stock for the next six months. “Cases will rise in the next few days before cases decline again. We are taking several steps to break the chain. People should be careful to prevent transmission so that the health system is not pressurised. And I want to insist people get vaccinated,” he said.Tamil Nadu on Wednesday tightened restrictions given the rising cases, and the government anticipates more cases as the Tamil festival of Pongal approaches. 
06-01-2022||India||NEET is unnecessary and creates unequal platform: Tamil Nadu governor in maiden assembly speech||Tamil Nadu Governor R N Ravi on Wednesday in his maiden address in the state assembly articulated that the state’s view is that entrance exams like National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) create an unequal platform against rural students and it is unnecessary. This comes even as he is facing criticism for not sending the Bill to ban NEET in Tamil Nadu to President Ram Nath Kovind. “Entrance exams create an unequal platform by being inherently discriminatory against rural students. Hence, this Government is of the firm view that entrance exams like NEET are unnecessary for student admissions to professional courses and will continue to reiterate this position,” Ravi said. DMK’s parliamentary leader T R Baalu in Delhi told reporters on Wednesday that Ravi has to resign for not sending the Bill to the President. “He has no other alternative but to send it. How long will he hold on to it?” Baalu said. “When the Governor is not following the procedure, he has to resign and go.” DMK’s ally Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) walked out of the assembly blaming the governor for “sitting on” the bill. K S Alagiri, president of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee, which is also part of the ruling coalition, pointed out that Tamil Nadu MPs have tried to meet Union home minister Amit Shah thrice on the matter. “But he has refused to meet them. His action is condemnable.” The Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021 was passed by the DMK-led state government in the state assembly with the support of all parties except the BJP in September. The bill seeks to restore Tamil Nadu’s process of medical admissions by considering only class 12 marks, retracting a similar way before the Supreme Court made NEET compulsory in 2017. But according to an RTI response from the governor’s office in December, the bill is under consideration, though it has been three months. The AIADMK in 2017 passed a similar bill seeking exemption from NEET but it was rejected by the president. DMK’s poll promise has been to abolish NEET. It has been a burning issue in the state since more than a dozen medical aspirants, mostly from poor and rural backgrounds, have died by suicide after the competitive exam became compulsory. Ravi took over as governor on September 18 after the then Governor Banwarilal Purohit was transferred to Punjab. On Wednesday, Ravi began his 45-minute address by praising chief minister M K Stalin for “galvanising” the entire government machinery after he took office in May and praised the state government’s efforts to immediately contain the second wave of Covid-19 and increase vaccine coverage. “In just seven months, due to the concerted efforts of this Government, the vaccination coverage has been increased to 86.% for the second dose, with a total of 8.55 crore doses being administered,” the governor said. By this time members of the principal Opposition, the AIADMK, were on their feet, with the leader of opposition Edappadi Palaniswami criticising the DMK regime and the party staging a walkout. The governor asserted the state’s stand on sharing of river water with neighbouring states by opposing Karnataka’s Mekedatu reservoir project on the Cauvery river and declaring its intention to take necessary steps to restore the full reservoir level (FRL) of 152 ft in Mullaperiyar Dam located in Kerala. “While extending constructive co-operation to neighbouring states, Tamil Nadu will continue to fight for its rightful share of river waters,” he said. Ravi outlined that Tamil Nadu will continue to implement a dual language policy of using Tamil and English amidst the state’s protest against a National Education Policy (NEP). He also said that this government urges the GST Council and the Union finance ministry to continue the GST compensation till at least June 2024, since the state’s finances are yet to recover from the hit of the Covid pandemic. And as Tamil Nadu has sought ₹6,230 crores, he urged the Union government to release funds from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) soon after heavy floods caused damage in November 2021. The governor also announced that the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) department will establish a publication division to bring out books that speak of the rich history and architecture of temples in Tamil Nadu. In addition, they will also launch a drive to preserve rare palm leaf manuscripts available in temples and mutts. Following the governor’s speech, the Assembly Speaker M Appavu informed that the first session of the assembly this year will go on until January 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-is-unnecessary-and-creates-unequal-platform-tamil-nadu-governor-in-maiden-assembly-speech-101641409343825.html
06-01-2022||India||CDS Rawat chopper crash a CFIT accident, say officials||The December 8 helicopter crash in which India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat was killed along with 13 others was most likely a controlled flight into terrain (CFIT) accident with cloudy weather a contributory factor, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, after the Indian Air Force (IAF) made a detailed presentation to defence minister Rajnath Singh on the inquiry report into the Mi-17V5 accident.In aviation parlance, CFIT refers to the accidental collision with terrain of an airworthy aircraft under the flight crew’s full control. In CFIT accidents, the pilot or crew is unaware of the looming danger until it is too late, according to the US Federal Aviation Administration. The most common causes of it are bad weather, human error, or a problem with navigation equipment. And most of these accidents happen during take off or landing.A major factor leading to such accidents is the loss of situational awareness, FAA says.The Russian-origin helicopter, considered extremely safe and reliable, was fully serviceable when it crashed near Coonoor, said one of the officials who cited above. The low-flying helicopter flew into a cloud cover seconds before it went down in a fireball, barely seven minutes before it was scheduled to land in Wellington.“It was most likely a CFIT accident. The aircraft was fully serviceable. There is no evidence of technical failure,” said a second official.There was no official word from IAF on what led to the accident. Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, who headed the inquiry into the crash, made the presentation to the defence minister in the presence of IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari.The helicopter took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48am and was scheduled to land at the helipad at the Wellington golf course at 12.15pm. The air traffic control at Sulur, however, lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08 pm, 20 minutes after it took off.IAF is now expected to review protocols governing flights ferrying important people. The review will be based on the findings of the court of inquiry into the crash, the IAF chief said last month.Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to deliver a talk when the Mi-17V5 crashed.Those killed in the crash included the CDS’s wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, his defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder, Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, the pilot of the Mi-17V5, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, the co-pilot, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja.The sole survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, breathed his last on December 15 after putting up a week-long fight .Developed by Russian Helicopters, the Mi-17V5 is designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment. The Mi-17V5 can carry a load of around four tonne in a full cargo role. It can also insert assault forces behind the enemy lines, a role frequently demonstrated by the IAF during military exercises.The helicopter is equipped with modern avionics, a self-defence system and other advanced features that enhance its survivability. The Mi-17V5, which has an armoured cockpit, can be fitted with rockets, cannons and small arms for carrying out offensive roles. It has a service ceiling of 6,000 metre, top speed of 250 kmph and a maximum range of around 1,180km with additional fuel tanks. 
06-01-2022||India||RT-PCR kit to detect Omicron gets DCGI approval||India has approved a new RT-PCR test kit that can detect whether a sample is Covid-19 positive and if the variant is Omicron, a top government expert announced on Wednesday.The kit, called Omisure and developed by TataMD, will speed up detection of the variant that right now requires genome sequencing that only specialist, large laboratories carry out. Genome sequencing can take multiple days.The company said in a statement that the price has been fixed MRP ₹250 a test to the laboratories. According to the company, the kit will be available in market from January 12.“The good news is that the Omicron detecting RT-PCR kit has been developed in partnership with TataMD and ICMR, and has been approved by the drugs controller general of India. This new kit will test for Omicron in four hours, and will augment genome sequencing efforts of the country,” said Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “This kit is unique in the sense that it works on two levels: one is it detects Sars-CoV-2, and it has two specific targets for the S gene that are Omicron-specific targets. If the two S gene targets light up, the Covid-19 positive sample is of Omicron variant,” said Dr Nivedita Gupta, senior ICMR scientist.The company said it is the first such test to use this method. “Tata MD will work with regulatory bodies, and central and state governments to make the product available in India and globally. In parallel, we have begun work to scale up our production capability, supply chain and raw material inventory to deliver two lacs OmiSure tests per day,” read the company statement.The kit evaluated in partnership with ICMR reported 100% sensitivity and 99.25% specificity for Sars-CoV-2 variants, including Omicron.
06-01-2022||India||ED opposes Anil Deshmukh’s default bail plea in money laundering case||Mumbai: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday told a special court that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh cannot be granted default bail in the money laundering case as the agency had filed a charge sheet within the stipulated period of 60 days from his arrest. The agency, in its affidavit, said the plea by Deshmukh was devoid of merits and liable to be rejected as it was against the settled principles of law. Special PMLA judge RN Rokade adjourned the plea to January 11 for hearing both the sides. The agency said that Deshmukh was arrested on November 2, 2021 under Section 19 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in accordance with the law, under reasonable belief that he was guilty of the offence of money laundering. “It is submitted that the concept of statutory bail/default bail cannot be considered once the charge-sheet and supplementary charge-sheet has been filed. The supplementary prosecution complaint against Deshmukh and 11 others has been filed on 29th of December, 2021, within a period of 60 days from the date of arrest,” the agency said in its reply. Deshmukh had moved for default bail on Tuesday through his counsel, advocate Aniket Nikam, on the ground that the special court has not taken cognisance of the ED’s supplementary charge sheet against him, within the period of 60 days, stipulated under section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Challenging Deshmukh’s plea, ED said, “It is further submitted that the question of cognisance is not relevant for ascertaining the right of default bail of the accused persons under section 167 (2) of CrPC, since the section is only for completing the investigation within the stipulated time period. It is a well settled law that default bail cannot be granted merely on the ground that cognisance had not yet be taken within the statutory prescribed time period even though the report and the complainant have been filed as per the provisions of the act.” “It is submitted that the stage of cognisance is a stage that occurs after the filing of the criminal complaint (charge sheet). It is submitted that the right to default bail is dependent upon completion of investigation which is a stage that is anterior to the taking of cognisance,” the agency added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-opposes-anil-deshmukh-s-default-bail-plea-in-money-laundering-case-101641408023778.html
06-01-2022||India||Pakistani among 3 JeM terrorists killed in Pulwama: Police||Three Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists, including a foreign national who was an expert in making vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices, were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday, J&K IGP Vijay Kumar said.This was the second encounter in south Kashmir in the last 24 hours. Two terrorists were killed on Tuesday in Okay village of Srinagar district.Regarding Wednesday’s encounter, Kumar said police, army and CRPF launched a joint operation based on specific inputs of terrorist presence in Chandgam area of Pulwama district in the early hours of Wednesday. Three militants were killed after the search operation turned into a gunfight, he said.“Three militants of terror outfit JeM, including one Pakistani national were killed. Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition including two M4 carbines and one AK series rifle was recovered from them. It is a big success for forces,” Kumar said.A police spokesperson identified two of the deceased terrorists as Mir Owais of Ashmander in Pulwama and Pakistani national Talha Yasir. Yasir was an expert at making vehicle-borne IEDs, the spokesperson said.The identity of the third terrorist was being ascertained, the spokesperson added.According to police records, Owais and Yasir were both named in numerous terror crimes. “Owais was involved in killing of a civilian, namely Azad Ahmad Dar of Kangan Pulwama. Talha was a mastermind in the preparation of hehicle-borne IEDs besides being involved in an attack on a civilian at Wanpora area of Pulwama,” the spokesperson said.On Tuesday, security forces killed two terrorists at Okay village in Kulgam district. Both were identified as operatives of The Resistance Front (TRF) terror group.On Monday, two terrorists including top LeT commander Saleem Parray from Hajin in Bandipore district were killed in an encounter in Shalimar garden area in Srinagar. The other terrorist killed was identified as Hafiz alias Hamza from Pakistan.Since January 1, eight terrorists have been killed by security forces .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-among-3-jem-terrorists-killed-in-pulwama-police-101641407723750.html
06-01-2022||India||Budget may raise agri credit to nearly ₹18 lakh crore||The Union Budget 2022-23 to be presented on February 1 is likely to increase agricultural credit target to ₹18 lakh crore, an increase of 12.5% from ₹16.5 lakh crore for the current fiscal year, officials aware of the development said. The budget may see announcement of steps to strengthen agricultural lending by scheduled banks and primary agricultural credit societies, which are last-mile village institutions that play a key role in disbursal of farm credit to millions of farmers, the official said. Successive budgets have enhanced the farm-credit target over the years, from about ₹10 lakh crore in 2017-18 to about ₹16.5 lakh crore in the current financial year. “In the current financial year, banks are expected to exceed the target set for loan disbursal for farm activities,” an official said, requesting anonymity because he is not authorised to speak to the media. Since banks and credit societies have exceeded the target consistently, the target is likely to be raised in the upcoming Budget, the official added. The livelihoods of nearly half of all Indians is tied to the agriculture sector. Timely availability of loans is critical for farmers, who take credit to meet expenses related to various farm inputs, such as fertilisers and seeds. The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, announced as part of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, is likely to further boost credit to the agriculture sector. Analysts say that though the actual disbursal of loans have always exceeded the target set in the Budget, credit has traditionally been geographically skewed towards south India, while in north-east, it is very low. “There is a need to ensure more equitable spread of farm credit flow,” said Anand Vishwanath, a former agricultural credit officer with Union Bank of India . According to the annual Economic Survey 2020-21, during 2020-21, in the actual disbursal of loans up to November 2020, southern states had a 40% share, while this was less than 2% for northeastern region. “This shows that farming is largely non-commercial and subsistence-led in the north-east,” Vishwanathan said. 
06-01-2022||India||Another 139 people on board Cordelia ship contract Covid-19||Another 139 passengers on board the Cordelia cruise ship that returned to Goa from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of cases to 205, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Wednesday. On January 1, 66 people, including crew members, were found to be infected on the ship when was at Goa’s Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) with nearly 2,000 passengers. Of the 66, six had disembarked in Goa and were admitted to a local hospital in Vasco Da Gama for treatment.According to the Mumbai civic body, as many as 1,827 samples were collected after the ship docked at Green Gate port in South Mumbai’s Ballard Pier on Tuesday evening. Of the 66 cases detected earlier, at least 41 passengers were shifted to various civic-run isolation centres and hospitals in the city. According to a BMC official, most of the patients showed mild symptoms.“The patients have been shifted to facilities like the Richardson and Crudas in Byculla, Suncity residency, Pacific residency and other private hotels at their own expense,” the BMC official said, seeking anonymity.The remaining 19 patients, however, were allowed to stay back on the ship as they were largely asymptomatic and were with families. They were isolated inside the ship, another senior official confirmed.On the latest cases, officials said the patients will be sent home or to medical facilities depending on their symptoms.“Most of the patients that have tested positive are asymptomatic. We have passed the reports to the operator of the cruise which will carry out further health tests to check if they have other comorbidities or not. If a patient is fully asymptomatic and doesn’t have any comorbidities, then he/she will be allowed to go home with a stamp on his hand so that they follow isolation norms and protocols. If anyone is co-morbid and has serious symptoms, then he/she will be transferred for treatment,” Shivadas Gurav, assistant municipal commissioner from A-ward (where the ship is anchored), said. All those who have tested negative were allowed to disembark the ship. “BMC officials present at the port have put a stamp on the hands of the passengers who have tested negative so that they compulsorily follow home quarantine for seven days and the local ward office will track their health status,” Gurav said. Cordelia is the same cruise ship where the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) busted a high-profile rave party in October last year. The ship, operated by a private firm, was carrying hordes of New Year revellers when it arrived in Goa on Sunday, and a crew member tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-139-people-on-board-cordelia-ship-contract-covid19-101641407603574.html
06-01-2022||India||Home isolation cut to 7 days as 3rd Covid-19 wave surges||The Union government issued new guidelines on Wednesday to reduce the home isolation period for people with Covid-19 from 10 days to seven as long as they have not had fever in the last three days.The move follows similar steps by the UK and the US, where isolation periods have been cut, following the near-global pandemic takeover by the Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2, which studies have established to be leading to milder disease.India reported 89,972 new cases on Wednesday, continuing a sharp spike. Compared to Tuesday’s numbers, Wednesday saw new infections rise by more than 58%, as per HT’s Covid dashboard. In Delhi, this number jumped 94.6% in a single day to lead to 10,665 new cases.Top government officials said the current R number of the epidemic, a measure of the intensity of the outbreak, has now reached 2.69, surpassing the 1.69 recorded during the Delta variant peak, although the outbreak is leading to fewer hospitalisations.“It seems hospitalisation rate is very low. We are following this data very closely… In Delhi, the hospitalisation rate is about 3.7%, and in Mumbai, we heard an officer saying it was around 5%. In previous waves, last year and in 2020, the typical hospitalisation rate was 20%,” said Niti Aayog member VK Paul during the health briefing.But, he cautioned, “it was important to remember that if there is a very large number of cases, even these small proportions will become a lot in numbers”.Experts said the sharp surge and the milder outcomes complicate efforts to balance containment measures and avoid a disproportionate disruption to everyday life if those who don’t need to are forced to isolate.The new guidelines thus carry some more relaxations, like not needing close contacts of a confirmed case to be tested as long as they do not have any symptoms.“The new home isolation guidelines relate to all Covid-19 cases. Omicron as well a Delta is part of these cases... hence, these home isolation guidelines apply to all Covid-19 cases,” a Union health ministry note said.“The way cases are rising, and which is expected with the new variant, institutional isolation does not make sense any longer. Experts were consulted and after detailed deliberation it was decided that those who are mildly symptomatic, or asymptomatic, should be allowed home isolation under certain conditions,” said a senior public health expert with the government aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.A second official, who asked not to be named, said because of the exponential surge, “measures such as contact tracing and creating containment zones will not serve any concrete purpose”.“The onus lies on an individual now to take preventive measures such as Covid-appropriate behaviour; wearing a mask; avoiding mass gatherings to avoid getting infected. For those who show symptoms, it is better to get tested at home and isolate if the symptoms are mild. It makes sense to not rush to a hospital unnecessarily,” this person added.During the briefing, Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said the guidelines now specify how best people should isolate, and when they need to seek attention. People who end isolation at seven days should continue wearing masks when they go out, he stressed.The new guidelines, uploaded by the health ministry on its website, also specified the patients who should not be recommended for home isolation: those compromised immunity, like HIV-infected people, transplant recipients and cancer patients. People above the age of 60 years with comorbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease and chronic lung/liver/ kidney diseases will only be allowed home isolation after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer.Among the other changes mentioned in the revised guidelines, the Centre also asked for requisite facilities at home for other family contacts to be able to quarantine and for a caregiver to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19.The rest of the guidelines are largely the same as released last year.Asymptomatic cases have been defined as laboratory confirmed cases without any symptoms and with oxygen saturation at room air of more than 93%. Clinically assigned mild cases are patients with upper respiratory tract symptoms with or without fever, without shortness of breath and with oxygen saturation at room air of more than 93%.Experts said case numbers are going to keep rising for a while, making it important to monitor the hospitalization rate.“Cases are going to increase substantially because of the new variant in circulation; but the main issue is to see how mild it remains. It is the rate of hospitalisation that will eventually decide how concerning the spread is as merely rising numbers should not be of a serious concern,” said Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar.“If positive cases are getting better on their own without hospitalization, there is no worry. Level of mildness of the virus and higher immunity because of vaccines and natural infection will balance out things. In next two-three weeks we should know clearly how mild the disease is proving to be in our population,” Mavalankar addedThe health expert added that gross mortality too should be monitored for any concerning spike. “ What works in our favour is the fact that our population is young compared to US or UK,” he said, while also calling for authorities to consider a full market authorisation for the vaccines in use to allow people who want to.
06-01-2022||India||Mundra drug mastermind, was let off by cops in another case, fled after bust||The ongoing investigation into the seizure of 3,000kg of heroin worth ₹21,000 crore at Mundra Port in September -- the largest ever by Indian agencies -- has revealed that an Afghan national, a key player in the narco smuggling network who supervised deliveries in India, was detained by Punjab Police in another drugs case but let off, people familiar with the development said.Identified only as Nabibullah, this Afghan national fled the country five days after the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) seized the shipment between September 17 and 19 last year.HT was first to report the seizure on September 20.Punjab Police detained Nabibullah in another drug-related case along with four other smugglers in June 2021, much before DRI unearthed the 3,000kg consignment. He was interrogated at length and then allowed to go as, apparently, there was nothing against him at that point, according to a senior official in a central investigation agency directly involved in the Mundra drugs haul investigation. “At the time, Punjab Police didn’t know how big a player he was so he was released after questioning,” this person added, asking not to be identifiedWhen contacted, Punjab Police’s Special Task Force (STF) head, additional director general (ADG) Harpreet Singh Sidhu said he was not aware of the case and would have to check the details. “If the police has sufficient facts about any criminal let alone a drug trafficker, they would take action,” and not allow them to get away, he added.Nabibullah, according to the officer from the central agency cited above, supervised the delivery of a similar consignment at Mundra Port on June 6 last year, which was also imported in the name of same firm used in the September consignment -- Aashi Trading Company run by Chennai-based couple Machavaram Sudhakar and Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali. A Kandahar-based firm, Hasan Husain Ltd , was used in both June and September to smuggle in the heroin, labelled as semi-processed talc stones.“The June consignment, suspected to be around 300kg , was sent to Mundra port for the first time as a ‘tester’, to see the security arrangements there. Once the June consignment was cleared, Nabibullah got confident and a larger consignment of 3,000kg heroin was sent in September. Prior to Mundra port, he was using border smugglers, couriers and other modes to get drugs into India from Afghanistan,” said a second officer familiar with the investigation, requesting anonymity.Investigators have found that Nabibullah, who is in his early 30s, was living in India for past five years, and had rented several godowns in and around Delhi, where he used to store the drugs smuggled from Afghanistan.“As the news about the seizure of 3,000kg consignment by DRI broke, he left the country within four-five days. We believe he fled to Afghanistan via Pakistan but we don’t have his photograph or other details including the route or his address there,” added the second officer.Since Taliban’s takeover of the Afghanistan on August 15 last year, Indian agencies have been worried that huge quantities of Afghan heroin will be pushed into India by drug traffickers backed by Pakistan. Narcotics smuggling and trade has for long been used as a vehicle of funding by terror networks operating in Pakistan and targeting India. It isn’t known at this point in time whether Nabibullah has any connections with such networks.The National Investigation Agency is currently investigating the case. Eight persons, including four Afghan nationals based in the National Capital Region, two Uzbek women, and the Chennai couple have been arrested in the case so far.Asked whether any warrant or notice has been issued against Nabibullah, NIA said that this “information cannot be shared at this point”.Kandahar , Helmand, Badghis, Uruzgan, and Faryab are areas where major opium poppy cultivation takes place in Afghanistan.UN data suggests that potential opium production in Afghanistan in 2020 was estimated at 6,300 tonnes and the average opium yield was 28 kilograms per hectare. The country produces over 85% of the world’s opium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mundra-drug-mastermind-an-af-man-was-let-off-by-cops-in-another-case-fled-after-bust-101641407486650.html
06-01-2022||India||PM’s convoy halted inPunjab security breach||New Delhi/Chandigarh: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first rally in poll-bound Punjab was cancelled on Wednesday on account of a major and unprecedented breach in his security, with protestors blocking a route and forcing the PM’s convoy to spend about 15 -20 minutes on a flyover.The Centre, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), security experts and former senior police officers all stressed on the dangerous precedent set by the incident, with both the Union government and the BJP pointing to lapses by the Punjab police and the state government, and alleging that dirty politics was at play. “Today’s Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity,” tweeted Union home minister Amit Shah. Union minister Smriti Irani asked if information about the PM’s route was leaked. “Never before has the state government knowingly constructed a scenario where the PM will be brought to harm,” she said. “This was the Congress’s khooni (deadly) intention.” She also touched on reports that said PM Modi spoke to officials at Bathinda airport.“Say thanks to your CM that I was able to return to Bathinda airport alive,” Modi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed regret over the incident but rejected the BJP’s allegations. “We regret that he had to return due to the blockade...he is the Prime Minister of the country. We respect him,” he told reporters, clarifying that his government had no information about the PM’s motorcade taking the road route. “There was no prior information. I worked till 3am to convince farmers to clear all routes. All roads were cleared by Wednesday morning. Had they told us about the road travel in advance, we would have made proper arrangements,” Channi said. Still, it is difficult to recall the last time when a sitting PM had to cancel a rally after protestors blocked the way -- even in a state ruled by a rival party. Through last year, the BJP fought a bitter battle in West Bengal with the Trinamool Congress, and the PM addressed several rallies without incident. The Bhartiya Kisan Union ( Krantikari), one of the 32 farm organisations involved in the year-long protests against the now repealed farm laws, took responsibility for the blockade. “We were not aware that PM would travel by road as we were told he would reach the rally site by a helicopter. We were already protesting on the spot and came to know about the PM only after his cavalcade had left,” said Baldev Singh Zira, general secretary of BKU(Krantikari).Security experts said the established protocol puts the onus of ensuring security on state governments. “The state police is informed in advance about PM’s travel programme and an advance security liaison (ASL) is carried out jointly with the state police and Intelligence Bureau in which any threats, programme venue’s security, route, alternative routes are discussed. While the SPG (special protection group) handles the proximate security, the overall security – including clearing of routes, peripheral security arrangement, frisking of venue are all responsibilities of the state police,” said a former senior SPG officer, requesting anonymity.In a statement detailing the sequence of events, the Press Information Bureau said,“Today morning, the Prime Minister landed at Bathinda from where he was to go to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala by helicopter. Due to rain and poor visibility, the PM waited for about 20 minutes for the weather to clear out.” “When the weather did not improve, it was decided that he would visit the National Marytrs Memorial via road, which would take more than two hours. He proceeded to travel by road after necessary confirmation of necessary security arrangements by the DGP (director general of police) Punjab Police,” it addedThe statement went on to say that “around 30km away from the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala, when the PM’s convoy reached a flyover, it was found that the road was blocked by some protestors”, resulting in the convoy being stuck there for 15-20 minutes, which was a major lapse in his security. Modi was scheduled to address a rally in Ferozepur and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore. This would have been his first public meeting in the state since the repeal of the three controversial farm laws, which sparked sweeping protests across the state. Shah said that the Union home ministry sought a detailed report on the security breach from the state. “Such dereliction of security procedure in the Prime Minister’s visit is totally unacceptable and accountability will be fixed,” he tweeted.In his press briefing, the Punjab CM claimed that the attendance at the BJP’s rally in Ferozepur was thin, and that only 700 people had turned up for the arrangements that were made keeping 70,000 people in mind. “May be this was why the PM decided to go back,” he added.BJP chief JP Nadda accused the Congress government in Punjab of using “all tricks to scuttle” PM Modi’s programmes, including the Ferozepur rally. In a series of tweets, he said that Modi’s rally was called off and another programme disrupted as protesters blocked his route breaching the security protocol. He termed the security lapse as “extremely worrisome” incident. “Protestors were given access to the Prime Minister’s route while the Punjab CS and DGP gave assurances to SPG that the route is clear. To make matters worse, CM Channi refused to get on the phone to either address the matter or solve it,” Nadda said in a tweet. In response, the Congress said that the real reason for cancelling the rally was the poor attendance in Ferozepur. “Dear Naddaji, Stop losing cool and all sense of propriety. Please remember--1. 10,000 security personnel were deployed for PM’s Rally. 2. All arrangements were made in tandem with SPG and other agencies. 3. Route was carved even for all buses of BJP workers from Haryana/Rajasthan,” said party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala. “4. PM decided to take a road journey to Hussainiwala. It was not part of his original schedule to travel by road. 5. Kisan mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has been protesting against PM’s visit and Union Minister, Gajendra Shekhawat has held two rounds of negotiation with them,” the leader added. CM Channi said there should not be any politics on the issue.Elections in Punjab are likely to be announced shortly. The ruling Congress hopes to come back to power by holding at bay the BJP, its erstwhile ally Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party. Farm issues, and the yearlong protests against the three central laws, are expected to shape the poll campaign.Detailing the protocol between the Special Protection Group (SPG) and Punjab police, the PIB statement said the PM’s schedule and travel plan was communicated well in advance to the Punjab government. “As per procedure, they have to make necessary arrangements for logistics, security as well as keep a contingency plan ready. Also, in view of the contingency plan, the Punjab Government has to deploy additional security to secure any movement by road, which was clearly not deployed.” Senior officials in the Punjab Police declined to comment.The PIB statement said after the security lapse, it was decided to head back to Bathinda airport. Taking cognisance of what it termed as a “serious” security lapse, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has sought a detailed report from the state government. The state government has also been asked to fix responsibility for this lapse and take strict action, the statement added. A second SPG officer, who requested anonymity, said, “In the wake of recently concluded farmer protests, any agitation by farmer bodies should have been anticipated by the state police and SPG should have been alerted about it. It is definitely a lapse if the PM was stuck on the flyover for 15-20 minutes. But what exactly transpired will come out in the state government’s report or if any inquiry is carried out”. In her press conference, Irani questioned the Punjab government’s failure in addressing the security lapse. “When the PM‘s security detail contacted Punjab police about the circumstance of the prime minister‘s cavalcade atop the flyover that there was a 20 minute exposure and a breach of security of the Prime Minister, why did those who lead the security arrangements not respond to any call for efforts to secure the prime minister,” the minister asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pms-convoy-halted-inpunjab-security-breach-101641407485769.html
06-01-2022||India||India’s first Omicron death recorded in Rajasthan: Govt||A man who died in Udaipur on December 31 has been classified as the first death due to the Omicron variant in the country, officials said on Wednesday, after the fatality was reassigned as being linked to Covid-19.Suffering from multiple comorbid conditions, the 73-year-old first tested positive on December 15 upon being hospitalised after having difficulty in breathing. He tested negative on December 21 and 25, and succumbed to his illness on December 31.“The government confirmed the death in Rajasthan has been counted as Omicron death in India. We can say this is the first death in India,” Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said in Delhi on Wednesday.Superintendent of Maharana Bhupal government hospital, Dr RL Suman, said the man was brought in for treatment after he complained of respiratory problems. During his admission, his samples were sent for genome sequencing, the results for which arrived on December 25. He was administered another test at the time, which too came out negative.“He had multiple comorbid conditions such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and hypothyroidism. He suffered from cardiac and respiratory failure,” said Suman.The state on Wednesday reported 1,883 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the active cases tally to 5,016. A total of 121 cases of the Omicron variant have been reported as per genome sequencing.Genotyping confirmed Omicron cases in the country have now risen to 2,135 but most of the close to 90,000 cases recorded in the country on Wednesday are likely to be of the new variant of concern, which spreads at an unprecedented pace.
06-01-2022||India||Telegram channel targeting Hindu women blocked by govt||A channel on messaging platform Telegram which was allegedly sharing pictures of Hindu women along with obscene messages was blocked by the ministry of electronics and information technology on Wednesday.The development comes days after the emergence of the ‘Bulli Bai’ app which used pictures of Muslim professionals and activists to ‘auction’ them. Three persons have been arrested so far in connection with the app, which has since been shut down.Union minister for electronics and IT, Ashwini Vaishaw, on Wednesday tweeted news of the block on the Telegram channel. “Channel blocked. Government of India coordinating with police authorities of states for action,” he wrote.A screenshot of the channel was posted by a Twitter user, asking the Mumbai police to take action against those responsible. Vaishnaw responded to tweets seeking action in the matter.The government had banned the account of a user on code-sharing platform GitHub in connection with the ‘Bulli Bai’ case. In July last year, a similar app had been created through GitHub.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telegram-channel-targeting-hindu-women-blocked-by-govt-101641407423610.html
06-01-2022||India||No mix and match for third dose of Covid vaccine: Centre||The third shot of Covid-19 vaccines that will be rolled out for certain categories of citizens from January 10 will be of the same dose as the first two, a Union government official said on Wednesday. People above the age of 60 with certain illnesses and those working in high-risk healthcare and front-line jobs will be allowed to take what the government has classified as precaution doses, as long as their second shots were taken more than nine months ago.“It will be a homologous third or precautionary dose. Those who have received Covaxin will receive Covaxin and those who have earlier received primary two doses of Covishield will receive Covishield,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, during the health ministry’s weekly media briefing on Covid-19.Paul said that as and when the government gets more information and data on other vaccines, especially on mixing of doses, the policy could be reviewed.“We will take a call later as more data will gradually emerge on the so-called heterologous approach. For now, however, it will be the same third vaccine dose,” added Paul.Experts backed the decision to wait for scientific doses on mixing vaccines. “In the absence of any data, no decision can be said to be inappropriate,” said Gagandeep Kang, vaccine expert, and senior faculty, Christian Medical College, Vellore. “That is actually the right approach; policies can be modified as data evolve,” she added.Paul said arrangements have been made to ensure smooth implementation of the third dose administration plan. “The process is on track and it will start as per plan on January 10,” added Paul.The third doses are part of the government’s next phase on coronavirus vaccinations, which comes at a time when the country is in the grip of a third wave driven by the highly transmissible and resistant Omicron variant. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 25 announced the opening of the phase, beginning with the first of the under-18 population – children between 15-17 began to get doses on Monday. As per the Union health ministry guidelines issued earlier, all healthcare workers, frontline workers, and citizens aged 60 years or above with comorbidities will be able to access the vaccination for precaution dose through their existing Co-WIN account. Eligibility of such beneficiaries for the precaution dose will be based on the date of administration of second dose as recorded in the Co-WIN system.
06-01-2022||NA||Breaking news highlights: Rajasthan adds 1,883 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Jammu and Kashmir imposes fresh curbs amid surge in Covid-19 casesJammu and Kashmir (J&K) administration imposes fresh curbs in view of rising number of #COVID19 cases "There shall be a complete restriction on non-essential movement in the entire UT from 9 pm to 6 am till further orders," reads the official statement pic.twitter.com/RnHHFp9XyZRajasthan adds 1,883 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deathsRajasthan on Wednesday reported 1,883 new Covid-19 cases and 2 more deaths, which pushed the caseload and death toll to 960,453 and 8,967 respectively. Kerala activist, first woman to enter Sabarimala, attackedBindu Ammini receives minor injuries after being attacked by ab unidentified person. Police on the lookout for the attacker.Assam reports 591 new Covid-19 casesAssam logs 591 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths. Active cases at 1979 while positivity rate reaches 1.72%.Covid-19: Delhi govt cancels leaves of officersDelhi govt cancels leaves granted to all its officers, except medical leaves, as Covid-19 cases rise in the national capital.Maharashtra logs over 26,000 new Covid-19 casesMaharashtra records 26,000 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths. Total cases rise to 6,757,032 including 141,581 deaths. Omicron infections, meanwhile, rise by 144 to 797.Covid-19: Centre orders closure of galleries at National MuseumAll the galleries of National Museum shall remain closed for visitors from today till further order. However, all departments of the museum will remain open as per order: Ministry of CultureMumbai sees over 15,000 new Covid-19 cases15,166 fresh Covid-19 infections and three deaths in Mumbai. Active cases at 61,923: BMC3 new Omicron cases in Punjab's LudhianaPunjab's Ludhiana sees three new cases of Omicron. A returnee from UK among those found infected with the variant.Regret that PM had to leave, says Punjab CM Channi'Regret that PM had to leave': Punjab CM Channi on alleged security lapse which led to cancellation of Modi's scheduled rally in Ferozepur.10,665 new Covid-19 cases and 8 deaths in DelhiDelhi records 10,665 new Covid-19 cases, 2239 recoveries and eight deaths. Positivity rate rises to 11.88%.Night curfew to be imposed in Himachal PradeshNight curfew to be imposed from 10pm to 5am throughout the state besides closure of indoor sports complexes, cinema halls, multiplexes, stadia, swimming pools, gyms, langers; 50% gathering allowed at marriage/banquet halls: Suresh Bharadwaj, state minister‘What has happened is not acceptable’: Sunil JakharWhat has happened today is just not acceptable. It's against Panjabiyat. A secure passage for the Prime Minister of India to address BJP's political rally in Ferozpur should have been ensured. That’s how democracy works: Sunil Jakhar, Punjab Congress chief'For precautionary dose, same vaccine to be used'For precautionary dose, the vaccine with which a person was fully vaccinated earlier (i.e. received two doses), to be used: Health ministryDaily Covid-19 cases up 6.3 times: Health ministryIndia has reported a more than 6.3 times increase in cases in the last 8 days. A sharp increase seen in case positivity from 0.79% on December 29 to 5.03% on January 5.Tamil Nadu announces night curfewNight curfew starting tomorrow from 10pm to 5am in Tamil Nadu, announces state govt.‘Thank your CM’: PM Modi“Thank your chief minister I was able to make it alive to Bhatinda airport,” PM Modi tells officials at Bhatinda airport.BJP chief Nadda cancels Bengal visitIn view of the evolving Covid-19 situation and rising number of new cases in Kolkata, BJP national president JP Nadda's scheduled visit to West Bengal on January 9-10 stands postponed, says the party's state unit.PM Modi's Ferozepur rally cancelledPrime Minister Narendra Modi's rally in Ferozepur in poll-bound Punjab cancelled.Gujarat HC bans entry of general public into its premises amid rising Covid-19 casesThe Gujarat High Court on Wednesday banned the entry of general public into its premises and made it mandatory for 'party-in-person' to produce negative Covid-19 certificate not older than 48 hours.PM Modi ro reach Ferozepur shortlyPrime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects in Punjab's Ferozepur shortly. He is expected to reach Ferozepur from Bathinda airport in 30 minutes.Congress postpones women's marathon across UP amid Covid spreadThe Congress on Wednesday postponed its women’s marathon, titled 'Ladki Hun Lad Sakti Hun' across Uttar Pradesh in view of a rise in Covid-19 cases. Read more3rd wave has hit Delhi, 10,000 new cases expected today, says JainDelhi is likely to report as many as 10,000 Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, said city health minister Satyendar Jain, adding that the national capital’s daily positivity rate will inch closer to 10 per cent. Read more13 fishermen from Tamil Nadu detained in Sri Lanka being released, confirms IndiaSri Lanka is releasing 13 Indian fishermen: High Commission of India in Colombo60 BEST employees test positive for Covid-19 As many as 60 employees of BEST have tested positive for the Covid-19 disease in Mumbai, reports ANI.China reports major fall in virus cases in locked-down Xi'an, reports APChina on Wednesday reported a major drop in local Covid-19 infections in the northern city of Xi’an, which has been under a tight lockdown for the past two weeks, reports news agency AP.Mumbai Police arrest one more student in 'Bulli Bai' app caseMumbai Police has arrested one more student in 'Bulli Bai' app case. The accused has been identified as Mayank Rawal. This is the second arrest from Uttarakhand while third in connection with the ongoing investigation into the ‘Bulli Bai’ app where images of Muslim women were posted in an attempt to “auction” them.Ajit Pawar chairs meeting on rising Covid-19 cases in MaharashtraMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar is charing a meeting with health minister Rajesh Tope and senior government officers in Mumbai amid rising Covid-19 cases in the state, reports news agency ANI.India records 58,097 new Covid-19 infections, over 500 deaths in 24 hoursIndia reported 58,097 new Covid-19 cases and 534 deaths in the past 24 hours. With this, the total tally of Coronavirus infections in the country reached 3,50,18,358.As many as 15,389 people recovered from the viral infection in the same time span.Check Covid-19 status in India:Daily positivity rate: 4.18%Active cases: 2,14,004Total recoveries: 3,43,21,803Death toll: 4,82,551Total vaccination: 147.72 crore dosesRead more3 JeM terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in PulwamaThree JeM terrorists killed in an encounter with security forces in Chandgam, Pulwama. One of them is a Pakistani national. Incriminating materials, arms & ammunition including 2 M-4 carbines & 1 AK series rifle recovered: Inspector General of Police (IGP), KashmirRains likely in Delhi-NCR in next 2 hours, says IMD  The Indian Meterological Department (IMD) has forcast light to moderate-intensity rain in adjoining areas of Delhi-NCR (Bahadurgarh, Ghaziabad, Indirapuram, Noida, Dadri, Greater Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad, Manesar) during the next 2 hours, reports news agency ANI.Election Commission to hold virtual meet with top officials in Manipur to take stock of poll preparednessThe Election Commission has convened a virtual meeting with top officials and representatives of political parties from Manipur on Wednesday ahead of the assembly elections due this year. Read moreFlights from Mumbai, Delhi can reach Bengal thrice a week from today as Covid-19 curbs beginThe recently announced restrictions by the West Bengal government limiting the number of domestic flights from Delhi and Mumbai will come into force from Wednesday (January 5) onwards. Read morePM Modi to visit Punjab's Ferozepur today, launch projects worth ₹42,750 crorePrime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore, in Punjab's Ferozepur, on Wednesday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-5-2022-101641342827600.html
