07-01-2022||India||RSS Nagpur HQ on alert after terrorist admits to conducting recce, say police||A high alert has been sounded at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh headquarters in Nagpur on Friday , and the city police have also banned the flying of drones near the facility. The alert was sounded after the recent arrest in Kashmir of a terrorist believed to be affiliated with the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror group, who, during interrogation, spoke of some members of the group conducting a reconnaissance of some buildings in Nagpur. Nagpur police commissioner Amitesh Kumar confirmed detention of the terrorist, who is a local Kashmiri, and visited RSS headquarters with senior police personnel on Friday to take stock of the security arrangements. Kumar said that security has been increased at the RSS headquarters and Hedgewar Bhavan at Reshimbagh , both places where a recce is believed to have been carried out. He said that there is round-the-clock security in and around the area. All vehicles and persons around these installations are thoroughly checked, he added, but refused to provide more details citing that the matter was “sensitive”. A senior police official who asked not to be named said it is believed that the terrorists has stayed in the city for a few days in December. A case has been registered in this regard and the Nagpur Crime Branch has formed a team to locate the terrorists. The young terrorist arrested in Kashmir admitted that he too surveyed the area, but back in July 2021. There are fears that the attacks could come around Republic Day. In 2006, three JeM terrorists equipped with AK-47s and hand grenades were gunned down by security forces when they tried to attack the RSS headquarters. The RSS, is the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Meanwhile, the city police also banned the photography and the use of drones around the RSS headquarters at Mahal and the Dr Hedgewar Smruti Bhavan, Reshimbagh in view of the threat. 
07-01-2022||India||Different laws for religions is detrimental: Centre tells Delhi high court||Different personal laws followed by people of various religions are detrimental to the nation’s unity, the Centre told the Delhi high court while supporting the need for a Uniform Civil Code (UCC) in India.“Citizens belonging to different religions and denominations follow different property and matrimonial laws, which is an affront to the nation’s unity,” stated the affidavit filed in the high court around a week ago.Citing Article 44 of the Constitution, which provides that the state shall endeavour to secure UCC throughout the country, the Centre maintained that the purpose of this provision is to strengthen the object of “secular democratic republic, ” as envisaged in the Preamble.“This provision is provided to effect integration of India by bringing communities on the common platform on matters which are at present governed by diverse personal laws,” the affidavit, filed before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, said.It added that Article 44 divests religion from social relations and personal law while propounding the concept of common law for all citizens in matters of marriage, divorce, succession, maintenance, custody, guardianship of children, inheritance, succession and adoption.The affidavit, filed through the Union law ministry, stated that considering the importance and sensitivity of the UCC, it was referred to the Law Commission of India that favoured a wider consultation in an August 2018 report.As and when the final report of the Law Commission is received, the government said, a consultation will ensue with all the stakeholders.It is important to note here that even though the Centre has told the high court that it is awaiting a report from the Commission, the Centre has not re-constituted the Commission after the retirement of its last chairman, justice BS Chauhan, in August 2018.The response was filed in a plea by BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay, seeking to formulate the Code (UCC) to promote unity, fraternity and national integration by citing Article 44.The plea relied upon a 1995 Supreme Court judgment in Sarla Mudgal Vs Union of India, where the top court asked the Centre to look into the formation of the UCC.In July 2021, in a separate judgment, justice Prathiba M Singh of the Delhi high court said that UCC should not remain a mere hope in the Constitution while lamenting “various complexities in the society due to differences in personal laws.Dealing with a plea involving the applicability of the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA), 1955 in respect of parties belonging to the Meena community, justice Singh had said that there is a requirement for such a Code - ‘common to all’, which would enable uniform principles being applied in respect of aspects such as marriage, divorce, succession etc, so that settled principles, safeguards and procedures can be laid down.Meanwhile, in its affidavit filed in Upadhyay’s case, the central government, through its standing counsel Ajay Digpaul, opposed the petition, saying that UCC is a matter of public policy and that no direction in this regard can be issued by any court.It also submitted that the Parliament exercises sovereign power to enact laws, and no outside power or authority can issue a direction to enact a particular piece of legislation.“This is a matter of policy for the elected representatives of the people to decide...to have a legislation or not is a policy decision, and the court cannot give any direction to the Executive,” the affidavit read.In his plea, Upadhyay contended that the government has “failed” to put in place a uniform civil code, as provided under Article 44 of the Constitution.The plea also said that Goa has had a common civil code since 1965, which applies to all of its residents, and it is the only state to have it as of now.The petition has sought directions for the Centre “to constitute a judicial commission or a high-level expert committee to draft the uniform civil code in the spirit of Article 44 of the Constitution within three months while considering the best practices of all religions and sects, civil laws of developed countries and international conventions”.
07-01-2022||India||Punjab submits report, FIR doesn’t cite security breach||Punjab submitted a preliminary status report detailing the sequence of events leading up to the security breach that held up Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cavalcade for 15-20 minutes and also filed a first information report (FIR) against unknown people, officials said on Friday. The report, submitted by chief secretary Anirudh Tewari on Thursday night to the Union home ministry, described the gathering of protesters that led to the blockade as “spontaneous”, and suggested that enough efforts were made to clear the road, one of the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity. But the FIR, registered at Ferozepur’s Kulgarhi police station on Thursday evening, made no mention of the security breach or the obstruction to the PM’s convoy. HT has seen a copy the report. The FIR was filed under the bailable section 283 of the Indian Penal Code (obstructing public ways), that carries a maximum penalty of ₹200. It mentioned that a police party reached the highway blockade spot after 2.30pm on Wednesday, almost half an hour after the PM’s motorcade left the spot.Top leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) have claimed responsibility for the incident with its leader, Surjit Singh Phul, saying about 1,000 activists blocked the road at 11 am on Wednesday. But the FIR made no mention of this. In his report, Tiwari assured the Centre that a detailed probe was ordered by the Punjab government, a second official said on condition of anonymity. A two-member panel led by retired high court judge, justice Mehtab Singh Gill, and principal secretary, home affairs and justice, Anurag Verma, are looking into the lapses. The panel will submit its report in three days, and the outcome will be shared with home ministry immediately, the status report added, according to the second official.The preliminary report was drafted with inputs from top state police officers who were in charge of the PM’s security, and senior Punjab government functionaries in Chandigarh. On Friday, the Supreme Court asked the central and Punjab governments to suspend the proceedings of their respective inquiry committees into incident until its next order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-submits-report-fir-doesn-t-cite-security-breach-101641579947455.html
07-01-2022||India||Home quarantine now for all international arrivals||All international travellers arriving in India from January 11 will need to quarantine at home for a week, the Union government said on Friday in its revised guidelines, updated in an attempt to slow the further import of Omicron variant infections.India already has designated several countries and regions at-risk, including all of Europe, from where passengers will continue to take an RT-PCR test on arrival, be allowed to leave the airport only if they are negative, and home quarantine for seven days. Those from the other countries will be allowed to leave, but will have to quarantine for a week and take a test at the end of that period.According to the document, “the existing guidelines have been revised in view of reporting of a new variant of Sars-CoV-2 (B.1.1.529; named Omicron) which has been classified as Variant of Concern by the World Health Organization”.The updated rule, requiring mandatory home quarantine and an RT-PCR for all arrivals on Day 8 -- irrespective of the place of origin of the journey -- will come into effect on January 11.“Travellers shall also be required to upload results of repeat RT-PCR test for COVID-19 done on the eighth day on Air Suvidha portal (to be monitored by the respective States/UTs,” the order stated.“If negative, they will further self-monitor their health for next 7 days. However, if such travellers are tested positive, their samples should be further sent for genomic testing at INSACOG laboratory network. They shall be managed at an isolation facility and treated as per laid down standard protocol including contact tracing,” the order added. The health ministry also asked airlines to inform passengers originating or transiting from “at-risk” countries that they will undergo post-arrival testing, quarantine if tested negative and will have to undergo stringent isolation protocols if tested positive. It also asked the airlines to provide dos and don’ts along with tickets to the travellers. The health ministry expanded the list of regions classified as at-risk, which now have 19 in all, up from around a dozen.The government also specified to the airlines that they will allow boarding to only those passengers who have filled in all the information in the self-declaration form on the Air Suvidha portal and uploaded the negative RT-PCR test report.Experts said the new rule may have come too late given that community transmission has already begun in India.“Since here are clear signs of community transmission (of the variant in India), these rules may have been more effective earlier; at the start, as travellers brought the variant into the country. It would probably have made some difference then,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital.The 19 at-risk regions are Europe (including the UK), South Africa,Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, Israel, Congo, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Nigeria, Tunisia, Zambia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-quarantine-now-forall-international-arrivals-101641579767608.html
07-01-2022||India||India’s true Covid toll could be over 3 million: Study||The actual number of people who have died in India due to Covid-19 in the first two waves of the infection may be over three million, a new analysis of three large databases has shown, adding new evidence that the official toll may be a significant undercount. Between June 1, 2020, and July 1, 2021, India recorded around 400,000 deaths across the country. This period includes the first wave and the devastating second wave of infections triggered by the Delta variant. The new report, published by the journal Science early on Friday, estimates the true toll in this period was between 3.1 million and 3.4 million, with roughly 2.7 million of these happening in the April-July period, when the second wave tore through the country.The analysis was led by researchers from University of Toronto’s Centre for Global Health Research and was based on a national survey as well as data from two government databases – the Health Management Information System of the health ministry to report deaths by states, and the Civil Registration System that records death and birth certifications.The survey was carried out by CVoter on a nationally representative sample of 0.14million people, while the other two databases gave a picture of all-cause mortality, or deaths due to any reason.“COVID constituted 29% of deaths from June 2020-July 2021, corresponding to 3.2million deaths, of which 2.7million occurred in April-July 2021 (when Covid doubled all-cause mortality). A sub-survey of 57,000 adults showed similar temporal increases in mortality with Covid and non-Covid deaths peaking similarly,” the authors said in their report.The HMIS data analysis showed that when compared to pre-pandemic period, all-cause mortality was 27% higher in 200,000 health facilities and the CRS data showed a 26% increase in civil registration of deaths in ten states. “Both increases occurred mostly in 2021. The analyses find that India’s cumulative COVID deaths by September 2021 were 6-7 times higher than reported officially,” said the report, the lead author of which was Prabhat Jha, the director of the Centre for Global Health Research.This implies that most of the missed deaths were during the second nationwide wave last year, when the Delta variant ravaged India’s health care infrastructure. Reports and anecdotes by citizens at the time spoke of hospitals full to their capacity, turning away patients in need of critical life-saving attention. The country also reported an acute medical oxygen crisis. This is not the first report to suggest actual Covid-19 deaths in the country may be manifolds higher. Bhramar Mukherjee, the chair of biostatistics and professor of epidemiology at University of Michigan’s School of Public Health said the new report was landmark and illustrates what experts in her field have been saying all along: “official numbers simply don’t add up”. “This distortion affects public perception of the true impact of the disease as well as resource prioritisation. This study is particularly strong because it sheds light on the actual Covid deaths which are a part of the total excess deaths which most studies on India have focused on,” she said. Mukherjee and her colleagues too estimated the true toll of Covid-19 in India in a study published in November, 2021 in the journal Sage. “Our meta-analysis showed the estimates hovered between 1.8 to 4.9 million and Dr Jha et al (the new report) estimates are right in the middle of that confidence interval,” she added.“In the US roughly 72% of total excess deaths is attributed to Covid during 2020 whereas in India it was estimated at 29%. This difference points out that the cost of Covid is not just Covid. Much of the excess all-cause mortality is indirectly driven by Covid and the true toll of Covid is of far greater magnitude,” she said. An analysis of deaths in Tamil Nadu published in the journal Lancet in December, 2021 by UC Berkeley researchers, a second analysis based on CRS data and Consumer Pyramid Household Survey published as a working paper by Center for Global Development in July, 2021 and a pre-print by University of Chicago and University of California-based researchers found similar under-reporting.Most of these assessments are based on how all deaths have soared, as they did in other countries too, compared to other years – with the difference being almost certainly due to the pandemic. In the latest Science study, this has been corroborated by the CVoter survey.
07-01-2022||India||NEET-PG counselling to start under current rules||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the Centre to go ahead with counselling for NEET-PG and undergraduate medical courses by upholding the government decision to introduce 27% OBC quota within the all-India quota (AIQ) seats and for this year, and permitted 10% reservation for economically weaker section (EWS) among the general category to be applied based on the criteria laid down in January 2019.However, the Court said it will review the criteria for EWS reservations as laid down by a three-member committee headed by former finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey when petitions challenging the introduction of EWS quota in Neet-PG AIQ seats by a July 2021 circular are heard in March.The interim order by the court was necessitated after the Centre sought an urgent hearing in view of a protest by resident doctors demanding counselling at the earliest. First-year postgraduate (PG) medical students could not be admitted because the process was halted, causing a cascading effect on the medical workforce since first-year PG resident doctors constitute about 33% of the total strength at government hospitals.The resident doctors’ association also intervened in the proceedings, and demanded early counselling in national interest since Covid-19 cases were rising, and the need for adequate staffing was heightened.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna acknowledged the urgency. “The validity of 27% OBC quota is upheld in NEET-PG and NEET-UG courses in the AIQ seats,” the bench said.On July 29, 2021, the Centre had introduced 27% OBC quota and 10% EWS quota in 15% AIQ seats in NEET-UG and 50% AIQ seats in NEET-PG.On the EWS quota, the Court raised several doubts over the past few months -- including whether an income cap of ₹8 lakh per annum can be applied uniformly throughout the country without cost of living in different urban and rural pockets being taken into account; and that this exceeded the permitted 50% quota cap prescribed by the Supreme Court in its 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment.“The resolution of this issue will take some time. We accept the recommendation of the Pandey Committee that the January 17, 2019 notification be applied for the current academic year so that admissions are not dislocated. Counselling be conducted as per July 29, 2021 order,” the bench said. It added, however: “The validity of criteria would prospectively be subject to the final decision in these petitions.”The petitions will now be taken up in the third week of March.Every year an estimated 45,000 candidates are inducted as postgraduate doctors through the NEET PG examination. The petitions before the Court were filed by doctors who appeared for NEET-PG 2021 and objected to the July 29 order taking away nearly 3,500 seats (2,500 for OBC and 1,000 for EWS).“We are thankful to the Supreme Court and MoHFW for taking note of the grievance of resident doctors. As earlier, as an association of resident doctors, who are working at ground level, FORDA will keep raising the issues of resident doctors and will strive to improve the healthcare system of the country,” the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) said in a statement on Friday.FORDA had appealed to the Court on Thursday to hold counselling as resident doctors constituted the backbone of medical workforce across the country. With the first-year doctors yet to join, almost 33% of this workforce was not available at a crucial time when Covid cases were on the rise and many among the resident doctors were getting infected with the disease. In four months, the final year PG students would pass out, creating a huge shortfall of doctors.The NEET counselling schedule is tentative.The resident doctors had gone on strike protesting the delay in NEET-PG counseling. Their 14-day strike ended last Friday after an assurance was given by the Union health ministry to come out with the NEET-PG counselling schedule soon after the hearing in the Court on January 6. FORDA had even demanded cancellation of the FIRs registered against doctors after they were manhandled by the Delhi Police while marching to the Supreme Court as part of their protest. This demand was also accepted by the government.“It is unfortunate that to get the counselling expedited, young doctors had to strive vociferously for four months on the streets and succumb to police brutality . Hope the ministry will expedite the admission process and enable the classes to be started with in two weeks,” said Dr JA Jayalal, former president of the Indian Medical Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neetpg-counselling-to-start-under-current-rules-101641579708112.html
07-01-2022||India||SPG sounded alert to Punjab before PM visit||The Special Protection Group tasked with protecting the Prime Minister sent to Punjab Police a detailed note on “threat perception” listing the “grave threat” PM Narendra Modi faces from various terrorist outfits.The report has surfaced two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi cut short his Punjab visit over a security breach on his way to Ferozepur district on Wednesday. HT has reviewed the contents of the note.“Shri Narendra Modi, PM India faces a grave threat from Indian Mujahideen (IM)/Ex-Students’ Islamic Movement of India (Ex-SIMI), Kashmiri and Pakistani based terrorist outfits including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e Mohammed (JeM), Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (HuM), Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami (HuJI), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen(HM) and other Pak based Sikh militants,” the note said.The Punjab government has downplayed the breach, claiming it was caused by a last minute change of route, something the Centre has countered. Modi’s convoy was blocked for around 20 minutes atop a flyover before it was decided to call off the visit. The convoy turned around and headed for Bhatinda airport from where the PM flew back to Delhi.The note specifically mentioned the threat of drones. “..recent inputs related to use of drones by Pak(istani) agencies for dropping arms/ammunition inside Indian territory has further raised security apprehensions...” it added.Such threat perception notes are part of the Advance Security Liaison (ASL), which is done prior to PM’s every trip, in which every aspect is detailed. This note is also part of PM’s Ferozepur tour on January 5. The ASL was done on January 1 & 2 in collaboration with the Punjab Police and IB by the SPG.A former SPG officer, who wished not to be named, said “all direct/indirect threats issued by various persons and terror organisations to the PM or events which could cause security problems are taken from state intelligence units, local special branches, Intelligence Bureau, Research & Analysis Wing (RAW) and they are collated for action before the travel so that there is no breach”.Recalling instances such as an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) blast in Ferozepur and an adjoining district in September and the recovery of a tiffin bomb in Ferozepur village, the note said that smuggling of explosives from Pakistan is prevalent in the area.The note further said the Prime Minister also faces a threat from Left Wing Extremists and remnants of Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) cadres and their collaborators.The note also added that Pakistan-based militant leaders Wadhawa Singh Babbar, Paramjit Singh Panjawar, Ranjit Singh Neeta, Lakhbir SinghRhode have been trying to revive militancy in Punjab by sending hardware including RDX.The note also raised the prospect of a protest by farmers during the PM’s visit.It also pointed out that some leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha declared that they would “gherao” (picket) the Prime Minister on his visit to Fireozepur on January 5. “Some sort of demonstration/agitation cannot be ruled out on the way to Hussainiwala where these farmer unions have their stronghold,” the report predicted. The PM’s convoy was blocked on the way to Hussainiwala.The note also said that Sikhs For Justice’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu has been provoking Sikh youth for “mischievous things against BJP government and PM Modi in the lure of monetary consideration”.On Wednesday, the blockade that caused the termination of the PM’s visit was led by members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari), one of the 32 farm organisations that were part of the 14-month-long protests against the three laws that were eventually repealed.The Centre, BJP, security experts, and former police officers all stressed the dangerous precedent set by the incident, with both the Union government and the BJP pointing to lapses by the Punjab police and the state government, and alleging that dirty politics was at play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spgsounded-alert-to-punjab-before-pm-visit-101641579707464.html
07-01-2022||India||Regions near international borders will soon get 4G connectivity: Arunachal CM||GUWAHATI: Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu on Thursday said that all regions near international borders of the state will soon have 4G connectivity. Addressing public meetings in Taksing, Gelemo and Nacho in Upper Subansiri district, which shares its border with China, Khandu highlighted the importance of civilian population in the border areas to “deter enemy’s claim on our territory”. Arunachal Pradesh has 160 km border with Bhutan in the west, 1,080 km border with China in the north and northeast and 440 km border with Myanmar to the east.“The country has made a departure from the earlier policy of discouraging development near the LAC (Line of Actual Control). The government now is focused on speedy development of the border regions by constructing roads up to the border, and building of other vital infrastructures,” Khandu said, according to a statement issued by his office. “It is because of such aggressive stance taken by PM Narendra Modi that the roads are reaching places like Taksing and other remote border areas in Arunachal, which was earlier un-thought of. Regions near international borders in Arunachal will soon be connected with 4G mobile connectivity,” he added. Highlighting the importance of the presence of the civilian population in the border areas, the chief minister said they should be able to move freely and to take up activities for sustenance near the LAC, which will help deter enemy’s claim on our territory. Khandu said in Tawang district, which also shares border with China, activities like yak rearing, tourism and pilgrimage centres are being developed right at the border, which aids in maintaining vigil at the LAC. Underlining the importance of civilian-army bonhomie, he said the two should team up together to defend the country’s international borders. For building harmony, he stressed on joint celebration of important festivals and events by the public and the defence forces. 
07-01-2022||India||Uttarakhand high court stays new mining rules, issues notice to state govt||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand high court has stayed the new mining rules (Uttarakhand Minor-Minerals (Concession) (Amendment) Rules, 2021) notified by the state government on October 28 last year. The court has also issued notices to state government, director geology and mining unit (under industries department), district mining officer Nainital and sub-divisional magistrate Nainital. The respondents have been directed to reply to the notices within four weeks. The division bench of acting chief justice SK Mishra and Justice Alok Kumar Verma gave these directions on Thursday while hearing a petition filed by Nainital-based Satyendra Kumar Tomar in December last year. The petitioner said: “The notification is an attempt to indulgingly convert state mining policy of competitive bidding into a mutual consent cum recommendation.” According to the petition, the notification was violative of Article 14, 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution of India, as it provides for allotment of mining leases by way of recommendatory procedure rather than by way of competitive bidding in total disregard of the State Mining Policy of 2017. “Despite issuance of another office on November 10, 2021 by the state government, which provides for a proper competitive e-tender/e-bidding even on affected abadi (residential) and agricultural land, mining interests purely on the basis of recommendations are still being handed out arbitrarily to vested interests on private lands”, the petition added. Suhaas Ratna Joshi, counsel of the petitioner said according to the new rules, “for the purpose of development of land in the hills and plains of Uttarakhand, the ordinary soil that comes out, when the hill are cut, basement is excavated or the levelling of the land is done, can be transferred to the plot of the same private land or to any other plot, then it will not come under the category of mining. And thus, there will be no obligation of Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) in respect of the above category. If the ordinary soil is transported from the plot of private land to any other place for commercial use, then the said person will have to pay the royalty at the rates specified for the time being as mentioned in the First Schedule of the Rules”. 
07-01-2022||India||India, China LAC talks likely on January 12: Official||India and China are expected to hold the next round of talks between senior military commanders on January 12 to take forward disengagement at key friction points in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the matter said on Friday. The upcoming talks are likely to focus on disengagement at Hot Spring, one of the main friction points in the military standoff, which began in May 2020 and has taken bilateral relations to an all-time low. The talks on January 12 are expected to be held at Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC as the last round was held on the Chinese side. The 13th and the most recent round of talks between corps commanders of the two sides were held at the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on October 10 last year and ended without any breakthrough. Since then, the Indian side has made several proposals for the 14th round of talks along with agenda items, but the Chinese side’s response has not been consistent, the people cited above said. The Indian side has been maintaining that all friction points between Depsang and Chumar should be collectively tackled in the military talks to ensure comprehensive disengagement and de-escalation in the Ladakh sector, but this has not been agreed to by the Chinese side. The two sides have done considerable work on addressing differences at Hot Spring, and the Indian side was hopeful of disengagement at this friction point at the last round of talks. However, the talks on October 10 were not attended by the Chinese corps commander, and he was represented by a deputy who contended he didn’t have the authority to make a final decision, the people said. Following the talks on October 10, the Indian Army had said in a statement that it made “constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”. After the last meeting of the India-China Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on November 18, the Indian side had said the 14th round of military talks should be held at “an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC...in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols”. At the external affairs ministry’s media briefing on Thursday, spokesperson Arindam Bagchi referred to China’s recent action of renaming 15 locations in Arunachal Pradesh and said: “We hope that instead of engaging in such antics, China will work constructively with us to resolve the outstanding friction points in areas along the western sector of the LAC in India-China border areas.” The two sides withdrew frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra last year after several rounds of talks, but there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August 2021. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff. Tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have dug in for the second successive winter in the Ladakh sector, with no immediate signs of an end to the standoff that resulted in the first fatalities along the LAC since 1975. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020. 
07-01-2022||India||'Mutual decision': Sonu Sood on stepping down as Punjab state icon||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood on Wednesday said that he has "voluntarily" stepped down from the post of a "state icon" of Punjab. "This decision was mutually taken by me and the Election Commission in light of my family members contesting in Punjab Assembly elections," he said in a tweet."Like all good things, this journey has come to an end too. I've voluntarily stepped down as the State Icon of Punjab. This decision was mutually taken by me and EC in light of my family member contesting in Punjab Assembly Elections. I wish them luck for future endeavours," his tweet read.
07-01-2022||India||As India breaches 1 lakh-mark in daily Covid cases, restrictions brought back | 10 points||India on Friday recorded over 1 lakh fresh Covid-19 infections after seven months, signalling that the surge that was being predicted has already set in. Several states, including Karnataka and Delhi, will see a weekend lockdown starting from this Saturday, Sunday, the first during the ongoing surge of the pandemic in India. The Centre has also imposed some additional restrictions on international travellers making 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all people coming to India from abroad.Here are the top 10 updates of Covid-19 situation in India:1. Delhi on Friday recorded 17,335 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since May 8, and nine deaths while the positivity rate mounted to 17.73 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department.Weekend & nights curfew in place in these states as India sees major Covid spike: Check details here2. Maharashtra on Friday recorded 40,925 new coronavirus cases, 4,660 more than the previous day. The state also reported 20 new deaths, the health department said. Half the new cases were reported in Mumbai. No new cases of the Omicron variant were recorded on Friday.3. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said all coronavirus cases in the state will be treated as Omicron cases. The chief minister said the third wave of the pandemic has hit the state from January 1.4. The Karnataka government on Friday said it may soon issue green passes to identify fully vaccinated citizens. The government has made vaccination mandatory for entry into all public places such as malls, markets and restaurants.New guideline for international passengers amid Omicron surge, 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all5. The Centre on Friday emphasised that it is the primary responsibility of the states to ensure that all the oxygen equipment at all the health facilities are tested and kept in a functional state to meet any emergent situation. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting with representatives from the states and Union territories through a video conference to review the oxygen situation of the states.6. India on Friday made it mandatory for all travellers coming from abroad to undergo a seven-day home quarantine followed by an RT-PCR test on the 8th day. The guideline will come into force from January 11 and will remain effective till further government orders.7. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla has asked Delhi and neighbouring districts to follow a unified approach and to strengthen health infrastructure, maintain buffer stocks of essential drugs and ensure that oxygen supply equipment is fully functional.Mini-lockdown in Gujarat to curb Covid-19 spread. Details here8. The peak of the possible Omicron-led third wave in India could arrive in January end and February beginning, when the country's daily caseload might reach four to eight lakh (7-day average), a new projection of the Sutra model has revealed. Bed requirement could peak around 1.5 lakh, but the wave appears to be manageable due to the low hospitalisation rate, IIT Kanpur professor Manindra Agrawal said.9. The Gujarat government on Friday announced night curfew in 10 cities to be effective from 10pm to 6am in Ahmedabad, Anand, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Nadiad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara.10. India on Friday achieved the milestone of administering over 150 crore Covid-19 vaccines. PM Modi lauded healthcare workers and said India is grateful to all those who have been working to make our vaccination drive a success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-breaches-1-lakh-mark-in-daily-covid-cases-restrictions-brought-back-10-points-101641575676938.html
07-01-2022||India||India, China army commanders to meet on Jan 12, spotlight on Hot Spring||NEW DELHI: India and China are expected to hold the next round of talks between senior military commanders on January 12 to take forward disengagement at key friction points in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the matter said on Friday. The upcoming talks are likely to focus on disengagement at Hot Spring, one of the main friction points in the military standoff, which began in May 2020 and has taken bilateral relations to an all-time low. The talks on January 12 are expected to be held at Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC as the last round was held on the Chinese side.The 13th and most recent round of talks between corps commanders of the two sides was held at Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on October 10 last year and ended without any breakthrough. Since then, the Indian side has made several proposals for the 14th round of talks along with agenda items, but the Chinese side’s response has not been consistent, the people cited above said. The Indian side has been maintaining that all friction points between Depsang and Chumar should be collectively tackled in the military talks to ensure comprehensive disengagement and de-escalation in Ladakh sector, but this has not been agreed to by the Chinese side. The two sides have done considerable work on addressing differences at Hot Spring and the Indian side was hopeful of disengagement at this friction point at the last round of talks. However, the talks on October 10 were not attended by the Chinese corps commander, and he was represented by a deputy who contended he didn’t have the authority to make a final decision, the people said. Following the talks on October 10, the Indian Army said in a statement that it made “constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”.After the last meeting of the India-China Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on November 18, the Indian side had said the 14th round of military talks should be held at “an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC...in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols”. At the external affairs ministry’s media briefing on Thursday, spokesperson Arindam Bagchi referred to China’s recent action of renaming 15 locations in Arunachal Pradesh and said: “We hope that instead of engaging in such antics, China will work constructively with us to resolve the outstanding friction points in areas along the western sector of the LAC in India-China border areas.” The two sides withdrew frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra last year after several rounds of talks, but there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August 2021. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff. Tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have dug in for the second successive winter in Ladakh sector, with no immediate signs of an end to the standoff that resulted in the first fatalities along the LAC since 1975. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020. 
07-01-2022||India||'No need for fresh registration': Centre on 'precaution dose' against Covid-19||Those looking to register for the booster or 'precaution dose' of the Covid-19 vaccine are not required to make new registration on the Cowin portal, the ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday. According to the statement, beneficiaries can directly take an appointment or walk into any vaccination centre and get their third shot.The government will publish the schedule for the same on January 8. The online facility will also start by tomorrow evening, the ministry also informed.From January 10, India is set to administer the 'precaution dose' of the Covid vaccine to frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities. In his speech on December 25, prime minister Narendra Modi announced the Centre's decision.As per the guidelines, the same vaccine is to be administered to the beneficiary and no mix-match will be allowed as of now. This means those who were administered with Covaxin as their first and second dose will receive the same as their 'precaution dose.' People who received Covishield will only be allowed to take Covishield.The decision to announce 'precaution dose' was taken as the country is in the clutch of the third wave of the covid-19 pandemic. The emergence of a highly transmissible Omicron Variant is also contributing to the surge as cases are rising exponentially.On Friday, India reported over lakh cases of viral disease, the highest in the last 214 days. The country's total tally now stands at 3,52,26,386. The total tally includes 3,007 cases of Omicron across 27 states and the union territories.The country last reported over one lakh cases on June 7 last year when 1,00,636 infections were recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-for-fresh-registration-centre-on-precaution-dose-against-covid19-101641574557722.html
07-01-2022||India||Jagannath Temple in Puri to be shut for devotees from January 10||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government on Friday decided to close Jagannath temple for devotees from January 10 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, Puri district collector Samarth Verma said. The government has decided to close colleges, universities and technical education institutions in the state from January 10, said special relief commissioner PK Jena.The state has recorded six times rise in Covid-19 cases in less than a week. Verma said the 12th-century temple will be shut following discussion with the temple priests and the management. Some priests of the temple and officials of the Sri Jagannath Temple administration have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last couple of days. The temple will remain closed till January 31.Jena said colleges, universities and technical institutions except medical colleges, nursing colleges and institutions under control of Health and Family Welfare department will be shut down from January 10. On Thursday, 18 students of a hostel in Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology in Sambalpur district tested positive for Covid-19. The state government ordered shutting down of schools from Friday. The government said coaching classes run by institutions or individuals will not be allowed to run in off-line mode from January 10. However, virtual/online coaching will be permitted to continue. The state on Friday reported 2703 new Covid-19 cases, recording the biggest single-day spike of the last six months. The TPR which was below 1 for most of December is now 3.9. Meanwhile, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation changed its earlier order of subjecting every traveller arriving at Biju Patnaik airport in the city to compulsory RT-PCR tests. It said that random RT-PCR tests will be conducted on those passengers who are not in possession of RT-PCR report conducted 72 hours prior to the boarding of the flight. The passengers found to be symptomatic during screening would be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility of the BMC. The BMC will also deploy a number of teams at the Bhubaneswar railway station to screen travellers. Bhubaneswar municipal commissioner Sanjay Singh said all efforts will be made to conduct 10,000 tests per day in the city. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and Bolangir MLA Narasingha Mishra urged the State Election Commission to postpone the forthcoming Panchayat and Municipal elections in the state. While panchayat polls are likely to be held in February, municipal polls are expected to be held in April-May. “Life is certainly more important than elections. Odisha is witnessing a continuous surge in Covid-19 cases and the virus is gradually spreading its tentacle across the state. According to scientists, virologists and doctors, the pandemic situation is going to be dangerous in the near future. Considering the unprecedented pandemic situation, the Congress demands the postponement of the upcoming panhayat and municipal elections in the state until the third wave is under control,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-temple-in-puri-to-be-shut-for-devotees-from-january-10-101641573648396.html
07-01-2022||India||Delhi curfew: Twitter user asks police if playing cricket is allowed. Here's the answer||As Delhi goes under a 55-hour curfew starting from Friday 10pm which will end on 5am on Monday, a social media user asked Delhi Police whether playing cricket with social distancing and mask is allowed in the city during the weekend lockdown. "That's a silly point, sir. It is time to take extra cover. Also Delhi Police is good at catching," Delhi Police replied on Twitter, making it clear in cricket terminolgy that no non-emergency service, activity will be allowed in Delhi during the weekend lockdown. That’s a ‘Silly Point’, Sir. It is time to take ‘Extra Cover’. Also, #DelhiPolice is good at ‘Catching’. https://t.co/tTPyrt4F5HThe Delhi Police answered some FAQs on its Twitter handle clarifying that e-pass will be required for non-essential movement during the curfew period though one can go out to purchase essential goods like groceries, medicines and vegetables. Media persons with valid I cards are exempt, the department clarified. Industries with on-site labour will run, as usual, the police said.Cab services will run as usual but with up to two passengers. People travelling to attend a wedding will have to carry the wedding invitation, the social media handle tweeted, replying to individuals. People requiring medical services must carry medical documents.Metro services will be available at a frequency of 15 minutes on the Yellow Line (i.e. HUDA City Centre to Samaypur Badli) and Blue Line (i.e. Dwarka Sec-21 to NOIDA Electronic City/Vaishali) on the weekend. On all other lines, trains will be available at a frequency of 20 minutes.Delhi on Friday recorded 17,335 fresh cases, the highest since May 2021. During the height of the second wave of the pandemic, 28,395 cases, the highest-ever single-day tally here, and 277 deaths were recorded in Delhi on April 20 last year, as per official figures.Though the rise is worrying, imposing any further restriction apart from the night curfew and the weekend lockdown is not being considered as of now, as the rate of hospitalisation is low. Delhi has reported six times lower hospital admissions due to the coronavirus this time as compared to the first wave of the pandemic, health minister Satyendar Jain said. "Compared to the first wave of the coronavirus, this time, the number of patients admitted to hospitals is six times lower.... Some health workers, including doctors, have tested positive, but in very small numbers," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-curfew-twitter-user-asks-police-if-playing-cricket-is-allowed-here-s-the-answer-101641572850405.html
07-01-2022||India||Over 150 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered in India, PM Modi hails vaccination drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday took to Twitter to hail the nation's vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as India achieved the landmark of administering more than 1.5 billion (150 crore) doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Also Read | No mix and match for third dose of Covid vaccine: Centre“A remarkable day on the vaccination front! Congratulations to our fellow citizens on crossing the 150 crore milestone. Our vaccination drive has ensured that many lives are saved. At the same time, let us also keep following all COVID-19 related protocols,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted.Also Read | Expert panel recommends phase 3 trial for Bharat Biotech’s intranasal vaccineIn a subsequent tweet, PM Modi expressed gratitude to health care workers, frontline workers, doctors, and others for making the vaccination drive a success. “India is grateful to all those who have been working to make our vaccination drive a success. We thank our doctors, scientists, innovators and the health care workers who are vaccinating the people. I urge all those eligible to get their shots. Together, let’s fight COVID-19,” he posted. India is grateful to all those who have been working to make our vaccination drive a success. We thank our doctors, scientists, innovators and the health care workers who are vaccinating the people. I urge all those eligible to get their shots. Together, let’s fight COVID-19.The nationwide inoculation drive against the viral illness began on January 16 last year, with health care and frontline workers first in line to receive shots. The drive was soon expanded to include senior citizens, people with comorbidities, and, finally, everyone aged 18 and above.Also Read | Centre rejects reports of expired vaccines being administered as ‘misleading’On October 21, the country crossed the mark of administering more than 1 billion (100 crore) doses of Covid-19 vaccines. On January 3 this year, teens in the 15-18 age group became eligible for inoculation, the first age group below 18 and above for whom vaccination was opened. From January 10, meanwhile, health care workers, people aged 60 and above with comorbidities, will be given a ‘precautionary’ dose.Also Read | CISCE asks schools to encourage parents for eligible teens’ vaccinationBoth decisions were announced by PM Modi in a surprise address to the nation on December 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-crore-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-pm-modi-hails-vaccination-drive-101641571313128.html
07-01-2022||India||Bulli Bai: Niraj Bishnoi was active during 'Sulli Deals' row, posed as reporter||Niraj Bishnoi, the 'mastermind' of the Bulli Bai application is a repeat offender and was active during the Sulli Deals row, police said on Friday. Through a fake Twitter profile of a girl, Bishnoi at that time tried to communicate to the investigative agency as a news reporter, police said, as reported by PTI. During that time, he came in contact with various news reporters and tried to plant his misinformation, DCP K P S Malhotra said.Following the arrest of the 21-year-old student from Assam, the police claimed to have solved the Bulli Bai controversy in which photos of hundreds of Muslim women were posted for auction.Police said during interrogation it was found that Bishnoi had earlier created various Twitter handles with the initial name of “giyu” which is a gaming character. The handles have been identified as @giyu2002, @giyu007, @giyuu84, @giyu94 and @giyu44. From @giyu007 account, he was active during the Sulli Deals case. “The account @giyu007 came into light when the Sulli Deal case was under investigation. Through this handle, he had tried to plant some information regarding the possible propagator/originator of Sulli Deals app,” police said.Bishnoi's father said he used to be a loner and kept himself glued to his laptop. "What he does, we do not know at all. Niraj used to keep to himself since his childhood days. He hardly has any friends," Bishnoi, who owns a commercial pickup van, told PTI. He recounted that when Niraj was a student at Nkem Science Academy, where he studied in classes 11 and 12, the principal had several times seized his laptop. "I had to go to the Academy many times to get the laptop back. I don't know what he used to do with it," he said.The Vellore Institute of Technology, Bhopal, on Thursday suspended Bishnoi for bringing disrepute to the university. A police official said Bishnoi was known to be a bright student but never attended in-person classes in the college.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulli-bai-niraj-bishnoi-was-active-during-sulli-deals-row-posed-as-reporter-101641571633054.html
07-01-2022||India||Jaish team conducted recce of RSS Hq, security stepped up: Nagpur cop||NAGPUR: The Nagpur police have stepped up security at and around the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh headquarters in Nagpur after operatives of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), allegedly conducted a recce of sensitive establishments, Nagpur police commissioner Amitesh Kumar said on Friday. The city police have also banned flying drones near the RSS headquarters, the ideological fount of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and taking photographs.Kumar, who visited the RSS headquarters with senior police personnel this afternoon to take stock of the security arrangements, declined to elaborate on the status of the police probe in this case.The Nagpur police commissioner said security has been increased at the RSS headquarters and Hedgewar Bhavan at Reshimbagh after reports that a Jaish operative conducted a recce of these places. He said that the RSS headquarters (in Mahal in the eastern part of the city) and Smruti Bhawan in Reshimbagh (in the south-eastern part of Nagpur) are being constantly provided with full-fledged round-the-clock security in and around the area. All vehicles and persons around these installations are thoroughly checked. “Yes, these terrorists had come from Srinagar to Nagpur a month ago and stayed in the city for a few days,” said a senior police officer on condition of anonymity. A case has been registered in this regard and the Nagpur Crime Branch has formed a team to locate the terrorists.The information about the terror plan emerged during the interrogation of a man arrested recently in Jammu and Kashmir, the senior police officer cited above said. It turned out that Jaish operatives visited Nagpur in July 2021 and stayed in Nagpur for two days.Inputs received by security agencies also point to the terrorist plans to attack or trigger explosions to target crowded places, markets, as well as the premises of high-profile politicians and security forces during Republic Day and assembly elections. The RSS headquarters has been on the radar of terrorists for years. According to the police, three heavily terrorists armed with AK-47 and hand grenades were killed by security forces in Nagpur just before they were about to attack the RSS headquarters in June 2006. Kumar said the city police has banned photography and the use of drones around the RSS headquarters at Mahal and the Dr Hedgewar Smruti Bhavan, Reshimbagh in view of the threat. Any drone found within a 2-km radius will either be destroyed or seized by the police. The use of drones in a “no-drone” zone could also invite legal action, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-team-conducted-recce-of-rss-hq-alert-sounded-after-1-detained-nagpur-cop-101641571186551.html
07-01-2022||India||BJP asks Bengal election commission to delay polls for 4 municipal corporations||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday wrote to the election commission of West Bengal, asking it to postpone the upcoming elections for four municipal corporations, due to the raging Covid-19 pandemic in the state. The polls are due on January 22.The opposition party took note of the unprecedented surge in daily cases and its new Omicron variant in West Bengal and the rest of the country. "While the importance of holding any elections in a democracy is second to none, but surely not at the cost of putting peoples' lives at risk," it stated as it requested the state body to delay the polls."Already hospitals are running understaffed as doctors, nurses, technicians, support staff are getting affected in big numbers. People in the administration, police force and those who will be conducting elections are also getting affected," the party also said. "Under these circumstances, the balance of convenience is in delaying the elections of the four municipal corporations," the BJP also said.West Bengal on Friday logged 18,213 new infections and 18 deaths in the last 24 hours. The active cases stand at 51,384.Earlier in the day, Calcutta High Court asked the West Bengal State Election Commission to submit an affidavit to inform whether the four municipal corporation elections can be conducted as per the schedule or not. The next hearing will be on January 11 on the subject.On December 23 last year, the State Election Commission informed the Calcutta High Court that it is ready to hold polls in the remaining municipal corporations.Asansol, Howrah, Bidhannagar, Siliguri are among the municipal corporations that are set to hold elections on January 22. The other phase will be held on February 27 for the remaining municipalities.There are seven municipal corporations in West Bengal namely Asansol Municipal Corporation, BidhanNagar Municipal Corporation, Chandernagore Municipal Corporation, Durgapur Municipal Corporation, Howrah Municipal Corporation, Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Siliguri Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-asks-bengal-election-commission-to-delay-polls-for-4-municipal-corporations-101641570071093.html
07-01-2022||India||India to roll out chip-embedded e-passports in 2nd phase Passport Seva Programme||NEW DELHI: The external affairs ministry and Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) signed an agreement on Friday for the second phase of the Passport Seva Programme (PSP-V2.0), which envisages the roll out of microchip-embedded e-passports. The second phase of the programme, already the largest e-governance programme in the country, will last nine-and-a-half years and see TCS deploy the latest technologies to ease services. The e-passports, which will have a microchip with secure biometric data, are set to be unveiled during this phase. An e-passport’s chip usually has the holder’s biographical information that is printed on the document’s data page and a biometric identifier. Such passports have digital security features to prevent unauthorised reading of data stored on the chip. TCS, which is India’s largest software exporter, is expected to bring in technology for e-passports but the granting and printing of passports will remain with the government. The e-passports will be compliant with the guidelines of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), and the Indian Security Press in Nashik and the National Informatics Centre are involved in designing the security features. The second phase of the programme further envisages creation of a new data centre, a disaster recovery centre and a Government Secure Repository linked to all Passport Seva Kendras (PSKs), Post Office Passport Seva Kendra (POPSKs), passport offices and Indian missions abroad. An electronic file system for passport processing running across the passport issuance ecosystem and round-the-clock monitoring and supervision through a Network Operation Centre (NOC) and Security Operation Centre (SOC) will also be created. Sanjay Bhattacharyya, secretary for consular, passport and visa services in the external affairs ministry, tweeted that during the second phase of the programme, facilities at POPSKs would be similar to PSK levels, there would be use of biometrics and AI, data integration and data personalisation, and continuous upgrades to the best practices. The external affairs ministry said PSP-V2.0 will be both a continuation and an enhancement of the first phase of the programme that introduced many changes in the delivery of passport-related services to citizens. The focus was on a timely, transparent, more accessible and reliable platform, and support functions such as citizen interface, technology backbone, call centres, training and change management were provided by TCS while the government exercised all sovereign and security-related functions in the passport issuance process. The external affairs ministry is now working towards opening a Seva Kendra in every Lok Sabha constituency where there is no PSK or POPSK. Currently, 93 PSKs, 428 POPSKs and 36 passport offices are operational. The programme was recently also connected to more than 176 Indian missions through the Global Passport Seva Programme (GPSP) to benefit the Indian diaspora. The PSP-V 2.0 will ensure a digital ecosystem, process overhauling and integration among various stakeholders and database, improved citizen interface, upgraded technology, and stronger data security. All security aspects, including strategic assets such as data centres, database and the application software will be owned by the government and there will be strict access controls across the system, incorporating biometrics. The Passport Seva Programme will also embark on a technology upgrade with the use of biometrics, artificial intelligence, advance data analytics, chat-bot, auto-response, natural language processing and cloud enablement. 
07-01-2022||India||Mini-lockdown in Gujarat to curb Covid-19 spread. Details here||In view of rising daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Gujarat government on Friday announced a series of measures, including a night curfew in 10 cities, to control the spread of the virus in the state.According to chief minister Bhupendra Patel, who chaired a review meeting earlier today, the night curfew will be in effect from 10pm to 6am in Ahmedabad, Anand, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Nadiad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara.
07-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: BJP MLA demands closure of all Jawed Habib centres in Indore, and all the latest news||'Close all Jawed Habib centres in Indore or else…': BJP MLA warns of protestsOfficials have 48 hours to shut all saloons operated by the hair stylist in the city, said BJP leader and Indore MLA Akash Vijayvargiya. Read moreSikhs being ‘terrorised’ on social media after PM security breach: Akal Takht jathedarAkal Takht jathedar says PM security breach should not have happened, but what is happening after it in form of vilification of Sikhs is even worse. Read more'He reminds me of Amla': Gavaskar lavishes huge praise for under-fire India batter; 'Great, great blessing' to have himSunil Gavaskar lavished praise on the senior batter, Cheteshwar Pujara drawing his comparison with South Africa great Hashim Amla. Read moreMithila Palkar, Vishal Dadlani, Kubbra Sait and more Bollywood stars who tested positive for Covid-19 over last 24 hoursOn Friday, actors Swara Bhasker, Kubbra Sait, Mithila Palkar, music composer Vishal Dadlani, comedian Ashish Chanchlani and others tested positive for Covid-19. Read moreDon't ignore these common gynaec problems; expert tipsBe it certain changes in the body, sexually transmitted diseases, menstrual issues to risk of cancer, more awareness is needed to address health problems specific to women. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-mla-demands-closure-of-all-jawed-habib-centres-in-indore-and-all-the-latest-news-101641565074438.html
07-01-2022||India||Delhi reports 17,335 fresh Covid cases, 9 deaths; 55-hour curfew from tonight||Delhi on Friday reported 17,335 fresh Covid infections and 9 deaths, continuing the alarming but predicted surge. The positivity rate, after Friday's addition, rose to 17.73%. The number of containment zones in Delhi as on Friday was 6,912.Starting from 10pm on Friday, Delhi will remain under curfew till 5pm on Monday and during these 55 hours, shops, malls and markets will largely remain closed. Only essential shops, services will be allowed to function during the lockdown time. The health department of the government has asked all city government-run hospitals to cancel leaves, barring maternity and medical leaves."In view of recent surge in Covid-19 cases and for efficient management of Covid-19 pandemic in NCT of Delhi, all MDs/MSs/Directors of all hospitals of Government of NCT of Delhi are directed not to grant leaves of any type except maternity leaves and other medical leaves to any medical and non-medical staff with immediate effect and cancel all such leaves, if already granted," read an order issued by the health department.Delhi: Weekend curfew begins tonight, here's what you can avail, what you can'tIn view of the violations of the odd-even formula for the opening of shops dealing in nonessential items, The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has asked all district magistrates to number all shops under their jurisdictions by Saturday as there have been some cases of violations of the odd-even formula.The authorities said adequate arrangements have been made to enforce the curfew across the city. Only those involved in essential services and those facing an emergency situation will be allowed to step out of their homes. Those venturing out will have to produce e-passes issued by the government or valid identity cards. “We have made adequate arrangements to enforce the weekend curfew. There will be a strict vigil at markets, on the roads, colonies and other public places. If needed, we will also increase the number of enforcement squads,” a senior administrative official in the west district told PTI.People can apply for an e-pass for the weekend curfew and the night curfew on weekdays on www.delhi.gov.in. Judges, judicial officers, court staff and lawyers will also be allowed to travel on the production of valid identity cards, service ID cards, photo entry passes and permission letters issued by the court administration. Others who are exempted include private medical personnel such as doctors, nursing staff, paramedics and those associated with hospitals, diagnostic centres, testing laboratories, clinics, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and medical oxygen suppliers on the production of valid identity cards.People coming from or going to airports, railway stations and inter-state bus terminuses will be allowed to travel on the production of valid tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-17-335-fresh-covid-cases-9-deaths-weekend-lockdown-from-tonight-101641567055206.html
07-01-2022||India||Crores distributed fraudulently under Marriage Assistance Scheme in MP||BHOPAL: Crores of rupees were allegedly distributed among ineligible and bogus beneficiaries under a Marriage Assistance Scheme in Madhya Pradesh’s Vidisha district, the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the state police has found. The beneficiaries included three daughters of a 27-year-old man, who were shown to have been married over 14 months to fraudulently get ₹51,000 assistance each.Police superintendent (EOW) Rajesh Tiwari said they have registered a case against chief executive officer (Janpad Panchayat) Sironj Shobhit Tripathi and others in the matter. “EOW Bhopal was informed about large-scale corruption in the scheme. This information was verified confidentially.” Tiwari said it was found that Tripathi allegedly distributed ₹30.18 crore under the scheme from 2019 to November 2021 in 5,923 cases. “Most of the cases were bogus.” Tiwari cited their probe and added Tripathi allegedly sanctioned ₹18.52 crores to about 3,500 beneficiaries between April 2020 and June 2021. He added this also covers the period when weddings were banned due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The EOW found the money was not transferred to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries but to those of unrelated people. Assistance was even sanctioned to those who do not have any daughters. In some cases, it was given to people who did not apply for it.Opposition Congress leader JP Dhanopia said this corruption is not restricted to one district. “The agency should probe this corrupt practice in every district. Under Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government, corrupt officers are growing and every government scheme is being misused.”BJP lawmaker Umakant Sharma earlier raised the matter in the assembly.
07-01-2022||India||Mumbai reports 20,971 fresh Covid infections; mayor clarifies on further lockdown||Mumbai on Friday reported 20,971 new Covid-19 infections, 84% of which was asymptomatic, according to the civic body data. In the last 24 hours, the city reported six deaths, data showed. With daily cases crossing the 20,000-mark, teh question of more restrictions is looming large. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said there has been no decision on night curfew. A final call on imposing further restrictions, which ministers have so far ruled out, will only be taken after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's meeting with PM Modi, the mayor said.Maharashtra on Friday breached the 40,000-mark reporting 40,925 fresh infections, the highest since May 13, 2021. Out of 20,971 fresh cases recorded in Mumbai, 17,616 are asymptomatic, 1,395 have been hospitalised. The recovery rate in Mumbai stands at 87% and the doubling rate of the infection in the city is 56 days.Mumbai Police informed on Friday that 94 policemen have tested positive in the last 24 hours.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal said there is no immediate need for imposing lockdown in Mumbai as the bed occupancy rate, oxygen requirement and the number of Covid deaths remain low. During the first and second waves the decision to impose lockdown was taken on the basis of case positivity rate, but this criterion cannot be applied for the third wave which started from December 21, 2021, Chahal told a Marathi news channel.The administration has already banned the assembly of five or more persons during night and physical classes in schools and colleges have been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-20-971-fresh-covid-infections-mayor-clarifies-on-further-lockdown-101641564199689.html
07-01-2022||India||Why UGC advice to central varsities on demand-based courses is being critiqued||New Delhi: The University Grants Commission (UGC) recently wrote to all the central universities advising them to offer courses based on the “demand” of the students, and the number of admissions in those courses. The communication drew criticism from teachers across several central universities who alleged that it will gradually lead to a closure of some courses and create job losses.
07-01-2022||India||What Omicron peak in India could look like in terms of daily cases, bed requirement, experts predict||The peak of the possible Omicron-led third wave in India could arrive in January end and February beginning, when the country's daily caseload might reach four to eight lakh (7-day average), a new projection of the Sutra model has revealed. Bed requirement could peak around 1.5 lakh, but the wave appears to be manageable due to the low hospitalisation rate, IIT Kanpur professor Manindra Agrawal said. "Of course, things could change in the next couple of weeks. Also, there may be localised shortage of beds. So proper care and planning is warranted," Prof Agrawal tweeted.Experts who are part of the Sutra Consortium are Anurag Agrawal, IGIB, Manindra Agrawal, IIT Kanpur, Pramod Garg, THSTI, Madhuri Kanitkar, MUHS, M Vidyasagar, IIT Hyderabad.The projections made taking into account the Omicron situation of India till January 6 said the loss of immunity is a major factor contributing to the ongoing rise in the cases. According to its estimation, 70% to 100% of people have lost immunity. Natural immunity is also being bypassed varying between 50 to 100%, it said.Delhi-NCR begins prepping for third wave: All hands on deck! Doing prediction for India at the moment is more difficult since model has not been able to capture the present phase yet. Extrapolating from Mumbai, we estimate that peak could arrive in Jan-end/Feb-beginning. Its value could be between 4-8 lakh cases per day (7-day average)."Doing prediction for India at the moment is more difficult since the model has not been able to capture the present phase yet. Extrapolating from Mumbai, we estimate that peak could arrive in Jan-end/Feb-beginning. Its value could be between 4-8 lakh cases per day (7-day average)," Prof Agrawal said.Mumbai at the peak of the Omicron surge could record 30,000 to 60,000 cases per day (7-day average), while Delhi's daily infection at the peak could range between 35,000 and 70,000. January 15-20 will be the peak time for Delhi, Mumbai and India, the projection model says. The hospital bed requirement in Delhi is estimated to be 12,000 at its peak, while in Mumbai it could be 10,000.On Friday, India reported 1,17,100 fresh Coronavirus infections, the highest after 214 days as over one lakh cases were reported in June last year. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said Delhi is likely to report 17,000 Covid cases on Friday, while Mumbai's daily case is expected to be around 21,000 on Friday, Maharashtra Covid task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said.
07-01-2022||India||Assam: Three kids killed in fire accident in Charaideo district||GUWAHATI: Three young boys, aged around 5-6 years, were killed in Assam’s Charaideo district when a thatched shed caught fire on Friday morning.According to the police, the incident took place at Sepon under Moranhat police station around 10:30am when the boys were inside a ‘tongi ghar’ (a thatched shed usually erected in the fields).“Four young boys aged around 5-6 years were playing inside the thatched shed when it caught fire. While one of them managed to escape the other three got trapped and were burned to death,” Sudhakar Singh, Charaideo superintendent of police said. “According to the statement of the child who managed to escape, the children were trying to light cigarettes inside the shed when the structure made of straw and bamboo caught fire,” he added. The bodies have been sent for autopsy.
07-01-2022||India||Newborn kidnapped from Kerala hospital, police traces baby within 2 hours||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala police on Thursday rescued a newborn within two hours after the baby was kidnapped from the medical college hospital in Kottayam, said district police chief D Shilpa on Friday. The crime took place in the gynecology ward of the medical college hospital around 3pm on Thursday, said hospital authorities. When a woman, dressed in a nurse’s uniform, asked for the newborn to check the baby’s “jaundice level”, mother P Aswathi readily handed over the baby to her. When the baby was not returned to her after 30 minutes, she went to the nursing station and realised that her baby had been kidnapped. Soon, the police were alerted and they started the search.“We immediately sealed the district border and scanned railway stations, bus terminals and private vehicles. Soon an autorickshaw driver gave a statement that he saw a woman moving out of the hospital in hurry. By 5pm, the kidnapper Neethu Raj and the child were taken into custody from a hotel in the city,” said the superintendent of police (SP) D Shipla. She said the police officers who busted the kidnapping incident in record time will be rewarded. When Sub Inspector T S Reneesh came to the medical college hospital with the baby at 5.30 pm, there was a standing ovation to the police team. “The accused told us she kidnapped the child to blackmail her lover Ibrahim Badusha. Soon after the baby was kidnapped, she Whatsapp-ed photos of the child to him and his relatives saying she gave birth to the baby and Badusha fathered the child,” said the SP, adding that both came in contact last year through Tik Tok and stayed together for some time. The woman, who has a four-year-old son from an earlier marriage, said they fell out when Badusha started preparing to marry someone else.“She told us Badusha took money from her and failed to return it. The whole drama was enacted to foil his marriage plan and live with him,” said the SP, adding that Raj earlier had an abortion. She was planning to give an impression that she gave birth to the child in a private hospital in Ernakulam and selected an easy target in Kottayam medical college hospital. The SP said the accused was camping in a hotel near the hospital from January 4 and made many trips to the hospital. Police said she purchased the uniform from a medical equipment shop. The SP said her lover has no role but a separate case will be registered against him for not returning the money he took from Raj. “I almost fainted at the hospital after I came to know about the kidnapping. She was quite familiar in the gynaecology ward and we all thought she was a nurse. I never thought police will save my baby so soon. It was a real nightmare,” said Aswathi. Her relatives said this exposed the administration and upkeep of the hospital. State health minister Veena George has sought a report from the medical college authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newborn-kidnapped-from-kerala-hospital-police-traces-baby-within-2-hours-101641559425765.html
07-01-2022||India||NCW summons Jawed Habib for spitting on woman's hair; asks him to explain his action||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Friday issued a summon notice to popular hair stylist Jawed Habib after a video showing him spit on a woman while styling her hair went viral on social media. In the notice, the commission has asked Habib to appear before the body on January 11 to explain his action.In the notice, the NCW also ordered Uttar Pradesh police to probe the veracity of the purported video. "If there is a scarcity of water, use saliva," the hairstylist can be heard saying in the video as he spits and continues to comb her hair.The incident took place at Habib's workshop in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar.In the notice, the NCW said it has taken a serious note of the incident; "Therefore, you are directed to appear before the Commission in-person on 11.01.2022 at 12.30PM for deposition of your statement," it stated.As the video went viral on social media, with netizens criticising the hairstylist, he has now apologised for his action. "Some words spoken by me have hurt people. I want to say one thing that these are professional workshops and are long shows and when they are long, we have to make them humorous. What can I say? If you are truly hurt, I apologise from my heart. Please forgive me. Sorry," he said in a video message.A post shared by Jawed Habib (@jh_hairexpert)The noted hairstylist, Jawed Habib operates more than 850 salons and around 65 hair academies across 115 cities across India.In 2019, he joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-summons-jawed-habib-for-spitting-on-woman-s-hair-asks-him-to-explain-his-action-101641558083904.html
07-01-2022||India||173 more passengers, who arrived in Amritsar from Rome, test Covid-19 positive||More than 170 out of 285 passengers on a chartered flight from Rome, which landed in Amritsar on Friday, tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival, the airport’s director said. This comes a day after 125 out of 179 passengers who returned to the city, also from Italy’s capital, and who were also on a chartered flight, were found positive for the infection.Also Read | 160 passengers on chartered flight from Rome tested in Amritsar. 125 are Covid+veGiving details, VK Seth, director, Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, said, “173 of total 285 passengers who returned from Rome, Italy, have tested positive for Covid-19. The number of infected passengers may increase as testing is still going on. The flight was operated by EuroAtlantic Airways, and was chartered by SpiceJet.”Also Read | New guideline for international passengers amid Omicron surge, 7-day home quarantine mandatory for allWhile EuroAtlantic is a Portuguese carrier, SpiceJet is an Indian airline. Thursday’s chartered flight, too, belonged to EuroAtlantic, according to a media report. Earlier, the flight was reported to be operated by AirIndia, though the national carrier clarified this was not true.Also Read | India updates list of 'at risk' countries. Details here“Several media houses have reported that passengers of Air India flight from Rome to Amritsar have been tested Covid positive. This is wrong and baseless. Air India doesn’t operate any flight from Rome currently,” the airline shared on Twitter. #FlyAI : Several Media houses has reported that Passengers of Air India flight from Rome to Amritsar have been tested covid positive. This is wrong and baseless. Air India doesn't operate any flight from Rome currently.Amid a fresh surge in the country’s daily Covid-19 cases, primarily due to the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the Union health ministry, on Friday, revised its guidelines for all international passengers travelling to India. As per the revised norms, seven-day home quarantine is mandatory for all travellers arriving from abroad. The ministry also updated its list of ‘at-risk’ nations, pushing the total number of countries on it to 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/173-more-passengers-who-arrived-in-amritsar-from-rome-test-covid-19-positive-101641556029910.html
07-01-2022||India||India updates list of 'at risk' countries. Details here||As the Centre on Friday issued a revised guideline for all international passengers arriving in the country amid the ongoing Omicron surge, it has also updated the list of countries which India considers are at greater risk. People coming from these countries are subject to stricter restrictions. The listing is a dynamic exercise based on the evolving situation of Covid-19 across the world, a ministry official said.Here is the latest list of at-risk countries1. Countries in Europe including The United Kingdom2. South Africa3. Brazil4. Botswana5. China6. Ghana7. Mauritius8. New Zealand9. Zimbabwe10. Tanzania11. Hong Kong12. Israel13. Congo14. Ethiopia15. Kazakhstan16. Kenya17. Nigeria18. Tunisia19. ZambiaThe Centre started listing some countries as risky as Omicron was reported in South Africa in November 2021. As a precautionary measure, the Centre identified some countries which at that time got affected by Omicron to a medium extent as risky so that people coming from those countries are monitored, instead of imposing a complete ban on flights from these countries.Travellers coming from these countries have to submit their samples for the post-arrival Covid-19 test as they arrive in India. The test is a self-paid one. They will have to wait for the test results to come. If they test negative, they will be under home isolation for 7 days and will take an RT-PCR test on the 8th day. If they test negative again, they will monitor themselves for the next 7 days.If they test positive at the airport or after seven days, they will be sent to the isolation facility. Their contacts will also be isolated and monitored.States complained of several difficulties in tracking international passengers as many of them in the past gave wrong phone numbers, incomplete addresses to the authorities. Delhi, West Bengal had raised the demand of banning flights from some countries when the Omicron outbreak started. West Bengal has also banned direct flights from the United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-updates-list-of-at-risk-countries-details-here-101641554816604.html
07-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 2 ex-BJP ministers on AAP’s list of nominees for Goa polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Goa polls: 2 former BJP ministers on AAP’s first list of nomineesAam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Atishi on Friday announced the first list of the party’s 10 candidates, including former ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers Alina Saldanha and Mahadev Naik, for the Goa assembly elections. Read moreMan arrested for brandishing knife at Harish Rawat’s eventThe Uttarakhand Police have arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly brandishing a knife after climbing the stage of an event of former chief minister Harish Rawat at Kashipur in Udham Singh Nagar district on Thursday evening. Read more New guideline for international passengers amid Omicron surge, 7-day home quarantine mandatory for allThe Centre on Friday issued a revised guideline for international passengers amid the exponential rise of Omicron cases making 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all those coming from abroad. Read more "Kohli, Dravid should've sent instructions" to Rahul: Ex-PAK spinner points out big captaincy decision which hurt IndiaTeam India faced a 7-wicket defeat in the second Test of the series against South Africa in Johannesburg. Read more Soha Ali Khan recalls time when there was no electricity at Pataudi Palace: ‘We used to sleep outside’Actor Soha Ali Khan recalled childhood memories of her ancestral home, Pataudi Palace, and said that the place still has an ‘old world charm’. Read more Suffering from knee pain? Try these home remedies for reliefOur sedentary lifestyle during pandemic times can affect our body in multiple ways. Read more Woman wins $300 in lottery, splits prize with man who encouraged her to buy itIn today's edition of wholesome videos that may leave you with a wide smile on your face, here is the story of an elderly woman who decided to share the prize money she won in lottery with a store cashier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-2-ex-bjp-ministers-on-aap-s-list-of-nominees-for-goa-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101641552397767.html
07-01-2022||India||PM Modi to discuss Maharashtra Covid-19 situation with Uddhav Thackeray today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold a meeting on Friday evening to discuss the escalating Covid-19 situation in the state, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar has said. The meeting will be held via video conferencing.Speaking on possible restrictions that the government might enforce to curb the surge, Pednekar said there is no decision on a weekend curfew as of yet.Earlier, Maharashtra health Minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government has not yet considered shutting down local trains in Mumbai and imposing inter-district travel restrictions as the number of hospitalisations was still low. He also ruled out the possibility of a lockdown in the state at this point of time.Maharashtra is among the states of concerns list as it is leading the fresh nationwide Covid surge by accounting for a maximum number of Covid cases. The country is hit by the third wave of Covid-19 and over the last two weeks, daily cases have increased exponentially.On Friday, the country logged over a lakh of cases, the highest in the last 214 days. The country last reported over one lakh cases on June 7 last year when 1,00,636 infections were recorded.The overall now stands at 3,52,26,386 including 3,007 cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant across 27 states and UTs.Of the total Omicron cases, Maharashtra has topped the chart with 876 cases followed by Delhi at 465, Karnataka 333, Rajasthan 291, Kerala 284 and Gujarat 204.The nationwide death toll jumped to 4,83,178 with 302 fresh fatalities, according to the data published by the Union ministry of health family welfare.On Thursday, Maharashtra logged 36,265 new coronavirus cases, 36 per cent more than the previous day with Mumbai alone registering 20,181 infections, a fresh record for the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-discuss-maharashtra-covid-19-situation-with-uddhav-thackeray-today-101641554792574.html
07-01-2022||India||‘Only safe way…’: Prashant Kishor's suggestion to ECI on holding polls amid pandemic||Just days before the Election Commission of India (ECI) is likely to announce schedule for upcoming assembly elections in five states, poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Friday took to Twitter to suggest what he described as the ‘only safe way’ to hold the electoral exercise even as the country experiences a fresh and rapid surge its daily Covid-19 infections.Also Read | Election Commission extra vigilant ahead of polls amid rise in Omicron cases“EC MUST insist on 2 vaccine doses for at least 80% people in poll bound states. This is the only SAFE way to hold #elections in the midst of a raging pandemic. Rest everything is HOGWASH. The notion of guidelines for #Covid appropriate behaviour which no one follows is FARCICAL,” Kishore shared on Twitter. EC MUST insist on 2 vaccine doses for at least 80% people in poll bound states.This is the only SAFE way to hold #elections in the midst of a raging pandemic. Rest everything is HOGWASH. The notion of guidelines for #Covid appropriate behaviour which no one follows is FARCICAL.Prashant Kishor’s tweet comes at a time when the poll panel has made visits to the election-bound states to take stock of their preparedness, as well as the Covid-19 situation in respective states. In December last year, officials of the body, led by Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra, visited Uttar Pradesh, one of the five states where elections are due, and held consultation with major political parties.Also Read | India's daily Covid tally crosses 1-lakh mark, Omicron count at 3,000All parties, said CEC Chandra, suggested that ‘elections should take place on time.’Also Read | ‘All parties said UP elections should be held on time’, says Chief Election Commissioner Sushil ChandraMeanwhile, on Thursday, the poll body held separate meetings with Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary, and Ajay Bhalla, the Union home secretary, to take stock of the situation amid a rise in new cases, driven primarily by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Last year, the ECI came under fire for holding assembly elections in four states and the Union territory of Puducherry even as a devastating second Covid-19 wave swept the nation.Also Read | Uttarakhand high court asks EC to consider ban on large rallies amid Covid surgeBesides Uttar Pradesh, the four states which will hold polls are Goa, Manipur, Punjab and Uttarakhand. Political parties have decided to call off public rallies, and hold their programmes virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-safe-way-prashant-kishor-s-suggestion-to-eci-on-holding-polls-amid-pandemic-101641552537718.html
07-01-2022||India||NEET-PG, UG medical courses: SC allows Centre to go ahead with counselling||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the Centre to go ahead with the counselling for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Postgraduate) or NEET-PG and undergraduate (UG) medical courses. It upheld the government’s decision to introduce a 27% Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota within the all-India quota (AIQ) seats. For this year, it permitted the 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) within the general category to be applied based on the criteria laid down in January 2019.The court said it will be reviewing the criteria for EWS reservation as laid down by a three-member committee headed by former finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey in March when the batch of petitions challenging the introduction of EWS quota in NEET-PG AIQ seats by a circular in July 2021 will be heard.The court’s interim order came after the Centre sought an urgent hearing on the batch of petitions in view of the stir by resident doctors demanding counselling to be held at the earliest. As counselling was stuck, the first-year PG medical students could not be admitted. It had a cascading effect on the medical workforce as the first-year PG resident doctors constitute 33% of the medical workforce. The resident doctors’ association also intervened in the proceedings before the court and demanded early counselling in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. Many resident doctors were down with Covid-19 and in four months, the final year batch would graduate.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna passed the interim order given the urgency and that counselling has to be held in the national interest. Also Read| NEET PG counselling has to begin in national interest: Supreme CourtOn July 29, the Centre introduced the 27% OBC and 10% EWS quota within the 15% of the AIQ seats in NEET-UG and 50% of the AIQ seats in NEET-PG.On the EWS criteria, as the court raised doubts over whether a uniform income criterion of ₹8 lakh can be applied throughout the country, the bench said, “The resolution of this issue will take some time. We accept the recommendation of the Pandey Committee that the January 17, 2019 notification be applied for the current academic year so that admissions are not dislocated. Counselling be conducted as per July 29, 2021 order.”The bench said the validity of criteria suggested by the Pandey Committee would prospectively be subject to the final decision in these petitions. The petitions were filed in August last year and the court sought clarification from the Centre on the applicability of the EWS reservation available to general category with family income under ₹8 lakh and excluded persons with agricultural land over 5 acre and residential assets over 1000 square feet. The criteria will apply for counselling in NEET-PG and UG courses for this year’s admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neetpg-ug-medical-courses-sc-allows-centre-to-go-ahead-with-counselling-101641553605275.html
07-01-2022||India||New guideline for international passengers amid Omicron surge, 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all||The Centre on Friday issued a revised guideline for international passengers amid the exponential rise of Omicron cases making 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all those coming from abroad. The new guideline will come into effect from January 11. The list of 'at-risk' countries has also been expanded as the list now includes all European countries including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, Israel, Congo, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Nigeria, Tunisia and Zambia.On completion of their home quarantine, travellers will undergo an RT-OCR test, the revised guideline said. The new guideline comes a day after 125 passengers flying from Italy to Amritsar on a chartered flight tested positive on their arrival at Amritsar airport.India's daily Covid tally crosses 1-lakh mark, Omicron count at 3,000Here is the complete guideline1. All travellers should submit complete and factual information in self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha portal (https://www.newdelhiairport.in/airsuvidha/apho-registration) before the scheduled travel, including last 14 days travel details.2. Travellers should upload a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR report. The test should have been conducted within 72 hrs prior to undertaking the journey.Weekend & nights curfew in place in these states as India sees major Covid spike: Check details here3. Each passenger shall also submit a declaration with respect to the authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise.4.  They should also give an undertaking on the portal or otherwise to the ministry of civil aviation, through airlines concerned before they are allowed to undertake the journey that they would abide by the decision of the appropriate government authority to undergo home/institutional quarantine/ self-health monitoring, as warranted.5. All travellers who need to undertake testing on arrival, should preferably pre-book the test online on Air Suvidha Portal, to facilitate timely testing.6. A sub-section (2% of the total flight passengers) shall undergo post-arrival testing at random at the airport on arrival. These 2% of such travellers in each flight shall be identified by the concerned airlines (preferably from different countries).7. All travellers (including those 2% who were selected for random testing on arrival and were found negative) will undergo home quarantine for 7 days and shall undertake an RT-PCR test on the 8th day of arrival in India8.  Travelers shall also be required to upload results of repeat RT-PCR test for COVID-19 done on 8th day on the Air Suvidha portal (to be monitored by the respective States/UTs).  If negative, they will further self-monitor their health for the next 7 days.Before boarding1. Passengers originating or transiting from at-risk countries shall be informed by the airlines that they will undergo post-arrival testing, quarantine if tested negative, stringent isolation protocols if tested positive etc.2. Dos and Don'ts shall be provided along with tickets to the travellers by the airlines/agencies concerned.3. Airlines to allow boarding by only those passengers who have filled in all the information in the Self Declaration Form on the Air Suvidha portal and uploaded the negative RT-PCR test report.4. At the time of boarding the flight, only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to board after the thermal screening.5. All passengers shall be advised to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices.During travel1. In-flight announcement about Covid-19 including precautionary measures to be followed shall be made at airports and in flights and during transit.2. During in-flight crew shall ensure that COVID appropriate behaviour is followed at all times.3. If any passenger reports symptoms of Covid-19 during flight, he/she shall be isolated as per protocol.4. Proper in-flight announcements should be made by the airlines regarding the testing requirements and people who need to undergo such testing to avoid any congestion at the arrival airports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-new-guideline-for-international-passengers-amid-omicron-surge-more-countries-on-at-risk-list-101641550324805.html
07-01-2022||India||Omicron mild or less severe? What latest observations experts have made||One and a half months into a fresh worldwide surge of the Covid-19 pandemic and experts are now of the opinion that it is wrong to term Omicron as a mild variant. The number of hospitalisation is fewer than what the countries saw during the earlier waves, caused by other variants. But that does not mean that the variant is mild, the World Health Organization said in its latest observation. The variant was first identified in South Africa in November and was said to be mild as it has not been causing severe illness. Now, with the number of Omicron cases going up across the world and the number of hospitalisation also increasing in some countries, experts are differentiating between mild and less severe and said Omicron is less severe but not mild. Here are 5 things to know about the latest findings:1. WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Omicron is hospitalising and killing people just like previous variants and thus it appears to be less severe compared to Delta, especially those who are vaccinated.2. Indian-origin scientist Ravindra Gupta, professor of clinical microbiology at the Cambridge Institute for Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Diseases thinks that a benign Omicron is an evolutionary mistake and the next variant could be more virulent.3. The impact of Omicron on elderly people is one of the big unanswered questions, scientists said. Its impact on young people and vaccinated young people is proved to be less severe.4. According to scientists, the narrative that Omicron is mild has resulted in casual behaviour and led to the rapid transmission of the variant in the United States.5. There are two pathways available to the virus. Dr Gupta said it is being studied why Omicron is choosing one pathway and not causing much damage to the lungs area. “It's a bit unclear. But it's very real and it's very related to what we call a tropism (behavioural) switch. The big question is why the virus is unable to use TMPRSS2. We are still trying to understand this… for some reason, Omicron's spike is less well processed or cleaved,” said Dr Gupta.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-mild-or-less-severe-what-latest-observations-experts-have-made-101641548043139.html
07-01-2022||India||DGFT opens online Covid-19 help desk to resolve export, import issues||NEW DELHI: The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) has set up a dedicated Covid-19 help desk to facilitate exports and imports at the time of the rapidly spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus, a commerce ministry statement has said. The commerce ministry and the DGFT are monitoring difficulties being faced by traders in carrying out exports and imports amid surging Covid-19 cases, and providing solutions, the commerce ministry said.“The Covid-19 help desk [has been set up] to support and seek suitable resolutions to issues arising in respect of international trade,” the ministry said in the statement. The help desk will look into issues relating to the commerce department, the DGFT, customs clearance delays, documentation issues, banking matters, and import and export licensing Issues.It will also resolve trade related issues concerning other ministries and departments of both central and state governments, the ministry said. The help desk can be accessed on the DGFT’s website, dgft.gov.in. The status of resolutions and feedback could be tracked using the status tracker under the help desk services, the ministry said.The government has already set up a help desk for internal trade to provide assistance to the domestic industry and secure an uninterrupted supply chain. This service is available at the department for promotion of industry and internal (DPIIT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgft-opens-online-covid-19-help-desk-to-resolve-export-import-issues-101641548024928.html
07-01-2022||India||Modi lauds ‘historic milestone’ in Covid vaccination; highlights 150 crore doses, drive for 15-17||The cumulative number of doses administered under the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country crossed the 150 crore-mark on Friday and was lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. As many as 1,50,17,23,911 doses of the vaccine were administered to eligible beneficiaries as of 2.20pm on the day, data from the Co-WIN dashboard showed.Modi called the feat a “historic milestone” and thanked the scientists and the vaccine manufacturers in the country.“The country started the year (2022) with vaccination for children in the age group of 15 to 18 years,” he said. “At the same time, in the first week of the first month of the year itself, India is also achieving the historic milestone of 150 crore, 1.5 billion, vaccine doses,” he added.The remarks from the PM came during his speech at an event to inaugurate the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in Kolkata. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was also present during the event.Also read | Omicron tally past 3,000: Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka account for over 50% casesNoting that the first dose coverage in the country was at 90% of the adult population, he also said that more than 1.5 crore children (between 15 and 17 years of age) have also been jabbed in less than five days since the immunisation drive opened up for them on January 3.“Today, more than 90% of India's adult population has received a single dose of the vaccine. Within just 5 days, more than 1.5 crore children have also been administered a dose of the vaccine. This achievement belongs to the whole country, of every government,” he said.Further, he also thanked the scientists of the country, vaccine makers and the Union health ministry. “I especially thank the scientists of the country, the vaccine manufacturers and our colleagues in the health sector for this achievement,” he said. “It is because of everyone's efforts that the country has taken the resolve to reach this peak, which we started from zero,” he added.On Friday, the country reported over one lakh new Covid-19 cases, the highest since early June last year. Also, 302 people lost their lives to the disease in the last 24 hours. More than 3,000 Omicron cases have been detected across 27 states and Union territories in the country. Several states and cities have resorted again to night curfews and weekend restrictions to check the fast rising caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-lauds-historic-milestone-in-covid-vaccination-highlights-150-crore-doses-drive-for-1517-101641546860994.html
07-01-2022||India||Security agency sounded out ‘grave threat’ prior to PM Modi's Ferozepur rally||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur, security agencies had sounded out to the Punjab state police that the Prime Minister is under “grave threat” from various terrorist outfits. The report has surfaced two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi cut short his Punjab over an alleged security breach during his visit to the Ferozepur district on Wednesday.“Shri Narendra Modi, PM India faces a grave threat from Indian Mujahideen (IM)/Ex-Students' Islamic Movement of India (Ex-SIMI), Kashmiri and Pakistani based terrorist outfits including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e Mohammed (JeM), Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (HuM), Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami (HuJI), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen(HM) and other Pak based Sikh militants,” the recently surfaced report reads.Recalling instances like Improvised Explosive Device (IED) blasts in Ferozepur and adjoining district in September and the recovery of a tiffin bomb in the Ferozepur village, the security official said that smuggling of explosives from Pakistan is prevalent in the area.Also Read | PM Modi's security lapse: SC orders protection of travel records in Punjab, halts probes till MondayThe report further said the Prime Minister is also facing threat from Left Wing Extremists and remnants of Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) cadres and their collaborators.Citing inputs, the report claimed that Pakistan-based militant leaders Wadhawa Singh Babbar, Paramjit Singh Panjawar, Ranjit Singh Neeta, Lakhbir SinghRhode have been trying to revive militancy in Punjab by sending militant hardware including RDX.The report also pointed out that leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha who have not joined Sanyukt Samaj Morcha have declared a ‘gherao’ of the Prime Minister on his visit to Fireozepur on January 5. “Some sort of demonstration/agitation cannot be ruled out on the way to Hussainiwala where these farmer unions have their stronghold,” the report had predicted.The report predicted demonstrations organised by members of Elementary Teacher Training-Teacher Eligibility Test (ETT/TET) pass Teachers Union and Sikh Radical organizations. “Sikh Radicals organizations of Punjab are time and again raising the issue of release of Sikh prisoners who have completed their jail term and still lodged in Jails. They have submitted memorandums and organized protest programmes many times to raise the issue,” read the report.It further claimed that Sikhs For Justice’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu has been provoking Sikh youth for “mischievous things against BJP government and PM Modi in the lure of monetary consideration”.On Wednesday, PM Modi's motorcade was stuck on a highway for about 15-20 minutes as protesters blocked his route. The blockade was led by members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari), one of the 32 farm organisations that were part of the 14-month-long protests against the three laws.The Centre, BJP, security experts, and former police officers all stressed the dangerous precedent set by the incident, with both the Union government and the BJP pointing to lapses by the Punjab police and the state government, and alleging that dirty politics was at play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-agency-warned-of-grave-threat-prior-to-pm-modi-s-ferozepur-rally-101641546692943.html
07-01-2022||India||Weekend & nights curfew in place in these states as India sees major Covid spike: Check details here||A weekend curfew to check the rapid resurgence of the coronavirus disease will come into effect on Friday in several states and major cities across the country.On Friday, the number of cases pertaining to the Omicron variant crossed the 3,000-mark, while more than one lakh new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours.Here is the list of states where Covid-related curbs have been imposed and the related guidelines will be followed:DelhiHaryanaUttar PradeshKarnatakaTamil NaduWest BengalPunjab||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weekend-nights-curfew-in-place-in-these-states-as-india-sees-major-covid-spike-check-details-here-101641544914672.html
07-01-2022||India||Case of assault, insult filed against Jawed Habib for spitting on woman's hair||A case was filed against celebrity hair stylist Jawed Habib under varied sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act amid a major uproar over a viral video wherein he is seen spitting on a woman's hair during a workshop in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar. Habib has also been booked for assault and insult.Earlier, police had said the matter is being probed by the local police and appropriate actions will be taken against the hairstylist.
07-01-2022||India||Video showing pledge to boycott Muslims in C’garh goes viral, cops order probe||RAIPUR: The Chhattisgarh Police on Friday ordered an inquiry after a video purportedly showing residents of a village in Surguja district taking a pledge to boycott Muslim vendors and end commercial transactions with Muslims went viral on social media. The police said they were looking for the people who went to the village and gathered the residents to take the pledge.Surguja collector Sanjeev Jha said an additional police superintendent and sub-divisional magistrate visited the village on Thursday and spoke to the residents. He added that the video surfaced days after a communal clash in the area this week and added police booking accused from both sides. “It started as a normal New Year celebration brawl at a local level. A few people are giving communal colour to the incident. This will not be allowed,” he said.Assistant police superintendent Vivek Shukla said that on January 1, villagers of Ara in Balrampur district visited Kundi Kala village to celebrate New Year when the clash took place. “The villagers of Ara, who were from a particular community, got into a brawl with residents of Kundi Kala village. After the brawl, the villagers of Ara went back to their village and returned again and got into a fight. Police rushed to the spot and registered a case and booked the villagers under relevant sections. The next day, six people from Ara were arrested and sent to jail but later got bail the same day. This enraged the Kundi Kala villagers,” said Shukla.Also Read | Five-member SIT to probe Haridwar Dharma Sansad hate speech casePolice said a group of outsiders instigated the villagers later. “Taking advantage of the situation of tensions between two communities, the outsiders raised slogans against a particular community. As soon as we got a complaint, senior officers and I rushed to the village and explained that some people are trying to give the issue a communal colour and villagers should not get misled,” said Shukla.He added that they were yet to identify the accused who organised the pledge and raised slogan against Muslims.” We have got a complaint and soon they will be arrested. The innocent villagers have realised that they have done a mistake but they could not identify the accused.”The police said they were scanning footage and soon the accused will be arrested.
07-01-2022||India||Ahead of civic polls, BJP makes Delhi's new liquor policy primary election issue||NEW DELHI: With less than three months left for civic polls in the national capital, the BJP-led municipal corporations are at loggerheads with the AAP-ruled Delhi government over the new excise policy that they allege allows for the opening of new liquor shops in residential areas. Leaders within the BJP believe that this drive against liquor vends could become a major poll issue raised by the party, in its attempt to counter anti-incumbency.
07-01-2022||India||PM Modi opens second campus of cancer institute in Kolkata, Mamata present||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually inaugurated the second campus of the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in Kolkata in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Banerjee, who thanked the PM for inviting her to the event, said the institute holds a special place for her given that her college days were spent in the vicinity. Taking to Twitter, Modi said a day ago the inauguration programme for the CNCI campus will take place at 1pm. “This institute will augment healthcare capacities in eastern India and in the northeast,” the tweet further read.According to a statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the second campus of CNCI has been constructed in sync with Modi's “vision to expand and upgrade the health facilities in all parts of the country”.Speaking at the event, Modi India has reached the historic milestone of administering 150 crore vaccine today.He said of the entire eligible population, over 90% citizens have received at least one dose vaccine against the coronavirus disease. “In just five days, over 1.5 crore children aged between 15-17 have been given a dose,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-opens-second-campus-of-cancer-institute-in-kolkata-mamata-present-101641541733791.html
07-01-2022||India||IMD issues orange alert in J&K due to heavy snowfall, warns of avalanche in vulnerable areas||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded an orange alert in Jammu and Kashmir for January 7 and January 8 in view of inclement weather in the Valley. As per the Met department, rainfall and/or snowfall is expected to increase gradually as the current day progresses. The weather conditions have been forecasted to intensify during nights of January 7 and 8, thereby leading to heavy to very rainfall and/or snowfall.However, conditions are expected to gradually improve starting January 9 morning.Also Read | MeT predicts heavy snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir; may disrupt surface, air trafficOwing to the orange alert, the IMD has given a warning of avalanche (landslide) in vulnerable areas in the Valley, and also said that the inclement weather may affect surface as well as air transportation on January 8.The Met department has asked people in the Valley not to venture in avalanche prone areas as its data revealed that the disaster is mostly triggered by heavy snowfall. People have also been advised to follow traffic advisory and maintain proper ventilation inside their rooms.The Valley witnessed heavy snowfall on the upper reaches and at the tourist resorts of Gulmarg, Sonmarg, Pahalgam, northern and southern parts of Kashmir on Wednesday. The situation improved marginally on Thursday but fresh forecast by the IMD may worsen it altogether.The passengers of cancelled flights shall be accommodated in the next available flight of the airline. There are no extra charges for rescheduling. Option of full refund to the passengers is also availableThe inclement weather has heavily impacted flight operations in the Valley with several of them either delayed or cancelled over the last two days. In a statement on Twitter on Thursday, Srinagar Airport said that as many as six flights were cancelled during the day and 35 could be operated normally owing to the harsh weather conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-in-j-k-due-to-heavy-snowfall-warns-of-avalanche-101641538666813.html
07-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Delhi's Weekend curfew kicks in from tonight, here's who will be exempted and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi: Weekend curfew begins tonight, here's what you can avail, what you can'tA weekend curfew will be implemented in the national capital from Friday night and remain in place throughout Saturday and Sunday as part of the latest restrictions imposed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to contain the rapid resurgence of the coronavirus disease, driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Read more Negative Covid reports mandatory for entering Manipur from tomorrowManipur has made it mandatory for people to produce negative Covid-19 test reports for entering the state from Saturday citing a surge in infections in some states of the country. Read morePant's dismissal 'not the reason' behind India's loss: Gavaskar points out major flaw that led to Johannesburg defeatTeam India faced a 7-wicket defeat in the second Test of the series against South Africa in Johannesburg on Thursday. Read more Kaun Banegi Shikharwati review: Even Naseeruddin Shah and Raghubir Yadav can’t save bad writingThe 10-episode Zee5 Hindi comedy series Kaun Banegi Shikharwati is surprisingly mediocre considering the talent involved. The cast includes Naseeruddin Shah, Raghubir Yadav, Lara Dutta Bhupathi and Soha Ali Khan. Naseeruddin, Raghuvir and Lara have previously been part of the web series Bandish Bandits, Panchayat, and Hundred, respectively. Read moreZendaya in strapless Valentino dress for Euphoria premiere is on track to be 2022's best-dressed star: All picsIf there is one star who defined fashion globally in 2021 with her back to back red carpet looks, it is Zendaya. And now, she is already on track to become the best-dressed celebrity of 2022. Read more After Ranbir Kapoor’s Channa Mereya, Kili Paul wins hearts with Shahid Kapoor’s Tujhe Kitna Chahne LageKili Paul, hailing from Tanzania, has won hearts of many, especially lovers of Hindi songs, with his impressive expressions in different lip syncing videos. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-s-weekend-curfew-kicks-in-from-tonight-here-s-who-will-be-exempted-and-all-the-latest-news-101641537392732.html
07-01-2022||India||Goa govt to confer ‘lifelong cabinet status’ on Cong leader Pratapsingh Rane||PANAJI: The ruling BJP government will confer “lifelong cabinet status” on veteran Congress leader and MLA Pratapsingh Rane, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced in a move seen as an attempt to convince him not to contest the upcoming elections. “Our government has decided to grant lifelong Cabinet status to the senior most legislator, Pratapsingh Rane ji, for his great service to the State of Goa. He has held the topmost positions in the state as the Chief Minister and Speaker of Goa Legislative Assembly and completed 50 years as MLA. He will always be an inspiration to the people of Goa across strata,” Sawant said in a statement. “I look forward to his continued guidance as we work towards the welfare of the people and development of the State. I congratulate him and wish him all the very best in all his future endeavours,”he added. The “lifelong cabinet status” will give Rane status and privilege equal to that of a minister through his life. Pratapsingh Rane, a 10-time legislator, is Goa’s longest serving MLA. He also holds a record for having served as chief minister of the state for six terms, a little less than 16 years, between 1980 and 2007. He was the assembly speaker between 2007 and 2012. He had been continuously elected since 1972 to the then legislative assembly of the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu. The 82-year-old veteran politician has stayed firmly with the Congress for decades. In December last year, Rane announced that he would be contesting the upcoming Goa polls saying that the decision was arrived at after demands from his well-wishers, supporters and workers. His decision to contest the elections prompted outrage from his son and BJP legislator Vishwajit Rane who went ahead to suggest his father should retire. “At 83, why does he have to continue in politics? One should gracefully retire after becoming a chief minister for more than six terms. A person who is my idol and someone I have so much respect for, that person should gracefully retire, not retire in the battlefield. It will be a very messy thing,” Vishwajit said while promising to contest against his father. Later toning down his response, he said, “We shall sort this issue amicably. Although I have decided to contest from the Poriem constituency, we will resolve this internally within the family.” Subsequently, Pratapsingh was announced as the Congress’s official candidate from Poriem. The senior Rane, however, appeared to backtrack from his decision to contest, saying it was perhaps time to retire. Reacting to the decision of the Goa government, Vishwajit thanked Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant for the decision. “There is no greater way to honour his 50 years of public service as chief minister, speaker, and MLA. This is a very special gesture, I thank Hon’ble CM @DrPramodPSawant for having conferred this recognition on my father. On behalf of the people of Sattari & Usgao, I express my gratitude to the Hon’ble Chief Minister & the entire cabinet,” Vishwajit tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-bjp-govt-to-confer-lifelong-cabinet-status-on-veteran-cong-leader-pratapsingh-rane-101641539744786.html
07-01-2022||India||PM Modi's security lapse: SC orders protection of travel records in Punjab, halts probes till Monday||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered the protection of all travel records related to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to Punjab that was marred by an alleged security lapse leading to the PM’s returning to the airport without attending scheduled events.The top court, while hearing a plea seeking a court-monitored probe into the security breach allegations, directed the Punjab government to ensure that all records and materials pertaining to the PM's movements in the state on Wednesday be immediately secured in the custody of the registrar-general of the Punjab & Haryana high court.It also directed the Punjab Police, the Special Protection Group (SPG), and other central and state agencies to provide necessary assistance to the registrar-general, who will be accountable for the safekeeping of the travel records.The director-general of police (DGP) of Chandigarh and an official of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) will also act as nodal officers to coordinate with the registrar-general, the apex court said.It was also made clear that both the committees set up by the Centre and the Punjab government to probe the incident will halt their inquiries till Monday (January 10), when the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Lawyer's Voice is to be taken up next.
07-01-2022||India||Negative Covid reports mandatory for entering Manipur from tomorrow||Manipur has made it mandatory for people to produce negative Covid-19 test reports for entering the state from Saturday citing a surge in infections in some states of the country.“...all air passengers/road passengers/or anybody entering the state should mandatorily carry negative Covid 19 RT PCR test report done within 48 hours of arrival/entering into the state,” said K Rajo Singh, director, health services, Manipur, in a notification on Thursday.The order came on the day the state reported 59 Covid-19 cases, which took Manipur’s tally to 1,25,964. The state has 318 active cases. It has so far reported 2,009 Covid-19 related fatalities. Manipur has a recovery rate of 98.15%. As many as 62 Covid-19 cases were under home isolation in the state.Twelve people were fined ₹2,100 on Thursday for not wearing face masks in public places, spitting in public, and violating other Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negative-covid-reports-mandatory-for-entering-manipur-from-tomorrow-101641535303836.html
07-01-2022||India||SC allows NEET-PG counselling based on existing OBC, EWS quota||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the resumption of counseling for NEET-PG and UG courses for the academic session of 2021-2022 as per existing reservation norms.In its interim order, the apex court upheld the 27 per cent Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota. As far as 10 per cent quota for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category is concerned, the SC said for this year the criteria laid down in January 2019 will be followed.The court decided to examine the validity of the EWS criteria as laid down by the Pandey Committee and listed the batch of petitions for hearing in the third week of March.  While reserving its order on Thursday, the court said the counselling needed to begin in national interest.As part of its submissions, the Centre told the Supreme Court that the introduction of OBC and EWS reservations after the issuance of NEET-PG exam notification does not amount to "changing the rules of the game" midway.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and AS Bopanna that the submission that OBC reservation is unconstitutional is legally unsustainable.Massive protests by resident doctors of government hospitals were witnessed across several parts of the country in recent days over the delay in the counselling process.The weeks-long agitation that had also turned violent in Delhi on one of the day was withdrawn on December 31 following assurances from the government and talks with police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-allows-neet-pg-counselling-based-on-existing-obc-ews-quota-101641532892978.html
07-01-2022||India||Omicron tally past 3,000: Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka account for over 50% cases||The tally of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant of Covid-19 in India crossed the 3,000-mark on Friday with 3,007 cases being detected with the fast-spreading strain.According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, this is an increase of 377 cases from the 2,630 reported a day ago. The new variant has now been detected in 27 states and Union territories. As many as 1,199 patients have recovered from their illness, the data further showed.
07-01-2022||India||Earthquake of magnitude 4.3 hits near Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya||An earthquake measuring 4.3 on the Richter scale hit near Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya, the National Center for Seismology (NCS) informed on Friday.According to NCS, an earthquake occurred at 176 km NNE of Ayodhya."Earthquake of Magnitude:4.3, Occurred on 06-01-2022, 23:59:22 IST, Lat: 28.14 and Long: 83.14, Depth: 15 Km, Location: 176km NNE of Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh," NCS tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-4-3-hits-near-uttar-pradesh-s-ayodhya-101641530046962.html
07-01-2022||India||India's daily Covid tally crosses 1-lakh mark, Omicron count at 3,000||India on Friday breached the one-lakh mark in its daily Covid-19 tally with as many as 1,17,100 new cases being recorded in the last 24 hours. According to the latest updated data with the Union ministry of health and family affairs, the country’s current active caseload currently stood at 3,71,363. The last time the country had recorded more than one lakh cases in a day was on June 6, 2021, when the second wave of the virus was wreaking havoc across India. The country’s count of the highly transmissible Omicron crossed the 3,000-mark (3,007 to be exact) with 1,199 patients having been cured as well. The fast-spreading strain is now present in 27 states.The daily positivity rate has now touched 7.74 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate stood at 4.54 per cent.Also read| ‘Tsunami’ of new Covid-19 cases clog global health systems: WHO sounds alarmWith 302 patients dying due to related complications, the death toll touched 4,83,178. As many as 30,836 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 3,43,71,845. With this, the recovery rate touched 97.57 per cent.The health ministry said over 68 crore samples have been tested against the virus so far in the country. Further, more than 149 crore doses against Covid-19 have been administered to beneficiaries as part of the nationwide vaccination drive that was launched about a year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-breaches-1-lakh-mark-omicron-count-at-3000-101641528823887.html
07-01-2022||India||Pratapsingh Rane accorded permanent cabinet status by Goa govt||Pratapsingh Rane, former Goa chief minister and Congress veteran, was accorded permanent status of a cabinet for his service to the coastal state.Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the decision to accord him the honour was taken as Rane has completed 50 years as a legislator in the Goa Assembly during the current tenure. Rane, also a former speaker, currently represents the Poriem Assembly segment as a Congress MLA.Sawant said the state cabinet had resolved that those persons who have completed 50 years as MLA, and were former chief ministers or former speakers, would be given such a status in the future.The move comes days after Rane's son, Vishwajit, who is in charge of the state's health ministry, said he would defeat his 11-time MLA father by 11,000 votes, following which the Congress announced the senior Rane's name from Poriem again.The 87-year-old MLA had been the longest-serving chief minister (16 years) having had multiple terms till 2007 on different occasions.Taking to Twitter, Vishwajit said, “I am grateful to the Hon'ble Chief Minister @DrPramodPSawant and the entire cabinet for according a lifetime cabinet status to my father Shri Pratapsingh Raoji Rane. There is no greater way to honour his 50 years of public service as Chief Minister, Speaker and MLA.”“This is a very special gesture. I thank Hon'ble CM @DrPramodPSawant for having conferred this recognition on my father. On behalf of the people of Sattari and Usgao, I express my gratitude to the Hon'ble Chief Minister and the entire cabinet,” he said in another tweet.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pratapsingh-rane-accorded-permanent-cabinet-status-by-goa-govt-101641526968760.html
07-01-2022||India||Three terrorists killed in overnight encounter in J&K's Budgam||Three terrorists were killed in an overnight morning encounter that broke out at the Zolwa Kralpora Chadoora area of Budgam in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday.Police said all the three slain militants were affiliated to terror outfit Jaish e Mohammad. One of them have been identified as Waseem, a resident of Srinagar.The inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered during the encounter. “Three AK-57 rifles, eight magazines and some documents have been recovered from the terrorists,” Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A total of 11 terrorists have been neutralised in the year 2022 so far, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-terrorists-killed-in-early-morning-encounter-in-j-k-s-budgam-101641526193922.html
07-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: SC to hear PM Modi security breach matter today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court to hear PM Modi security breach matterThe breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security during a visit to Punjab on Wednesday will come up in the Supreme Court on Friday, with the country’s top court agreeing to hear a public interest litigation (PIL) on the matter by Lawyer’s Voice, a lawyer-run organisation, which termed the incident a “serious and deliberate lapse” on part of the Punjab government. Read moreMamata-Modi to hold virtual meet today as Bengal's single-day Covid cases top 15,000West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will hold a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday in wake of a rapid rise in single-day cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) amid the Omicron outbreak. Read more‘That could have made significant difference’: Dravid highlights area that ‘needs improvement’ after Johannesburg defeatAfter kicking-off the South Africa tour with an impressive win at Centurion, Team India were handed a reality check by Dean Elgar-led Proteas unit, who bounced back to go level in Johannesburg. Read moreLara Dutta on taking tips on royalty from Soha Ali Khan: I forget she is a royal, attribute that more to Saif Ali KhanUpcoming Zee5 web series Kaun Banegi Shikharwati sees Lara Dutta, Soha Ali Khan, Kritika Kamra and Anya Singh play four princesses fighting to be the heir apparent to their father- the King of Shikharwat (played by Naseeruddin Shah). Read moreCan you guess Milind Soman's greatest weakness? Actor reveals in latest inspiring fitness postActor and celebrated supermodel Milind Soman is lazy. Don't believe us? Well, the Internet's favourite enthusiast says so himself. The star took to Instagram recently to share an inspiring post talking about his greatest weakness and achievement in life. And it will motivate you to make fitness a priority. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-to-hear-pm-modi-security-breach-matter-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101641525518257.html
07-01-2022||India||Jawed Habib apologises for spitting on woman's hair, cites ‘humorous’ intent||Celebrity hair stylist Jawed Habib landed himself in hot water on Thursday with a video of him spitting on a woman's head while styling her hair going viral. After facing a barrage of criticism from netizens on social media and a rap from the National Commission of Women (NCW), Habib has now issued an apology statement through a video message, in which he said such things are often done with a “humourous” intent during workshops, but said that he was sincerely sorry if someone had felt hurt.Also Read | Video of Jawed Habib spitting on woman's hair goes viral, Women's commission takes note“Some words spoken by me during my seminar have hurt a few people,” said the popular hairdresser in his video statement. “I just want to say one thing… these are professional workshops, as in, they are attended by people from within our profession. When these sessions get very long, we have to make them humorous. What can I say? If you are truly hurt, I apologise from the bottom of my heart. Please forgive me, I'm sorry.”A post shared by Jawed Habib (@jh_hairexpert)The incident had taken place at Habib's workshop in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar. In a purported video from the site, the hairstylist could be seen spitting on a woman's head while dressing her hair and is heard saying, “if there is a scarcity of water, use saliva.”The audience can be heard laughing and applauding in the background of the video.The woman has been identified as Pooja Gupta, the owner of a hairdressing parlour herself. She took to her own social media channels to post a reaction to the incident and said that Habib, who was acting arrogant throughout the seminar, had just called her on stage to humiliate her.“Yesterday, I attended a workshop of Jawed Habib,” said Gupta. “He invited me on the stage to give me a haircut. He said if there is no water, you can use saliva. From now onwards, I will go to my streetside barber for a haircut, but will not go to Habib.”Later speaking to news channels, Gupta said, “He was not answering my questions. Then he pushed my head, I objected and said I have cervical issues. Then he spat twice on my hair and said that if you do not have water in your parlour, then you can spit. My husband was making the video. After I came down from the stage, Habib's assistant told me he was joking.”The National Commission for Women has asked the Uttar Pradesh police to probe the veracity of the purported video.@NCWIndia has taken cognizance of the incident. Chairperson @sharmarekha has written to @dgpup to immediately investigate the veracity of this viral video and take appropriate action. The action taken must be apprised to the Commission at the earliest.https://t.co/3wPS2Lavyt“The commission has taken this incident very seriously and not only condemns this in strongest possible words, but also seeks your urgent intervention in the matter to investigate the veracity of this viral video for immediate action as per law/procedure,” the NCW said in a letter to the state police.“This incident also attracts violation of guidelines issued by the Union home ministry under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, whereby spitting in public is a punishable offence in the wake of the Covid pandemic,” it added. “You are, therefore, required to immediately investigate the matter for appropriate action. The action taken/status report must be apprised to the commission at the earliest.”Officials said the NCW will also send a notice to the hairstylist for a hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jawed-habib-apologises-for-spitting-on-woman-s-hair-cites-humorous-intent-101641516402610.html
07-01-2022||India||Why AUKUS is good to keep China at bay in Indo-Pacific||New Delhi Paris is aggrieved over Australia nullifying a $59 billion air independent propulsion (AIP) submarine deal and opting for nuclear-powered conventional weapon attack (SSN) submarines under the AUKUS pact with the US and the UK signed in September last year.While France may have legitimate reasons for being upset with Australia for reneging on the submarine deal, the emerging picture in Indo-Pacific clearly shows that AIP submarines would have been a half-measure in containing a belligerent China under President Xi Jinping. Given the strategic environment in the Indo-Pacific region and the South China Sea in particular, the Australian choice of an SSN is the better option in tackling a rapidly growing PLA Navy and the Chinese intermediate range ballistic missile arsenal.The state of strategic play is such that India also has no choice but to go for long-range nuclear-powered submarines and delivery platforms as it is only a matter of time that the Chinese carrier force will be patrolling the Indian Ocean. With two nuclear submarines already operational and the third one a work in progress, India is building leverage in case the PLA decides to deploy strong-arm tactics on the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC), as it did in May 2020.If one overlooks the noise over Australia scuttling the French submarine deal, it is not very difficult to understand why Canberra decided the nuclear option, as it is a deterrent to China’s Taiwan ambitions. The signing of a security pact between Japan and Australia, once World War II adversaries, with the bottom line on convergence in the Indo-Pacific is also a step in the direction to ask China to mend its aggression. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the agreement “will underpin greater and more complex practical engagement between the Australian Defence Force and the Japanese Self-Defence Forces”. Juxtapose the new security pact with AUKUS and Quad and the larger picture emerges on the Indo-Pacific with India having a logistics agreement with all the Quad partners.Rather than viewing AUKUS from a French commercial perspective, the Australian nuclear-powered conventional attack submarines will be an answer to the massive deployment of DF-21 and DF-26 series of ballistic missiles by the PLA on the Chinese east coast to prevent US aircraft carriers from entering the South China Sea in the worst case scenario over Taiwan. Given the range of these ballistic missiles, the US aircraft carrier force will have to operate outside the first chain of islands after China, or else be in the cross-hairs of these PLA delivery platforms. While the US and Russia were bound by the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces Treaty since 1987, before its suspension in 2019, the PLA has built a massive intermediate range ballistic missile arsenal with its propaganda media nick-naming the DF-21 and DF-26 as carrier killer and Guam killer weapons.With the advent of Australian nuclear submarines, the Chinese missile sites on the east coast will be threatened by the sub-surface attack platforms which can stay under water for months together in the South China Sea or the Indo-Pacific. The fact is that the AUKUS is a game-changer for the Indo-Pacific as even the latest AIP diesel submarines must surface, in effect betraying their positions, in weeks for charging their batteries. Thus, from a strategic perspective, the Australian nuclear attack submarines with conventional ballistic missiles as deterrents will allow US aircraft carriers to operate between the Chinese coast and the first island chain and also enforce laws of the seas and freedom of navigation in the South China Sea. As China is threatening Taiwan on a daily basis by breaching its air defence identification zone, it is for the US to speed up the SSN production for Australia as time is running out for Taipei and the security of the Indo-Pacific.
07-01-2022||India||PM Modi calls on President; CCS takes up security lapse case||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday expressed concern about the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on Wednesday.The Prime Minister met the President today and gave him a first-hand account of the security breach, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said.The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) met and discussed the issue, people aware of the matter said.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu also spoke to the Prime Minister about the incident and expressed his deep concern . Naidu said he hoped that stringent steps will be taken to scrupulously adhere to established security protocol and ensure such a situation doesn’t recur in future, the Vice President’s Secretariat said on Twitter.Modi was scheduled to address a rally in Ferozepur yesterday and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore. But the event was cancelled because of the security breach. After landing at the Bathinda airport, the Prime Minister was heading to a memorial in Hussainiwala when a road he took was blocked by some protesters. This forced the PM’s convoy to spend about 15 -20 minutes on a flyover.The Centre, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), security experts and former senior police officers all stressed on the dangerous precedent set by the incident, with both the Union government and the BJP pointing to lapses by the Punjab police and the state government, and alleging that dirty politics was at play.“Today’s Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity,” tweeted Union home minister Amit Shah.Union minister Smriti Irani asked if information about the PM’s route was leaked.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed regret over the incident but rejected the BJP’s allegations.“There was no prior information. I worked till 3am to convince farmers to clear all routes. All roads were cleared by Wednesday morning. Had they told us about the road travel in advance, we would have made proper arrangements,” Channi said at a press conference on Wednesday.The Punjab government has formed a two-member panel to investigate the incident. A petition has also been filed in the Supreme Court, which will he heard on Friday.Meanwhile, the Bhartiya Kisan Union ( Krantikari), one of the 32 farm organisations involved in the year-long protests against the now repealed farm laws, took responsibility for the blockade.
07-01-2022||NA||Breaking News: Daily Covid cases in Maharashtra surge to 40,925; highest single-day rise since May 13 last year||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:721 new Covid-19 cases in Noida, nearby areas under Gautam Buddh Nagar districtGautam Buddh Nagar on Friday logged 721 new COVID-19 infections that pushed the number of active cases in the district to 2,404, the highest in Uttar Pradesh, official data showed.Daily Covid cases in Maharashtra surge to 40,925 Daily Covid cases in Maharashtra surge to 40,925,highest single-day rise since May 13 last year‘A remarkable day': PM Modi after India administers over 150 crore crore dosesA remarkable day on the vaccination front! Congratulations to our fellow citizens on crossing the 150 crore milestone. Our vaccination drive has ensured that many lives are saved. At the same time, let us also keep following all COVID-19 related protocols.State lawyers arguing against Biden vaccine mandates test positive for Covid-19Two officials presenting arguments to the U.S. Supreme Court seeking to block vaccine mandates ordered by President Joe Biden's administration have tested positive for Covid-19 and will make their cases remotely, their offices saidDelhi’s daily Covid-19 cases rise to 17,335, positivity rate reaches 17.73%Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases rise to 17,335 as the city continues to report sharp growth in the infection. The positivity rate reached17.73 per cent, according to the state health department.Mumbai sees jump of 20,971 Covid-19 cases in a single dayMumbai on Friday reported 20,971 new cases, 6 deaths and 8,490 recoveries today. Active cases stands at 91,731.Russia confirms 16,735 daily Covid-19 casesRussia has registered 16,735 new coronavirus cases over the past 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally to 1,06,18,035, the official monitoring and response centre said Friday. The nationwide death toll grew by 787 to 3,14,604, while the number of recoveries increased by 22,035 to 96,45,712.Dharavi's Covid-19 tally rises by 150 casesOn Friday, Mumbai's Dharavi reported 150 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours. The active cases stands at 558.Indian economy estimated to grow at 9.2 pc in 2021-22: Govt dataThe Indian economy is estimated to grow at 9.2 per cent in 2021-22, as against a contraction of 7.3 per cent in the previous fiscal, mainly due to improvement in the performance of agriculture and manufacturing sectors, the National Statistical Office (NSO) said on Friday.New guideline for international passengers, 7-day home quarantine must for allThe Centre on Friday issued a revised guideline for international passengers amid the exponential rise of Omicron cases making 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all those coming from abroad. The new guideline will come into effect from January 11. Read More170 passengers, who arrived in Amritsar on charter flight from Rome, test Covid-19 positiveAs many as 170 of total 285 passengers, who arrived in Amritsar on charter flight from Rome, test Covid-19 positive.‘BJP must stop playing politics': Sidhu on alleged security breach of PM ModiThey (BJP) must stop playing politics. You will get a befitting reply here. All those talking about President's Rule (in Punjab), are your (BJP) parrots, says Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in Chandigarh. ‘No decision yet on weekend curfew': Mumbai mayorNo decision yet on weekend curfew, says Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, according ANI.  “Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a review meeting (via video conferencing) with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray this evening on the Covid-19 situation," Pednekar also informed. 20 staff members of Maharashtra minister test positive for Covid-19As many as 20 staff members of Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil tested have positive for Covid-19, informs state home minister's office.‘Achievement belongs to whole country, every government’: PM on teen vaccinationAfter inaugurating CNCI's second campus in Kolkata in West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's presence, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the vaccination against Covid-19 among teenagers. “Within just five days, more than 1.5 crore children have…been given the dose…This achievement belongs to the whole country, of every government,” he said.PM Modi inaugurates second campus of CNCI in KolkataPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates the second campus of CNCI in Kolkata.Delhi to log around 17,000 Covid-19 cases today: Health ministerDelhi expected to add around 17,000 Covid-19 cases on Friday with a positivity rate of around 17%, health minister Satyendar Jain said. Read more here.SC orders protection of records pertaining to PM's movement in Punjab in security breach matterThe Supreme Court on Friday ordered protection of all records pertaining to PM Narendra Modi's movement in Punjab on January 5 in security breach matter. The top court ordered the Punjab government to ensure that all records and materials on PM's movement be immediately secured in the custody of registrar general of the Punjab and Haryana high court. Read more here.SC allows NEET PG 2021 counselling resumption as per existing quotaThe Supreme Court has permitted counseling to be held in NEET-PG and UG courses by upholding the existing 27% OBC and 10% EWS quota. It, however, directed that for the future years, the validity of the EWS criteria as laid down by the Pandey Committee must be done. The apex court listed the batch of petitions in the matter for hearing in March third week.AAP releases eighth list of candidates for 2022 Punjab pollsਆਮ ਆਦਮੀ ਪਾਰਟੀ ਨੇ ਆਗਾਮੀ 2022 ਦੀਆਂ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਵਿਧਾਨ ਸਭਾ ਚੋਣਾਂ ਲਈ ਉਮੀਦਵਾਰਾਂ ਦੀ ਅੱਠਵੀਂ ਸੂਚੀ ਦਾ ਐਲਾਨ ਕੀਤਾ। pic.twitter.com/Ew5bLQRpgIThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has released the eighth list of candidates for the upcoming 2022 Punjab Assembly polls. Raman Arora has been fielded from Jalandhar Central and Deep Kamboj from Abohar, among others.India's Omicron count reaches 3,007India's Omicron tally on Friday reached 3,007 as per data shared by the Union health ministry. Maharashtra and Delhi remain the top contributors with 876 and 465 cases, respectively.4 staff members of Maharashtra home minister test Covid positiveAs many as four staff members of Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil have tested positive for Covid-19, ANI reported quoting the state home minister's office. “Sample testing of people staying at the minister's residence has been done,” the statement added.India logs over 1 lakh new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursIndia recorded a whopping 1,17,100 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours as Omicron variant continues to raise concern. As many as 302 deaths were logged while the active caseload accounted for 1.05% of the total tally. Read more here.3 terrorists neutralised in Zolwa encounter in J&KAs many as three terrorists have been neutralised in an encounter that broke out earlier in the morning at the Zolwa Kralpora Chadoora area of Budgam in Jammu and Kashmir, IGP Kashmir said. “Identification & affiliation being ascertained. Incriminating materials including arms & ammunition recovered,” the IGP added.Delhi's air quality improves to ‘poor’ category from ‘very poor’Delhi's air quality improves to 'poor' from 'very poor' category with Air Quality Index (AQI) standing at 273, as per SAFAR-IndiaVisuals from near Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium pic.twitter.com/2omcMRFr7yWith an AQI of 273, Delhi's air quality improve to ‘poor' category from ‘very poor,' according to SAFAR-India data.‘Tsunami’ of Covid cases amid Omicron overwhelming health systems: WHO chief's warningIn wake of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases across the globe amid the Omicron variant, World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Thursday that he “tsunami of cases” has now commenced to overwhelm health systems globally. Read more here.SAD patron PS Badal says Cong govt in Punjab totally failed to provide security to PM ModiShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patron Parkash Singh Badal has said that the Congress government in Punjab completely failed to provide security to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“At first, the road shouldn't have been blocked but on the other hand, there was no crowd in his programme. It's the responsibility of state government to provide protection to PM but Congress government has totally failed,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-cong-govt-in-punjab-totally-failed-to-give-security-to-pm-says-ps-badal-101641517140263.html
07-01-2022||India||Nuke capable Rafale-M tested for INS Vikrant in Goa||India on Friday, will test the Rafale-M (Marine) jet for use on its Vikramaditya aircraft carrier as well as the indigenous aircraft carrier 1 (IAC1), which will be deployed as the INS Vikrant, at the INS Hansa in Goa, a shore-based test facility. The aircraft for the test arrived Thursday.The Rafale-M aircraft is the F4 equivalent standard naval version of the Rafale. The marine version of the Rafale jet has a reinforced undercarriage and nose wheel, a bigger arrester hook, an integrated ladder, and other minor differences from the Rafale currently in use in the Indian Air Force.According to people familiar with the matter, the Rafale-M is better suited for use on the aircraft carriers than the F18 Hornet fighter from the US for several reasons. They pointed out that it can fit into the lift bay of the Vikramaditya, unlike the F18 which cannot fit the lift of the Vikramaditya even with folded wings. The Rafale-M's dimensions also mean more of them (14) can fit onto the deck of the Vikramaditya as compared to 10 or 11 F18s.It also requires very minimal modification to the wheel-chokes of the Vikramaditya, which are reversible and can be de-modified, if required.The Rafale-M can carry up to four-five tonnes of external load (with full internal fuel) for a ski take-off. With lesser internal fuel, it can carry more weapons depending upon mission requirements. Thus it can carry out all roles, including combat air patrol, intercept, AD escort, as well as sea and land-strike with full internal fuel.Officials familiar with the matter also added that unlike the F18s, which requires the carriers to be fitted with a new carrier optical landing system, the Rafale M’s can work with the existing one on the Vikramaditya.There’s also the benefit of a common platform across the navy and the Air Force, one of the people said. Apart from synergies in logistics and maintenance, this person added, Indian Navy pilots could be trained on IAF’s Rafales for “faster induction”.The navy will likely test the F18s at the same facility in March, HT learns.The Vikrant is likely to be commissioned by August 15, and if the Rafale-M is chosen, India may seek to lease four or five of the aircraft for immediate deployment. The Vikramaditya is currently equipped with two squadrons of aging MiG-29.The Rafale-M sent for testing is the latest version of the fighter with India-specific enhancements. It is nuclear-capable, carries Meteor air-to-air missiles, SCALP air-to-ground missiles, and Hammer precision guided ammunition.
07-01-2022||India||Four former J&K chief ministers likely to lose SSG security cover||Four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Mehbooba Mufti, are likely to lose their Special Security Group (SSG) protection as the Union territory’s administration has decided to “right-size” the elite unit established in 2000, officials said on Thursday.In a communication to additional director general of police (ADGP), security, the UT administration on December 31 last year said, “The competent authority has also approved to right-size the SSG and, accordingly, I am directed to convey to reduce the posted strength of SSG to the bare minimum, preferably headed by a DSP, for maintaining continuity.”“All the resources (including vehicles, access control gadgets, etc) of the SSG, except such resources as may be required by SSF, be transferred to the security wing,” the order, issued by Rashid Raina, undersecretary to the J&K administration, added.The move came a little over 19 months after the Centre issued a gazette notification -- Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order, 2020 -- on March 31, 2020, amending the Special Security Group Act of the erstwhile J&K government by omitting a clause that provided former chief ministers and their families with SSG security.Officials said the decision was taken by the Security Review Coordination Committee, a group that oversees the threat perception of important leaders in Jammu and Kashmir.The officials said the SSG will be “right-sized” by reducing the number of the elite force to the “bare minimum”. It will be headed by an officer below the rank of superintendent of police as against director, who is of the rank of inspector general of police and above.However, officials feel there could be a rethink over the downsizing of the SSG as some experts within the police force feel that this may hamper the preparedness of the elite unit.The decision will entail the withdrawal of the security cover of Farooq Abdullah, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti at a time when a number of terror incidents have taken place in Srinagar.All these former chief ministers except Azad reside in Srinagar.However, Farooq Abdullah and Azad will continue to be provided the security cover of the National Security Guard, also known as Black Cat commandos, as both of them are Z-plus protectees.Omar and Mehbooba will continue to have Z-plus security cover while in Jammu and Kashmir, but are likely to have reduced security outside the Union territory.The leaders will be provided security by the district police as well as the security wing based on the threat assessment, the officials said.Reacting to the development, both the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) alleged that the Centre was trying to curtail movement of their leaders.PDP chief spokesperson Suhail Bukhari said this is “not going to deter them from speaking the truth for their own people”. “We will continue to speak for our people. Even when PM Modi got stopped in Punjab, they (BJP) created hue and cry on the security issue and everyone is aware about security situation in Kashmir, especially targeted killings and other factors,” Bukhari said, referring to the alleged security lapse in Punjab that resulted in PM Modi’s convoy getting stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on Wednesday.National Conference spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said, “Considering the security situation in Kashmir and the accompanying circumstances, it will not be wrong to say that this new directive is aimed to curtail the movement of Dr Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah.”“Downgrading the security of four former chief ministers of J&K is nothing less than political vendetta.Security of people & their representatives must be a non-partisan issue.Such unwarranted measures against opposition leaders will not deter them from discharging their duties,” said Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary and PAGD spokesperson in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-former-j-k-chief-ministers-likely-to-lose-ssg-security-cover-101641495098981.html
07-01-2022||India||India dismisses Pakistan’s fresh offer to host SAARC summit this year||India on Thursday dismissed Pakistan’s fresh offer to host the long-pending summit of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc), saying there is no consensus that will allow the holding of the meeting.The last summit of the eight-nation grouping was held in Nepal in November 2014. India and other countries had pulled out of the 19th summit that was to be held in Islamabad in November 2016 following the Uri terror attack that was blamed on Pakistan-based terrorists.On Monday, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had reiterated his country’s offer to host the summit in 2022, saying India could attend the meet virtually if it does not wish to participate in-person.“We have seen media reports regarding the Pakistan foreign minister’s remarks about the Saarc Summit. You are aware of the background as to why the Saarc Summit has not been held since 2014,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular media briefing.“There has been no material change in the situation since then. Therefore, there is still no consensus that would permit the holding of the summit,” he added, without giving details.Responding to a question on Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s comments calling on the world community to take action regarding the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, Bagchi said: “Let me make two points. First, the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an inalienable and integral part of India.”“Two, the remarks you have referred to were made by the prime minister of such a country that openly supports cross-border terrorism, which gave refuge to [al-Qaeda chief] Osama bin Laden, and whose shocking human rights record the world is familiar with.”India-Pakistan relations are currently at an all-time low following a string of terror attacks on Indian military facilities and troops in recent years that were all blamed on Pakistan-based terror groups, mainly the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). Following back channel talks between intelligence officials of both sides, the two countries agreed in February last year to strictly adhere to the 2003 ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-dismisses-pakistan-s-fresh-offer-to-host-saarc-summit-this-year-101641494795427.html
07-01-2022||India||India, China fail to decide date for next round of military talks||India and China have been unable to agree on a date for the next round of military talks on disengagement and de-escalation in the Ladakh sector because of Beijing’s steadfast opposition to New Delhi’s proposal that all remaining friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) be handled in one go.Since the 13th round of talks between senior military commanders of the two sides was held at the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on October 10 last year, the Indian side has sent several proposals for the next round of talks along with agenda items, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.In these proposals, the Indian side maintained that all friction points between Depsang and Chumar should be collectively tackled in the talks between the military commanders so that there can be comprehensive disengagement and de-escalation in the Ladakh sector of the LAC, the people said.“The Chinese are not agreeing to this. Their response to every proposal from the Indian side has been different. Their goalposts keep changing and we aren’t even sure which of their proposals should be taken seriously,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Beijing’s dithering has continued despite a decision made at the last meeting of the India-China Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on November 18 that the 14th round talks between military commanders should be held at “an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC...in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols”.At the 13th round of talks between military commanders, the people said, the two sides were close to forward movement on disengagement at Hot Spring. However, the Chinese side was represented by the deputy to the corps commander, who stayed away, and he was not authorised to make a decision, the people added.A statement issued by India after the last talks noted that “the Indian side...made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”.These tactics adopted by China, coupled with mounting evidence of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) beefing up infrastructure, roads, bridges, helipads, dual-use airports and missile and air defence positions on its side in Ladakh sector, has forced the Indian security establishment to conclude that the Chinese side is not serious about the negotiations.“They seem intent on dragging this process out. They aren’t serious about disengagement,” a second person said, referring to the Chinese side’s responses to the agenda items communicated by the Indian side.Tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have dug in for the second successive winter in Ladakh sector, with no immediate signs of an end to the standoff that began in May 2020 and resulted in the first fatalities along the LAC since 1975. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020.The two sides withdrew frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra last year after several rounds of talks, but there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August 2021. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff.The latest evidence of PLA settling in for long haul was satellite imagery showing a new bridge being built to link the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in order to drastically cut down the time needed to deploy large numbers of troops from positions in depth to key friction points. The Chinese side has also built or improved roads and bridges in multiple sectors, including repaving existing roads constructing alternate routes.The area between Depsang and Chumar has several friction points. PLA troops have sought to block Indian patrols for more than two years in the strategic Depsang region, some 30 km south of Daulat Beg Oldi, which is home to a key airbase. Depsang also witnessed a three-week-long standoff in 2013.At Chumar, the key problem has been Chinese construction activities around Chepzi-Chumar road. This area too witnessed a brief face-off in 2014 that began on the eve of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to India.Another friction point is Demchok, which too witnessed a standoff in November 2016.
07-01-2022||India||TRS MLA son quizzed over family’s suicide||The Telangana police on Thursday took into custody Vanama Raghavendra Rao alias Raghava, son of Telangana Rashtra Samithi lawmaker Vanama Venkateshwar Rao, in connection with alleged suicides by a small-time businessman and three members of his family at Paloncha town of Bhadradri Kothagudem district on January 3, police officials said.In a suicide note found on Thursday, the businessman had alleged that the MLA’s son asked him to send his wife to him, if he wanted to settle his property disputes, leading to protests by locals at the MLA’s house. After the mass suicide, Raghava was absconding, police said.A police official said on condition of anonymity that Paloncha police picked up Raghava from a guest house in Hyderabad and that he had been taken to Kothagudem for questioning before he would be formally arrested.When contacted, Bhadradri Kothagudem superintendent of police Sunil Dutt did not confirm the arrest of the TRS MLA’s son. “So far, we have not made any formal arrest,” he said.According to the first information report filed by Paloncha police on January 3, the small-time businessman, his wife and their daughter were burnt alive in a fire caused by gas leak from an LPG cylinder around 3.30 am on Monday. Another daughter, who sustained 80% burns, died on Wednesday at a government hospital in Kothagudem. The police recorded her statement at the hospital and said she mentioned family issues as a reason for the incident.Initially, the police thought it was an accident, but a hand-written suicide note found in the four-wheeler of the head of the family on January 3 revealed that they had committed mass suicide unable to bear alleged harassment from Raghava.The police named Raghava as accused No. 2 in the case and he went absconding after the incident.On Thursday morning, the police recovered a selfie-video from the man’s mobile phone, which he had reportedly recorded minutes before he and his family members died by suicide. In the video, which was seen by HT, he alleged that Raghava had asked him to send his wife to him, if he wanted to settle his property disputes. The suicide note and the video triggered uproar in Kothagudem, with the opposition parties laying siege to Raghava’s residence and demanding that the TRS MLA be suspended from the party and his son be arrested immediately. They also called for Kothagudem bandh on Friday.In a statement later, TRS MLA Rao said his son was ready to face any inquiry and that action could be taken against him if he was proved guilty. Rao also declared that till the investigation is completed, Raghava would be kept away from the party activities.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918
07-01-2022||India||DMK moves court against Centre for “usurping state power” through Dam Safety Act||DMK Lok Sabha MP S Ramalingam has moved the Madras High Court with a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the recent legislated Dam Safety Act, 2021 on the grounds that it “is contrary to the federal structure” and reduces the state’s power.The first bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday accepted a request by senior advocate and DMK MP P Wilson for an urgent hearing and listed the matter for on January 10. Wilson submitted that the writ petition is challenging the vires of the Act on various grounds including that the Parliament has no legislative competence to legislate the Act which is in the domain of the state. Further, he said that the Act has the effect of taking control over all major dams in the state.Ramalingam seeks for the Act to be struck down calling the union government’s actions arbitrary and discriminatory in reducing the state’s powers in the regulation and administration in the safety of the dams. “I state that the impugned Act is a legislation passed by the Union through brute majority to blatantly usurp the states’ power, in broad daylight when the legislators like me were helpless to prevent the violence done to the Constitution,” Ramalingam’s petition read. “However, I have the utmost faith and belief that the Constitutional Courts will certainly annul unconstitutional laws exercising the power of judicial review.”He drew in sections which envisage the forming of a National Committee on Dam Safety and National Dam Safety Authority which reveals that there is no proportional representation of representatives of State Governments. “The representatives of the State Governments are the better persons to judge and understand the needs and interests of the particular State in which the specified dam is situated. Only the representatives of that particular State will have local knowledge, insight as to the safety of the dam, keeping in mind the irrigation requirements of the surrounding lands, the impact of storage of water on the agriculture and agriculturists,” he said.“The Union representatives, who will be sitting in some other corner of country will not have the expertise nor the practical awareness to take such decisions and hence this renders the entire process futile.” He said that in case of emergent situations like flood, cyclone the life and safety of the people surrounding the dam who are likely to be affected will be at peril if no immediate decisions are taken related to Dam safety.“Further in case of a disagreement between the representatives of Union and State Government, the interests of the State Governments would be overruled by representatives of the Union Government due to the State Representatives being in the minority. Such a scenario destroys the Federal structure of the Constitution and completely curtails the voice of the State Governments even in cases where the State Government itself is the owner of the dam.”The petitioner cited the example of the recent farm laws that were repealed in December 2021, a year after protests against it. He said that only after interference by the Supreme Court through interim orders, that the Union acceded to the states’ contention that the farm laws violated the federal structure and trenched upon the states’ domain. “Thus the concept of cooperative federalism cannot be discarded and such action of the Union in bulldozing and appropriating the powers of the States flowing from List II of 7th Schedule of the Constitution cannot be countenanced in law,” the petition said.In his 41-page petition, Ramalingam also drew on certain definitions in the Act. He pointed out that “specified dams” defined in the Act are dams with height of more than 15 metres or height between 10 to 15 metres with certain design and structure. “If this definition is followed, almost all dams in the country will come under the purview of the Impugned Act,” the petition said. Further, he said under section 4 of the Act, phrases such as “the dam has especially difficult foundation problems” and “the dam is of unusual design” are used. “The said definition is purposefully vague and gives unabridged power to the Union to treat any dam as a “specified dam” due to the vagueness in the description of foundation or of the design of the Dam,” he said.
07-01-2022||India||Kerala sees 50 new Omicron cases, tally touches 280||Kerala on Thursday reported 50 new cases of Omicron taking the state total to 280. The same was informed by state health minister Veena George. This is the highest single day tally since the first case of Omicron was reported on December 7. Of the new cases, 45 came from low-risk countries and five came from low- risk countries, said the minister. Among new cases, 18 were reported from Ernakulam, eight from Thiruvananthapuram and seven from Pathanamthitta 7. Among 50 new cases, maximum (13) came from the United Arab Emirates. The minister has called for high vigil in view of rising Omicron cases. “Time is not ripe to lower our vigil. We have to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour strictly,” said the minister adding, the state is well prepared with enough oxygen stock and beds. Experts have warned that Omicron cases would peak in the state in two months. The government said it has taken enough precautions to meet the exigency. In the state, at least 98% of eligible population has received the first dose of vaccine and 78% received both. As per the experts, good vaccination rate will help contain the new threat of Omicron but they want people to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sees-50-new-omicron-cases-tally-touches-280-101641494255399.html
07-01-2022||India||Monitoring cases closely, no need to shut schools yet, says Kerala edu min||Amid growing threat of new virus variant Omicron, Kerala education minister V Sivankutty Thursday said there is no plan to shut schools as of now. He said the government is in constant touch with experts and will go by their recommendations. “We are closely monitoring the situation. As of now there is no need to shut the schools and colleges. The government will go by the advice of the core committee and experts’ opinion on pandemic,” he said in the state capital. After neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka tightened measures to check the spread of the new variant, there was pressure on Kerala as well to buckle up. Experts last week said night curfew won’t do any good in Kerala as travel and movement during night hours were limited in the state. On Thursday, the country witnessed a big jump in Omicron cases with single highest tally of 495. Meanwhile, Maharashtra topped with 797 cases, Delhi 465, Rajasthan 236 and Kerala 280. The country Thursday reported highest coronavirus cases — 90,928 — highest in six months. In Kerala, first Omicron case was detected on December 7 and the cases crossed 100 in less than a month. Experts said Omicron cases are likely to peak in the state by February end. The government said it has taken enough precautions to meet the exigency. At least 98.6% of eligible population received the first dose of vaccine and 78% received both and experts said good vaccination rate will help contain the new threat of Omicron but they warned it is too early to lower the vigil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitoring-cases-closely-no-need-to-shut-schools-yet-says-kerala-edu-min-101641494195219.html
07-01-2022||India||Stalin says he will bring end to online gaming in Tamil Nadu||There will be an end to online gaming with stakes in Tamil Nadu soon, chief minister MK Stalin said on Thursday in the state assembly in response to a question raised by AIADMK MLA R Vaithilingam.The erstwhile AIADMK government under former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami in November 2020 amended a 90-year law to ban online games including online rummy and online poker with stakes on the ground that teenagers and young adults were losing money and cited cases of suicide.A batch of petitioners challenged this in the Madras High Court and in August 2021, the first bench of the court overturned the ban.The court said that the amendment is so unequivocally audacious that it rules out any element of choice that an individual may exercise and added that some regulation can still be exercised. Stalin pointed out that cases related to online gaming are pending in the Supreme Court and that his government will follow a legal route towards ensuring a ban.Since there have been several suicides connected to online gaming and gambling, a “permanent full stop” to this will be brought soon, said Stalin. The chief minister reiterating this stand was applauded by the legislators in the house.On Wednesday, the AIADMK’s ally PMK’s founder S Ramadoss too had urged the state government to ban the same recent suicides in the state which he claimed were to be due to loss of money in online gaming. The suicides should not end up being like a daily weather report, he had said.Last September, Karnataka became the third state in India to ban online gaming after Tamil Nadu and Kerala by bringing in a legislation. The ban has been challenged in the Karnataka high court and hearing is on-going in the case.Cyber law advocate and expert N Karthikeyan said gaming comes under the state subject so the state can pass a law to either restrict or allow a particular game but since the issue is in cyberspace a ban may not be realistic. “Even if they pass a state law, the gaming and gambling applications will still be available in the App Store and Playstore,” said Karthikeyan. “Some of these are available in open source platforms so it can be shared. So how will the state monitor and take action? How will they know that someone is playing these games until it is reported. So banning online games isn’t a solution but it should be restricted like it is done in other countries where they have limitations to prevent addiction and a limit on how much money can be spent in a day.”
07-01-2022||India||Duty of every government to provide foolproof security to PM: Naveen Patnaik||BHUBANESWAR: As war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress escalated over the alleged breach in the security of prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday in Punjab, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday said as the PM of the country is an institution it is the duty of every government to provide foolproof security and safeguard his dignity. Anything contrary to this should be unacceptable in our democracy,” Patnaik said in a Twitter post. Union education minister and senior BJP leader Dharmendra Pradhan hailed Patnaik, saying this is how a democracy like in India should function. “We all can have differing ideologies, beliefs & opinions but that can be no ground to legitimise a breach in security for the Prime Minister. Appreciate Naveen Patnaikji for his concern for PM Modi’s security,” he tweeted.Since yesterday, both the BJP and the Congress have engaged in a bitter war of words after PM Modi’s scheduled visit to National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala and a programme in Ferozepur got cancelled as his convoy was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on Wednesday. The union home ministry which described the incident as a major lapse in the security of PM has constituted a three-member committee to probe into it. While the Bharatiya Janata Party has blamed the Congress-led Punjab government over the alleged security breach, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi maintained that there were no lapses in the security as the road was blocked by some unarmed protesting farmers, who posed no threat to PM’s life. Incidentally, the election road show of Modi in Bhubaneswar during the 2019 election campaign had its moment of scare when part of the road plunged to darkness following a power-cut. Though BJP did not complain of security lapse, its leaders alleged that the power-cut was the handiwork of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) government which wanted the road show to flop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/duty-of-every-government-to-provide-foolproof-security-to-pm-naveen-patnaik-101641494135215.html
07-01-2022||India||Chinese army built bridge in illegally occupied area: India||India lashed out at China on Thursday, accusing it of building a bridge across Pangong Lake in an area it has illegally occupied for 60 years and describing the tone of a letter sent by a Chinese official to MPs and ministers who attended a meeting on Tibet as unacceptable.The external affairs ministry also reiterated its rejection of China’s move to rename 15 locations in the northeastern state of Arunachal Pradesh, saying that instead of engaging in “such antics”, Beijing should work with New Delhi to address the friction points in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The criticism from the Indian side followed the government’s prolonged silence on both the construction of the bridge linking the north and south banks of the strategic Pangong Lake and the Chinese embassy official’s unprecedented action of writing directly to ministers and lawmakers who attended a meeting of the recently revived All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet.Both issues had been raised by the opposition, who sought an explanation from the government on the Chinese actions against the backdrop of the standoff on the LAC that is well into its second year. China’s state-run media had also played up New Year celebrations by People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops at Galwan Valley, the scene of a brutal clash in June 2020.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government has been closely monitoring the construction of the bridge on Pangong Lake by the Chinese side. “This bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years now. As you are well aware India has never accepted such illegal occupation,” he told a regular media briefing.The government has been taking “all necessary steps to ensure that our security interests are fully protected”, Bagchi said. As part of these efforts over the past seven years, the government has significantly increased funding for developing border infrastructure and “completed more roads and bridges than ever before”, he said.These actions have provided much-needed connectivity to the local population and logistical support to the armed forces, and the government remains committed to this objective, he said.Recent satellite imagery has shown that the Chinese bridge spanning a narrow section of the 134-km lake is nearly complete. Experts believe it will drastically reduce the time needed by the Chinese side move troops and equipment from in-depth bases to forward locations near the LAC.Referring to the letter written by the Chinese embassy’s political counsellor to Indian MPs and ministers over their participation in the event focused on Tibet, Bagchi said: “The substance, tone and tenor of the letter are inappropriate. The Chinese side should note that India is a vibrant democracy and [the] MPs, as representatives of the people, undertake activities as per their views and beliefs.”He added, “We expect the Chinese side to refrain from hyping normal activities by [the] MPs and complicate further the situation in our bilateral relations.”The Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile and the India Tibet Coordination Office had organised a dinner reception on December 22 to announce the revival of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet. The meeting was attended by social justice minister Ramdas Athawale, minister of state for skill development Rajeev Chandrasekhar, and nine members of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, including Maneka Gandhi, Jairam Ramesh and Manish Tewari.Subsequently, the Chinese embassy’s political counsellor, Zhou Yongsheng, sent the letter to the MPs and ministers expressing his country’s concern over their participation in the meeting.“As is known to all, the so-called ‘Tibetan Government in-exile’ is an out-and-out separatist political group and an illegal organization completely in violation of China’s Constitution and laws. It is not recognized by any country in the world. Tibet has been an inseparable part of China since ancient times, and Tibet-related affairs are purely China’s internal affairs that allow no foreign interference,” the strongly worded letter said, adding that the lawmakers should refrain from providing support to “Tibetan independence” forces.Bagchi also referred to the Chinese side naming 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh last week, and described it as a “ridiculous exercise to support untenable territorial claims”.He said, “Calling Tuting as ‘DouDeng’ or river Siyom as ‘XiYueMu’ or even Kibithu as ‘Daba’ does not alter the fact that Arunachal Pradesh has always been and will always remain an inalienable part of India. We hope that instead of engaging in such antics China will work constructively with us to resolve the outstanding friction points in areas along the western sector of the LAC in India-China border areas.”
07-01-2022||India||Telangana Congress political affairs committee meeting exposes chinks in the party||Fireworks were witnessed in the Telangana Congress party’s political affairs committee (PAC) held on Wednesday night, with several senior leaders raising a banner of revolt against the style of functioning of Pradesh Congress Committee president A Revanth Reddy, a senior party leader familiar with the development said on Thursday.The four-hour-long meeting chaired by All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Telangana affairs Manickam Tagore through Zoom conference call was convened to discuss the arrangements for conducting AICC training programmes starting from January 19.However, seniors like PCC working president and Sangareddy MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy alias Jagga Reddy, former MPs V Hanumantha Rao and Renuka Chowdary and MLAs D Sridhar Babu used the occasion to lodge a complaint with Tagore that Revanth Reddy’s unilateral decisions on conducting party programmes without taking senior party functionaries into confidence.“There was a strong resistance from PAC leaders like Mohd Shabbir Ali and Madhu Yashki Goud in support of the PCC chief and it led to heated arguments and counter-arguments between the two groups,” a party leader said on condition of anonymity.Jagga Reddy, who has been openly questioning Revanth Reddy’s style of functioning, took strong exception to the PCC disciplinary committee seeking his explanation for writing a letter to AICC president Sonia Gandhi in the last week of December.Last week, PCC disciplinary committee chairman G Chinna Reddy said Jagga Reddy has violated party discipline by leaking his letter to the media. It is nothing but breach of party discipline, he said.At the PAC meeting, Jagga Reddy raised this issue and questioned how Revanth Reddy could question his loyalty to the party. He said it was the PCC chief who had violated the party discipline by conducting “Rachabanda” (public forum) programme near chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s farmhouse at Erravelli village in Siddipet district on January 26, without intimating him, though he was the local MLA.He alleged that Revanth Reddy was not functioning along party lines and was instead, using such programmes only for personal image building.Other seniors like Hanumantha Rao and former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah also found fault with the PCC disciplinary committee for seeking explanation from Jagga Reddy. “At one stage, Jagga Reddy said he was disgusted with the party leadership and if the party did not want him to continue in the party, he would quit,” the party leader quoted above said.With the situation going out of hands, the AICC in charge of Telangana affairs intervened and told the party leaders to maintain utmost discipline and if there were any differences on any issue, they could write to him or the AICC president.“But under any circumstances, you should not take your infighting to the media, as it would show the party in poor light. The high command has taken a very serious view of the internal differences in the party and if anybody makes any open allegations against the party leadership, stern action would be taken against them,” the party leader quoting Tagore said.The AICC leader also asked Revanth Reddy to follow the party line and take all the seniors into confidence before chalking out any programme. He called upon the party workers to make the training programmes of the AICC a big success.Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, MLA Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy and PCC election management committee chairman Damodar Rajanarasimha, who have also been opposing Revanth Reddy’s style of functioning, did not attend the PAC meeting.
07-01-2022||India||Koppa: Govt college students sport saffron shawls to protest classmates wearing hijab||The management of a state-run degree college in Koppa is in a fix after a section of students came to the college wearing saffron scarves to protest against the Muslim women allegedly attending classes with hijab. The Government Degree College (GDC) in Balagadi, which had reportedly given in to the demand of the students with saffron scarves initially, and asked women not to attend classes wearing hijab, has now decided to allow everyone to wear whatever they wish to till January 10. “We are convening a parent-teachers meeting which will also be attended by public representatives on January 10 to resolve the issue. The decision would be binding on everyone,” principal Ananth Murthy said. He said, three years ago a decision was taken in a similar meeting and everyone abided by it till now. “Everything was going smoothly but yesterday a few students suddenly appeared in the class wearing scarves. They were objecting to the dress code of some other students,” Murthy added. “Three years ago, a similar controversy had erupted in the college, and it was decided that no one should come to the college wearing hijab but for the past few days, some women are coming to the college wearing it. Hence, we decided to come to the college wearing saffron scarves from yesterday,” a student said, pleading anonymity. He also claimed, that upon their request, the college administration had asked the Muslim women several times to not sport hijab while on the campus, but they did not budge. The student warned that if this issue was not addressed, they would intensify their agitation in the coming days. The incident comes days after six students were denied entry into classes by the college authorities in the Udupi district for wearing hijab. On Saturday, the parents of these students along with activists held a protest against the authorities for not allowing the students inside the class for three days. Apart from not being allowed into the class over the dress code, the students also complained that they are not being allowed to talk in Urdu, Arabic and Beary languages. The girls stood outside the classroom for three days in protest. The students claimed though their parents approached principal Rudra Gowda for talks, he refused to hold a discussion on the issue. (With inputs from PTI)
07-01-2022||India||Amit Shah refusing to meet all-party panel over NEET: Stalin||Chennai Chief minister MK Stalin on Thursday alleged that union home minister Amit Shah is refusing to meet an all-party delegation of MPs led by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) to discuss a Tamil Nadu bill that seeks exemption from the National Eligibility cum Entrance Exam (NEET) in the state.“Refusing to meet people’s representatives is anti-democratic,” Stalin said in the Tamil Nadu assembly on Thursday. To take a decision on the matter and to exert pressure on the union government, the chief minister called for an all-party meeting on January 8.In his strongly-worded speech which focused only on the issue of NEET for more than six minutes, Stalin framed this issue as one where the central government is snatching away the rights of the state and galvanised the members of the assembly to take the struggle against NEET as a fight towards social justice.“I am duty bound to inform this house that the progress achieved by Tamil Nadu so far has been through such protests. Likewise, we will consider the fight against NEET as the next protest of the Social Justice movement. We will not budge from our stand,” Stalin told the assembly.Stalin made the announcement for the all-party meet under Rule 110 of the Tamil Nadu assembly under which either a chief minister or a minister can make a statement and the opposition will not have an opportunity to comment on it.DMK’s parliamentary leader TR Baalu told reporters in Delhi on Wednesday that Shah has not given them an appointment and he also demanded the resignation of Governor RN Ravi for not sending the Bill to the President as yet. This after the Governor in his maiden address in the assembly on Wednesday articulated the state’s view that entrance exams like NEET create an unequal platform against rural students and it is unnecessary.NEET has been dominating Tamil Nadu politics and the state under the previous AIADMK government and the current DMK government has opposed the exam since it was mandated in the state from 2017 by the Supreme Court. The DMK-led government passed the Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021 in the state assembly with the support of all parties except the BJP in September. The Bill seeks to restore Tamil Nadu’s process of medical admissions by considering only class 12 marks. The AIADMK in 2017 passed a similar bill seeking exemption from NEET but it was rejected by the president.The Bill passed in September 2021 which was sent to the Governor Ravin on the same month is still under his consideration, according to an RTI response from the governor’s office in December. As a follow-up, a delegation of MPs from all political parties in Tamil Nadu led by the DMK submitted a memorandum to the office of the President of India on December 28 the delay in considering the legislation. The President’s office had conveyed to them that the memorandum has been sent to the Union Home Ministry.“So the delegation sought an appointment with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. However, they have not been granted an appointment so far,” Stalin said.The BJP said the DMK was enacting a political drama on the NEET issue first using the Governor and now using Shah. “He’s the home minister of the country, you can imagine his workload. It is justified if they have been trying for an appointment for ten days or so and he hasn’t met them,” said Tamil Nadu BJP’s general secretary Karu Nagarajan.“But, how can they suddenly seek an appointment and immediately give a press byte saying that he’s not meeting them and today the chief minister is parroting that in the assembly. This is just a way for them to promote themselves. On the one hand, they get the Governor to say that the state will not back down from NEET and then they blame the Governor on the same issue. I only see this as DMK’s double standards since they came to power.”On whether the BJP will participate in the all-party meeting, Nagarajan said the leadership was yet to take a call on it.
07-01-2022||India||Seven booked for suspected sacrifice of 15-year-old||Mysuru police have booked seven men for allegedly murdering a 15-year-old boy as a part of a human sacrifice ritual. This is the second such incident of alleged human sacrifice which has been reported in the state in past three months. Mysuru superintendent of police (SP) R Chetan told the media that the police has taken some suspects into custody, however, a formal arrest will be made soon. “The case was registered after the victim’s body was recovered near Halepura lake in Nanjangud taluk on January 2. He was later identified as Mahesh,” the officer said. The SP said that investigation into possible human sacrifice ritual started after the victim’s father Siddaraju lodged a complaint and alleged the same. In the investigation that followed, police found traces of black magic rituals near the lake, the Mysuru SP said. The father in his police complaint alleged that the accused — Hemmaragala Srinivas, Raju, Naveen and Muddu — used to practise black magic and took his son to the lake on a full moon night where the executed the crime. Meanwhile, as per initial probe, police learnt that victim Mahesh had gone to the lake with his friends. It was alleged that the victim’s friends pushed him into the lake and killed him after performing black magic rituals. The investigation has been initiated based on evidence collected so far and the statements given by the locals, said the police. Despite the anti-superstition bill — Eradication of Inhuman Evil Practices and Black Magic Act — being formally notified in 2020, such incidents continue to come to the fore.Earlier, on September 3, 2021, a suspected case of black magic was reported after a two-year-old girl was found abandoned at a sugarcane field at Halyala village in Belagavi district . In another incident, which was reported last year on October 27, Karnataka police recently arrested a doctor for allegedly murdering his wife by injecting high doses of drugs in Davanagere district on Sunday. The arrest comes nine months after the woman’s death and police said that the murder was carried out as part of a black magic ritual. Police have identified the suspect in custody as 45-year-old Dr Channakeshappa who was practising medicine in Rameshwara village in Nyamathi taluk. His wife, Shilpa, died on February 11 following an alleged overdose. The investigation later found that he had been practising black magic in recent years and had been visiting several black magic practitioners in the past year. It was during one such interaction when he was advised to sacrifice his wife to access tressure, said police. The doctor then decided to offer his wife as a human sacrifice and killed her with an overdose, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-booked-for-suspected-sacrifice-of-15yearold-101641493895830.html
07-01-2022||India||28-year-old Covid patient from UK booked for ‘fleeing’ hospital; 14 B’luru cops test +ve||A 28-year-old Covid-19 positive patient was booked after he escaped from the hospital, said police on Thursday.The patient had arrived from the United Kingdom and was asked to quarantine in Manipal Hospital Doddaballapur area of Rural Bengaluru. Bengaluru rural police have registered a case under a case has been registered under IPC Sections 188, 269 and 270 and Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. According to the police, the patient tested positive at the airport, and was shifted to the hospital. On Tuesday, however, an official at the hospital realised that he was missing and lodged a police complaint. Results of the genome sequencing to identify whether the patient has the Omicron variant is pending, said officials. In another incident, 14 police officers attached to the City Market police station in Bengaluru tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The cases came to light when the police officials were subjected to rapid antigen test (RAT). The tests were conducted in the wake of a rapid surge of Covid cases in the city and a cop testing positive in the Byatarayanapura police station. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) West Sanjeev Patil told reporters that one police sub-inspector, two assistant sub-inspectors and 10 police constables of City Market Police Station have tested positive. “All infected persons are home quarantined and the police station has been sealed. The total strength of the police station is 69 and the tests have been conducted on 43 cops. The rest are placed on night duty and will be tested at the earliest,” he said. About 60 police officers attached to the Byatarayanapura police station have undergone an RT-PCR test on Wednesday after a cop tested positive for the virus. Their results are awaited, and the police department is getting the police station premises sanitized. Meanwhile, 21 medical students of the Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in Karnataka’s Ballari tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. Following the news, the authorities conducted tests on all the students staying at the hostel, and those who tested positive have been sent to the district hospital. VIMS director Dr T Gangadhar Gowda said that all the infected students are first and second-year medical students. The authorities have sanitised the premises and enforced strict vigilance on the campus, he said. 
07-01-2022||India||India tally crosses 116k riding on Omicron surge||India on Thursday added more than 116,000 new cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day increase since June 5, 2021, as the massive surge propelled by the Omicron variant continued to send daily infections soaring through the country.Thursday’s case count of 116,838 means that daily cases have now grown more than 10-fold in just 10 days (there were just 9,155 new infections on December 28) – a speed of rise in infections previously unseen in the two years of the pandemic in the country.To be sure, such a sharp rise in daily infections is keeping in line with trends in Covid waves seen across the world due to the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Experts have said that while infections of the new variant, which was first discovered in South Africa in early November, are spreading a lot faster than previous iterations of the coronavirus, they are largely asymptomatic or mild, with only small fraction resulting in deaths across the world.In India, the country’s metropolitan cities continued to be the ones reporting the largest surges.In Delhi, there were 15,097 new cases reported on Thursday – the highest since May 8 last year. In just the past two days, daily cases in the Capital have tripled – there were 5,481 new infections on Tuesday, and 10,665 on Wednesday.A surge of similar magnitude is being witnessed in Mumbai, where 10,606 cases on Tuesday and 15,014 on Wednesday, were followed by 19,780 new infections on Thursday. On Tuesday, Kolkata reported 4,759 daily cases on Tuesday, 6170 on Wednesday, while on Thursday, there were 6,569 infections in the city.Pushed by the numbers from these cities, Maharasthra, West Bengal and Delhi, remained the regions reporting the most numbers in the city. There were 36365 new cases reported in Maharasthra on Thursday, the most in any state in the country, and the highest single-day jump in the western state since May 16, 2021. West Bengal’s addition of 15421 new cases was the most in a day since May 26 last year, data shows.Maharashtra alone accounts for a third of all new infections of Covid-19 reported across India in the past week, while another third of all cases have come from a combine of West Bengal, Delhi and Kerala in the same time period.Dozens of state government across the country have already imposed night curfews and weekend lockdowns, as well as closed schools. Political rallies, however, have continued in several states where elections are due in the next few weeks and months.  Meanwhile, the Union health ministry on Thursday directed all states to re-establish 24x7 control rooms at district and sub-district levels, to ensure ease of access to services like ambulance transportation and booking a hospital bed for serious patients, considering the rapid increase in cases.“For seamless administrative management of Covid-19 situation, it is expected that targeted action for re-establishment of control rooms at district and sub-district levels (for bigger districts) to ensure ease of access to services like ambulance transportation and booking a hospital bed,” read the letter written by Arti Ahuja, additional secretary, health ministry.The control rooms will have to be adequately staffed with medical doctors, counsellors, and volunteers, among other relevant staff. The Centre’s directive emphasised upon the need for enabling infrastructure in terms of computers and broadband in these control rooms for uninterrupted connectivity, and ample phone lines to cater to the assigned population.Depending on the caseload, the control rooms have been asked to remain functional round the clock to provide validated guidance or support to the patients in need.Control rooms will also have real-time data on availability of Covid testing centres, ambulances, and so that the staff is able to guide the caller on the process for availing these services.They will also monitor the availability of different types of beds across health facilities and the staff will counsel the patients or attendants to avail only the required services based on clinical symptoms and availability of beds. Therefore, it will serve to ensure clear and transparent mechanism for allotment of beds.These control rooms will also be responsible to make outbound calls to the patients under home isolation for regular monitoring.“One of the core responsibilities of the control rooms shall also be to collate the daily status report of all patients under home isolation in their jurisdiction and submit the same to the district administration… also assign nodal officers for different levels of control rooms who can be in touch with each other at all times and provide seamless services to citizens,” read the letter.Experts say that it is prudent to have a well-oiled machinery in place for effective management of cases, particularly at a time when the country’s caseload is increasing so fast.“Timely treatment of a serious patient impacts the outcome a great deal; therefore, it is important for a patient needing hospitalisation to reach a hospital in time. We have seen in previous waves, many of the patients that were lost was because there was delay in accessing medical assistance,” said Dr KK Talwar, senior cardiologist, and former chairman, board of governors, Medical Council of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tally-crosses-116k-riding-on-omicron-surge-101641493414351.html
07-01-2022||India||Dharma Sansad Seers to hold protest on Jan 16 against FIR for hate speech||Shankaracharya Parishad seers on Thursday announced a protest meeting on January 16 against a first information report (FIR) registered against speakers at the December 17-19 meeting of the Dharma Sansad.They said that saints, various Hindu organisations and intellectuals from across the country will take part in the protest meet, which will be held at Baiaragi camp.The saints also expressed displeasure over the role of Uttarakhand chief minister.“BJP and its government ministers speak of Hindutva but now with lodging of case and SIT formation BJP’s real face has been exposed. It is working against saints and Sanatan Dharma. We will hold ‘Pratikar’ meeting, to express our displeasure and reply to the recent events which are maligning image of saints and threatening existence of Sanatan Dharma,” said Swami Prabodhanand.Meanwhile, BJP district president Jaypal Singh Chauhan said that the BJP highly regards saints and the party has nothing to do with the saints who organised Dharma Sansad or those opposing it.Taking a dig at BJP, Congress Mahanagar unit president Sanjay Aggarwal said that owing to vote politics BJP leaders are now refraining from speaking on Dharma Sansad as it fears it may impact its election prospects in poll-bound states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharma-sansad-seers-to-hold-protest-on-jan-16-against-fir-for-hate-speech-101641493297189.html
07-01-2022||India||Modi security breach: Road route plan not a last-minute decision, says govt||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s road route from Bathinda to Ferozepur was planned as a contingency days in advance and discussed with Punjab authorities, officers familiar with the developments said on Thursday, rejecting the state government’s assertion that taking the road was a last-minute decision.The road journey was decided as a contingency plan on January 1 and 2 during an advance security liaison (ASL) meeting with Punjab Police and a rehearsal was done for the same on Tuesday, the officers quoted above said. The road journey was cleared by the director general of police (DGP) of Punjab, Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, they added, requesting anonymity.An officer said in the ASL, a mandatory exercise done before PM’s trips anywhere, everything was discussed in detail including the route survey and vulnerable points that were to be secured with strong police deployment.“In light of intelligence inputs regarding sabotage possibilities, strong police deployment was emphasised in the ASL report (a detailed ASL report is prepared after such meetings which is shared with concerned agencies/police),” this officer said, requesting anonymity. “Even the contingency rehearsal for the road journey from Bathinda to Ferozepur was carried out on January 4.”These version of events contradicted the Punjab government’s statement that the PM’s motorcade was stuck on a Punjab highway for 15-20 minutes on Wednesday -- an unprecedented breach in his security as a result of a blockade by protesting farmers -- because the decision to not take a helicopter and go by road was made last minute, and not communicated adequately. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had said on Wednesday that he had no information that the PM will travel by road.The development came on a day the Union home ministry constituted a three-member committee to probe the lapse. The panel will be led by Sudhir Kumar Saxena, secretary (security), Cabinet secretariat and comprise Balbir Singh, joint director, Intelligence Bureau and S Suresh, inspector general, SPG. The report will be submitted at the earliest.A second officer said that when on Wednesday, a helicopter ride from Bathinda was ruled out, special protection group (SPG) director Arun Kumar Sinha discussed with the Punjab DGP the possibility of undertaking a “safe and secure road journey”. “After getting clearance for road journey from the DGP, road journey was planned. In fact, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Bathinda piloted the motorcade from Bathinda to Ferozepur district border and SSP Bathinda (Ajay Maluja) piloted the motorcade from Ferozepur district border,” said the officer, requesting anonymity.Punjab Police refused to comment. Additional director general of police, G Nageswara Rao, who was made the security incharge for the PM’s visit, said: “It wont’ be appropriate for me to comment anything at this stage in the media.”About the threat to Modi and intelligence inputs, the first officer said the inputs about a protest that may result in road blocks on the PM’s route were also shared with Punjab Police. He added that the control room failed to inform the pilot vehicle of the PM’s convoy about the protestors. “If the information about the blockade was relayed to PM’s motorcade on time, the situation of getting stuck on a flyover could have been averted,” said the officer.The second officer said that Punjab Police didn’t make any effort to clear the route once the PM was stranded and senior state officers present on the site were “ineffective”. As per the SPG Blue Book (a book containing a set of guidelines with information on the rules that are to be followed to ensure security of a VVIP; not a public document and meant only for concerned agencies), a car for the chief secretary and DGP is earmarked in the PM’s motorcade.A communication shared by Punjab Police with all units and districts on January 4, reviewed by HT, suggests the local police were asked to keep a watch on movement of farmers and make necessary arrangements. “There are large numbers of dharnas going on in most of the districts. Farmers are also likely to hold dharnas on January 5th. These dharnas may result in road blocks at many places. Please make traffic diversion plan in advance,” the Punjab Police communication said.Union minister Anurag Thakur hinted on Thursday that ministry of home affairs was planning “big” action in the security breach. “The home ministry has also spoken about taking action. After gathering information, whatever steps...big and tough decisions will be taken by it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-security-breach-road-route-plan-not-a-last-minute-decision-says-govt-101641492638583.html
07-01-2022||India||Law ministry approves increase of poll expenditure by candidates||The Union ministry of law and justice on Thursday approved raising the election expenditure ceiling by a candidate to a maximum of ₹95 lakh in Parliamentary elections and ₹40 lakhs in assembly elections, increasing them from the earlier limits of ₹77 lakh and ₹30.8 lakhs.The increase comes at a time when five states are headed for assembly polls -- Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa -- even as a sharply rising third wave of Covid-19 cases has raised the clamour for political rallies to be conducted virtually to avoid the spread of the infection.The increased budget is meant to facilitate this shift, officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.“In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (3) of Section 77 read with Section 169 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), the central government, after consulting the Election Commission of India, hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, namely, the government said in a gazette notification. These rules may be called the Conduct of Elections (Amendment) Rules, 2022. (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette,” the gazette notification said.In 2020, the government approved a 10% raise in the poll expenditure cap ahead of the Bihar elections to allow candidates to spend on virtual campaigning amid the pandemic. The ceiling for parliamentary constituencies was at the time raised to ₹77 lakh, from the 2014 limit of ₹70 lakh, and assembly polls to ₹30.8 lakhs from ₹28 lakh in larger states.With the revision, candidates in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab -- classified among large states -- will therefore be able to spend ₹40 lakh in the upcoming polls, while those in Goa and Manipur -- classified as small states -- will have to adhere to a limit of ₹28 lakh.The increase was cleared on the recommendation by the Election Commission, the official cited above said.According to EC officials, there were three considerations which officials had while recommending raising limit. “Number of electors has gone up significantly, inflation index has also gone up,” a second official said.The Commission anticipates virtual campaigning to also increase costs. ‘They will need to out up big screens in various places so a budget for that had to be factored in,’’ the official added, saying that this was part of the reforms that the poll panel has been pushing for.The Commission had come under the scanner in April this year as polls continued amid the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. The Madras High Court went as far as to say that EC officials were culpable for murder for conducting polls.Candidate expenditure includes the money spent by them on polling events, rallies, posters and other paraphernalia. The same, however, can also be borne by the political party the candidate is affiliated to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-ministry-approves-increase-of-poll-expenditure-by-candidates-101641492581308.html
07-01-2022||India||BJP puts off rallies, to focus on digital connect and chaupals||As it has done in previous elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party is ready to buttress its campaign on the ground with technology to deliver the party’s message ahead of the upcoming set of state elections.The party has announced it will not be holding rallies for the time being in the election-bound states, including the Jan Vishwas Rally that was scheduled to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday in Uttar Pradesh. “As of now, we will not have any large gatherings, but smaller chaupals (meeting in smaller groups in public spaces),” said a senior party functionary.Functionaries said while the party is awaiting the election commission of India’s directive on how rallies and larger campaign will have to be tailored to adhere to Covid-appropriate behavior; it is prepared to shift to virtual rallies and digital outreach as it had done during the Bihar polls.“We are prepared. In Uttar Pradesh for instance, we have trained IT karyakartas at the mandal level (each constituency is divided into five mandals); each mandal has between 20-25 IT karyakartas. About two months ago we held a training programme for about 8,000 workers across the state and now the technical set up for live casting of speeches etc is in place,” said a functionary based in UP.During elections in Bihar -- the first election to be held amid the raging Covid pandemic -- the party had to largely rely on live streaming of speeches by its top leaders. These speeches, which were dubbed as virtual rallies, were then screened in villages using large screens in panchayat houses and at public places in the cities.The party’s campaign outreach is pushed through social media platforms and care is taken to ensure its easy delivery on smart phones in the local language and dialects. “There is targeted messaging, a lowdown on government’s schemes and promises apart from the usual speeches,” said a second functionary.While internet penetration even in rural areas has made canvassing easier; the party still has to bank on traditional door-to-door campaigns to reach out to the older demographic and in far-flung areas of states such as Uttarakhand.“ Not everyone is well versed with technology and while the older generation is familiar with TV and radio, they are not particularly comfortable with social media and smartphones. So we prefer to visit villages and interact with people in smaller groups for better connect,” said the second functionary.The party is also relying on catchy advertisements and short films to sharpen its attack against the opposition. The party that drawn up a list of governance issues where it compares the performance of the ruling dispensation with that of the previous governments in UP and has compressed these into multimedia spots for easier dissemination ahead of the upcoming assembly election in the state.According to a functionary aware of the details, the party has prepared about eight short videos and advertisements for print publications and hoardings that will be splashed across the state.The videos and the advertisements, mostly centered around the theme of ‘Fark Saaf Hai’ ( the difference is clear) have been designed to ensure their easy dissemination through social media platforms and WhatsApp. “Since a lot of people will be watching these on their smartphones; the videos had to be kept short and succinct to deliver the message,” said the first functionary.There are 13 issues on which the comparisons are being made; these include education, opportunities for youth, safety for women, development and the issues of cultural identity and appeasement politics. A booklet listing these comparisons will also be distributed in the run-up to the elections that are expected to be announced shortly.“Comparisons have been made on several parameters, for instance, cases of atrocities against Dalits, animal welfare, crimes against women and children and health infrastructure,” said the functionary quoted above.
07-01-2022||India||Congress divided over Modi’s security breach||The security lapse involving the Prime Minister’s convoy in Punjab on Thursday turned into a political controversy with the Congress launching an attack on the BJP for defaming Punjab and creating a “political drama”. But while a large section of the Opposition party launched a political attack on the BJP, a section of the Congress pointed put that the PM’s security is a serious, institutional issue and demanded a high-level probe into the incident. Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi took to the Twitter to demand fixing accountability for the lapse and cautioned, “these are institutional matters, never personal.” “Irrespective of politics, or sudden change of PM plans, or irremovability of protesting farmers at short notice because of change, or allegations and counter allegations, we have to take all steps to ensure PM security and fix accountability,” Singhvi said. Another Congress MP, Manish Tewari, maintained on Thursday that the PM’s security is a serious matter that “should not be turned into a political football”. He demanded that an inquiry by a sitting high court judge should be ordered. “I have been carefully watching the unfolding controversy about PM‘s trip to Punjab Yesterday. I did not want to give a knee jerk off the cuff anodyne reaction. What happened yesterday was most unfortunate, it should not have happened,” Tewari tweeted. “PM’s security is governed by an Act of Parliament-The SPG Act of 1988 as amended in 2019. Security breach involving PM is a sensitive matter & should not be turned into a political football.Let entire sequence of events be enquired into by sitting judge of High Court to establish correct facts,” he added. These responses came even as the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala attacked the BJP for creating a “political drama” and alleging “security breach” on Thursday. He pointed out that PM Modi’s convoy was stuck in UP in 2017 and in Delhi in 2018 but there were no allegations of a security breach. “As PM changed his route last minute & travels by road, a delay of 15 min. in clearing farmers is projected as endangering his life. Did anyone attack PM’s convoy? Isn’t BJP insulting 3 CR Punjabis by such false bogey? He is India’s PM not BJP’s. Stop the fake noise,” Surjewala said. Posting pictures of an empty rally ground, Surjewala said, “Dinally, the reason for cancelling rally is that there were no crowds to listen to Modiji” and took digs at the BJP to add, “Is it the job of Congress Govt to fetch people for PM’s rally? BJP should own up loss of face among famers & people of Punjab instead of enacting Political Drama.” Surjewala was not alone. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “For god’s sake do not undermine the morale of our security forces, do not defame the brave land of Punjab. You cannot demonise an entire region and culture because of your petty politics,” hinting that the BJP defamed Punjab as the people have rejected the party. The Punjab unit of the Congress said that “The schedule of PM Modi included no road trip, only arrival by a helicopter to Ferozpur from Bathinda airport,” adding that the people of Punjab are “well aware of his intentions”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-divided-over-modi-s-security-breach-101641492396268.html
07-01-2022||India||Election Commission extra vigilant ahead of polls amid rise in Omicron cases||The Election Commission, widely criticised for its management of the last round of assembly elections which were held around the time the second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic was emerging, is taking no chances as it prepares for upcoming elections across five states. Nor are political parties, which came under fire during the last round for large rallies and road shows. On Thursday, EC held its second meeting with health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and a meeting with the home secretary to take stock of the situation amid the rise in Omicron cases across the country. On Thursday, the number of new Covid-19 cases in India crossed 100,000 for the first time since early June.  And the Congress has called off its rallies in Uttar Pradesh, UP’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath cancelled a large rally planned for Noida, the Bhartiya Janata Party has deferred many large rallies including one to be addressed by the Prime Minister in the state, and the party’s Goa unit has opted for door-to-door campaigning instead of any large events. People familiar with the matter said EC, headed by chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and comprising election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, discussed with the health ministry, the status of the pandemic in the poll going states, including the positivity rate and the percentage of the population vaccinated. Elections are due to be held in March in the states of Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Goa. The follow-up meeting with the health secretary saw a discussion around improving the vaccination numbers of the poll-bound states. “The states are intensifying the vaccination process,” one of the people cited above, who works in EC, added on condition of anonymity. “Discussions on rallies did take place and the panel will take some decisions on them as well as new Covid-19 guidelines,” a second person, aware of the meeting, said. This person said the meeting involved health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, AIIMS head Dr Randeep Guleria and Indian Council of Medical Research chief Balram Bhargava. “The health ministry gave the panel the exact position in five states. They said UP has vaccinated 88% of the eligible population with the first dose and 52% with the second, and the positivity rate was 0.2% which is quite low. Only 32 Omicron cases have been confirmed so UP seems quite safe,” this person said.The panel asked an official from Manipur, where vaccination rates have been among the lowest in the country, to ramp up the drive. Health officials also told the commissioners that symptoms were mild. After the meeting with health officials, the panel also met home secretary Ajay Bhalla for strict implementation of the National Disaster Management Authority guidelinesThe plans are likely to include a new set of Covid guidelines, covering campaigning, the actual voting process, and the counting of votes. These guidelines, which could include a cap on the number of people allowed to attend public meetings (this was set at 500 during the latter part of the campaigning for the West Bengal assembly elections) are expected to be announced along with the poll dates. “We have conducted polls earlier during the pandemic and ensured utmost safety,” the first person added. “Similar guidelines will be followed during these elections.”Most political parties are expected to focus on digital or door-to-door campaigns. At best, there could be small gatherings, HT learns. “All public meetings stand cancelled due to a rise in Covid 19 cases,’’ said BJP chief in Goa Sadanand Shet Tanavade, adding, “We will focus on small gatherings.’’The election body has already issued certain Covid-19 directions to all states, including writing to the chief secretaries to expedite vaccination; increasing the number of polling stations; and reducing the number of people who will vote in each booth. Earlier this year, EC courted controversy throughout the eight-phase Bengal election, beginning with the prolonged duration of polls, to not conceding to the opposition’s demands to club the last three phases in view of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. An FIR was also filed against the EC for culpable homicide by the wife of a TMC candidate who died of Covid-19. Polls were held as scheduled in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the union territory of Puducherry.The Commission came under the scanner of various High Courts, with the Madras HC saying that poll officials should “probably be booked for murder” . It also asked the EC to file a detailed blueprint of measures to ensure Covid safe counting, which the EC submitted. ----||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-extra-vigilant-ahead-of-polls-amid-rise-in-omicron-cases-101641492335063.html
07-01-2022||India||Supreme Court to hear PM Modi security breach matter||The breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security during a visit to Punjab on Wednesday will come up in the Supreme Court on Friday, with the country’s top court agreeing to hear a public interest litigation (PIL) on the matter by Lawyer’s Voice, a lawyer-run organisation, which termed the incident a “serious and deliberate lapse” on part of the Punjab government . The Prime Minister was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on the road to Ferozpur on Wednesday due to a blockade by protesters. On Thursday, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, asked the petitioner organisation, Lawyer’s Voice, to serve a copy of its plea to the standing counsel for the Punjab government, and listed the PIL for a detailed hearing on Friday. The CJI’s directive came after senior advocate Maninder Singh mentioned the matter before him; the plea also seeks the suspension of Punjab’s chief secretary and director general of police (DGP) over the security breach.“I am mentioning an urgent matter relating to a serious breach in security of the Prime Minister in Punjab a day ago,” Singh told the bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. To this, the CJI asked Singh: “What is it that you are expecting from us?”“He (PM) was visiting Ferozpur. It is extremely relevant to ensure it does not happen again and responsibility for this lapse should be fixed. A professional and effective investigation is needed into the bandobast (security arrangement). It would be appropriate under your monitoring for district judge of Bhatinda to take into custody the entire records of the movements and deployment of Punjab Police in connection with the visit and produce before this court,” Singh told the bench. The senior counsel added: “After the records are submitted by the district judge, your lordships may decide what steps are to be taken.”At this, the CJI asked Singh to serve a copy of his petition on the state government. “You serve it today and we will take up your matter tomorrow,” justice Ramana said. The unprecedented breach in the PM’s security forced Narendra Modi to cancel his first rally in poll-bound Punjab. The Ministry of Home Affairs has sought a report on the incident from the state government. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has expressed regret over the incident but rejected allegations of any complicity. Channi claimed that his government had no information about the PM’s motorcade taking the road route.Meanwhile, the petition by Lawyer’s Voice has requested the Supreme Court “to take cognizance of the serious and deliberate lapse” on part of state government, its chief secretary and DGP in ensuring a secure route for the PM’s visit to the state on Wednesday. The local police is in charge of logistics and route security when the PM visits any state or UT. “It has been reported that while chief secretary of the state and DGP gave assurances to Special Protection Group (SPG) that the route is clear, it was found that the same was not true resulting in a precarious situation...that the lapse in the security of the Prime Minister was occasioned clearly in connivance with the Punjab Police,” it added.According to the PIL, the sequence of events indicated that the state government and the state police failed in providing effective security for the PM and were allegedly complicit in jeopardising the security of the high constitutional office in the country. “Issue a writ of mandamus or any other writ, order or direction fixing responsibility of Respondent No. 2 (chief secretary) and Respondent No.3 (DGP) and place them under suspension and further direct the Respondent No. 4 (Centre) to initiate departmental action against the same,” added the plea. 
07-01-2022||India||125 passengers from Rome test positive in Amritsar; 13 leave quarantine||A majority of passengers, 125 out of 179, who flew in on a chartered flight from Rome to Amritsar on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19, after which authorities struggled to quarantine them as required by rules before they eventually left the centres to which they were taken.The district collector of Amritsar took a strong note of the incident, setting a deadline of Friday morning for them to return to the quarantine centre.The passengers were taken to quarantine centres at their respective home districts and all of them had left by late evening. There were 179 passengers on the aircraft that landed in Amritsar at 11:20 am, officials said, adding that the aircraft had made a fuelling stop in Tbilisi, Georgia.Amritsar airport director VK Seth said the flight was operated by SARC company. “On arrival at 11.20 am, their rapid test was conducted by a private agency hired through tendering”, Seth added.Of the 179 passengers on board, 19 were children under the age of 5 years. According to government mandate, children under 5 years of age are exempt from RT-PCR testing on arrival. Since the flight was from Italy, a country defined as “at-risk”, 160 passengers underwent the test and 125 tested positive.Most of the passengers are from various parts of Punjab. After they tested positive, they started protesting inside the terminal saying they are fully vaccinated and had undergone an RT-PCR test before departing Italy, which were negative.Passenger Jasvir Singh Uppal, who belongs to Beas Pind in Jalandhar district and works in Italy, said, “Almost all of us are fully vaccinated and passengers conducted their RT-PCR tests from different reputed labs in Italy and tested negative. Our reports are on the internet and anyone in the world can check them. I surprised when my report turned negative at Amritsar airport. So, we lodged our protest and refused to go to quarantine centre”.Seth said, “We have asked the lab which conducted the test and it stands by the result of the report of the test they have conducted”.It was not clear whether the tests were faulty or the results obtained by the passengers were suspect. It is unlikely that all of the 125 passengers developed enough viral load to test positive in the time between their two tests as a matter of sheer coincidence.Among the passengers who skipped quarantine first were 13 taken to the Guru Nanak Hospital in Amritsar.District collector Gurpreet Singh Khaira took serious note of the incident and issued orders to the additional deputy commissioner to get police to book the passengers who left under the Epidemic act and the disaster management act.In a statement, Khaira asked the passengers to get admitted into the quarantine centre till Friday morning failing which, they would face police action.“Also, recommendation of cancellation of the passport and other records will be sent to the Home Department if they don’t turn up,” Khaira said.
07-01-2022||India||Main conspirator in GitHub case arrested in Assam: Delhi Police||Delhi Police on Thursday said they have arrested a 21-year-old man from Assam for allegedly creating the controversial app where doctored photographs of Muslim women were uploaded with derogatory messages. Police identified the arrested person as Neeraj Bishnoi, 21, a second-year B Tech student of the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Bhopal. On Wednesday night, a team of officers from the police’s IFSO (Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations) unit reached Jorhat in Assam, and arrested Bishnoi, the son of a grocer. DCP KPS Malhotra, chief of the IFSO, which is Delhi Police’s cybercrime unit, said Bishnoi was the “main conspirator and creator” of the app. “He is the mastermind who created the app on GitHub. We have seized his laptop and other electronic devices. We have recovered evidence, which shows that he had created the app.” The 21-year-old was brought to Delhi around 3.30pm after which he was produced before a city judge, who sent him to seven-day police custody. DCP Malhotra said Bishnoi confessed he developed the app some time in November and uploaded it in the last week of December. “Bishnoi had created different handles on Twitter to promote the app. He was constantly monitoring the news related to the case and had created a Twitter handle by the name of @giyu44. Using this newly created handle, he tweeted on Wednesday that police arrested the wrong persons in the case (related to three arrests by Mumbai police).” To be sure, Bishnoi’s confession is not admissible during trial. This is the first arrest in the case by Delhi Police. Two FIRs related to the case were filed by Delhi and Mumbai police. The app and its circulation on social media channels had sparked outrage after which different people filed complaints with Delhi and Mumbai police. Earlier, the Mumbai police arrested three persons in the case, Sweta Singh (18), her friend Mayank Rawat (20), both residents of Uttarakhand, and Vishal Kumar Jha (21), an engineering student from Bengaluru. The three allegedly shared the app and promoted it on social media handles, according to the Mumbai police. On Wednesday evening, many users on social media had called out Twitter user @giyu22 after the person claimed to be the owner of the controversial app on GitHub. The user @giyu22 had also claimed on Twitter that the other suspects arrested by Mumbai police did not know he had misused their accounts. Though HT could not independently verify the posts made on Twitter by @giyu22, DCP Malhotra confirmed that Bishnoi was the user and had written those tweets. Police are questioning Bishnoi to know why he created the app. Police confirmed Bishnoi had no criminal record. Officials of the Delhi and Mumbai police are likely to share developments related to the information to connect the dots between these four arrested persons. Bishnoi told police that he knew at least two of the three persons arrested by Mumbai police. Ankur Jain, superintendent of police (Jorhat), confirmed Bishnoi was arrested on Wednesday night. “He is a student of VIT’s Bhopal campus. He was attending classes online. He had returned to Jorhat from Rajasthan or somewhere near Delhi on December 25. Delhi Police were tracking him and asked for our help in arresting him,” Jain said. Bishnoi, police said, is a resident of Digambar Chowk in Jorhat town. He lived with his parents and two sisters. The family has been residing in Jorhat for over 30 years, Jain added. Vellore Institute of Technology officials confirmed that Bishnoi is a student of the institute’s Bhopal campus. Registrar, KK Nair, said, “He was attending online classes from home due to Covid 19 situation. He did not use the computer laboratory.” On Thursday, an institute official confirmed that Bishnoi has been suspended from VIT.DCP Malhotra said Bishnoi was arrested after police analysed “ raw data” and took “ technical details”. Delhi Police had earlier said that they were unable to track the suspects in this case because GitHuB, a US-based company, had allegedly not shared details of its users. Police had said that GitHub had asked them to follow the MLAT procedure if they wanted information on the IP address of the user. GitHub did not respond to a questionnaire sent by HT.Delhi Police had on Wednesday got the Centre’s approval to seek details from GitHub under the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT). Under the MLAT process, a request seeking information from companies that are settled outside India is sent by the Ministry of Home Affairs. It is a treaty which enables cross border investigation, especially when police are tracking a particular user/s, who may have used platforms like Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp and Gmail to issue threats to defame people on social media. To be sure, there is another case involving a similar app by another name, which is still pending investigation. An FIR in that case, where photographs of Muslim women were uploaded with derogatory comments, registered in July is still pending investigation. Delhi Police have maintained that they are unable to proceed in the investigation because GitHub has refused to share information. Delhi Police have been severely criticised for their handling of these two cases. The Delhi Commission of Women in a statement on Monday had said that the police inaction in the previous case had emboldened the culprits to come up with a similar app by using a different name this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/main-conspirator-in-github-case-arrested-in-assam-delhi-police-101641492037608.html
07-01-2022||India||Surat: Six workers killed in chemical tanker leak||Six workers of a textile dyeing and printing mill in Surat on Thursday died and 22 others were hospitalised after they inhaled toxic fumes leaking from a chemical tanker parked near the factory, officials said.The workers were at the factory in Sachin industrial area when the incident occurred, Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) in-charge chief fire officer Basant Pareek said. Two stray dogs also died in the incident. Providing details, Pareek said the matter came to light when the fire department received a call at around 4.25 am. At least 25 to 26 workers fell unconscious after inhaling the toxic fumes coming out of the chemical tanker parked on a roadside near the factory and were rushed to the new civil hospital. The leakage was brought under control after the tanker’s valve was closed by the fire department, he said.“Six people have died, while 22 others are undergoing treatment,” Omkar Chaudhary, resident medical officer of Surat Civil Hospital, said. In a statement later, the Surat civic body said “the chemical was being illegally discharged from the tanker when a toxic gas leaked from it and spread to nearby areas.” Some people from the nearby areas were evacuated as a precautionary measure, the civic body said, the civic body said.Chief minister Bhupendra Patel tweeted: “Many people have died due to gas leak in Surat. May God give peace to the departed souls and strength to the family members to bear this suffering. I pray for the health of those who have fallen ill in this incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surat-six-workers-killed-in-chemical-tanker-leak-101641491854939.html
07-01-2022||India||NEET PG counselling has to begin in national interest: Supreme Court||Counselling for NEET-PG courses has to begin in the national interest, the Supreme Court said on Thursday as it reserved its order on a demand by the Centre to hold counselling on the basis of its July 29, 2021 notification granting 10% reservation to the economically weaker section (EWS) in the general category and 27% quota for other backward classes (OBC) in the All India Quota (AIQ) seats.The court will pronounce its decision on Friday.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna, which heard the matter for two consecutive days, said, “In national interest, counselling has to begin” as it finished hearing the petitioners on their challenge to the July 29 order and the submissions by the Centre in support of the decision. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre informed the court that while OBC reservation has been provided in central educational institutions under the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2006, the EWS quota, which was introduced by the Constitution (One Hundred and Third Amendment) Act 2019, has been applied in postgraduate admissions in central education institutes and in appointments. He submitted that the challenge in these petitions cannot be sustained as the basis for the July 29 order was the 2006 Act and Article 15(6) introduced by the 103rd Constitution Amendment, 2019.By a January 17, 2019 notification, EWS was defined as persons having annual family income below ₹8 lakh. Those with five-acre agricultural land or a residential flat of 1,000 square feet also stood excluded from getting EWS benefits.The bench made pointed queries to the Centre on arriving at the ₹8 lakh figure to identify EWS when income tax exemption is available to persons earning up to ₹2.5 lakh per annum and with rebate up to a maximum of ₹5 lakh per annum. Referring to a recent report by a three-member committee formed by the Centre that upheld the ₹8 lakh income criteria for EWS, the bench said, “The question is about persons between ₹5 to ₹8 lakh. Is this something the court should defer to by saying it is not an atrociously arbitrary view?”The Sinho committee, headed by Major General (Retd) SR Sinho was constituted in 2005, which gave an exhaustive report in 2010 for identification of economically backward classes. While the Sinho committee said the creamy layer cannot be the criterion to identify EBC (economically backward classes) and suggested the BPL (below poverty line) as benchmark for identification, the three-member committee headed by former finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey justified the ₹8 lakh figure.The court reminded Mehta that in October 2021, the Centre justified the EWS cap by adopting the creamy layer criteria for OBCs that stood at ₹8 lakh in 2017. “When you first fixed ₹8 lakh income limit for EWS, you followed the creamy layer criteria and now you decided to revisit... It appears they (the Pandey committee) have tried their best to justify the figure of ₹8 lakh.”The court also wished to know from the Centre what consultation was done prior to the January 17 notification prescribing the ₹8 lakh income limit for EWS as the decision to introduce EWS quota in jobs and admissions was decided three days earlier on January 14, 2019.The petitioners represented by senior advocates Arvind Datar and Shyam Divan argued that in a country with vast disparity in per capita income, land holding capacity, and distribution of unreserved (general) category population, ₹8 lakh cannot be a criterion for all times.Solicitor general Mehta said, “By the term EWS, we are not trying to find who is poor. These persons may not be BPL, but slightly above this mark….If we do not live in a utopian world but a realistic one, we will be convinced that the figure of ₹8 lakh appeals to common sense. After all, it is just ₹70,000 per month and we know how costly everything is today.”On the argument whether income tax limit can be applicable to EWS, Mehta said that income tax limit applies to individuals while EWS criteria is on family income. “This is to give a push to students who are economically weaker but are lacking opportunities to compete with others. If there are three persons in the family earning ₹3 lakh each, the family will be pushed out of EWS,” the Centre argued.The Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) through advocate Archana Pathak Dave told the court that every year, 45,000 candidates are inducted as postgraduate resident doctors through the NEET-PG process. Counselling being stuck has resulted in a deficiency of around 33% of the medical workforce constituted by the first-year postgraduate doctors, who constitute the backbone of the medical workforce, Dave said. In the Capital’s Safdarjung hospital, out of 850 PG resident doctors, only 550 are working, of which 60 are down with Covid. A large chunk of this strength will pass out in the next four months, she added.In one of the petitions, advocate Vivek Singh filed a chart pointing out that in 14 postgraduate streams including dermatology, gynaecology, psychiatry, and orthopaedics, there is no further specialisation and any further reservation in AIQ seats will be crucial for general category doctors.The bench, allaying concerns of the FORDA, said, “Your concerns are not just of doctors but of citizens. Rest assured, your concern is well taken and is shared by the bench as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-pg-counselling-has-to-begin-in-national-interest-sc-101641491796610.html
07-01-2022||India||Modi security breach: CMs, BJP leaders offer prayers for PM’s well-being||The chief ministers of four Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states and several senior party leaders on Thursday offered prayers for the well-being of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a day after his convoy was stranded on a flyover in Punjab for 15-20 minutes in a major security lapse.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi, Modi’s Parliamentary constituency, and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan visited Gufa Mandir in Bhopal.Blaming the Congress for the security lapse, Adityanath said the party should apologise for its “irresponsible” and “unconstitutional” behaviour. Chouhan, who is also the BJP’s national vice-president, in a tweet said the “Congress should not try to put the country in danger.”Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Tripura counterpart, Biplab Kumar Deb, offered prayers at Ugratara temple in Guwahati and Meher Kalibari in Agartala, respectively.“…A man who is tirelessly working for Maa Bharti with blessings of a billion people can’t be harmed by unscrupulous elements.#LongLivePMModi,” Sarma tweeted. After offering the puja, Deb tweeted, “May lord Shiva protect our `Adarniya’ (beloved) Prime Minister @narendramodi from all evil forces and grant him an `Aarogya Jeevan’ (illness free life). #LongLivePMModi.” In a separate tweet, the Tripura chief minister strongly condemned the Punjab government for its inability to contain the security breach and said, “Protestors were given access to the PM’s route even after giving prior notice to the state government officials. This is really worrisome as it concerns PM’s security”.BJP national vice-president Baijayant Jay Panda, national general secretaries Arun Singh and Dushyant Gautam were among other leaders who visited temples to offer prayers.“BJP leaders are joining people in the prayers that are happening across the country for the PM’s well being and long life. The country has lost two PMs in the past and such lapses shouldn’t happen. The Congress government in Punjab is to be blamed for yesterday’s incident,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-security-breach-cms-bjp-leaders-offer-prayers-for-pm-s-wellbeing-101641491615553.html
07-01-2022||India||PM Modi security breach: Punjab forms panel for ‘thorough probe’||The Punjab government on Thursday constituted a two-member committee to carry out a “thorough probe” into the lapses that occurred during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur. The committee comprising retired high court judge, justice Mehtab Singh Gill, and principal secretary, home affairs and justice, Anurag Verma, has been asked to submit its report within three days, an official spokesperson said. “In order to carry out a thorough probe into lapses that occurred during the Prime Minister’s visit to Ferozepur yesterday, the Punjab government has constituted a high level committee,” said an official statement from the state government. The Union home ministry had taken serious of the “major security lapse” and sought a report from the state government, telling it to fix responsibility and take strict action. On being asking if the state administration was contemplating action against any officials for the security lapses, a senior officer said the government will wait for the findings of the probe panel. In an unprecedented breach, the Prime Minister convoy was on Wednesday stuck on a flyover near Ferozepur for 15-20 minutes due to a blockade by protesters. The PM, who was travelling by road from Bathinda airport due to the inclement weather, had to call off his plans to address the BJP rally in Ferozepur. Returning to Delhi, Modi was quoted by ANI as having told state government officials at Bathinda airport, “Apne CM ko thanks kehna, ki me Bathinda airport tak zinda laut paya. (Say thanks to your CM that I came back alive till Bathinda airport).” Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi denied the allegations of any security breach of the Prime Minister saying that he did it have information about the last-minute change of route of the PM. “We asked them (PMO) to discontinue the visit due to bad weather conditions and protests. We had no information of his (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) sudden route change. There was no security lapse during the PM visit,” he contended.The stand, however, has been strongly disputed by the Union government and the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-security-breach-punjab-forms-panel-for-thorough-probe-101641491438396.html
07-01-2022||India||Covid-19: 3rd wave limited to big cities, but has started to spread beyond||The third wave of Covid-19 is upon India.The seven-day rolling average of daily cases has increased every day for the past ten days: from 6,780 on December 27 to 40,459 on January 5, the highest since September 7 last year. This is at the national level but what do the disaggregated numbers show.The surge started in the most urban districts a little earlierIt’s understandable that the current surge is happening in big cities, where people arrive from abroad, since the Omicron variant was first detected outside the country. This is confirmed by data. How India Lives (HIL) has compiled district-level cases up to January 5. HT has classified these districts into five categories on the basis of how rural they are. The entirely urban districts, mostly metros and a few capital cities, have a rural population share of less than 20% (this is based on the 2011 census) and the entirely rural districts have less than 20% urban population, with other categories in between at similar 20% intervals. Disaggregating cases across categories shows that in the entirely urban districts, the 7-day rolling average of new cases was increasing before a consistent surge was seen at the national level. Here, the average increased daily for 16 days up to January 5. In all other categories of districts, this had happened for 9 days or 7 days.There are outlier districts in rural-urban categoriesTo be sure, even the above categorization hides some district-level peculiarities. For instance, in Delhi and Mumbai, which are in the most urban category, the 7-day average had been rising for 21 and 20 days, longer than for the category as a whole. Such outliers are also present in other categories. Of the 125 districts where the average has increased for at least 7 days, only six are of the same urban-level as Delhi and Mumbai. 17 of them are from the largely urban category (20%-40% rural population), such as Surat in Gujarat, Indore in Madhya Pradesh, and Palghar in Maharashtra. 34 such districts with consistent upward trajectory for a week are also ones where rural population share is over 80%. These include Raigarh in Chhattisgarh, Gaya in Bihar, and Kangra in Himachal Pradesh.
07-01-2022||NA||Breaking news highlights: Jharkhand reports 3,704 new Covid cases, 4 more deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand reports 3,704 new Covid cases, 4 more deaths#COVID19 | Jharkhand reports 3,704 new cases, 4 deaths, and 435 recoveries in the last 24 hours pic.twitter.com/qBDHZLY5TyDelhi govt to distribute dry ration kits to students as schools shutWith the shutting of Delhi government schools due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, an order has been issued to distribute dry ration kits amongst all the students, in the form of mid-day meals. EC raises expenditure limit for candidates contesting Assembly, Lok Sabha pollsThe Election Commission has increased expenditure limit for candidates contesting Assembly, Lok Sabha polls.US, world in 'struggle between democracy and autocracy': BidenPresident Joe Biden said Thursday that the United States and the rest of the world were locked in a battle between democracy and authoritarianism, in a speech marking one year since the assault on the US Capitol."We're living at an inflection point in history, both at home and abroad. We're engaged anew in a struggle between democracy and autocracy," he said."I will allow no one to place a dagger at the throat of democracy," Biden said at the Capitol. "I will stand in this breach. I will defend this nation."Maharashtra reports 36,265 new Covid cases, 13 deaths; state's Omicron tally climbs to 876Maharashtra reported 36,265 new Covid cases and 13 deaths on Thursday. State's Omicron tally has climbed to 876.Dharavi reports 107 cases in highest single-day spike Mumbai's Dharavi reports 107 new Covid-19 infections, the highest ever spike in a day; Case tally at 7,626, says Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Rajasthan CM tests positive for the Covid-19Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tests positive for the Covid-19 disease, he informs in a tweet.Delhi reports 15,097 new Covid cases, 6 deaths; positivity rate at 15.37%Delhi reports 15,097 new Covid cases, 6 deaths; positivity rate at 15.37%Kazakhstan sets fuel price limits after protests over hikesKazakhstan on Thursday set fuel price limits on liquid petroleum gas (LPG) for six months, the government said, after a New Year increase triggered protests that boiled over into mass unrest.The government said in a statement it took the "urgent" measure to "stabilise the socio-economic situation" in the Central Asian country, where LPG is widely used to fuel cars. Unrest over the price hike led to clashes with police that reportedly left dozens dead.Centre asks states, UTs to set up Covid-19 control rooms at district, sub-district levelCentre writes to states to ensure setting up of district, sub-district control rooms for Covid-19 management with adequate staff, doctors, infrastructure, monitoring of beds availability, making outbound calls to patients in home isolation.Union health minister meets Covid-19 positive doctors, health workes Union Health Minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya meets doctors and health workers who have tested positive for Covid-19 at AIIMS Delhi. “Many of our doctors, health workers have been affected with Covid-19 while serving patients, I pray for their good health," said the minister.Delhi HC declines to postpone UPSC mains ecaminationDelhi high court declines to postpone the UPSC mains exam scheduled from tomorrow. The court said that it was not inclined to interfere with the schedule of the exam. 125 passengers of an international chartered flight from Italy test Covid-19 positive on arrival at AmritsarAs many as 125 passengers of an international chartered flight from Italy have tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival at Amritsar airport.'Always a source of strength': PM Modi as President Kovind calls on him after Punjab security lapseCalled on Rashtrapati Ji. Thankful to him for his concern. Grateful for his good wishes, which are always a source of strength. @rashtrapatibhvn pic.twitter.com/g6Unl8WCJJ12 dead, 353 wounded among security forces in Kazakh unrestAt least 12 dead, 353 wounded among security forces in Kazakh unrest, reports news agency AFP.Australia agrees to delay Novak Djokovic's deportation, says tennis star's lawyerAustralia has agreed to delay world number one Novak Djokovic's deportation, says the sportsperson's lawyer.Arrested youth in ‘Billu Bai’ app case is 2nd year engineering studentThe main conspirator and creator of ‘Bulli Bai’ on GitHub and the primary Twitter account holder with the same name has been held by Delhi Police's Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations unit (IFSO) from Assam. The accused's name is Niraj Bishnoi aged 21 and he is a second-year BTech student from VIT, Bhopal, DCP KPS Malhotra said.  The police team with the arrested youth will reach Delhi at 3.30pm.PM Modi to meet Prez Ram Nath Kovind shortly after he expressed concern on security breach issuePresident Ram Nath Kovind has expressed concern on the security breach matter during PM Narendra Modi's Punjab visit on Wednesday. PM Modi will meet the President shortly.‘Bulli Bai’ app case main conspirator held by Delhi Police from AssamMain conspirator in ‘Bulli Bai’ app case arrested by Delhi Police’s IFSO special cell from Assam, ANI reported.‘No need for lockdown’: Delhi health minister amid rising Covid casesDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that the national capital is in “comfortable position” in terms of hospital bed occupancy, according to PTI. He added that there is no need for a lockdown in the state at the moment.Maharashtra stops genome sequencing after 55% of Covid samples confirm OmicronMaharashtra health department said on Thursday that it has stopped genome sequencing after 55 per cent of Covid-19 samples confirm Omicron, ANI reported. An order for a fresh sero-survey in the state is awaited.Ajay Bhalla to hold review meeting today over Covid situationUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla will hold a review meeting this evening over the rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi-NCR.SC to hear petition on Friday seeking probe into PM's security breach in PunjabThe supreme court will hear a petition on Friday seeking probe into PM Modi's security breach in Punjab on Wednesday. The CJI has asked petitioners to serve a copy on the Centre and the Punjab government today. Notably, the petition has been filed by an organisation called ‘Lawyer’s Voice'.Punjab forms panel to probe security lapses during PM's visitPunjab government has constituted a two-member high-level committee to probe security lapses during PM Modi's visit to the state on Wednesday.IIT Guwahati declared containment zone after 60 Covid-19 casesThe Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Guwahati has been declared a containment zone after as many as 60 Covid-19 cases were detected on its campus, news agency ANI reported citing an order.Novak Djokovic to take legal action after Australia cancels his visaSerbian tennis player and world number one, Novak Djokovic will pursue legal action after Australia cancelled his visa. The move stopped the defending Australian Open champion to participate in the event scheduled from January 17 onwards. Djokovic reportedly had to spend eight hours in detention at Melbourne Airport where he unsuccessfully pleaded his case to border officials. Read here.India logs 90,928 new Covid cases in 24 hours, daily tally up by 56.5%India on Thursday logged as many as 90,928 new Covid-19 cases with the daily tally shooting up by 56.5%, according to Union health ministry's morning bulletin. Read here.Fire breaks out in Delhi's Chandni Chowk, 12 fire tenders at spotAs many as 12 fire tenders are at spot in Delhi's Lajpat Rai Market in Chandi Chowk after a fire broke out earlier in the morning. The Delhi Fire Service (DFS) said that no casualty has so far been reported.  As per latest updates, the fire has been doused.Schools till classes 8, Anganwadi centres shut in Diu amid Covid spreadAmid the rising cases of Covid-19, pre-primary, primary, classes from 1-8 and Anganwadi centres in Diu have been shut. “We request the tourists to take all precautionary measures and keep themselves safe,” ANI reported quoting Saloni Rai, Diu collector.US CDC endorses Pfizer booster jabs for kids as young as 12To fight Omicron, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has endorsed Pfizer booster shots for children as young as 12.First Omicron case confirmed in AssamAssam on Wednesday reported its first case of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 after a Saudi Arabia returnee tested positive for the new variant of concern, news agency PTI reported. Read here.Delhi AQI at 380, presently in ‘very poor’ category, says SAFARThe overall Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi is currently at 380 and in the ‘very poor’ category, reports ANI citing the the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-6-2022-101641431681070.html
