08-01-2022||India||No quarrying in Gidhmuri-Paturia, Madanpur South coal blocks: Baghel to Centre||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel in a virtual meeting with union coal and mines minister Prahlad Joshi on Friday said Gidhmuri-Paturia and Madanpur South coal blocks will not be considered for auction and quarrying as both of them come under Lemru Elephant Reserve area. “Gidhmuri-Paturia coal block and Madanpur South coal block would not be considered for auction and quarrying as both the coal blocks come under Lemru Elephant Reserve area”, said Chief Minister during the meeting. The chief minister added that as many as 39 mines have been identified in the limits of Lemru Elephant Corridor and the question of quarrying in these mines does not arise, officials said on Saturday. “No further activities would take place in the mines falling under this area which were found by Chhattisgarh or other states. Information regarding the same has already been sent to the Government of India, when the Lemru Elephant Reserve was published,” he said. Sudeip Shrivastva, an environmental lawyer commenting on Baghel’s statement said the decision of Chhattisgarh government asking the Centre to withdraw Gidhmuri Paturia and Madanpur South Coal Blocks from mining list is certainly a good one but they also need to answer as to why Parsa, Kete Extension, Tara and Parsa (East) and Kete Basan (PEKB) blocks have been kept out of Final Reserve Boundary. “Except PEKB, all these blocks were part of proposed 3827 sq km Lemru Reserve. Tara has dense forest mostly and Kete Extension is 98% dense forest. Like Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan too ask for alternate block in Madhya Pradesh which will reduce transporting cost as well. But it seems private corporate are influencing decisions,” Shrivastva said. In July 2021, cabinet agreed that Lemru Elephant project will be of 1995 sq km area. The Chhattisgarh government has been considering the extension of Lemru elephant reserve area. Activists want the entire catchment area of Hasdeo River to be included in the reserve, which are natural habitat of elephant, and migratory corridor should be kept free from mining. The plan to set up the elephant reserve across 450 sq km was conceived by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government led by Raman Singh in 2005. In two years, it got the approval of the Union government. But the project never took off. The Bhupesh Baghel government revived the plan after the change of guard in 2018, initially proposing to set up the elephant reserve in north Chhattisgarh across 450 sq km. In 2020, the Chhattisgarh government decided to expand the proposed reserve to 1,995 sq km and later, initiated another proposal to increase the size further to 3720 sq km in mineral-rich north Chhattisgarh. However, the activists working in Chhattisgarh raised question over the 1995 square kilometer area of Elephant Reserve. “The 1995 sq km Lemru area map has been created in a way that most of the Hasdeo Arand coal blocks are out of its outer boundary. Obviously, the coal blocks like Parsa, Kete Extension, Gidhmuri and Paturia Dand are out of Reserve. The main catchment of Hasdeo Bango Dam is at huge risk and mining interest has prevailed over farmers and tribals,” said Shrivastva. 
08-01-2022||India||Contenders confident, put stock in digital canvassing strategies||As the countdown for elections in five states including the most populous Uttar Pradesh kicked off with the announcement of the poll schedule, major political parties locked horns on Saturday, expressing confidence of winning the political battle amid Covid-19 restrictions clamped by the Election Commission.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), fighting to retain power in four of the five states going to the polls, said it will abide by the poll watchdog’s directions to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour during the elections.Earlier on Saturday, the Election Commission announced that the polls will be held in multiple phases between February 10 and March 7. The results of the elections, the first set of regional polls being held with initial campaigning restricted to virtual events, will be announced on March 10.BJP president JP Nadda said the party will again get the blessings of the people. “I urge all the BJP workers to participate in this great festival of democracy with vigour and by following the Covid protocol guidelines given by the Election Commission,” he tweeted.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav appealed to the Election Commission to ensure that regional parties get proper space on digital platforms. He said the BJP was dominating on the digital medium because of its governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh, and its vast financial resources.Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Election Commission has banned election rallies, roadshows, and street corner meetings till January 15. Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra said the body will then review the situation on January 15 and take a call on allowing public rallies.The BJP hit back at Yadav’s remarks by saying that someone who claimed to be a “techno expert” was now “running away” from digital platforms.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the party was sure of forming the government in the state again with an overwhelming majority based on the achievements of the “double engine” government. He was referring to the BJP’s rule at the Centre and in the state.His rival, Yadav, posted couplets such as “revolution will happen on March 10 and Uttar Pradesh will see a change” to take on the BJP. The Congress, which is hoping to improve its fortunes in UP, said the party will defeat BJP governments in four states in the upcoming polls.Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said: “On March 10 (the election results day), there will be a victory march for the youth, farmers, women, workers, traders and common people of UP. In these elections, the Congress party will fight for the rights of youth, farmers, women, workers, traders and common people. UP will fight and will win.”The Trinamool Congress, fighting for the first time in the Goa assembly polls, tweeted: “Goa is chanting in unison, “Don Fulancho Kaal, Goenchi Navi Sakal”. Stay tuned, #ANewDawnForGoa is just around the corner.”While Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who’s in charge of Punjab, announced that the BJP is “fully prepared for the polls”, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the poll dates were announced on Saturday, but the “result has already been declared”.“In all five states the Congress will give a tough fight in this election and will retain the government in Punjab. In the four BJP-ruled states, the Cong will drub the BJP governments,” he said.“A golden opportunity has come to all five states. People are in distress because of soaring inflation. They will give a befitting reply to the BJP. For farmers, in Punjab and UP there is an opportunity to punish the BJP that has kept the man in Union government involved in death of farmers in Lakhimur Kheri,” Surjewala said.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his party, which is contesting in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, is “fully prepared” for the polls.“Aam Aadmi Party is fully prepared to enter the polls now that elections dates have been announced. The AAP is going among the people with a resolve to fulfil all the basic needs including providing good education, health, electricity, water, employment to everyone. I am sure, people will vote on basic issues this time and will reject the hate politics based on caste, religion divides,” Kejriwal tweeted.Delhi deputy CM, and AAP leader, Manish Sisodia also welcomed the election commission’s decision to introduce virtual rallies for the polls. “Keeping in mind the safety of the people, everyone should cooperate with the decision taken. The AAP is preparing for the virtual rallies. We will do door-to-door campaigning and I am sure the election commission will review it as soon as Covid-19 subsides and then take an appropriate decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contenders-confident-put-stock-in-digital-canvassing-strategies-101641666000898.html
08-01-2022||India||Delhi may see 35-70k Covid cases at peak, but hospitalisations to max out at 12k: IIT model||The number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital is expected to peak around January 15, with the number of daily infections reaching between 35,000 and 70,000, IIT scientists predicted on Saturday. The preliminary projections by scientists who modelled Sutra – a mathematical model developed at IIT Kanpur and IIT Hyderabad to predict a peak in Covid-19 cases – also noted that while the infection rate will be high, the peak bed requirement in Delhi will be less than 12,000. Initial data suggests the number of cases is likely to peak in Delhi between January 15 and January 20 to 35,000-70,000 cases daily on the basis of a seven-day average, the Sutra researchers said. “Hospital bed requirement is estimated to be 12,000 at its peak. It is assumed ~3.5% of the reported cases require hospitalisation for 5-8 days,” the projections, given to the Delhi government, said. Currently, with fewer than 1,600 Covid-19 patients hospitalised, Delhi has over 12,500 beds free, well within the peak of admissions predicted by the IIT model. Further, the Delhi government can scale the number of Covid-19 beds in the city to 37,000 within days if required, with a larger plan of amping up health care infrastructure to accommodate 65,000 hospitalisations currently in the works.In Mumbai, while the peak in cases is predicted to be around January 15-20, the cases are expected to rise to about 30,000 to 60,000 per day, and hospital bed requirement is also estimated to be around 10,000 at its peak. “What is important to note here is that there will only be around 12,000 hospital admissions even during the peak period. The Delhi government needs to keep a watch on hospital facilities. The numbers are not are alarming as it was during the second wave... Our estimates are projecting the worst-case scenario, so the situation is unlikely to be worse than that,” said Dr M Vidyasagar, SERB national chair, IIT- Hyderabad and member of the Sutra consortium. These predictions are being regularly monitored so that health infrastructure can be prepared for peak load, Delhi government officials said. “We are monitoring the cases very closely, and the peak in Delhi is likely in the next 7-8 days. However, we have been reiterating that the intensity of infections is mild, so the requirement of intensive care unit (ICU) beds, ventilators and oxygen could be less in Omicron infections as compared to what we saw during the Delta wave,” an official said, requesting anonymity. “But that does not mean that we get careless. Our aim should be to contain the peak infections to as low as we possibly can.” Bed occupancy in Delhi for Covid patients is less than 10% and the Capital has also substantially immunised people, pointed out Dr Suneela Garg, professor of excellence (community medicine) member of the Lancet Commission Covid India Task Force. The high vaccination rate along with relatively higher mask usage is likely to keep the infections milder in Delhi, and the number of daily infections could rise to around 35,000, she said. “In Delhi, more than 85% people have got their first dose of vaccination. The sero positivity in Delhi was also around 90% and our mask usage is also better,” Dr Garg said. “While we are expecting the cases to rise rapidly by around January 15, the peak daily cases are likely to be around 30,000-35,000. That said, the infection period currently is around five days, so the fall in the cases will also be as rapid.”Delhi on Saturday reported 20,181 cases, with the positivity rate going up to 19.6%. 
08-01-2022||India||Omicron surge: EC bans political rallies; night curfew back in Maharashtra | 10 points||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India continued the upward trend on Saturday with fresh infections crossing the 1.40-lakh mark. The cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant, being said to be driving the current surge of infections across the country, climbed to 3,071.Maharashtra continued to remain at the top of the charts for having the highest number of the confirmed Omicron cases, and also for having the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases in the country at present. Amid the gravity of the situation, the state on Saturday brought back restrictions including imposition of a night curfew, shutting down gyms and salons and capping attendance in private offices.Let's have a look at the top updates of Covid-19 situation in India:>Delhi reported over 20,000 cases of coronavirus disease on Saturday, pushing the overall tally to 1,526,979, according to the daily bulletin by the state health department. Meanwhile, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) relaxed weekend curfew on Sunday in wake of the birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, permitting devotees to visit Gurudwaras.>The Maharashtra government imposed a night curfew between 11pm to 5am from January 10. As per the renewed Covid-19 guidelines, the movement of people in groups of five or more has been restricted from 5am to 11pm. In addition to that, restaurants, shopping malls and auditoriums have been asked to function at half capacity.>Uttarakhand on Saturday reported 1,560 coronavirus cases, recording the highest single-day spike in infection cases in the state since May 29 last year when 1,687 people had tested positive. However, no fresh deaths were recorded.>Bengal is now amongst the top two states with the highest active cases, only behind Maharashtra. As per the Union health ministry, West Bengal has 51,384 active cases, accounting for 10.88 per cent of the cases in India.>Further, Mizoram on Saturday reported its highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases since October 20, 2021, with 852 fresh cases which took the state's caseload to 1,44,624, a health department official said.>Bharat Biotech on Saturday said that the booster dose trials for Covaxin have shown "promising results" of long-term safety with "no serious adverse events".>The Union health ministry announced more than 2 crore first doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been given to those in the 15-18 age group, taking the total doses administered to over 151.47 crore on Saturday.Also read | Covid-19 ‘precautionary’ dose: Facility to schedule third vaccine shot opens>Ahead of the approaching elections, the Election Commission on Saturday banned public rallies, roadshows and corner meetings till January 15 amid rising Covid-19 cases.>Thirty-three more students of the National Institute of Technology in Himachal’s Hamirpur district tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, news agency PTI quoted an official as saying.>Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Saturday said that Congress has cancelled its election rallies in view of the rising coronavirus cases. Earlier in the day, Uttarakhand banned political rallies, dharnas and demonstrations till January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-surge-ec-bans-political-rallies-night-curfew-back-in-maharashtra-10-points-101641660050483.html
08-01-2022||India||Sale of self-testing kits rises in Delhi as Covid-19 cases spike||Surge in Covid-19 cases has led to an increase in the demand for self-testing kits in Delhi, according to a report by news agency ANI. Covid-19 cases in the national capital have risen more than five times in a week as a highly transmissible Omicron variant is raging across the country. "Around 5,000-10,000 self-testing kits are sold every day in Delhi and are in high demand," it reported quoting Delhi Retail Distribution Chemist Alliance (DRDCA) President Sandeep Nangia.People who are not able to get themselves tested in labs or those who are hesitant to go out for tests are among the majority of buyers of Covid self-testing kits.With demand for the kits rising, the shopkeepers have begun to face shortage as well. Kanav Nangia, co-owner of a local chemist in Delhi, the stock is not at par with the demand which results in the stock getting exhausted within a day.Though it is an advantage to have a kit handy to detect the disease at the earliest stage, a large number of people taking test at home might lead to discrepancy in data as positive cases are not being reported to the government actively.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved seven at-home Covid test kits so far. All these tests except one are nasal swab-based tests and are available with all chemists, online sites.Generally, these kits contain a sterile swab, disposable bag, a prefilled extraction tube and a test card. The self-testing kits available in the market are rapid antigen kits that give out the result in less than 30 minutes.The suspected patients are required to insert the swab stick in both their nostrils, then dip the swab into the extraction tube and put a few drops of the liquid from the tube onto the test card. The test provides a negative or a positive result with the help of the control lines on the test card.The cost of these kits range from ₹250 to ₹350.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sale-of-self-testing-kits-rises-in-delhi-as-covid-19-cases-spike-101641661011688.html
08-01-2022||India||Covid-19 ‘precautionary’ dose: Facility to schedule third vaccine shot opens||Those eligible for a ‘precautionary’ dose of a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can schedule their appointments for the extra jab, as the facility to do so is now live on the CoWIN app, informed Vikas Sheel, additional secretary and mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), on Saturday.Also Read | Covid-19 precautionary dose: Appointments for third vaccine shot to open today. Check details“The feature for online appointments for Precaution Dose for HCWs/FCWs and Citizens (60+) is now live on Co-WIN. To book an appointment, please visit cowin.gov.in,” tweeted Sheel.
08-01-2022||India||Man dies by suicide after killing wife in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: A 42-year-old man died by suicide after killing his wife and attacking his daughter in the wee hours on Saturday in Barwani, said police. The 13-year-old daughter informed the police about the incident on Saturday morning. Pati police station in-charge RK Lovanshi said, “The girl came to the police station at around 9 am and informed that her father killed her mother by attacking with an axe. He also tried to kill her but she saved her life by running away from her home.” She was hiding in agricultural land and reached the police station in the morning. Lovanshi said, “Police team reached the spot and found the body of the woman. The police also found the man lying on the floor. Police personnel also found a packet of pesticide near the man. He was taken to a hospital where the doctor informed that he might have consumed some poisonous substance and died.” The police sent the bodies for post mortem. The lone survivor of the family, the girl said, “My father was fighting with my mother over some issue. Later he attacked her with an axe at least four-five times. He also tried to kill me but I pushed him and ran away from the home. My father was chasing me but I hid in agricultural land. He later returned to the house.” The Police are investigating the matter to know the cause behind this extreme step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-dies-by-suicide-after-killing-wife-in-madhya-pradesh-101641659518606.html
08-01-2022||India||Trials show Covaxin safe for booster dose, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Saturday vouched for the safety of its indigenously-made Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ for a booster dose against the coronavirus disease citing trials. The company added “no serious adverse events” were reported .Announcing the trial results, the company said, “Six months after a two-dose Covaxin (BBV152) vaccination series, cell-mediated immunity and neutralising antibodies to both homologous (D614G) and heterologous strains (Alpha, Beta, Delta, and Delta plus) persisted above baseline, although the magnitude of the responses had declined.”Furthermore, neutralising antibodies against homologous and heterologous SARS-CoV-2 variants increased from 19 to 265 folds after a third vaccination, it added.Booster BBV152 vaccination is safe and may be necessary to ensure persistent immunity to prevent breakthrough infections, it added.Reactogenicity after vaccine and placebo was minimal and comparable, and no serious adverse events were reported, the company said referring to the trial results. "Based on emerging data, Bharat Biotech believes that a third dose may be beneficial to maintain the highest levels of protection," it added."These trial results provide a strong foundation towards our goal to provide Covaxin as a booster dose. Our goal of developing a global vaccine against COVID-19 has been achieved with Covaxin indicated for adults, children, two dose primary and booster doses. This enables use of the vaccine as a universal vaccine," Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella said.Bharat Biotech noted that Covaxin is formulated uniquely such that the same dosage can be administered to adults and children alike.On Friday, Bharat Biotech urged healthcare workers to ensure only Covaxin is being administered to the age group of 15-18 years, following reports of other vaccines, which have not been approved for children, being administered to the newly eligible group.India began vaccinating teenagers aged 15-18 against Covid-19 from January 3. So far, only Covaxin has been approved for vaccinating the said group.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trials-show-covaxin-safe-for-booster-dose-says-bharat-biotech-101641655627472.html
08-01-2022||India||Air Force official stabbed to death in East Champaran||BETTIAH: A junior warrant officer (JWO) of the Indian Air Force was stabbed to death allegedly by country-made liquor manufacturers at a village under Sangrampur police station in East Champaran district on Friday late evening, said the deceased Aditya Kumar’s brother-in-law Prabhakar Kumar. Speaking to HT over phone, Prabhakar Kumar said the incident occurred near Ghusiyar Bind Toli near Tiwari Tola village in Dakshiki Madhubani panchayat in Sangrampur block when he along with his father Chandeshwar Tiwari went to take stock of the situation of his agriculture field at around 7.30pm on Friday. “Some country liquor manufacturers had made his agriculture land as their route for ferrying chulai sharab (local word for country liquor) and as a result the crop was getting damaged,” said deceased’s brother-in-law, attributing the barricading of his agriculture field as the main dispute behind the murder. Aditya Kumar (44), a junior warrant officer (JWO) in 40 Wing of Indian Air Force, who was posted at Amritsar, was attacked with knife as soon as he reached his agriculture land along with his father Chandeshwar Tiwari. His father also suffered injuries in the attack, police said. Kumar was rushed to a local hospital. Later, he was referred to sadar hospital at Motihari where the doctors declared him brought dead. However, police denied the family members’ claim of involvement of country liquor manufacturers in the murder. When contacted, Abhinav Dhiman, SDPO Areraj said, “Few people have been picked up for interrogation and raids are on.” He, however, attributed the instant provocation over use of land for passage as the cause behind the attack. “In the case of preliminary investigation, we came to know the incident was result of instant provocation which occurred owing to crop damaged by few people who used it as a way to participate in kirtan (religious song ceremony). Further investigation into the matter is underway,” said DPO Areraj. Deceased’s father is yet to record his statement, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-official-stabbed-to-death-in-east-champaran-101641657718837.html
08-01-2022||India||3 arrested after video of crowd at dog's birthday party goes viral||A video of a pet dog's lavish birthday where people gathered throwing Covid rules to the wind went viral on social media following which the Gujarat Police arrested three persons including the owner of the dog Chirag alias Dago Patel, ANI reported. Approximately ₹7 lakh was spent on the birthday celebration of Abby, the pet dog. The party was organised at Madhuvan Green Party Plot in Ahmedabad.The accused have been identified as Abby's owner Chirag, and his two friends -- Urvish Patel and Divyesh Mehria. "Three accused arrested for allegedly flouting COVID19 norms after a video went viral of Chirag alias Dago Patel celebrating his pet dog's birthday, spending approx ₹7 lakh, at Madhuvan Green Party Plot in Ahmedabad," Gujarat police said.Relatives and friends of the family had gathered at the venue and were seen without masks and flouting social distancing norms.In the viral video, a group of local performers could be seen singing songs and playing instruments. The venue was all decked up with balloons and at the entry, there was a photo of Abby, the dog. While social media users applauded that celebrating the pet's birthday was a novel gesture, the fact that people were not following Covid rules was rued. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-arrested-after-video-of-crowd-at-dog-s-birthday-party-goes-viral-101641652658241.html
08-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Curfew in Delhi to be relaxed for birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi announces relaxation in weekend curfew for birth anniversary of Guru Gobind SinghThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has announced a relaxation in the weekend curfew norms for the occasion of the birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, to be observed on Sunday. Read MoreUP poll dates announced, Yogi projects victory for ‘double-engine' govt; Akhilesh predicts changeAs the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday announced election schedule for the five poll-bound states, including Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, and his predecessor, Akhilesh Yadav, both took to Twitter to project victory for their respective parties. Read MoreMaharashtra imposes night curfew from Jan 10; gyms, salons to remain closedMaharashtra government on Saturday imposed a night curfew in the state in view of the increasing cases of Covid in the state. Read More'We can call this KL Rahul 2.0': Chopra dissects the rise of India opener, pinpoints reason behind his turnaroundKL Rahul seems to have a purple patch. The 29-year-old Test opener, also the ODI skipper for India's three-match ODI assignment in South Africa, has fared exceptionally well with the bat, having scored 204 runs including a century in the two Test matches so far. Read MoreRecovered from Omicron? Tips to regain stamina by an expertThe highly mutated Omicron variant is causing a huge spike in Covid-19 infections as the daily cases in India surge past 1 lakh from a few thousands in a matter of one week. Read MoreJacqueline Fernandez requests media for privacy as pics with Sukesh Chandrashekhar go viral: ‘Going through rough patch’Jacqueline Fernandez has requested the media for privacy in a statement on Saturday as yet another photo of her with conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar surfaced online. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-weekend-curfew-in-delhi-to-be-relaxed-for-birth-anniversary-of-guru-gobind-singh-and-all-the-latest-news-101641655489783.html
08-01-2022||India||Maharashtra imposes night curfew from Jan 10; gyms, salons to remain closed||Maharashtra government on Saturday imposed a night curfew in the state in view of the increasing cases of Covid in the state, starting from January 10 Schools and colleges, as announced earlier, will remain closed till February 15. In addition to that, the government has now asked the private offices to operate at a 50% capacity. Restaurants, shopping malls and auditoriums have been asked to function at half capacity. Gyms, beauty salons will remain closed, the government said.The restrictions come as the daily caseload of the state has been steadily increasing and with 41,434 fresh cases, the state breached the 40,000-mark on Saturday. The tally of the Omicron cases in the state crossed 1,000 as with 133 new cases of Omicron, the state's Omicron tally now stands at 1,009.‘No need for lockdown’: Mumbai mayor Pednekar changes stand on Covid surgeIn the latest order, the state government said entertainment parks, zoos, museums and all other tourists places will remain closed. As part of the night curfew, no movement is allowed after 11pm. During the day too, a gathering of five or more people will not be allowed anywhere in the state.
08-01-2022||India||Omicron cases to peak next month in India: US-based health expert||India will witness a peak in the number of Covid-19 cases by next month with the expectation of reporting five lakh cases per day, a US-based health expert said, adding that however "the severity of the variant will be less this time in the country than Delta variant."Dr Christopher Murray, Director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) and Chair of the Health Metrics Sciences at the University of Washington said: "You are entering the Omicron wave, as many countries around the world are, and we expect that there will be more cases per day at the peak than you had in April last year for the Delta wave, but Omicron is much less severe.""So, while you will have many cases and set records probably for cases. It should be less of an impact on the severity of the disease. We currently have in the models that we will release later, we expect about five lakh cases at the peak, which should come in during the next month," he added.As many experts in India say that the country has hybrid immunity due to which Omicron will be less effective, Dr Murray said: "What we know from a place like South Africa where there was a tremendous amount of prior infection, both Delta as well as Beta. Vaccination doses provide considerable protection for severe disease, from hospitalisation and death, which is why we think there will be many Omicron cases in India, but much less hospitalization and death than you had in the Delta wave."Speaking about the number of hospitalizations and severity due to the variant, he said: "We expect that 85.2 per cent of infections will have no symptoms. They will be asymptomatic, but amongst the cases, we still expect quite a number of them to end up in hospitals and in terms of death, cases will be much reduced. So we expect that the peak of hospital admissions in India will be about a quarter of what you had for the Delta wave, and deaths should be less of what you saw for Delta."According to some experts, further spread of Omicron may lead to other mutations. Talking about it Dr Murray said: "The thing about mutations is that they're random. So, the more transmission there is, the more potential there is for mutations to occur. But in the setting of this rapid transmission of Omicron, it's going to be very difficult in the next month or two for a new variant to meet Omicron because it's so transmissible."Dr Christopher Murray further spoke over the new variant with multiple mutations in France."There are mutations all the time, and you can identify variants with many mutations but the thing that we look for, is that within, you know, 30 to 45 days after a new mutation appears, has it spread as it spread like Omicron, so far, that mutation has been around for quite some time in France. And it has not spread so we are not currently learned about that mutation.""Omicron is 90 to 95 per cent, less severe, but there is still a segment of individuals, particularly older individuals who will get sick. So, there will be an increase. It's just a much smaller increase in hospitalizations," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-to-peak-next-month-in-india-us-based-health-expert-101641651326143.html
08-01-2022||India||Tejashwi overrules RJD state unit chief, says no tie-up with JD(U)||PATNA: Bihar leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday ruled out joining hands with chief minister Nitish Kumar’s party Janata Dal (United), setting at rest speculation set off by his own party’s state unit president Jagdanand Singh, who said the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) was willing to support the JD(U) if it breaks ranks with Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), a constituent of the ruling alliance. “There is no question of having any understanding or joining hands with the chief minister or the JD(U). There is no need to harbour any kind of misconceptions. RJD is a party which follows its principles and has never compromised on its ideals,” Yadav told a TV news channel. The 32-year-old heir apparent of the RJD, which is the main opposition party in Bihar, said Singh offered his party’s support to the JD(U) on the issue of conducting caste census in the state and it should not be misconstrued as a new political understanding or realignment with Kumar’s party. On Thursday, Singh said, “Remove those ministers (from the BJP) who are opposing the government. Nitish Kumar should not bow before the BJP. If there is any political impact to the government on the issues of caste census and special status to Bihar, the grand alliance is there to support him (chief minister).” Last year, a delegation of 10 parties, including the RJD, led by chief minister Nitish Kumar, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand a caste census. After the Centre ruled out such an exercise, the CM has taken the stand of holding a caste count in Bihar at state’s cost and said a final decision will be taken only after an all-party meeting. Recently, chief minister Nitish Kumar said the date for the all-party meeting for the purpose will be finalised once the BJP gave its views on the matter. Yadav, however, said, “What is the need for calling an all-party meeting when the proposal of holding a caste census has been passed unanimously twice by the state assembly. Had I been the CM, I would have ordered a caste census in Bihar. The chief minister is sitting on the lap of the RSS and he would not do anything. He is a tired man and has no interest in development of the state,” Yadav said. 
08-01-2022||India||Mumbai daily infections remain above 20,000; no major change from yesterday||Mumbai on Saturday reported 20,318 fresh infections, marking little change from Friday's 20,971 infections. In the last 24 hours, the city recorded five deaths. About 82% of the fresh cases are asymptomatic which indicates the surge of Omicron over Delta in the city. A total of 133 Omicron cases were reported in Maharashtra on Saturday, taking the tally of Omicron cases in the state to 1,009Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the need for hospitalisation and oxygen support was low. The state task force and the health department took note of this amid the rise in the number of daily cases and submitted their assessment to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.The hospitalisation data of the city reveals that the majority of those who have to get hospitalised are unvaccinated. “Out of the around 1,900 Covid patients who were on oxygenated beds, around 96% are unvaccinated and only 4% are vaccinated,” Brihanmumbai Corporation (BMC) municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal, citing data till January 6.Earlier, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar had said when Mumbai's daily case would cross 20,000, more restrictions would be considered. “Even though 20,000-plus cases are being reported in the city regularly, more than 17,000 patients are asymptomatic. Out of the total available beds in Mumbai, more than 80% are still unoccupied and the demand for the oxygen beds is also very marginal,” the mayor clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-daily-infections-remain-above-20-000-no-major-change-from-yesterday-101641649540293.html
08-01-2022||India||Meet the viral, not virus Kovid||Yeh aapka real name hai kya? Abhi change kiya kya naam? – These are just a few amusing reactions that Bengaluru-based Kovid Kapoor is asked, ever since the pandemic hit, due to the stark similarity in his name and the Covid-19 virus. Inundated with calls since the last two days, the 31-year-old says that the last two years have made him conceal his real name whenever in a public place!“Unless I have to make a hotel reservation or book a ticket, I don’t give out my name,” says the co-founder of a travel website, adding, “Jahan pe naam itna important nahi hota, like a restaurant reservation, I make do with someone else’s name ya apna naam kuch aur bata deta hoon. I have already received some amusing reactions at the airport security and check in counters, many a times. Most of them are busy so they will laugh for a second, and then say something like: ‘Ye kya naam hai? Baad mein change kiya kya?” The similarity in names has even made holidaying a tricky affair for him. “After the first lockdown was lifted, we planned a trip and made a booking at a hotel. Within two hours, the hotel called me and went like, ‘Sir is this a joke? Yeh toh bahut hi funny naam hai! Are you sure?” laughs Kapoor, whose Twitter bio reads: ‘My name is Kovid and I’m not a virus.’He, however, wonders how his name suddenly started trending on social media, given that we are in the pandemic since almost two years now. Kapoor recalls, “The virus got the name Covid, in February 2020. At that time, a friend of mine sent me the WHO tweet and it was obvious that the name is similar to my name in terms of its pronunciation and spelling. It was certainly amusing to me then... But I don’t know what happened this time. I have been making and hearing so many jokes since the last one year, and some of them I tweeted three days ago and went to sleep. When I looked at my social media account again, it had gone absolutely crazy.”His wife is “not as amused” as him, he says, adding, “My wife is a bit tired of it already. She has been dealing with jokes on my name since the last two years. And since the last couple of days, I’ve been on my phone and laptop for something or the other almost all the time. So she’s sitting in the room, waiting for all this to get over!” The IIT Bombay graduate adds his parents are extremely thrilled with the sudden attention coming his way. “Yeh joke mere parents ko toh bahut saare log bolte hain: Aapko sapna aaya tha kya 1990 mein!” And as far as his employees are concerned, Kapoor informs that his team meetings can never been the same like the pre-pandemic times. He shares, “When we had team meetings to discuss the impact of Covid situation, it became quite amusing that the words Covid and Kovid would get mixed up so often that I had to lay extra emphasis in pronouncing them carefully and would often end up asking – Are you talking about Covid or Kovid?” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-the-viral-not-virus-kovid-101641648656248.html
08-01-2022||India||Delhi’s daily Covid cases rise to 20,181, positivity rate nears 20%||In yet another daily hike, Delhi reported more than 20,000 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, pushing the overall tally to reach 1,526,979, according to the daily bulletin by the state health department. The positivity rate has now climbed to 19.6 per cent, the health department data also showed.The city has now a total of 48,178 active cases. According to the data, seven others lost their lives to the viral disease and the death toll now stands at 25,143.A total of 1,02,965 tests were conducted the previous day, including 79,946 RT-PCR ones, while the rest were rapid antigen ones.Nearly, 1,586 patients are admitted to hospitals, with 375 patients on oxygen support. Out of 375 patients, 27 are on a ventilator. As of Saturday evening, the city has as many as 9227 containment zones across the city, the data also showed.Covid-19 cases in Delhi are growing exponentially as the country is hit with the third wave of the pandemic. The jump in cases also comes as the highly transmissible Omicron variant which was first found in South Africa, is spreading across Indian states.During the height of the second wave of the pandemic, Delhi had logged 28,395 cases in the highest-ever single-day tally on April 20 last year, according to official figures.Though the cases are rising, the daily death is still below alarming levels. In December last year, a total of nine deaths took place in Delhi. While in November there were seven related fatalities, according to official data. Delhi had recorded four Covid deaths in October and five in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-daily-covid-cases-rise-to-20-181-positivity-rate-nears-20-101641648402588.html
08-01-2022||India||CNG, PNG prices hiked in Mumbai, taxi associations threaten to go on strike||MUMBAI: Prices of compressed natural gas (CNG) and piped natural gas (PNG) will be hiked in Mumbai from midnight of January 8. CNG prices will increase by ₹2.50 per kilogram and will now cost Rs.66 per kg. PNG will be available at Rs.39.50 per standard cubic meter (SCM) after the hike of ₹1.50 per SCM. The hike is the sixth increase in CNG and PNG prices from 2021 and the first in 2022. “In order to meet the shortfall in domestic gas allocation, MGL is sourcing additional market priced natural gas to cater to the increasing requirement of CNG and Domestic PNG segments. To partially offset the increase in the input cost of gas, MGL is constrained to increase the delivered price of CNG by Rs. 2.50/Kg and Domestic PNG by Rs.1.50/SCM in and around Mumbai,” said a statement by natural gas distribution company Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL), an enterprise of GAIL Limited and Government of Maharashtra. Earlier, one kg of CNG was available at Rs.63.50 while PNG was available at Rs.38.00/SCM in Mumbai. Taxi associations have threatened to go on strike and have stated that if the state government does not increase the fare of black and yellow taxis then they would go on strike. “Taxi drivers cannot operate at a loss. We have already suffered a lot in 2021 and the price of CNG and PNG is increasing a lot. We have made representation to the state government and if the government does not increase the fare we will go on strike,” said AL Quadros, leader, Mumbai Taxi Men’s Union. Autorickshaw drivers’ associations have said that they would approach the state government demanding a reversal in the prices of CNG. “It is the job of the state government to ensure that the prices of CNG are not increased substantially. Fares cannot be increased as it will stretch the pockets of passengers more. We will approach the state government,” said Shashank Rao, president, Mumbai Autorickshaw Men’s Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cng-png-prices-hiked-in-mumbai-taxi-associations-threaten-to-go-on-strike-101641648296049.html
08-01-2022||India||Stop worrying about credit: Anurag Thakur jabs Mamata after she claims credit for cancer institute in Kolkata||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Saturday attacked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee over her remarks concerning the second campus of the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in Kolkata which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a day ago.In a swipe at Banerjee, Thakur said that as a chief minister she should know the difference between a temporary Covid-19 centre and a world-class cancer institute. His remarks came a day after the West Bengal CM claimed that the project was already inaugurated by her government long time ago.“But no, neither your corona management is effective nor your statement about Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in Kolkata,” Thakur wrote in a series of tweets in Hindi.Thakur also highlighted that Bengal is the second-worst affected state in terms of the Covid-19 spread, adding that Mamata should be worrying about it instead of indulging in subjects “she was not aware of”. दीदी @MamataOfficial जी ।अस्थायी कोविड सेंटर और विश्वस्तरीय कैंसर इंस्टीट्यूट में बहुत फर्क है और एक मुख्यमंत्री के रूप में आपसे अपेक्षा थी कि आप इस अंतर को जानती होंगी…1/3"Can you stop worrying about the credit and instead engage in Covid-19 management in the service of Bengal and maintain the dignity of the post?” he added.Following the inauguration of the institute, Banerjee yesterday reminded people that the project was associated with the state government as well. "The prime minister virtually inaugurated the project. But I would like to inform the PM that we had already inaugurated it earlier during the outbreak of pandemic when we needed a Covid centre. It helped us a lot,” news agency PTI quoted her as saying.“The PM will be happy to know that the state is funding 25 per cent of the project. We have also given 11 acre of land to the CNCI for the second campus,” she added.Banerjee, who attended the inauguration event virtually from her office, said she was invited twice by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.The second campus of CNCI has been built at a cost of over ₹530 crore, out of which around ₹400 crores have been provided by the Union government and the rest by the West Bengal government, in the ratio of 75:25. The campus is a 460 bedded comprehensive cancer centre unit with cutting-edge infrastructure for cancer diagnosis, staging, treatment, and care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-worrying-about-credit-anurag-thakur-jabs-mamata-after-she-claims-credit-for-cancer-institute-in-kolkata-101641645562905.html
08-01-2022||India||Bulli Bai: Niraj Bishnoi claimed he has been hacking sites since age of 15||As the investigation into the Bulli Bai app case is going on, interesting details about main perpetrator Niraj Bishnoi, a 21-year-old engineering student from Assam, have emerged. On Saturday, police said Niraj has claimed that he has been hacking and defacing websites, not only of Indian institutions but also of Pakistan. He also claimed he learnt hacking at a young age and has been doing this since the age of 15. Niraj was arrested on charges of developing Bulli Bai app which put out photos of Muslim women for auctioning. His father said Niraj used to remain always glued to his computer while his family members had no idea what he was up to. However, he said he had to visit his school principal on several occasions after Niraj's computer got confiscated but he had no idea what his son was doing on the computer. Questioning Niraj, police have come to know that he is a repeat offender, was active during the Sulli Deals investigation and had five different Twitter accounts. He has claimed to have hacked websites, police said.Watch | 'Loner, bright student': Who is Bulli Bai app creator Neeraj Bishnoi; His role in Sulli deals row exposedThe following Twitter handles have been identified, which are @giyu2002, @giyu007, @giyuu84, @giyu94 and @giyu44. Out of these, the account @giyu2002 has been found associated with one FIR registered in the Kishangarh police station of South West Delhi. Bishnoi, from the @giyu2002 Twitter handle, had made lewd comments and tweeted about auctions of women, DCP IFSO special cell, KPS Malhotra said.When the probe into Sulli Deals was going on, Bishnoi created a fake profile of a girl and tried to communicate with the investigation agency as a news reporter. Police said he was trying to plant some misinformation. This time too as three students were arrested in the Bulli Bai case, Bishnoi claimed on Twitter that he was the mastermind and manipulated his location as Nepal.Police said Niraj wanted to get publicity and there is a possibility that he was deeply involved in the Sulli Deals case. Niraj admitted to the crime and said he was proud of the app that he created. After his arrest, some old social media posts allegedly by Niraj on Quora have surfaced. The profile which apparently belongs to him replied to many questions mostly technology related. Some other questions he answeres were on Sunny leone, Aryan Khan- Navya Naveli fake MMS etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulli-bai-niraj-bishnoi-claimed-he-has-been-hacking-sites-since-age-of-15-101641647603831.html
08-01-2022||India||Only vaccinated passengers allowed on suburban trains in Chennai region: Southern Railway||In view of the steep rise in new Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, passengers who have received the two doses of vaccination would be allowed to travel on its suburban services with effect from January 10, the Southern Railway said on Saturday. In the latest set of guidelines issued by it, passengers with two doses of vaccination would be allowed for taking up journeys in the Chennai region. The Southern Railway also warned of collecting ₹500 as a fine from a passenger who is found not wearing a face mask on the premises. Taking into account the current surge in COVID-19 cases and a threat of the Omicron variant, the Tamil Nadu government has imposed several restrictions from January 6 onwards following which suburban train services are operating with 50 per cent seating capacity. With effect from 4 am on January 10 till 23.59 pm on January 31, only passengers in possession of certificate of COVID-19 vaccination would be permitted to travel in suburban trains, a press release said. The passengers need to produce the vaccination certificate for issue of journey or season tickets at the counters along with a valid identification proof, the release said. The Southern Railway said during the above mentioned period, the UTS on mobile application service would not be available to passengers. In view of the pandemic situation prevailing in the country and taking into account the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Tamil Nadu government, the Southern Railway said it has been bringing in various restrictions and relaxations wherever required. In an appeal to passengers, the Southern Railway said they should take up travelling as per the norms laid down by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Government of Tamil Nadu. Passengers are requested to adhere to all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as social distancing, wearing face mask and washing hands at regular intervals in the station and also while onboard the train, the release added. As of Friday, the COVID-19 tally in Tamil Nadu climbed to 27,76,413 with 8,981 cases while the toll mounted to 36,833 with eight more fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-vaccinated-passengers-allowed-on-suburban-trains-in-chennai-region-southern-railway-101641643441269.html
08-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: AAP says Cong, BJP joined hands against it in Chandigarh, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cong, BJP joined hands to defeat AAP in Chandigarh mayoral poll: Raghav ChadhaPunjab Aam Aadmi Party unit co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Saturday alleged that BJP and the Congress came together to defeat the AAP in the mayoral elections on Saturday despite the party emerging as the single largest party in the municipal corporation House. Read more ‘No need for lockdown’: Mumbai mayor Pednekar changes stand on Covid surgeMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Saturday said that lockdown will not be imposed in the city and urged Mumbaikars to remain cautious and not panic amid the recent rise in Covid-19 cases. Read more Iyer, Vihari have to wait for regular chances: Dravid clarifies at giving Pujara, Rahane longest rope; explains whyIndia head coach Rahul Dravid clarified on Friday that the team management will be handing the longest rope to their two senior batters in Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane, implying that younger middle-order options in Hanuma Vihari and Shreyas Iyer will hence have to wait for their regular chances for a tad longer. Read more What Do We See When We Look at the Sky movie review: The world is magical if you pay attentionAbout an hour into Alexandre Koberidze’s Georgian film What Do We See When We Look at the Sky?, I finally realised the significance of the title. Read more Tips to protect your newborn from Omicron; symptoms to watch out forBabies under age 1 may be at higher risk of getting severe illness with Covid-19 than older children because of their immature immune system. Read moreKid sees waterfall for the first time, her amazed reaction will make you smileDo you remember how you felt when you saw a waterfall for the first time in your life? This video of a kid may remind you of that time. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cong-bjp-joined-hands-to-defeat-aap-in-chandigarh-mayoral-poll-and-all-the-latest-news-101641638220493.html
08-01-2022||India||Covid booster dose must for election officials, rallies banned till Jan 15. Full list of pandemic guidelines||For the first time ever, the election commission of India on Saturday announced a campaign curfew in the five poll-bound states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Uttarakhand as it announced the complete schedule of the election, starting from February 10. As of now, no rallies will be allowed till January 15, the election commission said. The situation is dynamic and will be reviewed only after January 15, the CEC said.Here are the Covid-19 guidelines1. No roadshow, padyatra and rally will be held till January 15.2. No nukkad sabhas will be allowed on public roads.3. No victory procession after the counting by the political rallies.4. Only five people will be allowed for dor-to-dor campaigning.5. Election Commission will not hesitate to cancel rallies if Covid protocols are violated.6. Chief secretary, district magistrates will be personally responsible for violation of Covid rules during the polling.
08-01-2022||India||‘No need for lockdown’: Mumbai mayor Pednekar changes stand on Covid surge||MUMBAI: Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Saturday said that lockdown will not be imposed in the city and urged Mumbaikars to remain cautious and not panic amid the recent rise in Covid-19 cases. Pednekar earlier said that the city authorities will have to consider lockdown if daily Covid-19 cases cross 20,000. For the past two days, Mumbai has been reporting around 20,000 cases. On Friday, 20,971 new infections were reported in the city. However, on Saturday Pednekar said the number of hospitalisation is low and hence lockdown was not being imposed in the current situation. “Even though 20,000-plus cases are being reported in the city regularly, more than 17,000 patients are asymptomatic. Out of the total available beds in Mumbai more than 80% are still unoccupied and the demand for the oxygen beds is also very marginal,” she said.“We can see the transmission rate this time is higher and the positivity rate is also four times than what we have seen last year, but I urge Mumbaikars to not panic. The situation is well under control and there’s nothing to worry as the symptoms of the latest variant are mild and our medical infrastructure is well equipped to handle the cases. Instead, citizens must follow all the Covid appropriate behaviour and must not step out without their mask,” she said. Amidst the steady rise of Covid-19 cases, Pednekar visited the Covid-19 jumbo center at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) on Saturday morning. The mayor was clad in PPE kit and went inside the facility to interact with the admitted patients. She was accompanied by the centre’s dean Dr Rajesh Dhere .Pednekar said that out of the 2,500 beds at the BKC centre, around 900 beds are occupied out of which around 670 patients are asymptomatic and not a single ICU bed is occupied at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-for-lockdown-mumbai-mayor-pednekar-changes-stand-on-covid-surge-101641638875608.html
08-01-2022||India||Two Mumbai women drown in Narmada river while taking selfie||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: Two women allegedly slipped from a marble rock and fell into the Narmada river while taking a selfie at the tourist spot of new Bheraghat in Jabalpur on Friday, said police. The police fished out the bodies of women and handed them over to families on Saturday. The women were identified as Mumbai resident Hansa Soni, 50, and her would be daughter-in-law Riddhi Picchadia, 22. City superintendent of police (CSP) Bargi area, Priyanka Shukla said, “The Soni family, a resident of Mumbai, had come to visit Bheraghat. They were staying in a nearby hotel. On Friday evening, they decided to visit the new Bheraghat. The woman, Hansa Soni and her to-be daughter-in-law Riddhi Picchadia were taking selfies while standing on a rock. Hansa lost her control and fell into the Narmada river. Ridhi jumped in to save her. Both of them washed away in the strong current. During a search with the help of local swimmers, the body of Hansa Soni was found late on Friday evening while the body of Riddhi was found on Saturday.” The senior police officer said the bodies have been handed over to the family after the postmortem on Saturday. This was not the first such incident. Earlier in 2017, a boy slipped into the river while taking a selfie at Bheraghat and in a bid to save him, his sister jumped into the river and died. The district administration put a warning board for prohibiting selfies at the spot and also appointed divers to save the lives of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-mumbai-women-drown-in-narmada-river-while-taking-selfie-101641638214508.html
08-01-2022||India||India's R-naught value recorded at 4 this week: What it means for 3rd wave||India's R-naught value recorded at 4 in 1st week of 2022: What it means for 3rd waveThe spread of the SARS-CoV-2 has been the highest in the first week of January, India's R-naught value which indicates the spread of the infection revealed. According to a study by IIT Madras, the R-value was recorded at 4 this week, which is way above the R-value recorded ever in India.What is R-naught value? Why is this important?The value indicated the number of people an infected person can spread the disease to. A value above 1 indicates that the pandemic is expanding as 1 suggests 1 infected person can infect another person. A value of 4 means one infected person can spread the infection to four people, which signifies that the transmission of the infection is huge.Why is R-value 4 alarming?According to the health ministry, the R-value was 1.69 during the peak of the second wave. Earlier this week, the ministry noted that India's R-value already breached the peak of the second wave and reached 2.69. IIT Madras analysis said the R-value was close to 2.9 nationally between December 25 and December 31. From January 1 to 6, the value was recorded at 4.What Omicron peak in India could look like in terms of daily cases, bed requirement, experts predictDr Jayant Jha, Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics, IIT Madras, told PTI that R-value depends on transmissibility probability, contact rate and the expected time interval in which infection can happen. The preliminary analysis has been done jointly by IIT Madras' Department of Mathematics and Centre of Excellence for Computational Mathematics and Data Science headed by Prof Neelesh S Upadhye and Prof S Sundar."Now, with the increase in quarantine measures or restrictions, maybe the contact rate will go down and then, in that case, R0 can decrease. So, based on our preliminary analysis, which is just based on the last two weeks, we can tell these numbers, but again, these numbers can change based on how much affirmative action is taken with respect to social gathering and all," he told PTI.What it means for 3rd waveThough the Centre has not termed the ongoing surge as the 3rd wave of the pandemic, it has acknowledged the exponential surge in the number of cases. State health ministers have said that the third wave has already set in. The IIT study predicts that the peak of the third wave will come between February 1 to 15.The study has also shown that compared to previous waves, there will be a faster and sharper increase to the peak in this wave. However, the impact of the huge vaccine coverage will make this wave different, though now there are fewer restrictions compared to teh first wave when a national lockdown was imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-r-naught-value-recorded-at-4-this-week-what-it-means-for-3rd-wave-101641633235722.html
08-01-2022||India||‘We don’t come under ambit of CAA’: Chakma-Hajong group responds to Rijiju||GUWAHATI: A group of Chakma and Hajong residents of Arunachal Pradesh have refuted union minister Kiren Rijiju’s recent remarks, asserting that they don’t come under the purview of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).On Thursday, while attending the Shi-Donyi festival of the Tagin community in Arunachal Pradesh, union law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju said that under CAA, no refugee in the state can claim the rights of indigenous tribals. Rijiju said the union home ministry has already asked Chakmas and Hajongs of Arunachal Pradesh to look for an alternative (state to stay) and urged them to support that decision.“Chakmas and Hajongs of Arunachal Pradesh do not come under the ambit of CAA because the Indian government legally brought them during 1964-1969 and settled them permanently under “Definite Plan of Rehabilitation”,” Arunachal Pradesh Chakma Students’ Union (APCSU) general secretary, Supon Chakma stated in a statement issued on Friday.He added that under this plan, the Centre, in consultation with the then North East Frontier Agency (NEFA) administration (now Arunachal Pradesh) allotted 5 acres of land to each Chakma and Hajong Family and provided them ration cards, jobs, gun license, business license, among others.“The Chakmas and Hajongs came to NEFA (now Arunachal Pradesh) much before the 31 December 2014 as cut off year of CAA and the Chakmas and Hajongs are governed by the Citizenship Act of 1955, not the CAA 2019 and hence they do not come under CAA,” he added.Chakmas and Hajongs, who are Buddhists and Hindus, migrated to India between 1964 and 1966 from Chittagong Hills Tract (CHT) of then East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) to escape religious persecution and were settled in NEFA. They were settled with a rehabilitation plan, allotted land and provided with financial assistance depending on the size of their families to help rebuild their lives. As per the 2011 Census, there are 47,471 Chakmas and Hajongs in Arunachal Pradesh. In two judgments in 1996 and 2015, the Supreme Court directed the central and state government to protect the life and liberty of Chakmas and Hajongs under Article 21 of the Indian constitution and confer citizenship to around 14,888 Chakmas and Hajongs who have been left out. Last month, Chakmas and Hajongs accused the Arunachal Pradesh government of conducting racial profiling of their communities through an exclusive census scheduled to start this month. Authorities in Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang district, where this census was supposed to take place, however, insisted that there is no immediate plan for such an exercise and the issue is just at a proposal stage. In Friday’s statement, Drishyamuni Chakma, president of APCSU strongly opposed and condemned any such so-called alternative or relocation outside Arunachal Pradesh. “We have been living in Arunachal Pradesh for almost 6 decades i.e. 60 years and we have built our home and hearth. Arunachal Pradesh has become our motherland and relocating us outside is not acceptable,” he stated. 
08-01-2022||India||‘Great going’: Mandaviya says over 2 crore in 15-18 age group jabbed against Covid-19 in less than a week||The national immunisation drive against Covid-19 was expanded to include those between 15 and 17 years of age on January 3 and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, on Saturday, said that more than two crore beneficiaries in the age group have been jabbed within a week after the drive commenced.Noting that the drive has been progressing rapidly, the minister said, “Over 2 crore youngsters between the 15-18 age group have received their first dose of #COVID19 vaccine in less than a week of vaccination drive for children,” in a tweet.तेज गति से जारी बच्चों का टीकाकरण 💉Great Going, my Young Friends 👦🏻 👧🏻 Over 2 crore youngsters between the 15-18 age group have received their first dose of #COVID19 vaccine in less than a week of vaccination drive for children.#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/787C2RByHQData from the Co-WIN dashboard at 1.50pm showed that between January 1 and 7, as many as 20,226,790 people between 15 and 17 years of age have been inoculated with the vaccine.The remarks from Mandaviya came a day after the country’s vaccination drive was appreciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday for administering more than 1.5 billion (150 crore) vaccine doses.Also read | Can recovered Covid-19 patients be reinfected with Omicron? Here's what WHO saysModi, who was speaking during the inauguration of the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in Kolkata, called the feat a “historic milestone” and thanked the scientists, vaccine makers and the Union health ministry.“The country started the year (2022) with vaccination for children in the age group of 15 to 18 years. At the same time, in the first week of the first month of the year itself, India is also achieving the historic milestone of 150 crore, 1.5 billion, vaccine doses,” he said.Mandaviya too lauded the milestone and called it “a historic effort, a historic achievement” and thanked the medical workers in the country.Modi during his address to the nation on December 25, announced the inclusion of those above 15 years of age in the vaccination drive and also the ‘precautionary doses’ of vaccine for healthcare and frontline workers along with those above 60 years of age having comorbid conditions. The move was made in view of the rapidly spreading Omicron variant.On Saturday, India witnessed more than 100,000 new Covid-19 cases for the second straight day after 141,986 people tested positive in the last 24 hours. The Omicron tally in the country was recorded at 3,071, of whom, 1,203 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-going-mandaviya-says-over-2-crore-in-15-18-age-group-jabbed-against-covid-19-in-less-than-a-week-101641631869483.html
08-01-2022||India||Opened fire in self defence, say Tamil Nadu cops who killed 2 murder accused||CHENNAI: Two men, who were accused in a double murder case, were shot dead by the police early on Friday morning in Tamil Nadu’s Chengalpattu district, police said, insisting that its personnel were forced to open fire in self-defence as the two accused attacked them when they were close to being nabbed. Police were searching for accused, Dina Dinesh and ‘Biscuit’ Mohammed Moideen, on charges of murdering M Karthik alias ‘Appu’ Karthik (32) and S Mahesh (22) on Thursday night. “The entire night we were searching for them,” said inspector general of the North Zone, Santhosh Kumar, adding that Dinesh and Moideen attacked the police. “They attacked the police using a machete and a country-made bomb.”Head constable Suresh Kumar and police constable Bharath Kumar were injured. “The police personnel have cut wounds,” he said. “Inspector Ravi Kumar was on the spot and he opened fire.”The incident took place near a bridge in the Palar river basin at around 8.10am. Police have recovered a total of five crude bombs from this location. “They flung two country-made bombs on the police out of which one exploded and one didn’t,” said another investigating officer, not willing to be named. Forensics experts were also on the spot to collect the evidence. The double murders were linked to previous enmity, police said. While two of the accused were killed in the police firing, two others, Madhu Madhavan and a woman Jessica, were arrested. Police said they belong to the same gang and are being questioned. “We will also probe deeper and find out who was making the country-made bombs for them,” the investigating officer said. The motive behind the murders were a past rivalry dating back to 2018. Dinesh was against his sister’s relationship with Appu Karthik, an officer said. So Karthik sent two of his friends including Mahesh to ask Dinesh to stay out of their relationship.“Mahesh attacked Dinesh at that time and a case was registered in 2018,” the officer said. “That case came for hearing in court on Thursday so at that time Appu Karthik told Dinesh not to appear in court and asked him to withdraw from the case. Dinesh got enraged and committed the crime against Karthik and Mahesh last night.”
08-01-2022||India||18th Covid vaccination camp, across 50,000 centres, underway in Tamil Nadu||The 18th Covid-19 mega vaccination camp in Tamil Nadu is currently underway across 50,000 centres, the state government said on Saturday. The state has been organising such camps since September last year on every Sunday, which was later rescheduled to be conducted on Saturdays.In a tweet in Tamil, state health minister Ma Subramanian said, “On the instructions of chief minister MK Stalin, 18th mega vaccination camp is happening today at 50,000 centres.” The minister was inspecting the vaccination centre at Indra Nagar in Velachery assembly constituency in Chennai.As many as 87,254,887 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the state so far of which 558,223 doses have been administered on the day, data from the Co-WIN dashboard at 1.20pm showed. The total doses included 52,234,274 first doses and 35,020,613 second doses.Also read | Covid-19 precautionary dose: Appointments for third vaccine shot to open todayDuring the 17th vaccination camp in the state, which was held on January 2, more than 1.5 million people were inoculated with the vaccine, news agency PTI reported citing data from the minister. The drive saw 1,516,804 people being jabbed in total, including 420,098 who were given the first dose and 1,096,706 who were given the second.“Today, 15.16 lakh people have been vaccinated. Till date 86.95%people have received first dose and 60.71% the second,” Subramanian said.Meanwhile, the state is currently under night curfew – between 10pm and 5am – and other Covid-related restrictions with a full lockdown on Sundays. Schools have been shut down for classes 1 to 9 and commercial establishments, public transport have been allowed to function with several restrictions such as operating at 50% capacity.On Friday, the state reported 8,981 new Covid-19 cases and eight related fatalities, as the total caseload reached 2,776,413 and the death toll mounted to 36,833, a bulletin from the health department showed. The state currently has 30,817 active cases.According to the Union health ministry, the state has so far identified 121 cases of the Omicron variant with all of them having recovered as of date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18th-covid-vaccination-camp-across-50-000-centres-underway-in-tamil-nadu-101641630989503.html
08-01-2022||India||Indian-origin Sikh taxi driver assaulted, his turban knocked off at JFK Airport||In a yet another case of suspected hate crime, an Indian-origin Sikh taxi driver in the US has been assaulted by an unidentified man, who knocked off his turban and also used expletives against him outside the JFK International Airport here, according to a video on social media.The undated 26-second video was uploaded by Navjot Pal Kaur on micro-blogging site Twitter on January 4, showing a man assaulting the Sikh taxi driver outside the airport. She said the video was shot by a bystander at the airport.The person can be heard allegedly using expletives against the victim. He repeatedly hits and punches him and knocks off his turban.“This video was taken by a bystander at John F. Kennedy International Airport. I do not own the rights to this video. But I just wanted to highlight the fact that hatred continues to remain in our society and unfortunately I’ve seen Sikh cab drivers get assaulted again and again,” Kaur tweeted.Further details about the driver or the cause of the incident were not available.The video led to angry reactions by the community members.“Another Sikh cab driver assaulted. This one at JFK Airport in NYC. So upsetting to see. But it’s crucial that we don’t look away… What I am sure of is how painful it is to watch our fathers and elders get assaulted while they’re just trying to live an honest life.“For those who aren’t Sikh, I can’t put into words what it means to have your turban knocked off — or to see someone else’s turban knocked off. It’s visceral and gut-wrenching and just so disheartening to witness,” Simran Jeet Singh, author and Director for the Aspen Institute’s Inclusive America Project, tweeted.The National Sikh Campaign said, “we are only a few days into the new year and there has already been a hate crime committed against a Sikh. A bystander recorded an unidentified man attacking a Sikh taxi driver, ultimately knocking off the driver’s turban.”“No additional details have been released outside of the video, but we know this story too well. A Sikh person goes about their daily lives only to be senselessly attacked by someone. Common road rage between people can escalate when someone who is ignorant of who we are takes their disdain for our turbans and becomes violent,” it said.This is not the first time a Sikh taxi driver has been assaulted in the US.An Indian-origin Sikh Uber driver was in 2019 assaulted and racially abused in the US state of Washington in a suspected hate crime. The driver told the police that he believes his race promoted the attack.In 2017, a 25-year-old Sikh cab driver in New York was assaulted and his turban knocked off by drunk passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indianorigin-sikh-taxi-driver-assaulted-his-turban-knocked-off-at-jfk-airport-101641630978900.html
08-01-2022||India||1 lakh Covid cases, night curfew, Omicron scare: India's 1st week of 2022 ends||As the first week of January 2022 comes to an end, the situation of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India looks abysmal with single-day cases increasing rapidly, even as the count of Omicron variant keeps going up. The dreadful situation has triggered alarm across the country with multiple states and Union territories (UTs) going back to strict restrictions in order to break the chain of transmission and contain the virus spread.On Saturday, India reported more than 1 lakh fresh coronavirus cases for the second straight day along with maintaining its upward swing of rising single-day infections for the 11th consecutive day. As many as 1,41,986 new cases were logged on Saturday, 21 per cent higher than Friday's 1,17,100 infections.Further, the active case count shot up to 472,169. The active cases now account for 1.34 per cent of the total number of 3,53,68,372 cases, according to data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu are the states with a majority of the active cases.Meanwhile, cases of Omicron variant, which was detected in the country a little more than a month before, has climbed to 3,071 with Maharashtra and Delhi being the worst-affected. The two regions have reported a combined 1,389 Omicron cases in the country so far.Maharashtra, Delhi and West Bengal all reported at least 15, 000 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. Maharashtra logged a massive 40,925 fresh infections, of which, its capital Mumbai accounted for 20,971. The regions also witnessed a high number of deaths. Delhi reported a total of nine deaths while Maharashtra and West Bengal recorded 20 and 18 fatalities, respectively.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla chaired a Covid-19 review meeting on the situation in Delhi NCR on Thursday that saw chief secretaries of Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana or their representatives along with senior police and health officials of the NCR states in attendance. NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan were also present.The regions were asked to adopt a unified approach and to augment health infrastructure in order to contain the present Covid-19 scenario. They were also directed to maintain buffer stocks of important drugs and make sure oxygen supply equipment are fully operational.Several states and UTs have imposed curbs owing to the current situation. Delhi imposed a weekend curfew starting January 7 along with a daily night curfew between 10pm and 5am. Karnataka has also imposed a weekend and night curfew along with mandating full vaccination for entry to pubs, clubs, restaurants, cinema halls and malls.Also Read | Weekend & nights curfew in place in these states as India sees major Covid spike: Check details hereTamil Nadu will be under complete lockdown tomorrow (January 9) with only essential services operational while a daily night curfew is in place between 10pm and 5am. West Bengal has closed all educational institutions, zoos and entertainment parks, among others, and has also restricted flights from Delhi and Mumbai to thrice a week - Monday, Wednesday and Friday.Several political parties such as the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have cancelled their rallies in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh due to rising Covid-19 cases. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand - another poll-bound state, has banned political rallies and protests till January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-lakh-covid-cases-night-curfew-omicron-scare-india-s-1st-week-of-2022-ends-101641626617132.html
08-01-2022||India||Explained: Delhi's struggle with stray dog bites||A pack of dogs mauled a 3-year-old girl to death in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar on December 17, 2021. Dog bite data from the capital's three municipal corporations show that the city has seen at least 90 cases of dog bites every day during 2021. Official reports from health care facilities of the municipal bodies show that a total of 31913 dog bite cases have been treated in municipal facilities with a maximum of 16,007 cases in East MCD, 11,119 cases in South MCD and 4,787 dog bite cases in North MCD institutions. The actual figures, however, are expected to be much higher as these numbers do not include cases treated at private clinics or hospitals. The north corporation run Maharishi Valmiki Infectious Disease (MVID) hospital has also witnessed at least 38 rabies-related deaths since 2017.
08-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Satyendar Jain shares dos and don'ts for home isolation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain releases list of dos and don'ts for Covid patients isolating at homeDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain took to Koo app today to share a set of instructions that all Covid-19 patients, who are under home isolation, need to adhere to. Read more BJP chief JP Nadda’s Tripura visit postponed due to Covid-19 situationBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda’s visit to Tripura on January 10, Monday, has been put off due to mounting concerns around the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, Tripura BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said on Saturday. Read more'You've earned the right to fail': Warner reserves highest words of praise for Kohli, has his say on Virat's lean patchA lot people have had their say on Virat Kohli's ongoing lean patch, the highlighting stat of which has been his century drought of 777 days in international cricket. Read moreVishal Dadlani’s dad dies, singer says he couldn’t go to hospital as he’s Covid positive: ‘Can’t even go hold my mother’Vishal Dadlani lost his father Moti Dadlani on Friday. The singer-composer could not be with him in his final moments, having tested positive for Covid-19 a day before his demise. Read more  When it comes to fitness, its 'go low or go home' for Samantha Ruth PrabhuSamantha Ruth Prabhu's fitness mantra is short and simple – she believes in perfection. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-s-guidelines-for-covid-patients-isolating-at-home-and-all-the-latest-news-101641624208938.html
08-01-2022||India||BJP chief JP Nadda’s Tripura visit postponed due to Covid-19 situation||AGARTALA: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda’s visit to Tripura on January 10, Monday, has been put off due to mounting concerns around the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, Tripura BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said on Saturday.“It has been decided to postpone all the party related activities for the next 15 days due to the rise in Covid-19 cases. Our national president JP Nadda’s tour has also been postponed. However, our party will continue its social activities, “ said Bhattacharjee. During his visit, Nadda was scheduled to join the state BJP’s working committee meeting on January 11. The meeting was also cancelled.Besides, the party has decided to postpone all its activities for the next 15 days due to the rise in cases. Tripura recorded a total of 103 Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours with one death. The Covid-19 positivity rate in the state is 3.09% but there has been no confirmed Omicron case so far according to the latest records of the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-s-tripura-visit-postponed-due-to-covid-19-situation-101641625376524.html
08-01-2022||India||Watch: Indian soldiers brave extreme cold, snow; Twitterati says 'superpower not a myth'||The entire north India is under the grip of severe cold. The situation in higher reaches is even more harsh, with temperature plunging to sub-zero level. It’s hard to even imagine going out in such a weather; there are fears of freezing to death.In such a difficult condition, soldiers of the Indian Army are busy guarding the people of the country, showing unflinching resolve to protect India’s borders.Videos posted on Twitter by defence ministry's Public Relations Officer, Udhampur, show the tough job these soldiers perform with ease.In one of the videos, a vigilant soldier is seen keeping a hawk eye on the border in winter gear, least bothered by the plumes of cold winds blowing towards him.No easy hope or liesShall bring us to our goal,But iron sacrifice Of body, will, and soul.There is but one task for allOne life for each to giveWho stands if Freedom fall? pic.twitter.com/X3p3nxjxqE“No easy hope or lies shall bring us to our goal, But iron sacrifice of body, will, and soul. There is but one task for all. One life for each to give. Who stands if Freedom fall?” the accompanying tweet said.Another video shows a group of soldiers walking through snow-clad mountain to patrol the border areas. “Compare this with your early morning walk in the park!” said the tweet posted by PRO, Udhampur.Compare this with your early morning walk in the park! #IndianArmy #BashOnRegardlessVC: @Whiteknight_IA pic.twitter.com/itVLukvQT3The posts were widely hailed by Twitter users who called the soldiers their heroes.“These men in Uniform can boil the ocean, thats why they r who they r. Superpower was not a myth.Who else can bear snow, rain, storm, and bleeds yet slain d evils if not Superhuman. We sleep bcz these men violently fight with violence,” said a user.These men in Uniform can boil the ocean, thats why they r who they r. Superpower was not a myth.Who else can bear snow, rain, storm, and bleeds yet slain d evils if not Superhuman. We sleep bcz these men violently fight with violence. #JaiHindIndia has significantly increased the presence of its troops in the upper reaches of the Himalayas, especially along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) - its border with China - in the wake of a military standoff going on since May 2020.Twelfth round of talks between the two sides to resolve the issues is expected to take place in January 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-indian-soldiers-brave-extreme-cold-snow-twitterati-reacts-101641623820661.html
08-01-2022||India||Stephen Hawking’s 80th birthday: How Google doodle is honouring the physicist||Google celebrates several special occasions in a year through their famous ‘doodles’ that are featured on the website’s homepage. Saturday too was that special day when it launched a special animated doodle on the the 80th birth anniversary of the renowned English theoretical physicist and cosmologist Stephen Hawking.Much to the delight of many internet users, the doodle also featured a two-and-a-half-minute YouTube video narrated in the computer-generated voice of Hawking.About the latest Google doodleThe doodle depicts an animated avatar of Hawking and the letters are stylised to match the theme. Clicking on the doodle leads the users to a YouTube video.In the video, Hawking’s voice is used to narrate his life, the neurodegenerative disease and his journey to understand the universe. “My goal is simple. It is a complete understanding of the universe, why is it as it is? Why it exists at all?” Hawking’s voice could be heard as saying in the video.‘History’s most influential scientific mind’In its description about the doodle, Google said, “Today’s video Doodle celebrates one of history’s most influential scientific minds, English cosmologist, author, and theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking. From colliding black holes to the Big Bang, his theories on the origins and mechanics of the universe revolutionized modern physics while his best-selling books made the field widely accessible to millions of readers worldwide.”“Here’s to an innovator whose astronomical impact changed how the world understands the universe!,” it added.Further, Google has also thanked Hawking’s family in making the doodle and also published a note from the physicist’s daughter Lucy and sons Robert and Tim Hawking.“In the Doodle, the voice of Stephen Hawking was generated and used with the approval of the Hawking estate,” it also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stephen-hawking-s-80th-birthday-how-google-doodle-is-honouring-the-physicist-101641621590185.html
08-01-2022||India||Khalistan separatists plan to show PM Modi as anti-Punjab||It was the run-up to voting in historic 2014 elections, when I went for an interview with then BJP president Amit Shah to Amritsar, from where his very close friend Arun Jaitley was locked in an electoral contest with then Congress leader Captain Amarinder Singh. As the aircraft banked towards Raja Sansi airport and the Golden Temple appeared on the ground, he told me that he would first like to pay obeisance at Harmandir Sahib before going to meet Jaitley for an election meeting cum lunch. Before reaching the Temple, Shah told me that he had done “Kar Sewa” as a teenager for two weeks after the complex was damaged post-1984 Operation Blue Star. Shah said: “Had it not been for them, we would not be here today.” At the Harmandir Sahib, Shah remained prostrated on ground for a while as he paid obeisance to the Holy Guru Granth Sahib. He did the parikrama and then left to meet Arun Jaitley for a Kadi Chawal lunch. The Amritsar election turned out to be an interesting with Jaitley’s protégé then sitting BJP MP from the Holy City Navjot Singh Sidhu staying out of campaign and his wife and sitting MLA Navjot Kaur Sidhu sulking through out the campaign. The internal sabotage ensured that Captain won the election with a handsome margin.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has the same views towards the Sikh community and misses no opportunity to pay his absolute reverence to the Gurus, be it in Punjab or Bihar. He also believes that Sikh community is the key to India’s integrity and prosperity. It is for this very reason that he rolled back the three farm laws on Guru Purab and ask for apology from the farmers for not being able to explain the laws and their benefit to them.Under the mask of farmers, the pro-Khalistan separatists are playing a diabolical game against India while sitting in plush environments of US, UK, Germany, and Canada. While one also understands that the game of these western countries is to keep India on its toes and tenterhooks, the larger plot is to discredit the PM and the BJP before the eyes of the Sikh and Punjabi community in India. This also serves to the electoral interest of all the political adversaries of the BJP in Punjab.Despite the extreme provocation of exposing PM Modi to a possible extremist threat from Sikh groups, very active across the border with support of Pakistani deep state, at Ferozepur, the BJP and the government will not fall into the trap of making it a communal issue. The top leadership of the RSS also understands the play very well and it is for this very reason that the BJP did not part with the Akali Dal in the previous Assembly elections in spite of open anti-incumbency against the Prakash Singh Badal regime. The Modi government and the national security planners understand the sensitivities of a border state like Punjab and also know the actors in play to create tension in the state.While it will rein in any comment from either the government or the party that can be misconstrued, India will make an all-out diplomatic effort to bring full force of justice to banned SFJ leaders like G S Pannu in US and Multani in Germany. The security agencies on the other hand have already begun to weed out the enemy within Punjab so that arms, ammunition, and Afghan heroin do not find their way from across Pakistan to fund and promote militancy in the state. With Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan facing a battle for his political survival, it is quite evident that the pressure will be deflected towards India in the coming days.Although there is absolute need to bring those who are fanning so-called Khalistan flames to book, the security agencies should also do a security review of PM Modi’s protection as 20 minutes of exposure (on Ferozepur flyover on January 5) for the most targeted man in India, thanks to inept enforcement agencies, is criminal.
08-01-2022||India||India's daily Covid cases top 1.40 lakh, Omicron count mounts to 3,071||India's single-day cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) exceeded the 1.40 lakh-mark on Saturday after yet another massive surge of 1,41, 986 infections were reported. This was the second straight day that the country saw more than 1 lakh Covid-19 cases logged in 24 hours, according to the morning update by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Saturday's figures are 21% higher than the day before, thus taking the overall Covid-19 tally of India to 3,53,68,372.The active caseload also saw a massive jump after as many as 100,806 infections were added to the tally in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed. With this, the country's active case count has reached as high as 472,169, which is 1.34% of the total number of cases. Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka account for the most number of active cases in the country.The daily positivity rate of India has now reached 9.28%, while the weekly positivity rate stands at 5.66%.Also Read | 96% patients on oxygen support in Mumbai hospitals are unvaccinated: BMC chiefNew deaths due to Covid-19 continue to see a decline after 285 patients succumbed to the disease, down from Friday's 302. On Thursday, the country logged as many as 534 fatalities due to the virus.The total number of patients recovered from the virus shot up to 3,44,12,740 after as many as 40,895 of them recuperated in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry update. This shows that the trend of increasing fresh recoveries in the country remains static, which also provides relief in the grim scenario.This rise in daily infections is being driven by the Omicron variant, which was first discovered in South Africa. Since being detected in India in December last year, cases of the highly transmissible variant have topped 3,000. The Omicron tally of the country rose to 3,071 on Saturday, with Maharashtra and Delhi holding the top slots with 876 and 513 cases, respectively.Also Read | Can recovered Covid-19 patients be reinfected with Omicron? Here's what WHO saysAs many as 90,59,360 Covid-19 vaccine shots were administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours, which includes a total of 32,55,915 teenagers as well. With this, India's cumulative vaccination coverage has surpassed 150.06 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-cases-top-1-40-lakh-omicron-count-mounts-to-3071-101641614370085.html
08-01-2022||India||NSCN-IM warns of ‘unpleasant incidents’ in Arunachal for ‘hurting’ Naga interest||GUWAHATI: The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland has warned of ‘unpleasant incidents’ in Arunachal Pradesh, accusing the government of hurting the interest of Naga people in the state.In a statement issued on Thursday, the Naga rebel outfit accused chief minister Pema Khandu and deputy chief minister Chowna Mein of “acting irresponsibly and failing to restore and fulfil the wishes of Naga people” in Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts of the state.“Unpleasant incidents would be borne by themselves as they deliberately ignored the outcry of the Nagas of Arunachal Pradesh. The long patience of positive response of the NSCN/GPRN (Government of the People’s Republic of Nagaland) cannot be considered as weakness rather than humility,” the statement said.The state government didn’t respond to the statement.Last September, the outfit issued a statement demanding the Naga MLAs of the three districts, Tirap, Changlang and Longding, withdraw support to the BJP government led by Pema Khandu and Chowna Mein. The three districts have 11 legislators, three of who are cabinet ministers. “The MLAs who fail to uphold the rights of the Nagas of Arunachal Pradesh would be considered anti-Naga,” the statement in September said.The demand was in reaction to a circular issued by the Longding district authorities informing about the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order Amendment Bill, 2021 removing the term “Any other Naga tribe”.The circular followed the passage of the bill in Parliament in August where the list of scheduled tribes in Arunachal Pradesh was amended (on the recommendations of the state government) to add several indigenous tribe names and deleted the words “any other Naga tribe” (which was there prior to amendment).The NSCN-IM’s September statement said the move “wilfully undermined, distorted the rights, identity and denied the existence of the Naga people”.
08-01-2022||India||‘Will do everything possible to defeat BJP’: Mahua Moitra amid Goa alliance buzz||PANAJI: The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday hinted at a possible alliance with other opposition parties in Goa ahead of the upcoming polls with party MP Mahua Moitra in a Twitter post announcing that the TMC is willing to do “everything possible to defeat BJP in Goa”. “Rest assured, we the AITC will do everything possible to defeat BJP in Goa- @Goaforwardparty, @INCGoa @AITC4Goa and #MGP. @Mamataofficial (AITC chairperson Mamata Banerjee) has done it in the past & will not shy away from walking [the] extra mile in Goa too,” Moitra tweeted on Friday. Moitra’s tweet comes amid reports in the state, which is scheduled to go to polls sometime in February/March, that the TMC-MGP (Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party), which have already announced an alliance for the polls, is open to teaming up with the Congress and Goa Forward Party, which have announced a separate alliance for the polls. The Goa Forward Party, which until recently was calling for need to “send joint ventures of ideological differences home” in reference to the seemingly contrary ideological leanings of the MGP and the Trinamool Congress, has now struck a more mellowed tone with party president Vijai Sardesai calling for ‘team Goa’ to defeat the “BJP game plan”.“@BJP4Goa will use #COVIDThirdWave restrictions to manipulate the electoral process to grab power. We must, along with @INCGoa, @AITC4Goa and #MGP must see this danger, rise above our egos, and thwart this plan to divide and rule. This is what #Goa wants,” Sardesai tweeted on Thursday evening suggesting that the three opposition parties in Goa and the TMC were looking at mending fences ahead of the polls.The Trinamool Congress, which is the latest entrant in Goa’s political space and mostly expanded through poaching members of the Congress and the Goa Forward party, is understood to have initiated talks with both the parties but the issue of seat sharing is yet to be discussed. Earlier, reports suggested that the MGP, which had agreed to an alliance with the TMC, was less than enthusiastic about its alliance with the TMC and was leaning towards the Congress. The ruling BJP has, however, scoffed at the idea, saying that any talk of alliance only went on to prove that opposition parties weren’t getting traction on the ground.“Because they cannot cut ice with the people of Goa, they are thinking of coming together and trying to cobble up some numbers. The idea of this alliance itself is a failed idea. Their motive is only to come to power. Since TMC-MGP could not get traction. What consolidation? You come in four months and you try and say you are going to fight. You work for five years, do something for the people of Goa. The BJP will get a full majority and this is frustrating the opposition. Out of sheer frustration she (Mahua Moitra) said that all parties will come together,” minister in the BJP government Vishwajit Rane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-do-everything-possible-to-defeat-bjp-mahua-moitra-amid-goa-alliance-buzz-101641614811385.html
08-01-2022||India||SC asks Centre to respond on PIL demanding state-wise minority determination||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday gave the Centre a month to respond to a petition for classifying religious minorities based on their population in each state and transferred to itself similar petitions pending before three high courts.In August 2020, the court issued notice to the Centre on the petition filed by Delhi BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay but no response was forthcoming from the Centre. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared for the Centre on Friday and requested for a week’s time to file response.“Can you do it in one week as you have not been able to do it so far,” remarked a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh. It, however, extended the time and said, “As a last opportunity, four weeks’ time is granted to file response.” Upadhyay in his petition challenged the validity of Section 2(f) of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions (NCMEI) Act 2004, that gave unbridled powers to the Centre to restrict minority benefits to five religious communities namely Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsees. The petition asked that the Centre be told to lay down guidelines for the identification of minority communities at the state-level “to ensure that only those religious and linguistic groups which are socially, economically, politically non-dominant and numerically inferior, can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.” The petition has made three union ministries - Home, Law and Justice, and Minority Affairs – as parties to the petition. The court agreed to take up the matter after seven weeks. In addition, the court took up a transfer petition filed by Upadhyay seeking transfer of petitions pending on this issue from the high courts of Delhi, Gauhati and Meghalaya. Senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan, who appeared for Upadhyay, informed the court that the petitioners in the three pending petitions have not objected to the transfer. The petition pending before the Delhi high court was filed by Upadhyay. “Since the same issues are pending in the high courts, notices have been served. There is no opposition. Transfer petitions are accordingly allowed.” According to Upadhyay’s petition, Hindus are merely 1% in Ladakh, 2.75% in Mizoram, 2.77% in Lakshadweep, 4% in Jammu and Kashmir, 8.74% in Nagaland, 11.52% in Meghalaya, 29% in Arunachal Pradesh, 38.49% in Punjab, and 41.29% in Manipur. He argued that benefits available to the minorities to establish and run institutions are misused by communities which are in the majority.“The classification of religious minorities by the Centre at pan-India level has not only created a wave of inequality across different states but also encouraged those who did not belong to that minority religion, to convert themselves for social, political and economic benefits,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-centre-to-respond-on-pil-demanding-state-wise-minority-determination-101641614212227.html
08-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin to hold all-party meet today on state's exemption from NEET||Tamil Nadu chief minister and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin will hold an all-party meeting on Saturday in Chennai to discuss the state's demand of exemption from the National Eligibility cum Entrance Exam (NEET) and what needs to be done next on the matter.The decision to convene an all-party meet was announced by Stalin on Thursday during the Tamil Nadu assembly session. He said the assembly passed a resolution and bill in February last year against NEET in Tamil Nadu and sent the same to governor RN Ravi. “The governor is yet to send it to President Ram Nath Kovind for his assent,” the chief minister added.Speaking during the assembly session, Stalin further stated that coaching for the pre-medical entrance examination will also benefit “rich students.” “NEET exams have made school education costlier. We cannot remain mute spectators,” he added.The DMK-led all-party meet had also sought an appointment from Union home minister Amit Shah, however, Stalin alleged that he refused the same. The Tamil Nadu chief minister termed the refusal “anti-democratic.”Tamil Nadu political parties and the Centre have been at loggerheads regarding the NEET since it was mandated in the southern state from 2017 by the Supreme Court. The previous AIADMK regime in Tamil Nadu had passed a bill in 2017 seeking exemption from NEET but it was rejected by the President. The current DMK-led state government passed the Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021 in the state assembly in September, with the consent of all parties barring the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).On December 28 last year, a delegation of MPs led by the DMK submitted a memorandum to the office of President Kovind on the delay in considering the bill passed in September. The President's office had told them that the memorandum has been sent to the Union home ministry. According to latest updates, the Centre is yet to take a call on the bill.Notably, the DMK-led MPs submitted the memorandum to the President after an RTI response from the Tamil Nadu governor's office revealed that the bill, which was first sent to him, is still under consideration.Meanwhile, during his maiden address in the state assembly on Wednesday, Ravi said that entrance tests like NEET create an “unequal platform” by being “inherently discriminatory against rural students.”The DMK's parliamentary leader TR Baalu was far from impressed as he told reporters that the governor must resign for not sending the bill to the President.The BJP, on the other hand, has called DMK's stance on the NEET issue as "double standards," claiming that Shah being the home minister of the country has a lot of “workload". “It is justified if they have been trying for an appointment for ten days or so and he hasn’t met them,” Tamil Nadu's BJP general secretary Karu Nagarajan told Hindustan Times.He added that the party leadership is yet to take a call on whether Shah will take part in the all-party meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-to-hold-all-party-meet-today-on-state-s-exemption-from-neet-101641607404011.html
08-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Appointments open today for 3rd Covid vaccine dose and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 precautionary dose: Appointments for third vaccine shot to open today. Check detailsAppointments for the ‘precautionary dose’ of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine in India will begin from Saturday, according to the announcement made by the central government. Read moreWeekend curfew in Delhi: DDMA to meet again to discuss further restrictionsNational capital Delhi is under a weekend curfew, which started on Friday evening, due to a huge spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. It is among the several curbs announced by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) after recent meeting. Read moreIND vs SA: Sunil Gavaskar gives verdict on KL Rahul's captaincy in Johannesburg TestFormer Indian captain Sunil Gavaskar on Wednesday gave his verdict on KL Rahul's captaincy in the Johannesburg Test against South Africa. India lost the second Test by seven wickets as South Africa levelled the series 1-1 to force the decider in Cape Town. Read moreDeepika Padukone opens up on 'difficult' Covid-19 battle: ‘I was unrecognisable, my mind wasn’t working’Deepika Padukone was among the several people who contracted Covid-19 during the second wave last year. The actor and her family--including father Prakash, mother Ujjala, and sister Anisha--all tested positive in April 2021. Read more 'I’m learning to love it all': Anshula Kapoor writes on body positivityAnshula Kapoor is learning to accept her body in all its flaws and pros. Anshula, sister of Bollywood actor Arjun Kapoor and daughter of Boney Kapoor, wrote a long post a day back where she pointed out the need of learning to love our bodies in all its eccentricities. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-appointments-open-today-for-3rd-covid-vaccine-dose-and-all-the-latest-news-101641611484906.html
08-01-2022||India||NSCIN-IM faction says govt hurt ‘Naga interest’||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) has warned of ‘unpleasant incidents’ in Arunachal Pradesh, accusing the government of hurting the interest of Naga people in the state. In a statement issued on Thursday, the Naga rebel outfit accused chief minister Pema Khandu and deputy chief minister Chowna Mein of “acting irresponsibly and failing to restore and fulfil the wishes of Naga people” in Tirap, Changlang and Longding (TCL) districts of the state.“Unpleasant incidents would be borne by themselves as they deliberately ignored the outcry of the Nagas of Arunachal Pradesh. The long patience of positive response of the NSCN/GPRN (Government of the People’s Republic of Nagaland) cannot be considered as weakness rather than humility,” the statement read.Last September, the outfit had issued a statement demanding the Naga MLAs of the three districts to withdraw their support to the BJP government of Khandu and Mein. The three districts have 11 legislators, three of who are cabinet ministers.The state government didn’t respond to the statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nscinim-faction-says-govt-hurt-naga-interest-101641606746688.html
08-01-2022||India||Covid-19 precautionary dose: Appointments for third vaccine shot to open today. Check details||Appointments for the ‘precautionary dose’ of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine in India will begin from Saturday, according to the announcement made by the central government. The Centre has also said that no new registrations in the CoWin platform would be required for those taking the shot.On Friday, the Union health ministry said that the eligible population – healthcare workers, frontline workers and those above 60 years of age with comorbidities – who have already taken two doses of the vaccine, can directly book an appointment or walk in to any of the Covid-19 vaccination centres.“Schedules will be published on January 8. The online appointment facility will also start by Friday evening. Vaccination with onsite appointment starts on January 10,” news agency ANI reported, quoting a statement from the ministry.Also read | Covid-19: IHU variant not spreading far enough, cases extremely low, says studyPrime Minister Narendra Modi had on December 25 announced the Centre’s decision to administer a ‘precautionary dose’ of the vaccine amid the spread of the Omicron variant, which has led to a surge in Covid-19 cases and concerns around an imminent third wave of infections.The Centre has already notified the states and Union territories that for each recipient, the third dose would be the same shot that was used for the first two doses.On Thursday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a letter to states and UTs, said, “the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) has recommended the administration of the homologous vaccine for HCWS, FLWs and elders (more than 60 years of age) with co-morbidities i.e. the same vaccine that has been administered for the previous two doses would be given as the precaution dose to the eligible beneficiaries.”Meanwhile, the country’s vaccination drive administered 1.5 billion (150 crore) doses of the vaccine on Friday, a feat that was hailed by PM Modi and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-precautionary-dose-appointments-for-third-vaccine-shot-to-open-today-check-details-101641604323806.html
08-01-2022||NA||BREAKING: In fresh curbs, Maharashtra imposes night curfew; gyms, beauty salons to remain closed||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Omicron surge: EC bans political rallies; night curfew back in Maharashtra | 10 pointsCoronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India continued the upward trend on Saturday with fresh infections crossing the 1.40-lakh mark. The cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant, being said to be driving the current surge of infections across the country, climbed to 3,071. Read moreUttarakhand records highest-single day spike in virus cases since May 29 last yearUttarakhand on Saturday reported 1,560 coronavirus cases, recording the highest single-day spike in infection cases in the state since May 29 last year when 1,687 people had tested positive.Meanwhile, no fresh Covid-19-related death was reported in the state.Maharashtra imposes night curfew; gyms, beauty salons to remain closedIn fresh curbs to contain the spread of Coronavirus, Maharashtra on Saturday imposed a night curfew in the state from 11pm. Check list of restrictions below:Schools and colleges to remain closed till February 15Private offices asked to allow maximum 50 per cent attendanceRestaurant/shopping malls/auditorium etc to open with 50 per cent capacityGyms, beauty salons to remain closedMaximum 50 people allowed for a wedding, 20 for funeralRead moreWith 133 new Omicron cases, Maharashtra’s tally rises to 1,009Maharashtra on Saturday reported 133 fresh cases of Omicron, taking the state's tally of infections from the new variant of Coronavirus to 1,009. Further, the state has reported 41,434 fresh Covid-19 infections in the past 24 hours, of which 20,318 cases were reported in Mumbai alone. Mumbai reports 20,318 Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths in 24 hoursMumbai logged 20,318 Covid-19 cases and five related deaths on Saturday.Active cases: 1,06,037Bed occupancy: 21.4%Delhi’s daily Covid cases rise to 20,181, positivity rate nears 20%Delhi has reported 20,181 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven related deaths in the last 24 hours. As many as 11,869 people recovered from the viral disease in the same time span. Active cases: 48,178Daily positivity rate: 19.6%Death toll: 25,143UP CM Adityanath confident about BJP's victory in upcoming state polls Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be successful in forming the government in the state in the upcoming polls with overwhelming majority for the second consecutive term. “There should be no doubt about it,” Adityanath added, exuding confidence.ECI announces election schedule for 5 poll-bound statesUttar Pradesh to go to polls in 7 phases from February 10 to March 7; Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa to vote on February 14 and Manipur will vote on February 17 and March 3.The counting of votes will take place on March 10.EC press conference on poll dates in 5 states underwayThe Election Commission of India is addressing a presser to announce the schedule for assembly elections in Goa, Punjab, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.IPS Viresh Kumar Bhawra appointed as new Punjab police chief: ANIIPS Viresh Kumar Bhawra has been appointed as the new DGP of Punjab on the consideration of the panel received from UPSC pic.twitter.com/mzdzEAPKdSIPS Viresh Kumar Bhawra has been appointed as the new DGP of Punjab, reports ANI.AAP members create ruckus in Chandigarh Municipal Corporation as BJP wins mayoral electionCouncillors of the Aam Aadmi Party created a ruckus inside the assembly hall of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation after the Bharatiya Janata Party won the mayor elections, reports ANI.Delhi likely to see 20,000 new Covid cases today: Satyendar JainDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the city is likely to record over 20,000 Covid-19 cases today and the positivity rate is expected to be around 19%, reports PTI. Also, he said that no Omicron-related deaths were recorded in Delhi.  Of the nine people who died on Friday, most had comorbidities, he added. ECI to announce assembly election schedules for 5 states today The Election Commission of India will announce the schedule for stat assembly elections in Goa, Punjab, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh at 3.30pm today, reports ANI. Tamil Nadu CM Stalin chairs all-party meeting to discuss state's demand for NEET exemptionAn all-party meeting chaired by chief minister MK Stalin began in Tamil Nadu at the state Secretariat in Chennai to discuss the future course of action on the state's demand for exemption from the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET), reports ANI. 18th Covid vaccination camp underway at Tamil Nadu today, state officials oversee driveThe 18th Covid-19 vaccination camp began in Tamil Nadu today as state health minister Ma Subramanian, health secretary J Radhakrishnan and Chennai Corporation commissioner GS Bedi reviewed the drive in Chennai. Subramanian said that 77.3% of eligible population vaccinated with the first dose while 61.46% have been given the second dose, reports ANI.PM Modi security mishap in Punjab: NIA nominates officer to secure, seize records related to visit The National Investigation Agency nominated IGP Santosh Rastogi to assist the Registrar General of Punjab and the Haryana High Court to secure and seize records related to PM Modi's visit to Punjab on January 5 from state and central agencies. NIA DG issued an order regarding the same on Friday. However, there will be no probe, the agency said, reports ANI. Omicron cases increase slightly to 3,071, over 1,200 people recoveredCOVID19 | A total of 3,071 #Omicron cases were reported in 27 States/UTs of India so far. The number of persons recovered is 1,203: Union Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/vaR12wqlngThe number of cases due to the Omicron Covid-19 variant in the country reached 3,071, of which 1,203 people have recovered so far, the Centre said.India's daily Covid-19 infections go beyond 1.40 lakh, over 1 lakh active cases reported in 24 hoursIndia reported 141,986 new Covid-19 cases and 285 related deaths as the total confirmed infections reached 35,368,372 and the death toll mounted to 483,463.Click here to read moreSnowfall continues to disrupt operations at Srinagar airportSrinagar Airport authorities has delayed all operations and said that the snowfall is expected to continue till 11am and has reduced the visibility at the airport currently, reports ANI. Covid-19 surge: Uttarakhand shuts schools, bans political rallies, protests till Jan 16In view of the rising #COVID19 cases, Uttarkhand govt imposes new restrictions-all political rallies and protests in the state will be prohibited till January 16. All schools and anganwadi centres will also remain closed till January 16 pic.twitter.com/lclnKQOmYMUttarakhand government has shut down schools and banned political rallies and protests in the state in view of the rising Covid-19 infections till January 16, reports ANI.Delhi air quality improved to ‘moderate’; AQI at 132 Delhi's air quality improves to 'moderate' from the 'poor' category with Air Quality Index (AQI) standing at 132, reports ANI citing data from SAFAR-India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-8-2022-101641604066168.html
08-01-2022||India||3 JeM terrorists killed in Budgam encounter||Three Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) terrorists were killed in central Kashmir’s Budgam district in an overnight operation with security forces, said an official Friday. With this, the toll of terrorists killed in the past seven days has touched 11.A team of officials from the police, the army and the CRPF launched a joint operation after they got a tip-off about the presence of terrorists at Zolwa Kralpora Chadoora of Budgam.“One of the terrorists has been identified as Waseem Mir of Nowgam in Srinagar. Based on initial investigations and documents recovered, the other two terrorists appear to be foreign nationals, however, their exact identification is being ascertained. Three AK-56 rifles were recovered from the site,” said inspector general of police (IGP) Viijay Kumar.Mir, who was active since December 2020, was involved in the killing of police officer inspector Parvaiz Ahmad on June 22 last year, said police.“The terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party. The security forces retaliated in return leading to an encounter. Later on, the CRPF also joined the operation,” said IGP Kumar.“The joint team ensured the evacuation of all civilians to the safer places. Besides, to avoid any collateral damage due to darkness, the operation was suspended during night hours and was resumed in the wee hours of Friday. During the encounter an army officer sustained a minor splinter injury,” he said.“Terrorist Mir was a categorised terrorist and was booked in several terror crime cases. He was also involved in grenade attack on a CRPF bunker near Aali Masjid Chowk at Eidgah Srinagar in which a civilian and a police officer were injured. He had also been brainwashing and motivating the youth of Central Kashmir to join terror folds,” said Kumar.On Wednesday, three terrorists, including a foreigner associated with JeM, who according to police was also an expert in making vehicle-borne IEDs was killed after an encounter in Pulwama district.On Tuesday, forces killed two local terrorists at Okey village in Kulgam district who according to police were associated with Lashkar-e-Taiba/The Resistance Force .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-jem-terrorists-killed-in-budgam-encounter-101641603834525.html
08-01-2022||India||Bharat Biotech asks health workers to be 'vigilant', says 'only Covaxin to be administered to 15-18 age group'||Raising concern over unapproved vaccines being administered to children, Bharat Biotech on Friday issued a statement urging healthcare workers to be “vigilant” and ensure only Covaxin is being administered to the age group of 15-18 years.The statement comes after the company received reports of other vaccines, which have not been approved for children, being administered to the newly eligible group.“We have received several reports of other Covid-19 vaccines being administered to individuals in the 15-18 years age group,” the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker said in a statement, shared late night on Twitter.“We humbly request healthcare workers to be highly vigilant and ensure that only Covaxin is administered to individuals in the 15-18 years age group,” it added.#covaxin #COVID19Vaccine #covaxinapproval #COVID19 #BharatBiotech #vaccination #healthcareworkers #covidwarriors #covaxinannouncement pic.twitter.com/sqPCLZZ4NGEarlier in the day, Bharat Biotech had issued a clarification saying that no painkillers are recommended for children taking the Covaxin jab.“We have received feedback that certain immunization centres are recommending taking 3 paracetamol 500 mg tablets along with Covaxin for children. No paracetamol or pain killers are recommended after being vaccinated with Covaxin,” it said in a statement.India opened up vaccination against Covid-19 for children of age 15 and above on January 3, as soon as the company received approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). So far, the government has approved only Covaxin as a safe vaccine for the under 18 age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-asks-health-workers-to-be-vigilant-says-only-covaxin-to-be-administered-to-15-18-age-group-101641592110391.html
08-01-2022||India||GitHub case: Bishnoi remorseless, said he was proud of what he created||In the last 24 hours before he was arrested on Wednesday night, Neeraj Bishnoi (21), creator of the controversial app on GitHub where doctored photographs of Muslim women were uploaded, confessed repeatedly on Twitter that he was the person behind the offensive app. He even tagged some handles on Twitter claiming that Mumbai police arrested the wrong suspects and dared them to arrest him for what was clearly a sex- and-hate crime. Bishnoi also tried to mask his identity and the reasons why he created the app. While he was at his parents’ house in Jorhat, Assam, he claimed on Twitter that he was a resident of Nepal, who lived in Sundhara, Kathmandu. He even tried to mislead investigators by claiming that he was paid by Pakistan agencies to build the app and that he had achieved his mission.The second-year B Tech student at the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Bhopal — the institute has been prompt in suspending him — posted these messages through a Twitter handle @giyu44 that he created on January 3 using the phone of one of his family members. Police have seized this cell phone too.Though HT could not independently verify the posts made on Twitter by @giyu22, Delhi police’s DCP KPS Malhotra confirmed that Bishnoi was the person behind the tweets. Malhotra is the chief of the IFSO (Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations), the police’s cyber cell unit, which arrested Bishnoi from Assam at around midnight on Wednesday. Malhotra said police have recovered forensic evidence from Bishnoi’s seized cell phone and laptop, which confirm that he created the app.As proof that he was indeed the creator of the app, Bishnoi also posted a soft copy of the mail that he supposedly received from US-based GitHub about law enforcement agencies seeking details from his GitHub account.To be sure, Bishnoi’s claim or confession before the police is not admissible as evidence in court.On Thursday evening, a city court sent Bishnoi to seven days police custody. Police officers aware of Bishnoi’s investigation said the man created the app while he was in Rajasthan to attend a wedding, in November. He returned to Jorhat, Assam on December 25, after which used the social media accounts of other suspects to promote the controversial app.Mumbai police have arrested three persons in the case, Sweta Singh (18), her friend Mayank Rawat (20), both residents of Uttarakhand, and Vishal Kumar Jha (21), an engineering student from Bengaluru. The three shared the app and promoted it on social media handles, according to Mumbai police. On Wednesday afternoon, while daring police to arrest him, Bishnoi claimed on Twitter that he misused the accounts of Singh and Jha. Whether this is the case, or they were his willing accomplies who shared his radical mindset is not known. “He created the Twitter handle @giyu44 after learning about the arrest of his online friends by Mumbai police. He has claimed that he used Sweta Singh and another suspect Vishal Jha’s accounts to promote the app. He said that he became close with co-accused Sweta Singh and also knew about her father’s death. He said he was proud of what he has created and was owning up for the crime,” said a police officer who asked not to be named. Police said Bishnoi, son of a grocer, used a laptop that he received from the Assam government, after securing over 85% in his Class 12 board exam in 2019. It isn’t known whether Bishnoi was involved in creating the first app – a similar one but with a different name – that was uploaded on GitHub in July last year. Bishnoi claimed on Twitter that he “cloned the repository” and “edited the code as well the graphics” from that app. He has also named a person who created the first app. HT is withholding the name of the person because police are yet to confirm this. The investigation in the first case registered in July last year is still in process, even as police are yet to arrest anyone. Delhi Police have maintained that they are unable to proceed in the investigation because GitHub has refused to share information related to the details of the user who created the app. GitHub did not respond to mails seeking their comments on the police’s claims.The app and its circulation on social media channels sparked outrage after which different people filed complaints with Delhi and Mumbai police. The Mumbai police and Delhi police are separately investigating the case.Meanwhile, DCP KPS Malhotra said Bishnoi had at least four Twitter handles from where he was uploading derogatory posts. He said some of the handles were @giyu2002, @giyu007, @giyuu84 and @giyu94“Giyu is the first name of a character in a game. One of his Twitter accounts @giyu2002 has been found associated with an FIR registered in Kishangarh police station, south west Delhi. From this Twitter account, he had made lewd remarks on the complainant’s picture and tweeted about the auction of the same,” said DCP Malhotra, adding, that another Twitter handle @giyu007 had come to the light, when police were probing the first GitHub case related to a similar app. Police said that Bishnoi tried to plant misinformation related to the first case and also created a fake profile of a woman(journalist) and to speak to the investigation agency.“Further, he came in contact with journalists and tried to plant his misinformation,” added Malhotra. 
08-01-2022||India||BJP workers assault Muslim man in Jharkhand, CM Soren orders probe||A Muslim man was allegedly beaten and forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” by a group of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers protesting on Friday near Dhanbad’s city centre against the security breach in Prime Minister’s cavalcade in Punjab on January 5, according to government officials in Jharkhand.The alleged incident was caught in video, and showed the group thrashing and abusing the man, prompting chief minister Hemant Soren to direct the Dhanbad deputy commissioner to conduct a probe and take appropriate action.In the video, the man was seen being forced to do sit ups, and lick the road after spitting on it. He was also seen being slapped and kicked by the group, while he was heard telling them that he was a Muslim. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video.“Dhanbad DC should probe the incident and revert with action taken report. There is no space for animosity in the state where people love to live in peace,” Soren said in a tweet, in response to a post about the incident.The victim was identified as a resident of Shamsher Nagar in Wasseypur in Dhanbad. His younger brother told HT that the man was mentally unstable, and is under treatment at Central Institute of Psychatry in Ranchi.“Only three of us live in our home. Both me and my mother do private job. We both were out when my brother left home. He has returned home after the incident. Though we are yet to decide on lodging a formal complaint against those who mistreated him, they should not have done what they did. Even if he abused them, they should not have forced him to chant religious slogan and force his to spit and lick the road. They could have handed him over to police,” the brother said.Reacting to the development, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Dhanbad, Raj Sinha, who was present at the protest site, said the incident should be probed in entirety.“This man came in front of us and started abusing our state president, taking his name. We asked him to leave. I don’t know what exactly happened with him after the party workers pushed him away from where we were sitting. However, it needs to be probed whether this entire thing was a conspiracy. Otherwise why would anyone just come and start abusing us,” said Sinha.The BJP legislator alleged that the incident was being highlighted for political reasons. “The CM never takes cognisance of the increasing crime in this city, but has been prompt in taking cognisance of this incident due to poltical reasons. Let him get a probe conducted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-workers-assault-muslim-man-in-jharkhand-forced-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-cm-soren-orders-probe-101641584868214.html
08-01-2022||India||Tripura BJP MLA demands murder charges against attackers of TMC leader||AGARTALA: Tripura Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Sudip Roy Barman on Friday demanded murder charges against the persons accused of attacking Trinamool Congress leader Mujibar Islam Majumder last year that allegedly led to his death on Wednesday. Roy Barman made the statement two days after Trinamool Congress alleged that Mujibar died following injuries sustained during the political attack at his residence in Agartala while observing the foundation day of Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad on August 28 last year. After the incident, Mujibar was taken to Kolkata for treatment and he died of heart attack on January 5. Son of former Agriculture minister Mansoor Ali, Mujibar Islam was earlier associated with the Congress party. He was also brother of senior BJP leader Baharul Islam Majumder. Roy Barman paid tribute to late Mujibar on Friday in the presence of Bengal Education Minister Bratya Basu, Trinamool Congress MP Dr. Santanu Sen and Tripura Trinamool Congress convener Subal Bhowmik. “Mujibar was beaten by miscreants badly that led to deterioration of his health. He could not recover from that. We, together, spent good time in politics before. The accused who attacked him should be booked under murder charge, “ Roy Barman told the reporters. Before joining the BJP in 2017, Roy Barman joined Trinamool Congress in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-bjp-mla-demands-murder-charges-against-attackers-of-tmc-leader-101641584388553.html
08-01-2022||India||India sends 2 tonnes of medicines for Kabul hospital||India on Friday supplied two tonnes of life-saving medicines to Afghanistan, the third tranche of aid sent to the country since last month against the backdrop of a dire humanitarian situation exacerbated by a harsh winter. The medicines were routed through Dubai as there are currently no direct flights between India and Afghanistan, people familiar with the matter said. The aid was handed over to the World Health Organization (WHO) and will be used at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Kabul. The Taliban welcomed the assistance, with spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid saying in a tweet that the “Islamic Emirate is grateful to India for its humanitarian assistance and cooperation”. “As part of our ongoing humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people, India supplied the third batch of medical assistance consisting of two tons of essential life saving medicines to Afghanistan today. The same was handed over to the Indira Gandhi Hospital, Kabul,” the external affairs ministry said in a brief statement. India is committed to “continue our special relationship with the people of Afghanistan and provide them humanitarian assistance”, the ministry said noting that the country has supplied 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines and 1.6 tonnes of medical assistance to Afghanistan through WHO. “In [the] coming weeks, we would be supplying more batches of humanitarian assistance consisting of medicines and foodgrains to Afghanistan,” the statement said. The English language Twitter handle of the Taliban said the medicines arrived in Kabul on Friday morning. “A few days ago, India also sent 500,000 doses of corona vaccine along with many other items to Afghanistan. IEA is grateful to India,” it said in a tweet. While supplying the Covid-19 vaccines on January 1, India pledged to send another 500,000 jabs in the coming weeks. The vaccines were sent to Kabul via a flight of Iran’s Mahan Air. On December 11, the government sent 1.6 tonnes of medicines on a special charter flight that ferried 85 Afghan nationals who were stuck in India after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The same flight had brought 104 people, mostly Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Kabul to New Delhi a day earlier. India’s offer to provide 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Pakistani land routes, however, has been held up because of conditions attached by Islamabad. On December 3, Pakistan said it would allow wheat and medicines to be shipped via the Wagah land border crossing in Afghan trucks, but it is yet to firm up modalities. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a media briefing on Thursday that the Indian side is still engaged in talks with Pakistani authorities to finalise these modalities. An estimated 98% of Afghans are starving because of a spiralling economic crisis, conflict and drought, and this figure has increased 17% since August, according to the World Food Programme. The UN’s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs warned this week that a harsh winter is aggravating already severe conditions faced by millions of Afghans. 
08-01-2022||India||Transfer of land owned by Dalit to trust in 1996 illegal, says Ayodhya court||A local court in Ayodhya has deemed illegal the transfer of 13 acre of land owned by Dalit to the Maharishi Ramayan Vidyapeeth Trust in 1996 and ordered the same be transferred back to the state government, people familiar with the development said on Friday.A court of assistant record officer, Bhan Singh, last week passed the order while hearing a case challenging the transfer of land in Manjha Barhata village in Ayodhya district to the Maharishi Ramayan Vidyapeeth Trust.The case was registered on the orders of the then Ayodhya district magistrate, Anuj Jha, after conducting a probe on the complaint by one Mahadev, a native of Banwari Purva of Ayodhya, against transfer of land to the Trust. The probe found the complaint genuine, people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The Trust got the land transferred in its name through one of its workers Ronghai, a Dalit, on October 22, 1996. The transfer was carried out without seeking approval of the district magistrate, the people said.“The Trust used Ronghai as a conduit for the land deal. Thereafter, the it got the land transferred in its name from Ronghai without approval of the then district magistrate,” one of the people said.As per the case details, some officials of the Uttar Pradesh government and their relatives have allegedly purchased land from the Maharishi Ramayan Vidyapeeth Trust.“The Maharishi Ramayan Vidyapeeth Trust, state government officials and their relatives who had bought land in Manjha Barhata and Shahnawazpur villages are under the scanner of the team probing the Ayodhya land purchase deals, involving senior officials and politicians of the state,” one of the people said.On December 22 last year, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered a probe into all such land purchase in Ayodhya involving officials of the state government, their relatives and politicians.According to legal experts, registries of all those who had purchased land from the Maharishi Ramayan Vidyapeeth Trust in Manjha Barhata Trust will now stand null and void.As per Section 98(1) of the Uttar Pradesh Revenue Code, 2006, no bhumidhar (land owner) belonging to a Scheduled Caste shall have the right to transfer, by way of sale, gift, mortgage or lease any land to a person not belonging to a Scheduled Caste, except with the previous permission of the collector in writing.
08-01-2022||India||Assam heightens restrictions on unvaccinated as Covid cases surge||As Covid cases continued to increase, Assam on Friday decided to impose night curfew from Saturday and a fine of up to ₹25,000 for owner of a public place for allowing un-vaccinated person from January 15. Every Covid-19 patient will be considered having Omicron variant, announced state chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.Another north-eastern state, Manipur, made Covid-19 negative test within 48 hours of arrival mandatory for entering the state by any mode of transport. It also decided to set up border Covid check posts to test passengers randomly.Odisha government on Friday announced closure of all educational institutions from January 10 after 18 students of a technical university, Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology, were found to be infected with Covid.The state government had already announced shutting of all schools from Friday. Odisha on Friday had reported 2703 new Covid cases in last 24 hours, its single-day high in last six months. The test positivity rate which was below one percent for most of December is now 3.9%.Bihar government also announced closure of schools for classes 9 to 12 till Jan 21. Now schools and colleges will only conduct online classes, a health department official said. The Goa government on Friday restricted public gatherings to a maximum of 100 persons outdoors and to 50% of the capacity of the hall/auditorium or 100 persons whichever is less, days after 50% cap was imposed on entertainment places and eateries.The Calcutta high court on Friday gave go ahead to West Bengal government to conduct Gangasagar Mela with certain conditions. Close to half a million people are expected to visit Sagar Island during the mela starting from January 15.The court said a three-member committee, comprising the leader of opposition, Chairman of West Bengal Human Rights Commission and representative of the State would monitor compliance of the measures suggested by the state government on January 6 to contain Covid 19 in the Sagar island.Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that henceforth all COVID19 cases in the state would be considered as those of Omicron variant. Addressing media in Guwahati, he said since December 27 there has been a surge in new COVID19 cases (on Thursday the state recorded 844 new cases and total 9 Omicron cases) and hence stricter measures were needed to control spread of the disease. Sarma said that as per government calculations, between January 20 and January 30, Assam will have nearly as many cases during the peak of the second wave last year (around 6500 cases in a day).“We assess that this time the peak might be anywhere between 10,000 to 12,000 or maybe more,” he said. The CM informed that testing would be increased from 30,000 daily at present to nearly 100,000 daily. There will be compulsory testing in airports and railway stations of incoming passengers who are non-vaccinated or have taken single dose. Those below 15 years will also have to undergo compulsory testing on arrival, he added.From Saturday, night curfew timings will be there from 10 pm to 6 am. Wearing of masks in public places is mandatory and police have been instructed to impose fines on those found violating new restrictions.“Except hospitals, one will have to be fully vaccinated to visit any other public place from January 15. If un-vaccinated people enter public places, owners of those places will have to pay fine of up to ₹25,000,” said Sarma. Nearly 5.5 million eligible recipients in the state are yet to take their second dose of vaccination and the restrictions we will be imposing will affect this segment, he added.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-heightens-restrictions-on-unvaccinated-as-covid-cases-surge-101641583548192.html
08-01-2022||India||Mekedatu padayatra plan:Congress hopeful of mobilising support in Old-Mysuru region||The Congress in Karnataka continued its preparations for the 10-day 100-km padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, scheduled to start on January 9, despite warnings of stern action against the party for violating covid-19 restrictions.Though the party has made it clear that the padayatra is in the “interest of the state”, analysts and others say this also provides an opportunity for the Congress to mobilise support in the Old-Mysuru region ahead of the 2023 assembly polls and other local elections, scheduled for later this year.Despite the party getting routed in other states, Karnataka offers hope to the Congress and has been key to its national revival on more than one occasion and allows the Sonia Gandhi-led party to win one back against the BJP in 2023.“I have written to the chief ministers and all other MLA requesting them to join. We are not doing something against the state and they should bless this,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), said on Friday.Shivakumar and the Congress are trying to get the support for the padayatra from all sections of society including influential seers from various communities, priests and others and add pressure to initiate work in the contentious Mekedatu project which has been opposed by Tamil Nadu.The Congress is hopeful of reviving its fortunes much like what it did in 2012 when Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar and RV Deshpande (then KPCC president) led the party to a 320-km padayatra to Ballari district in the height of the illegal mining scam that involved then BJP minister, Gali Janardhana Reddy.The Congress stormed into power the following year as a divided BJP with BS Yediyurappa’s exit managed to win just 40 seats in 2013 as against 110 in 2008.However, the Congress has been a divided house as the power struggle between Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar is no secret while other factions too continue to watch the developments closely, leaving them at a disadvantage to capitalise on the discord within the Basvaraj Bommai-led BJP and the ruling party’s problems.The Congress has also grown wary of the growing closeness between the JD(S) and the BJP in the Old-Mysuru region or the Vokkaliga belt, where both parties consider the former as the common enemy.The JD(S) is the only party that has had alliances with both the BJP and the Congress and it is imperative to win a large chunk of seats in southern districts if either of the two national parties want to return to power with a full majority. The BJP has hedged its bets with the JD(S) while the Congress is keeping its distance from the former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and his former chief minister son, HD Kumaraswamy-led regional outfit.The Congress and JD(S) suffered humiliating defeats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections as the grassroots level workers were unable to overcome their rivalries just because there was an alliance between their senior leadership.“It is not just a padayatra but a vote yatra. It is being done with the sole intention to get votes in the upcoming elections and is fooling the people in the name of the Padayatra,” Kumaraswamy said on Friday.The Mekedatu issue has evoked emotions on both sides of the border as it is an extension of the century-old Cauvery river water dispute that has defined generations in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, two of India’s most industrious and progressive states.The long-winding legal battles have been used as a political currency in the past as well as an active tool to deflect attention away from other issues both sides of the border and irrespective of the party in power.The Cauvery river basin originates in Karnataka and flows through Tamil Nadu and Puducherry before it enters the Bay of Bengal. Of the total catchment area of 81,155 square kilometers, 34,273 kilometers is in Karnataka, 44,016 square kms in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and about 2,866 sq kms in Kerala.Karnataka has maintained that the Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project is to generate 400 MW of power and additionally utilise 4.75 tmcft of water for drinking and domestic needs in the state and particularly Bengaluru.“This is not about the wellness of the state. They had no other work politically so they are undertaking this. Why didn’t they pay attention to this when they were in power? Mekedatu is not a new issue,” Munirathna, Karnataka’s minister for horticulture said on Friday.He said that this Padayatara was a drama and a political campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mekedatu-padayatra-plan-congress-hopeful-of-mobilising-support-in-old-mysuru-region-101641583427877.html
08-01-2022||India||172 fliers from Rome test Covid positive on arrival at Amritsar, Punjab orders probe||AMRITSAR: At least 172 passengers who arrived here on a charter flight from Rome on Friday tested positive for Covid-19, prompting the Punjab health department to order a probe against the private laboratory deputed at the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport.This is the second consecutive day when a large number of passengers arriving from Italy have tested positive for coronavirus. On Thursday, 125 out of 179 passengers coming from Rome in the European nation tested positive for Covid-19 at Amritsar airport.All European nations, including Italy, have been deemed as “at risk” countries by the Union health ministry. All passengers flying in from these countries have to undergo Covid-19 tests on arrival.“Total 285 passengers today (on Friday) landed at the airport through the flight that was operated by EuroAtlantic Airways and chartered by SpiceJet. A total of 172 passengers have tested positive for Covid-19 in the RT-PCR test,” said VK Seth, director, Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh on Friday said that such a large number of positive results led to suspicions about the lab. Singh ordered a probe against the lab. “The passengers testing positive for Covid-19 in such a large number on a second consecutive day has raised a question on the testing practices. In view of this, we have decided to test 75 passengers again,” Singh said, adding, “I have talked to the officials of the airport and asked them to initiate a probe against the lab.”All those who have tested positive on arrival here were in possession of a Covid negative report from Italy. Passengers have alleged that the lab, hired by the Centre through tendering process, was asking for money for negative reports. Jasvir Singh Uppal from Jalandhar district, who arrived here on Thursday, said, “Almost all of us are fully vaccinated and passengers got their RT-PCR tests done from different reputed labs in Italy and tested negative. Our reports are on the internet and anyone in the world can check them. I was surprised when my report turned negative at Amritsar airport. We refuse to go to a quarantine centre.”“We conducted the RT-PCR test just nine hours before boarding the flight... I have seen some passengers who gave bribe, tested negative at the airport,” he added.When contacted by HT, airport officials refused to divulge the name of the lab.Meanwhile, health officials said that as per the government guidelines, the 172 passengers who tested positive have been asked to go to institutional quarantine in their respective districts.On Thursday, several passengers who tested positive on arrival left for their homes, violating the Covid-19 guidelines. Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira took a strong note of the incident, asking all those who are from the district to isolate at the designated quarantine centre at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital by Friday morning.Khaira directed the additional deputy commissioner to order police to book the passengers who don’t return to quarantine facility under the Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act. He also warned of recommending cancellation of their passports if they don’t turn up.Till Friday, however, only three out of the 13 passengers who are from Amritsar district have isolated themselves at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. A government spokesperson said, “The other 10 passengers have the facility at home to be properly isolated. They are isolated at home, while three have been admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.” 
08-01-2022||India||India reports 141,000 Covid cases, highest tally since March 2021||New Delhi: India on Friday saw at least 141,000 new cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day increase since May 39, 2021, or in 222 days, as the nationwide surge in infections propelled by the Omicron variant continued to soar. Friday’s case count of 141,506 means that daily cases have now grown more than 10-fold in just 10 days (there were just 9,155 new infections on December 28) – a speed of rise in infections previously unseen in the two years of the pandemic in the country. To be sure, such a sharp rise in daily infections is keeping in line with trends in Covid waves seen across the world due to the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Experts have said that while infections of the new variant, which was first discovered in South Africa in early November, are spreading a lot faster than previous iterations of the coronavirus, they are largely asymptomatic or mild, with only small fraction resulting in deaths across the world. Government officials have privately said they are working under the assumption that daily infections will surpass the record of more than 414,000 set in May, given what has happened in countries, such as the United States where daily cases have risen past 1 million. “We will clearly surpass our record shortly and reach a new peak by early February,” M.D. Gupte, a former director of the state-run National Institute of Epidemiology and an immunisation adviser to the government, told Reuters. “Given the size of our population, we will report more daily cases than the U.S. But what we have seen is that these cases are much more mild, so the need for hospitalisation and oxygen and all that is not picking up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-141-000-covid-cases-highest-tally-since-march-2021-101641583127937.html
08-01-2022||India||Trincomalee oil tank farm deal to boost energy security, set stage for further eco cooperation||Sri Lanka has inked a deal with the subsidiary of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) for the long-gestating project to develop the Trincomalee oil tank farm, a move expected to boost energy security for both countries and set the stage for further economic cooperation. Discussions on the project date back to the time of the India-Sri Lanka Accord of 1987 but there had been no substantial forward movement for a variety of reasons, including resistance in Sri Lanka to completely leasing out the facility built by the British at Trincomalee to India. The Sri Lanka government, Indian Oil Corporation subsidiary Lanka IOC (LIOC), Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) and a joint venture between LIOC and CPC signed three lease agreements on Thursday on refurbishing and developing the 850-acre oil storage facility with a capacity of nearly one million tonnes. According to the deal, 16 tanks which were already developed by LIOC since 2003 will be leased to the firm, 61 tanks will be leased to the joint venture, and 24 tanks to CPC. The lease will be valid for 50 years and there are provisions in the agreements to protect investments, people familiar with the matter said. An IOC spokesperson said CPC has a 51% stake in the joint venture and LIOC has a 49% stake. “CPC and the joint venture company of LIOC will be developing tanks in a phased manner very shortly for their respective allocated tanks,” the spokesperson said. The agreements signed on Thursday resulted in the termination of a framework agreement signed by LIOC, CPC and the Sri Lanka government in 2003 that envisaged leasing all the tanks to LIOC. The Sri Lankan side has now ensured that it has a stake in 85 of the tanks at the facility. The project will ensure energy security for both countries, especially since LIOC already plays a key role in the retail distribution of petrol in Sri Lanka, the people said. The project is also expected to blunt the fallout of the Sri Lanka government’s unilateral cancellation in early 2021 of a tripartite agreement with India and Japan to develop a terminal at Colombo port. “These agreements are another significant step in broadening the spectrum of the mutually beneficial economic partnership. It will assist Sri Lanka in developing of Trincomalee as an energy and transport hub to bolster its energy security,” one of the people cited above said. Cooperation in energy security is an important part of cooperation between the two sides under India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy, the person said. “India looks forward to full implementation of bilateral understandings reached within agreed timelines,” the person added. At the same time, it is believed the Sri Lankan side expects progress in the Trincomalee oil tank farm project will lead to forward movement on its request for urgent financial assistance against the backdrop of a severe economic crisis. Sri Lanka is eyeing a $500-million credit line from India’s Exim Bank for buying petrol and diesel from Indian suppliers, another line of credit to cover the import of food, medicines and other essential items from India, and a $400-million currency swap under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) facility. The Trincomalee project and the credit lines were part of a four-pillar economic cooperation initiative that Sri Lanka’s finance minister Basil Rajapaksa had discussed with his Indian counterpart Nirmala Sitharaman and external affairs minister S Jaishankar during a visit to New Delhi in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trincomalee-oil-tank-farm-deal-to-boost-energy-security-set-stage-for-further-eco-cooperation-101641583012344.html
08-01-2022||India||RSS calls for reflection of spiritual diversity in national education policy||The three-day Akhil Bharartiya Samanvay Baithak (All-India co-ordination meeting) of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and its affiliated organisations, concluded here on Friday with a call for reflecting spiritual diversity in the National Education Policy. Briefing the deliberations of the three-day meeting, RSS joint secretary Manmohan Vaidya told reporters that the meeting discussed on Bharat-centric eduction and observed that the National Education Policy should reflect the true history and spiritual diversity of India. “Having a common education policy across the nation is not, in any manner, an infringement into the diversity of the various states. Diversity should not be seen as differences between the states. India’s has been focussing on spiritual oneness. The National Education Policy has expressed our spiritual diversity from across the country,” Vaidya said. He said the policy should also strive for eradication of caste discrimination in the society and promote harmony. “The RSS has been striving for achieving social equality. The affiliated organisations would deeply study this aspect in their respective fields and give suggestions to the government. Intellectuals across the country are bringing awareness for decolonization in all fields,” he said. The representatives deliberated on malnutrition eradication especially among children and initiatives for employment generation. The meeting also discussed about the programmes to be taken up during the 75th year of Indian Independence. It called for recognising the contributions of thousands of unsung heroes including those from the SC and STs. “The organisations inspired by the RSS and working among intellectuals have documented 250 such valorous lives. Samskara Bharati has made 75 skits and dramas,” Vaidya said. The meeting discussed the steps for tackling the third wave of Coronavirus pandemic. “As many as 10 lakh people in 6,000 development blocks have been trained to serve the people during the pandemic. Sangh shakhas which were closed during first pandemic have restarted now. Compared to October 2019, Sangh has restarted its work in 93% places in the country,” he said. 
08-01-2022||India||Andhra CM Jagan announces 23% pay hike for staff, enhances retirement age to 62 years||The YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh on Friday announced a hike of 23 per cent in the salary of all the state government employees and increased their retirement age from 60 years to 62 years.The chief minister made the announcement after holding discussions with the representatives of the employees’ unions, along with the officials of the finance ministry.Last month, an official committee headed by chief secretary Sameer Sharma had recommended a pay hike of 14.29 per cent, but after a series of discussions with the officials and employees’ unions, Jagan decided to grant a fitment (hike in basic pay) of 23 per cent.He announced that the revised pay structure would be with retrospective effect from July 1, 2018, but the monetary benefits will be applied from 1-4-2020.The enhanced pay scale along with pending DA’s will be effective from January 2022 he said and added that the decision shall put an additional burden of ₹10,247 crore on the State treasury. Also, all the pending arrears like PF, GLI, leave encashment will be cleared by April 2022.Jagan said the increase in retirement age from 60 years to 62 years was aimed at making better use of their services, which will be implemented from this January.With regard to the demand of the employees to do away with contributory pension scheme (CPS), the chief minister said that a decision will be made by the end of June, as a Cabinet Subcommittee has already been laid.Further, the chief minister assured that jobs would be provided to family members of the employees who died of Covid-19, under compassionate grounds by the end of June and also constituted a committee with the chief secretary to revamp the employee health scheme (EHS) for better implementation and told to resolve the issues within two-weeks.For those employees working in the Village and Ward Secretariats a revised pay scale will be given from July this year after the completion of probation and confirmation process by June 30.He also announced to provide houses to those employees who don’t own a house by reserving 10 percent of the plots in MIG layouts in Jagananna Smart Townships and 20 percent rebate will be provided. The constituency will be treated as a unit and affirmed that no employee will be deprived of housing.
08-01-2022||India||CPI-M central committee meeting begins in Hyderabad||The three-day conclave of the central committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Hyderabad began on Friday to discuss the draft political resolution that would be adopted at the party’s all-India meeting to be held at Kannur in Kerala in April.The central committee meeting being held at Sundarayya Vignana Kendram was attended by its top leaders including CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar, politburo member Prakash Karat, and senior leaders S Ramachandran Pillai, Brinda Karat, B V Raghavulu and Subhashini Ali.In all, as many as 96 members from across the nation took part in the deliberations.Yechury told reporters that the central committee meeting would release the draft political resolution for a public debate after the deliberations. “The party leaders can go through the resolution and send their views, suggestions, amendments and opinions to the central committee, within a month,” he said.Stating that the CPI (M) would follow the principles of internal democracy, the party general secretary said the draft resolution would be adopted at the all-India conference to be held in Kerala after incorporating all the amendments and suggestions.He said the three-day meeting would also discuss the strategy to be adopted by the party in the forthcoming elections to five state assemblies. Besides, the party would discuss other national and international issues, implementation of liberalisation policies and farmers’ fight on various issues.On Saturday, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will address a meeting of the Telangana Malayalee Association through virtual mode and take representations on their issues.
08-01-2022||India||Naidu hints at tie-up with Pawan Kalyan for 2024 assembly election||Telugu Desam Party chief N Chandrababu Naidu has indicated that his party is looking for an alliance with the Jana Sena Party headed by Telugu film actor Pawan Kalyan in the next Andhra Pradesh assembly elections to be held in 2024.Naidu indicated this during his ongoing tour in his constituency Kuppam in Chittoor district. Reacting to a suggestion by party workers on Thursday that the TDP could have a pact with the Jana Sena Party in the next elections, Naidu said his party was ready to join hands with Pawan Kalyan, if there was a reciprocation from the latter.“An alliance can work out if there is a positive response from the other side. It cannot be a one-side love,” the TDP chief said.On Friday, Naidu told the media that there was a need for all like-minded political forces to come together to end the “destructive rule” of the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the state. “It is necessary to put up a united fight against the ruling party under the present circumstances,” the former chief minister said.On his comment about one-side love with the Jana Sena Party, Naidu clarified that he was only explaining about political alliances which would be worked out on mutual agreements and not in the interest of one side.He said alliances between political parties would be discussed only at the time of elections, depending on the necessity and the political situation prevailing at that time. “The TDP does not depend on alliances alone to win elections. It had won the elections and lost elections in the past irrespective of the alliances it had with other parties,” he said.The Jana Sena Party reacted cautiously to the TDP chief’s comments on the possibility of an alliance between the two parties. “So far, there have been no discussions whatsoever between the TDP and the Jana Sena on an alliance. We do not know in what context the TDP president made such a comment,” Jana Sena Party political affairs committee chairman and former assembly speaker Nadendla Manohar told HT.He said during the local body elections held in Andhra Pradesh last year, there were instances of the TDP and Jana Sena Party fighting together in some districts to counter the YSR Congress Party. “Maybe, as an extension of this cooperation in the local body elections, the TDP cadre might have made such a suggestion for an alliance in the assembly elections as well,” he said.The issue of an alliance with the TDP is expected to come up for discussion at the state executive committee meeting of the Jana Sena Party to be held at its state headquarters in Mangalagiri in Guntur district on Sunday. “We shall definitely discuss the issue. But it is too early to talk about electoral alliances at this stage,” Manohar said.The Jana Sena Party has been in an alliance with the BJP since the last general elections in 2019. In April last year, Pawan Kalyan campaigned for the BJP in the by-election to Tirupati parliamentary constituency.But after that both the parties have been adopting independent lines in their fight against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government. While the Jana Sena Party decided to stay away from the contest in the by-elections to Badvel assembly seat in Kadapa district held on October 30, the BJP fielded its candidate without consulting its alliance partner.Pawan Kalyan has also differed with the BJP on the issue of privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and joined the agitations of the steel plant workers. Similarly, the BJP stayed away from the Jana Sena Party’s fight against the bad roads in the state.Reacting to Naidu’s comments on the one-side love with the Jana Sena Party, BJP state president Somu Veerraju described the TDP chief as the “most opportunistic politician”. “He is known for his use-and-throw politics. He can love anybody for his convenience and later dump him after the purpose is served,” Veerraju said.The TDP had forged an alliance with the BJP in 2014 general elections and was part of the Narendra Modi-led NDA government till 2018.YSR Congress Party ridiculed the TDP chief’s comments on an alliance with the Jana Sena Party. “Naidu has no courage to go to elections independently, because he knows the TDP cannot win elections alone. It was there for everybody to see in 2019 assembly elections,” senior YSRC leader and legislator Malladi Vishnu said.He said Naidu always looks for “opportunistic alliances” with other parties to win elections. “But his wily tactics will not work even in 2024, because no political party in the state has the capacity and calibre to face the YSRC in the elections,” Vishnu said.
08-01-2022||India||Kerala police rescue abducted infant within two hours||A newborn abducted from the Government Medical College hospital in Kottayam was rescued within two hours of the crime, a Kerala police official said on Friday. The incident unfolded in the hospital gynaecology around 3pm Thursday when a woman dressed as a nurse allegedly asked the mother P Aswathi to hand over the infant to get the baby’s jaundice levels checked.When the baby was not returned even after 30 minutes, Aswathi went to the hospital authorities to ask about the same, following which police were alerted. “We immediately sealed the district border and scanned railway stations, bus terminals and private vehicles. While probing the matter, an eyewitness auto-rickshaw driver informed that he had seen a woman leaving the hospital in hurry,” said district police chief-cum-superintendent of police (SP) D Shilpa. The kidnapper, identified as Neethu Raj, and the child were taken into custody from a hotel in the city by 5pm, said Shilpa. She said that the police officers who busted the kidnapping incident in a record time will be rewarded. Sub-inspector T S Reneesh who was part of the rescue team was greeted with a standing ovation when he returned the baby to the medical college hospital. “The accused has confessed to her crime. During the investigation, Raj said that she kidnapped the baby to blackmail her lover Ibrahim Badusha. After executing the crime, she shared the pictures of the baby with Badusha and his relatives claiming that she gave birth to the baby and Badusha was the father,” said the SP, adding, that Raj and Badusha had come in contact last year through social media platform Tik Tok and had been staying together for some time. The SP said both fell apart as Badusha decided to get married somewhere else. “She told us that Badusha took her money and failed to return it. The whole drama was enacted to foil his marriage plan and live with him,” said the SP, adding, Raj was pregnant earlier, but, it was aborted. She was planning to give an impression that she gave birth to the child in a private hospital in Ernakulam and selected an easy target in Kottayam medical college hospital. The SP said she had been camping in a hotel near the hospital from January 4 and had visited the hospital multiple times before committing the crime. Police said Raj, who already has an eight-year-old son from her first marriage, purchased the nurse uniform from a medical equipment shop. The SP said Badusha has no role in the kidnapping but a separate case will be registered against him for not returning the money he took from Raj. Meanwhile, describing the entire incident as a nightmare, Aswathi said, “I almost fainted after I came to know about the kidnapping. She was quite familiar in the ward and we all thought she was a nurse.” State health minister Veena George has also sought a report from the medical college authorities regarding the matter. George also called upon the family on Friday evening. “In view of the incident, we will be increasing security in all the hospitals. Employees will have to carry their identity cards and more CCTVs will be set-up,” she said, adding, such an incident should not have been happened in first place. Meanwhile, the SP said that the entire team has been recommended for rewards. BLURB Accused woman dressed as a nurse and took away the baby on the pretext of checking the infant’s jaundice levels||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-police-rescue-abducted-infant-within-two-hours-101641582347792.html
08-01-2022||India||Kerala assault case: Court orders recording of Film director’s statement||A court in Kochi on Friday ordered recording of Malayalam director Balachandra Kumar’s statement before a magistrate in the actor abduction and assault case.Kumar, a former friend of actor Dileep who is an accused in the case, claimed two weeks back that the actor was in possession of the video of the assault on a woman actor and that he tried to influence many witnesses in the case. He also alleged that he had met the main accused in the case, Pulsar Suni, at the residence of actor Dileep in 2016 when he had gone there to discuss a film project. Later the prosecution moved a plea in the court to record Kumar’s statement under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The case relates to an incident in 2017 in which a woman actor was waylaid, kidnapped and sexually assaulted by a criminal gang in Kochi while she was returning home after a shooting assignment. Six months after the incident, Dileep was arrested and made an accused in the case. Prosecution alleged that the attack was planned at the behest of Dileep to settle an old score with the woman actor. The special investigation team probing the case questioned Kumar last week and is set to grill Dileep again. The four-year-old case took a new turn two weeks back after Kumar made claims about Dileep while talking to a Malayalam news channel. Dileep later refuted the claims, saying “he (Kumar) was using his old enmity to settle scores with him.” He said Kumar was upset with him after he refused to take up his project two years ago. Soon after the disclosure by Kumar, the prosecution moved the trial court for a fresh investigation and the court asked the prosecution to file fresh charges by January 20. New allegations against Dileep and prosecution’s demand for a fresh probe surfaced at a time when the trial court’s six-month extension given by the Supreme Court was set to expire on February 16. The state government also moved the apex court with a plea to extend the trial by six more months in view of the fresh disclosure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assault-case-court-orders-recording-of-film-director-s-statement-101641582289516.html
08-01-2022||India||96% patients on oxygen support in Mumbai hospitals are unvaccinated: BMC chief||Mumbai: An overwhelming majority of people with Covid-19 requiring oxygen support in Mumbai’s hospitals are unvaccinated, a top city official said, offering the first clues of who may now be at higher risk despite the variant itself showing signs of reduced virulence.Doctors at city officials separately said the trends were largely being reflected at their facilities, and that most of those requiring additional support were unvaccinated people above the age of 50.“Out of the around 1,900 Covid patients who were on oxygenated beds, around 96% are unvaccinated and only 4% are vaccinated,” Brihanmumbai Corporation (BMC) municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal, citing data till January 6.Dr Gautam Bhansali of the Bombay Hospital, who is also coordinator of all private hospitals in the city, said, “In case of hospital beds, both vaccinated and unvaccinated citizens are occupants, but on oxygen beds, the majority of patients are unvaccinated. The age group of such patients is normally above 40 to 50 years.” “This shows that vaccination is very important for each and every citizen,” he added.Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force said that there is a definite increase in the number of unvaccinated and partially vaccinated people who were being hospitalised with Covid-19. “Many of these patients seem to have rushed to take the vaccine after the surge in cases started, perhaps battling the initial hesitancy towards vaccination,” said Srivastava. “We have not conducted a thorough analysis, but the uptick in such patients, even on oxygen support and ICUs is visible,” he said.According to Srivastava, Omicron is largely affecting the upper respiratory area and patients suspected with Omicron may not require oxygen. While the presence of Omicron is confirmed by genome sequencing, some hospitals have started using the S-gene dropout parameter in the RT-PCR tests to indirectly indicate the variant causing the disease in the patient.“My worry is about the possibility of joint infections with both Delta and Omicron variants due to repeated exposure that could be driving some number of patients towards severe disease. We don’t have genome sequencing data to establish this, but it definitely needs to be looked at,” he said.BMC officials said they were confident that resources are adequate to deal with any surge in requirement.“We may even have 100,000 Covid active patients in Mumbai. Our oxygen consumption is only 10 tonnes. Our production capacity is up to 200 tonnes a day. We have another 400 tonnes of oxygen in storage. In the third wave, we have to understand that positivity rate or cases will not be parameter with which to gauge the situation but hospitalisation rate. The occupation of oxygen and ICU beds along with the overall bed occupancy rate is to be gauged,” said an official, asking not to be named.Chahal said 80% of the city’s Covid beds were as yet unoccupied and the situation will be reviewed if occupancy reached 50% in the coming days.“Our experts from the Covid Taskforce have told me that in Mumbai may even go up to say 40,000 cases daily. This may or may not happen but we will come out comfortably out of this considering the cooperation from citizens,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/96-patients-on-oxygensupport-in-mumbai-hospitals-are-unvaccinated-bmc-chief-101641582287732.html
08-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu policy aims to bring women into workforce||While participating in a gram sabha in Madurai district on Gandhi Jayanti, October 2, Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin took a pledge that he will give due respect to women and children, their rights as equals, and will not engage in sexual harassment or any kind of gender violence. Now, the draft of his government’s new policy for women talks of providing jobs to about 10,000 women, who left work to take care of their families, by upgrading their skills, and a menopause leave for all women workers. According to officials, the government plans to reach out to 10,000 women, who have quit jobs for raising their family and due to lack of mobility, and help them in a second career entry. Household surveys will be conducted to estimate gender inequality within homes. Tamil Nadu’s policy comes at a time when several studies across the world show that the Covid-19 pandemic has disproportionately affected women as they have dropped out of the workforce, setting them back in their careers and cornering them into reinforced gender roles of care giving. The state policy, a first of its kind, comes 20 years after the central government had adopted the National Policy for Empowerment of Women in 2001. The policy’s core idea, according to the draft, is that women should have the “power to control their own lives, both within and outside the home” and “create an equitable social and economic order” ensuring social justice which is also central to the ruling DMK’s Dravidian ideology which has diluted over the years. “It reflects a wide range of concerns and contemporary feminist policy debates,” says Swarna Rajagoapalan, political scientist and founder of Prajnya that advocates for women’s rights. “Notable is the concern about low female labour force participation, reflected in many provisions relating to re-entry and re-skilling. I’d say that the drafting committee was really concerned about women’s labour force participation and the loss of talent through women exiting for all these reasons.”According to the policy, the rural and urban female labour force participation rate (FLFPR) in Tamil Nadu is 35.1% and 23.6%, which is higher than the national average by 15.4% and 7.5%, respectively.“Tamil Nadu has the second-largest state economy in the country, with strong and consistent economic growth averaging about 8.5% since fiscal year (FY) 2006. Women’s contribution in the paid economy is significant,” the draft policy says. The policy notes that women’s effective participation in the workforce and their transition to formal employment opportunities remain a challenge.“The policy notes that women leave the workforce for personal reasons as well as because of infrastructural failures,” says Rajagopalan. “The provisions relating to public transport (reserved seats, on-off boarding between stops and provision for storing the work paraphernalia of informal workers) are practical remedial measures. The attention to re-skilling and re-entry after career breaks mirrors a private sector concern of recent years. The policy notes the tendency of women to work for a few years and leave after marriage and suggests acquainting them with options at such a point.”The state’s policy is meant to offer financial and accommodation support for skill training to girls in any subject of their choice. It includes entrepreneurial training. “The State shall open opportunities for women and girls for upskilling especially those who had a career break,” the policy says.The state is also looking at ways for integration of technical skills in the curriculum along with providing incentives to pursue courses that will smoothen the transition from education to work for adolescent girls in vulnerable communities. Skill training in terms of upskilling and reskilling courses is being pondered for allowing women for lateral entry at a higher level after a career break. But Rajagopalan points out that though the policy draft mentions ‘Internal Committees’ in its discussions about work, it does not address the challenges of informal workers in accessing functional local committees, mentioning them just once. “This is a notable oversight for a policy so invested in enabling women’s livelihoods,” she says. Women’s health highly linked to work productivity The policy has a radical element-- menopause leave for all women. A factor not talked about much but a 2019 survey by a London-based association for human resource management professionals pegged that almost 900,000 women in the UK left their jobs because of menopausal symptoms reducing productivity.Tamil Nadu’s policy combines concerns about women’s health and work. The menopause leave can be clubbed with the one-year maternity leave, the policy says.“Women who have not availed the entire maternity leave can have the option of availing menopause leave during their career which will not extend beyond the maximum combined limit of one year.” Without mentioning period leave, the policy says that women will be eligible for sick leave category besides the casual leave for any 2 consecutive days per month which is compensatory. “This shall be applicable till attain the age of menopause,” the policy states.The policy is a 10-year plan for its present 3.2 crore women population who out numbers the male electorate in Tamil Nadu. The DMK began indicating that it will focus on women when it promised a cash dole of ₹1000 for women-headed households and when they formed the government in May, the name of this department anchoring this initiative was renamed from Social Welfare and Nutritious department to Social Welfare and Women Empowerment. The policy was drafted by an eight-member team which includes five women. It has broadly adopted WHO’s RESPECT women framework for prevention of violence against women and girls.“I see this draft policy with a holistic approach where it talks about intersectionality and gender sensitive approaches to be considered in the planning phase rather than adding any component to an existing scheme,” Sandhiyan Thiyagaran, founder of AWARE (Awareness for Women to Advocate their Rights and Empowerment) India.He says there are significant initiatives to address gender-based violence but he draws a few caveats. “Educating girls on adolescent sexual health & reproductive rights, talking about relationship awareness seems is empowering one gender without including the other (boys and men) who have predominantly been perpetuating these issues and also been victimized to perpetuate the same. We need to focus on boys on these aspects,” says Thiyagarajan. A senior social welfare and women empowerment department official said the draft has been in the making for two months. “We are creating a strong base for the government to cover women in all stages of their lives,” the official, wishing not to be identified, said. “The policy will be flexible to change as we go forward.”The department is also planning to release this in Tamil having received several requests. The deadline for the public to submit their suggestions is January 31. A committee headed by the directorate of social welfare has been constituted to study feedback and modify the policy accordingly. It will then be sent to the state government to hold further consultations with various departments that are involved in matters concerning women such as health, education and Adi Dravidar welfare department. The official said they were yet to decide on how to mobilise funds to implement the policy.
08-01-2022||India||Charge sheet filed in Gorakhpur murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigati on (CBI) on Friday filed a charge sheet in Lucknow’s special judicial magistrate court against six policemen accused of murdering Kanpur businessman Manish Gupta in a Gorakhpur hotel in September 2021, the agency said in a statement. The accused include the then station house officer Jagat Narayan Singh, then sub-inspectors Akshay Kumar Mishra, Vijay Yadav, Rahul Dubey, then head constable Kamlesh Singh Yadav and constable Prashant Kumar. All accused are currently in jail.According to the charge sheet, the accused have been charged under sections 302 (murder), 323, 325, 506, 218, 201 (destruction of evidence) all read with Sections 34, 120-B and 149 of IPC (Indian Penal Code).The CBI had registered a case on November 2021 following a notification by the Uttar Pradesh government. The FIR was lodged by Gupta’s wife Meenakshi. According to a CBI spokesperson, it was alleged that on September 27, Manish Gupta checked into a hotel room in Gorakhpur, falling under the jurisdiction of the Ramgarh Tal police station.“It was further alleged that in the intervening night of September 27 and 28, 2021, at about 12:00 am, the SHO, along with two sub-inspectors and three other police personnel, entered into the room of the said hotel and started misbehaving with Manish Gupta,” he said.The spokesperson said it was also alleged that after Gupta protested, the policemen started beating him, resulting in grievous injuries. Gupta died on the spot, the CBI spokesperson said. The policemen were on the run since Gupta’s death on September 27. JN Singh and Akshay Mishra were the first to be arrested on October 10. Kanpur commissioner of police Asim Arun had confirmed their arrest at the time. The police had initially claimed that Gupta died due to injuries caused to him when he slipped on the floor due to the chaos caused by the sudden police checking.However, the post-mortem report revealed that Gupta’s body bore grave injury marks including big 5×4 cm deep and swollen wound in the middle of the forehead, clotting in the right eyelid and deep wound in the forearm.The Uttar Pradesh government on October 1 recommended a CBI probe into Gupta’s death. The recommendation to this effect was made to the central government on the directives of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish K Awasthi, had said in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charge-sheet-filed-in-gorakhpur-murder-case-101641581687736.html
08-01-2022||India||Smaller states fare better at providing MGNREGS jobs||Nine out of every ten enrolled workers have got a job under MGNREGS in the state of Mizoram in this financial year, as have 74% in Chhattisgarh. The two are among several smaller states where a wide swathe of the rural population has benefitted from the government’s flagship job guarantee scheme against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic that has shrunk economic opportunities and discouraged many workers from leaving home.To be sure, these proportions are a function of the lower absolute numbers in these states. For instance, in Bihar, the number of active workers under the scheme as on Friday was 8.97 million lakhs whereas in Mizoram, it was just around 2,70,000 . But while just 28.7% of the total enrolled MGNREGS workers found work in Bihar, 93% of those in Mizoram have benefitted, according to the government data.Former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra explained that the larger states have more options for economic activities. “In industrially developed or big states such as Maharashtra or Gujarat, people have many other financial opportunities to pursue. So, the participation in these states is usually low.”The official data shows that active workers out of total number of workers in Jharkhand is 40%, Karnataka, 48%, Maharashtra, 23%, and Gujarat, 31%.The corresponding proportions in smaller states is much higher. It is 84% in Tripura, 81% in the UT of Ladakh and 71% in Meghalaya.A senior official of the rural development ministry pointed out that the world’s biggest employment guarantee programme has been beneficial to the smaller states and far-flung areas with limited economic opportunities. “During Covid, these economic opportunities have shrunk further, especially in these areas. And many migratory workers have not returned to bigger cities due to fear of the pandemic, resulting in additional dependence on the job guarantee programme.”MGNREGS has generated 296 croredays of work so far nationally involving 94.3 million individual workers and the participation of 65.5 million households. As more families sought work under the Union government’s flagship job programme, only 2.45 million families have completed 100 days of work—as against 7.1 million lakhs in 20-21, 4 million 19-20 and 5.2 million in 2018-19, according to the government data.The union rural development ministry has so far spent ₹86,028 crore out of the total availability of ₹86,265 crore. With 99.7% utilization of the available funds, the ministry will now need to seek more funds from the finance ministry in the latter’s last demand for grants of FY21-22.
08-01-2022||India||Maoists kill 2 cadres who left camp to get married in Chhattisgarh: Police||RAIPUR: Maoists allegedly killed a couple, who left its camp to get married, and another person in separate incidents in the jungles of Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on Thursday, police said on Friday. Police said that Maoists killed the couple in jungles of Gangaloor on Thursday.“Through various sources of local police, we have got information about the alleged killings of three persons by cadres of Maoists in the interior areas of Gangaloor,” said inspector general of police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P, in a statement issued to media. It appears that on Thursday, Maoists killed two of their own cadre Kamlu Punem (militia Platoon Commander) along with Militia member Mangi, the senior police officer said. “Both Kamlu and Mangi left the Maoist camp to get married,” he said. The police further said that Kamlu Punem has 11 cases of Maoist violence against him while Mangi Punem was wanted in three cases. “Both were involved in various Maoist activities in Gangaloor Area Committee. We don’t have details about the third person and more investigation is going on,” the IG added. 
08-01-2022||India||Budgam: 3 Jaish terrorists killed in overnight encounter||Three Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) terrorists were killed in central Kashmir’s Budgam district in an overnight operation with security forces, said an official Friday. With this, the toll of slain terrorists has touched 11 in past seven days.A team of officials from the police, the army and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched a joint operation after they got a tip-off about the presence of terrorists at Zolwa Kralpora Chadoora of Budgam.“One of the terrorists has been identified as Waseem Mir of Nowgam in Srinagar. Based on initial investigations and documents recovered, the other two terrorists appear to be foreign nationals, however, their exact identification is being ascertained. Three AK-56 rifles were recovered from the site,” said inspector general of police (IGP) Viijay Kumar.Mir, who was active since December 2020, was involved in the killing of police officer inspector Parvaiz Ahmad on June 22 last year, said police.“The terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party. The security forces retaliated in return leading to an encounter. Later on, the CRPF also joined the operation,” said IGP Kumar.“The joint team ensured the evacuation of all civilians to the safer places. Besides, to avoid any collateral damage due to darkness, the operation was suspended during night hours and was resumed in the wee hours of Friday. During the encounter an army officer sustained a minor splinter injury,” he said.“Terrorist Mir was a categorized terrorist and was booked in several terror crime cases. He was also involved in grenade attack on a CRPF bunker near Aali Masjid Chowk at Eidgah Srinagar in which a civilian and a police officer were injured. He had also been brainwashing and motivating the youth of Central Kashmir to join terror folds,” said Kumar. Previous casesOn Wednesday, three terrorists, including a foreigner associated with Jaish-e-Mohammad, who according to police was also an expert in making vehicle-borne improvised Explosive Devices (IED’s) was killed after an encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.On Tuesday, forces killed two local terrorists at Okey village in Kulgam district who according to police were associated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (Let) /The Resistance Force (TRF).On Monday, two terrorists, including a top Lashkar commander, Saleem Parray from Hajin in Bandipore district was killed in an encounter in Shalimar garden area of Srinagar. The other militant killed in the encounter was identified as Hafiz alias Hamza from Pakistan.Recently, IG Kashmir had said that first time in the history, the number of local terrorists operating in Kashmir has gone below 100. He said currently 85 to 86 local terrorists are operating across Kashmir.BLURB Deceased terrorist Waseem Mir was involved in the killing of police officer inspector Parvaiz Ahmad on June 22 last year||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budgam-3-jaish-terrorists-killed-in-overnight-encounter-101641580611950.html
08-01-2022||India||Simdega lynching: Three arrested; BJP terms arrests eyewash||Three people have been arrested in connection with the lynching of a man in Besrabazar village of Simdega district on Tuesday, police said on Friday, adding that searches were being carried out to apprehend the ten others named as accused in the FIR.Simdega superintendent of police, Shams Tabrez said, “Three named accused were arrested on Thursday. The three belong to the same village as the victim. We are conducting raids for further arrests. We are not revealing the identity of other named accused as it could affect their arrests.”On Tuesday, Sanju Pradhan, in his 30s, was lynched and set on fire by a mob on suspicion of his involvement in illegal felling of trees and trading in stolen wood.Sources in the police identified those arrested as Lorhe Pradhan, Tripati Pradhan and Maheshwar Pradhan.“All three belong to Chhapridipa tola of Bambarkela village, from where the victim also belonged. Lorhe and Tripati are brothers. And these are the three who had alleged that the trees Sanju had cut belonged to them,” said a police officer.A day after the gruesome lynching, Sanju’s wife Sapna Devi had said on Wednesday that he was killed by the mob in the presence of police officials who had stood by and watched.Meanwhile, a BJP delegation led by senior state leader Babulal Marandi visited Sanju’s family in his village. After meeting the family, Marandi told reporters that innocent people have been arrested in the case.“This entire issue of tree cutting is eyewash because that issue was solved last year itself. There is a deep-rooted conspiracy. The entire crime happened in front of police. Police have now arrested members of their (victims’) own family. He (Sanju) has been killed as he had been rasing his voice against illegal activities of some people here. We demand action against the Simdega SP and Kolebira police station in charge,” said Marandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/simdega-lynching-three-arrested-bjp-terms-arrests-eyewash-101641580367622.html
08-01-2022||India||India crosses 1.5 bn Covid vaccine doses, Modi terms it ‘significant milestone’||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 1.5 billion on Friday, a feat termed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a “significant milestone” in the fight against the pandemic.Speaking during the virtual inauguration of the second campus at Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in Kolkata, the Prime Minister said: “Today, the nation has crossed an important milestone. India started the year with the vaccination of children in the age group of 15-18 years. Today, we are achieving the target of giving 1.5 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine, and that too, in less than a year.”Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya took to Twitter saying, “ With the guidance of PM @NarendraModi and the efforts of our health workers, India has achieved the historic record of 150 crore vaccinations. Nothing is impossible when everyone contributes.”India had crossed the milestone of 1 billion Covid vaccine shots on October 21 last year.Speaking at the event, the PM added that even as Covid-19 cases were rising fast because of the highly transmissible Omicron variant, more than 90% of the country’s senior citizens have received their first dose, while around 15 million children in the age group of 15-18 years were vaccinated against the disease in the first five days of the year.However, during her address at the same event, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that the campus at Chittaranjan institute had earlier been inaugurated by the state government in order to set up a Covid-19 facility.“For the Prime Minister’s knowledge, I would like to say that we have already inaugurated the campus. How did we do it? When Covid-19 was raging and we were in need of a centre (Covid-19 hospital), I went to the campus one day. We turned it into a Covid-19 centre as the state government had stake in it,” Banerjee said.Taking a jibe at the central government, she added, “The Prime Minister would be happy to know that the state has provided 11 acres of land and 25% of the funds for the campus. The recurring cost of ₹71 crore would also be borne by the state. That’s why, sometimes, the Centre and the states should work together for development.”Banerjee put forth a set of demands before the prime minister, underlining the need for more seats for medical students, and more IAS and IPS officers in the state. She also pointed out that Bengal needs more vaccine doses, particularly with about 40% of the state’s residents yet to receive their second dose.“We need to increase the medical seats to tackle situations like these, when more than 70 doctors in one medical college are getting infected with Covid in one go. Also, we need more IAS and IPS officers. Following your advice we roped in IAS and IPS officers from outside the state. The governor, however, raised questions without knowing that we were following the Prime Minister’s advice,” said Banerjee.Reacting to her comments, BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya tweeted, “Mamata Banerjee is incorrigible. Notwithstanding the fact that she is on path of constant, needless confrontation, she must realise that inaugurating a building as Covid facility is NOT the same as inaugurating a Cancer facility in a hospital. Imagine what Bengal has to suffer!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-achieve-milestone-of-1-5-billion-anti-covid-jabs-today-says-pm-modi-101641551025378.html
