09-01-2022||India||225 central security forces companies to be deployed in UP for polls||New Delhi: The Centre has ordered deployment of 225 companies or around 25,000 personnel of central paramilitary forces in Uttar Pradesh for assembly elections, according to a home ministry communication issued on Sunday. Polling dates for the state were announced by the election commission (EC) on Saturday -- Voting will be held in seven phases between February 10 and March 7. “In pursuance of the recommendations of the ECI (Election Commission of India), it has been decided in the ministry to initially deploy 225 companies of CAPFs in Uttar Pradesh for area domination and confidence building measures to ensure peaceful conduct of assembly elections – 2022,” reads the MHA communication, seen by HT. People familiar with the development said initially 225 companies are being sent to the state, which is sensitive in terms of law-and-order situation during elections. More companies would be sent later depending on the ground situation and to assist Uttar Pradesh police, officials said. The election in Uttar Pradesh is the most complicated of the five states up for polls this year, with identity politics (religion and caste) likely to be the deciding factor. Officials cited above said the force deployment for other states -- Punjab, Goa, Manipur and Uttarakhand -- is also being finalised. The 225 companies being sent to UP will comprise of 70 companies of central reserve police force (CRPF), 66 companies of border security force, 39 companies of the sashastra seema dal (SSB), and 25 companies each of the central industrial security force (CISF) and indo-tibetan border police (ITBP). A company usually has 110 to 120 personnel each in different forces. They are being sent to the state in two phases – the first 150 companies will reach different districts by January 10 while 75 companies will be sent on January 20, according to the communication, reviewed by HT. The home ministry has asked the UP government to work out a detailed deployment plan in consultation with the respective forces and chief force coordinator for UP, who is an Inspector General rank officer of CRPF. The state government has also been asked to make arrangement for transportation, logistics and accommodation for the troops keeping Covid-19 safety also in mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/225-central-security-forces-companies-to-be-deployed-in-up-for-polls-101641752423762.html
09-01-2022||India||‘Foreigner’ can register as citizen under CAA: HC||A man from Assam’s Karimganj district, who was declared an illegal migrant by a tribunal, can register as an Indian citizen because he is a Hindu, the Gauhati High Court said in a directive.Bablu Paul, a resident of Patharkandi area of Karimganj district, was declared an illegal migrant by the district’s foreigners tribunal in 2017, as he allegedly entered Assam after March 25, 1971, the cut-off date under the Assam Accord to declare migrants as foreigners.Paul told the court that his grandfather came to West Bengal from Bangladesh in 1964 when he was two years old, much before the 1971 cut-off. The court overruled the tribunal’s verdict.The central government in 2019 brought in the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), but the rules to implement the amendment that allows Indian citizenship to Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Parsis, Jains and Buddhists, but not Muslims, from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, are yet to be notified.Paul, who came to Assam in 1984, was an Indian citizen as he was a Hindu and thus eligible to register himself as an Indian citizen as per the CAA, justices N Kotiswar Singh and Malasri Nandi said.The court said Paul entered India with his father and grandfather Chintaharan Paul in September 1964 from the then East Pakistan, now Bangladesh. They were given refugee status by the government of India, as was evident from a certificate issued by the West Bengal government to members of the minority community in East Pakistan desiring to stay in India.His grandfather’s name was found in the electoral list of West Bengal of 1966, and his father bought land in Kolkata in 1976, which shows they were considered Indian citizens, the court said. Paul came to Patharkandi in 1984 and settled after starting a jewellery business.The tribunal’s order declaring Paul as illegal immigrant as he entered Assam after 1984 was valid under section 6A(2) of the Citizenship Act, 1955, which defines the cut-off date for granting citizenship to migrants in Assam, the court said. “Under Section 6A(2) of the Citizenship Act, 1955, a person entering India before 01.01.1966 can be deemed to be a citizen provided he enters Assam from the specified territory (East Pakistan/Bangladesh) and he has been ordinarily residing in Assam after the date of entry,” it said.Persons who entered India and Assam between January 1, 1966, and March 25,1971, can get the benefit of citizenship if they register themselves before the competent registering authority, the court said. Those who entered after the 1971 cut-off date will be declared as foreigners, it said.“Since Bablu Paul had been staying in India for more than seven decades, having entered in 1964, in our view, he will be entitled to be considered for grant of citizenship by registration under the Citizenship Act, 1955,” the court said.It was not clear how Paul will get Indian citizenship even if the court has allowed him to apply, according to Saumen Choudhury, a Silchar-based lawyer.“The central government is yet to frame the guidelines on how to implement CAA even two years after its passage in Parliament,” he said. “The honourable high court has given a crucial judgement in this case, but it won’t help the person till clear guidelines on CAA come.”If a person has a valid passport, residential permit and birth certificate of his parents, he is automatically an Indian citizen, another lawyer pointed out. “The court could have provided him relief under these clauses of the citizenship act instead of CAA,” he said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreigner-can-register-as-citizen-under-caa-hc-101641752364525.html
09-01-2022||India||MoD concludes survey of 18 lakh acres land using satellite, drone imagery||NEW DELHI: The defence ministry on Sunday said that it has concluded a survey of nearly 18 lakh acres of defence land scattered across 4,900 pockets across the country for effective land use and planning, and preventing encroachments in what is dubbed as one of the biggest such surveys in India. The exercise, involving the use of satellite and drone imagery, was completed in three years. While the land surveyed included 1.61 lakh acres in 62 notified cantonments, about 16.38 lakh acres was located outside cantonments and military stations. “Clear demarcation and boundary survey of defence lands and fixing of the boundaries is necessary for protection of the defence land, safeguarding of the title of the defence ministry, updating land records and maps, and prevention of encroachments,” the ministry said in a statement. The survey was kicked off in October 2018. Of the 16.38 lakh acres outside cantonments, a total of 18,000 acres land is either state hired or proposed for deletion from defence records on account of transfer to other government departments. “For the first time, drone imagery-based survey technology was used…Besides this, satellite imagery-based survey was done for the first time for many defence land pockets,” it said. The statement added that 3D modelling techniques for better visualisation of defence land in hills were introduced by using digital elevation model (DEM) in association with Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC). Use of modern technology ensured a speedy completion of the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mod-concludes-survey-of-18-lakh-acres-land-using-satellite-drone-imagery-101641752303746.html
09-01-2022||India||NEET-PG counselling will start from Jan 12||Counselling for postgraduate medical courses to allocate seats to successful candidates for the 2021-22 academic session will begin on January 12, health minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced on Sunday.The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the Centre to go ahead with counselling for NEET-PG and undergraduate medical courses by upholding the government’s decision to introduce 27% quota for other backward classes within the all-India quota (AIQ) seats, and permitted 10% reservation for economically weaker sections among the general category to be applied based on the criteria laid down in January 2019. This came after months of protests by resident doctors across the nation against the delay in NEET-PG counselling.“As assured by the ministry of health to the resident doctors, following the order of the honourable Supreme Court, the NEET-PG counselling is being started by the Medical Counselling Committee from January 12, 2022. This will give more strength to the country in the fight against Corona. My best wishes to all the candidates,” Mandaviya said in a tweet in Hindi.Candidates will be allowed to indicate their course choices from January 13 and online registration for the first round of counselling can be done till January 17, the Medical Counselling Committee that conducts the allotment said soon after the minister’s announcement.The Supreme Court will review the criteria for EWS reservations laid down by a three-member committee headed by former finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey, when petitions challenging the introduction of EWS quota in NEET-PG through a July 2021 circular are heard later in March.“The validity of 27% OBC quota is upheld in NEET-PG and NEET-UG courses in the AIQ seats,” a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna said, acknowledging the urgency of the matter.On July 29, the Centre had introduced 27% OBC quota and 10% EWS quota in 15% AIQ seats in NEET-UG and 50% AIQ seats in NEET-PG.The exam was held on September 11 after being rescheduled twice in January and April. The results were declared in the last week of September, following which students for nearly 43,000 postgraduate seats had been waiting for counselling to begin.Due to the delay in counselling, protests were held by resident doctors, who stopped emergency services in their hospitals in Delhi for a few days last month to demand that counselling be expedited.The 14-day strike ended last Friday after an assurance was given by the Union health ministry to announce the counselling schedule as soon as the apex court issued directions.The Federation of Resident Doctors Association welcomed the news. “Thankful to Hon’ble @mansukhmandviya Sir for declaring the date of #NEETPGCounselling2021 @PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA…,” it tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neetpg-counselling-will-start-from-jan-12-101641752304308.html
09-01-2022||India||Creator of original hate app circulated its code||A man who allegedly created the first GitHub webpage where doctored photographs of Muslim women were uploaded back in July 2021 to “auction” them has been arrested, the Delhi Police said on Sunday.Identifying the person as Aumkareshwar Thakur, 26, the police said he was arrested from his house in Newyork City Township Indore on Saturday evening. This is the first arrest made in the “Sulli Deals” case, the police said. The development came after recent arrests in a similar case.The Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit of the Delhi Police’s special cell said Thakur’s arrest came after receiving information about him from “Bulli Bai” case mastermind Neeraj Bishnoi during investigation. Bishnoi has been arrested for creating webpages targeting Muslim women after such portals first surfaced in July 2021 under “Sulli Deals”.Thakur was a member of a group on Twitter where the plan to defame Muslim women was discussed, according to deputy commissioner of police KPS Malhotra, head of Delhi’s cybercrimes cell. Thakur has a bachelor’s degree in computer application from IPS Academy in Indore and works as a freelance web developer.“He had developed the code on GitHub and its access was with all the members of the group. He had shared the app on his Twitter account. The photos of the Muslim women were uploaded by the group members,” Malhotra said.“He had joined a group on Twitter by the name of Tradmahasabha in January 2020 using the Twitter handle @gangescion. During group discussions, the members had discussed about trolling Muslim women. He had developed the app on GitHub. After the uproar over the first app, he had deleted all his social media footprints,” Malhotra added.Thakur was arrested three days after police arrested Bishnoi, 21, a resident of Jorhat in Assam, on Wednesday night. The police on Saturday morning said Bishnoi, a second-year B Tech student, was part of a group involved in making the first webpage.In the 24 hours before he was arrested on Wednesday night, Bishnoi posted tweets through his Twitter handle, claiming that he knew the makers of the first GitHub webpage under the name “Sulli Deals” and that he had “cloned the repository” and “edited the code as well the graphics” to build the second such platform, “Bulli Bai”.Malhotra confirmed that it was Bishnoi’s interrogation that led the police to Thakur.“Bishnoi used to interact with various virtual identities on social media and engaged in group discussions. In July 2021, in one of the groups, of which Bishnoi was member, the other group member shared the details of the first GitHub app,” he said. “That was the first time Bishnoi had heard about this app. The said Twitter handle was backtracked and it was learnt that after uproar over first app, the said Twitter handle and other digital footprints were erased from various social media platforms.”“Bishnoi also said that the Twitter handle belongs to a person who stays in Indore,” Malhotra said. “Based on backtrack analysis and archive data, one Twitter handle in the name of Aumkar Thakur was identified, and our team arrested him from Indore on Saturday.”Another official said that there were 13 to 14 members of the Twitter group when the first app was planned. “Bishnoi and Thakur had not met in person till then. They had spoken to each other over video call once or twice. They downloaded photographs on the group. Thakur then used it to building the first app,” the officer said requesting anonymity.During interrogation on Sunday, Bishnoi told the police that he wanted to frame a person from his rival camp on social media as the creator of the first app. Before his arrest, Bishnoi, through his Twitter handle @giyo44, claimed that a person named Javed Alam was behind the first app, officials said.“Bishnoi wanted to frame Alam. He said Alam is from a rival group on Twitter. He was even planting the codes of the app on a Twitter ID in the name of Javed Alam. His plan was to get Alam arrested in the first case,” the officials said.In Indore, Thakur’s family refused to believe the police’s theory and news reports. “My son told me over the phone that he has not done anything wrong,” his father Akhilesh Thakur said. “Some accused took his name and he is being implicated wrongly.”Originally from Darbhanga in Bihar, the family shifted to Indore 32 years ago.“My brother completed his Bachelor of Computer Application in 2017-18 from a private college in Indore. He was not active on any social media platform for the past more than a year. He was busy with his IT projects. He was earning well for the past four years,” Thakur’s brother Mandaleshwar said. “He never did anything wrong. He is being implicated in a false case.”Even as Thakur’s family denied wrongdoing, police officers who questioned him said that the man had a different personality in the virtual world.Thakur identified himself as “trad” on Twitter and was in a Twitter group, said an investigating officer, who asked not to be named. “Trads” have a self-created philosophy of ensuring that the world does not change, the officer said.“Even Bishnoi claimed to be a trad on Twitter, which means he is a traditional. In fact, Bishnoi in his Twitter posts had also said that the three suspects arrested by Mumbai police in the second app case were innocent as they were not trads like him,” the officer said. “Thakur identified himself as a trad and had joined the Tradmahasabha group in 2020. We have recovered his electronic device and are trying to trace its contents.”The police are now trying to trace other members of the group, who uploaded the photographs or were part of the Tradmahasabha in 2020.The two controversial webpages on GitHub in July 2021 and January 2022 sparked outrage, after which the Delhi Police registered a case. After the second webpage was widely circulated on social media, many people filed complaints in Delhi and Mumbai.The police in Mumbai and Delhi are separately investigating the case. The Mumbai Police have arrested three people in the case – Sweta Singh (18), her friend Mayank Rawat (20), both residents of Uttarakhand, and Vishal Kumar Jha (21), an engineering student from Bengaluru. The three shared the app and promoted it on social media handles, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/creator-of-original-hate-app-circulated-its-code-101641752183231.html
09-01-2022||India||PM security breach: Supreme Court to hear matter today||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a plea on the recent breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security in Punjab.On January, the prime minister’s convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending the planned events, including a rally.A three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli is likely to take up the plea filed by an organisation, Lawyers Voice.The apex court on Friday had directed the Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to “secure and preserve” the records pertaining to arrangements made for the prime minister’s visit to Punjab when there was a “massive security breach”.It had also said the inquiry committees set up separately by the state and central governments will hold their horses and not proceed with their respective inquiries till January 10 when the matter will be taken up again by the court. The bench, however, did not dictate it as part of the order, and had asked the counsels to convey its feelings to the authorities.The Registrar General of the High Court will be assisted by the Director General of Police, the Union Territory of Chandigarh, and an officer of the National Investigation Agency not below the rank of Inspector General in securing the requisite records from the state government, its police and central agencies, the bench had said.The plea has sought a thorough investigation into the breach in Prime Minister Modi’s security in Punjab to ensure there is no such event in the future.It has also sought preservation of evidence on security arrangements, court-monitored probe and action against erring officials of the Punjab government responsible for the alleged lapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmsecurity-breach-supreme-court-to-hear-matter-today-101641752124202.html
09-01-2022||India||Centre surveys 18 lakh acres of defence land using drones, satellites||The defence ministry on Sunday announced that it has concluded a survey of almost 18 lakh acres of defence land scattered across 4,900 pockets across the country for effective land use and planning, and preventing encroachments in what is being dubbed as one of the biggest such surveys in India. The exercise, involving the use of satellite and drone imagery, was completed in three years. While the land surveyed included 1.61 lakh acres in 62 notified cantonments, about 16.38 lakh acres was located outside cantonments and military stations. “Clear demarcation and boundary survey of defence lands and fixing of the boundaries is necessary for protection of the defence land, safeguarding of the title of the defence ministry, updating land records and maps, and prevention of encroachments,” the ministry said in a statement. The survey was kicked off in October 2018. Of the 16.38 lakh acres outside cantonments, a total of 18,000 acres is either state hired or proposed for deletion from defence records on account of transfer to other government departments. “For the first time, drone imagery-based survey technology was used…Besides this, satellite imagery-based survey was done for the first time for many defence land pockets,” it said. The statement added that 3D modelling techniques for better visualisation of defence land in hills were introduced by using digital elevation model (DEM) in association with Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC). Use of modern technology ensured a speedy completion of the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-surveys-18-lakh-acres-of-defence-land-using-drones-satellites-101641751943845.html
09-01-2022||India||Mark Dec 26 as ‘Veer Baal diwas’ to pay tribute to Guru Gobind Singh’s sons: PM||December 26 will be celebrated as Veer Baal Diwas from 2022 as a tribute to the bravery and martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s sons, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Sunday on the occasion of the 365th birth anniversary of the 10th Sikh guru. “Today, on the auspicious occasion of the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji, I am honoured to share that starting this year, 26th December shall be marked as ‘Veer Baal Diwas.’ This is a fitting tribute to the courage of the Sahibzades and their quest for justice,” Modi tweeted.The sahibzades, as the four sons of Guru Govind Singh are called, preferred death instead of renouncing their faith, the Prime Minister said. “The bravery and ideals of Mata Gujri, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji and the 4 Sahibzades give strength to millions of people. They never bowed to injustice. They envisioned a world that is inclusive and harmonious. It is the need of the hour for more people to know about them,” he said in another tweet.“‘Veer Baal Diwas will be on the same day Sahibzada Zorawar Singh Ji and Sahibzada Fateh Singh Ji attained martyrdom after being sealed alive in a wall. These two greats preferred death instead of deviating from the noble principles of Dharma,” Modi said in another tweet.In 2018, BJP parliamentarian from West Delhi Parvesh Sahib Singh, along with 133 MPs, submitted a memorandum to Modi, requesting that Children’s Day should be celebrated in the name of the sahibzades on December 26.Children’s Day in India is observed on November 14, former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s birthday. “The day (Children’s Day) is about the children and their well-being. Thus, it is important to look into India’s rich past and find stories of those children who braved the most difficult circumstances and made history,” the 2018 memorandum said. “26th December, when Chhote Sahibzades were martyred, should be celebrated as Children’s Day in India.” Welcoming Modi’s announcement on Sunday, Singh tweeted along with photographs of the letter. “This is the letter to Prime Minister in 2018 which I along with over 100 MPs had signed asking that December 26 should be celebrated as Children’s Day remembering Sahibzades. @narendramodi ji thank you. I can’t describe how happy I’m today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mark-dec-26-as-veer-baal-diwas-to-pay-tribute-to-guru-gobind-singh-s-sons-pm-101641751823809.html
09-01-2022||India||IAC Vikrant sets sail for critical sea trials||India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant, the largest warship to be built in the country, on Sunday set sail for crucial sea trials ahead of its scheduled induction into the navy this year, officials familiar with the matter said. The latest trials are the third set of trials since August 2021. “While the maiden sea trials in August last year were to establish propulsion, navigational suite and basic operations, the second sea trials in October-November witnessed the ship being put through its paces in terms of various machinery trials and flight trials,” the navy said in a statement. President Ram Nath Kovind visited the carrier in Kochi on December 22 followed by a visit by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on January 2. Designed by the Indian Navy’s Directorate of Naval Design (DND), Vikrant has been built at the state-owned Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL). The warship, with a displacement of 37,500 tonnes, will operate MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, MH-60R multi-role helicopters and the indigenous advanced light helicopters. It has been named after aircraft carrier INS Vikrant operated by the Indian Navy from 1961 to 1997. “Having gained adequate confidence in the ship’s abilities (during the first two trials), IAC now sails to undertake complex manoeuvres to establish specific readings of how the ship performs in various conditions,” the navy added. Vikrant has put India in a select league --- only the US, the UK, Russia, France and China have the capability to build aircraft carriers. India currently operates a solitary aircraft carrier, INS Vikramaditya, bought second-hand from Russia for $2.33 billion. In contrast, China operates two aircraft carriers — CV-16 Liaoning and CV-17 Shandong. It is building a third carrier as it expands its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region. Vikrant has an indigenous content of 76%. The construction of the aircraft carrier began in 2009. IAC is 262 metres long, has a beam of 62 metres and a height of 59 metres. It has 14 decks, including five in the superstructure, 2,300 compartments, can accommodate a crew of 1,700, including specialised cabins for women officers. Vikrant will be the fourth aircraft carrier to be operated by the Indian Navy --- first Vikrant (British origin) from 1961 to 1997, INS Viraat (British origin) from 1987 to 2016 and INS Vikramaditya (Russian origin) 2013 onwards.
09-01-2022||India||Weeks ahead of Budget, nearly 400 Parliament staffers test Covid positive||With less than three weeks left for the Budget session, nearly 400 staffers at Parliament have tested positive for Covid-19, prompting Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to review the situation and direct officials to reimpose restrictions on employees’ attendance.“Six five officers of Rajya Sabha Secretariat, 200 of Lok Sabha Secretariat and 133 of the allied services have tested positive for Covid-19 between January 4 and 8. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu will review the situation every week,” a Rajya Sabha official said on condition of anonymity.In view of the cases, both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have sent one-third of its staffers to work from home, officials familiar with the matter said. The two Houses have also directed 50% of its officials and staff below the rank of under secretary/executive officer to work from home till the end of January. Besides, the Lower House has pulled a dozen officers from other branches, such as conference or vigilance branches, to join the welfare wing and tackle Covid-related exigencies. “RS Chairman shri M.Venkaiah Naidu has reviewed the situation with Secretary General PC Modi and Advisor Dr PPK Ramacharyulu and directed that necessary measures be taken to contain the spread of virus among the secretariat officials and staff ahead of the Budget session which is to begin towards the end of this month,” a senior Rajya Sabha official said, seeking anonymity. Another senior official told HT that preparations for the upcoming Union budget session, slated to begin from January 31, will take into account that a significant section of officials would not be physically present in the House. “A major part of the work during the Budget session will have to be done online. We have already established an online system for Members of Parliament to function and it would be fully used during the session,” the official said, seeking anonymity.A third senior official maintained that both Houses might revert to the scattered seating arrangement with some Members of Parliament being shifted to the public galleries of the House.A Lok Sabha internal circular, accessed by HT, directed officers visiting Parliament to maintain a staggered working schedule to avoid crowding. “The working hours of all employees who attend office may be staggered between 10 am to 10.30 am with corresponding office exit timings to avoid rush in commuting as also in lifts and corridors,” it said. Officers above the level of under secretary have been asked to avoid coming to Parliament on their off days. Disabled people and pregnant women are exempted from physically attending office and all internal meetings will be conducted online, the circular said.“The latest wave of Covid, fuelled by Omicron, would be major restrictions in place for entry of visitors, journalists and even officials during the upcoming session that is scheduled to start on January 31,” a senior Parliamentary official told HT. 
09-01-2022||India||Focus on Covid testing, genome sequencing to fight evolving virus: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked key officials to accelerate vaccination for adolescents and booster dose for health and front line workers in a mission mode, and emphasized on “continuous scientific research in testing, vaccines and pharmacological interventions including genome sequencing” to tackle the evolving virus in a high-level meeting on Sunday. The Prime Minister also wanted hospitals formulate advance strategies to keep operating, keeping in mind unavailability of a large section of the medical staff, including doctors and nurses, in case they are affected during the surge, according to an official present in the meeting. Modi suggested more use of technology such as telemedicine to handle non-Covid health issues as these patients tend of get impacted whenever there is a surge, the official said. “He also told officials that when we review the situation with the states, they must be told that their decisions should be based on evidence and real-time data,” the official said on condition of anonymity. the Prime Minister also said that effective usage of masks and physical distancing measures must be “a new normal” to control the spread. It was Modi’s fourth review meeting on the Covid-19 situation since November last year. Attended by home minister Amit Shah, health Mansukh Mandaviya, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, Niti Ayog’s health member VK Paul and other officials, the meeting saw two presentations by Paul and health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. While Paul highlighted international experience in Omicron driven surges, Bhushan focused on comparing the Covid situation globally and India, states which are of concern, preparedness in testing, hospital beds, and buffer stocks of drugs and vaccines. The presentation showed that 31% adolescents aged 15-18 years have been administered with the first dose in 7 days. “PM noted this achievement and urged to further accelerate the vaccine drive for adolescents in mission mode,” an official press release said. He also asked officials to ensure that booster vaccination coverage for health and front line workers are also taken up in a mission mode, the release added. The marathon meeting lasted more than two hours. After detailed discussion, Modi demanded that “intensive containment and active surveillance should continue in clusters reporting higher cases and required technical support be provided to states which are reporting higher cases presently,” while reiterating effective usage of masks and physical distancing measures as a new normal to control the spread. The Prime Minister further emphasized “the need for effective implementation of home Isolation for mild/asymptomatic cases and to disseminate the factual information to the community at large,” the press release said. The meeting also discussed adequate health infrastructure at the district level and close coordination with the states, with the Prime Minister suggesting that a meeting with chief ministers be convened to discuss state-specific scenarios, best practices and the public health response. “The support to the States to upgrade health infrastructure, testing capacity, availability of oxygen & ICU beds, and buffer stock of covid essential drugs under Emergency Covid Response Package (ECRP-II) was presented. PM stressed on the need to ensure adequate health infrastructure at the district level. He asked officials to maintain co-ordination regarding this with the states,” the press release said. 
09-01-2022||India||Transport ministry funding may cross ₹1.5 lakh crore||The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) is once again likely to get a record high allocation in the upcoming Union budget, with the proposed capital outlay likely to cross the ₹1.5 lakh crore mark, officials familiar with the proposal said on Thursday. This would be the highest ever allocation for the ministry so far.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is scheduled to present the Budget for the financial year 2022-23 on February 1.In the financial year 2021-22, the capital outlay for MoRTH was ₹1.18 lakh crore. In the fiscal year 2022-23, the outlay is likely to be ₹1.8 lakh crore, crossing the ₹1.5 lakh crore mark for the first time ever, officials privy to the development said.The development comes amid work progressing on the central government’s ambitious umbrella highway development scheme - Bharatmala Pariyojana Phase-I. The integrated project includes construction of about 26,000km length of economic corridors, the Golden Quadrilateral (GQ) and North-South and East-West (NS-EW) aimed to ease movement of freight traffic in the country.“A number of greenfield expressways and other road projects are also being planned in the poll-bound states such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and so on. So, these projects in these states are also likely to be mentioned in the Union budget this year. Uttar Pradesh alone, for example, will have about seven greenfield expressways. In Punjab, the 669-km long Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway will be constructed at a cost of ₹39,500 crore,” said a ministry official on condition of anonymity.The increase in budget allocation for the ministry is also significant because the Centre plans to execute infrastructure projects worth ₹7 lakh crore over the next 2-3 years. “Almost 8,400km greenfield expressways are being built as part of the Bharatmala Pariyojana initiative... So far, projects comprising a length of 19,265 kms have been awarded at a cost of Rs. 5,60,216 crore. Of which, about 6,750 km has been completed,” said a second official on condition of anonymity.As per ministry data, about 4,076 man-days or about 15.5 man-years of employment is required for construction of one kilometer of national highway. This means it would take about 14.2 crore man-days or 5.37 lakh man- years of employment for implementation of Bharatmala Pariyojana.Records showed that since 2014, the capital expenditure of MoRTH has steadily increased compared to the revenue expenditure. It means more money is being spent on infrastructure (roads and highways) than on administrative expenses.Accordingly, the total length of national highways in the country has increased from about 91,287 km to about 1,40,937 km since April, 2014 till date, data showed.
09-01-2022||India||HT This Day: Jan 10, 1980 - Cong-I gets two-thirds majority||New Delhi- After a three-day massacre of electoral opponents and winning seats at a galloping rate the Congress-I today achieved a two-thirds majority in the Lok Sabha the effective strength of which now.is 525. With the capturing of the Saharsa seat in Bihar, the Congress has bagged 351 seats. Election in 17 parliamentary constituencies in Assam, Meghalaya, West Bengal, Orissa Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir will take place later to complete polling for the 542 member Lok Sabha.The Congress-I's electoral success is as stunning as was its drubbing in the 1977 elections. Three years ago, the party had virtually been wiped out from the Hindi-speaking states where it could win only two seats improved on its sound position in the South as was seen in Sin 177, but was triumphed in the Hindi States also with a tally of 141 seats.If voting analysis on the basis of half the results is any guide the Janata Party and the Lok Dal enabled the Congress-I to romp home by separating themselves from each other. In 1977, the two of them contested as one party and had prevented a split in the anti-Congress vote. The analysis indicates that the Congress-I polled 41.67 per cent of -the votes while the Janata and the Lok Dal together secured 46.64 per cent.This would seem to be corroborated by the election results from West Bengal. Although the Congress-I candidates polled handsome votes and was a close second to Left Front candidates almost everywhere, it could win only 4 of- the 41 seats. The CPI-M and its allies were able to mop up 37 seats by avoiding a split in the Left vote.Among the stalwarts who were returned today were Janata Party president Chandra Shekhar, Union Education Minister Karan Singh (Congress-U), Mr Ashok Sen, former Law Minister (Congress-I), former Haryana Chief Minister Devi Lal (Lok Dal), Mr Dharambir Sinha, former Union Deputy Minister for Information and Broadcasting (Congress), Mrs Ram Dulari Sinha, former Labour Minister of Bihar, Jharkhand leader N. E. Horo, and former Lok Sabha Speaker Baliram Bharat (Congress). Notable among those who were defeated were: External Affairs minister Shyam Nandan Mishra and Mrs Rashida Haque Choudhury (Congress), Union Minister of State for Education and Social welfare. On the basis of the results declared so far, it appears that none of the Opposition parties can stake elect claim to the status of a recognised Opposition party. The Lok Dal has emerged as the largest Opposition party with 41 seats. However, it is 12 short of the requisite number of 53 seats for recognition as the Opposition party in a House of 525. Interestingly enough the Left Front can possibly summon the requisite strength for recognition as the Opposition group. The left front has won nine seats from Kerala (CPM 6, CPI 2, Kerala Congress-Mani group 1) and 35 from West Bengal (CPI 25, RSP 4. Forward Bloc 3, CPI 3). The Left Front may win three more seats from West Bengal whose results are yet to be announced. The Left Front seats from Kerala and West Bengal on this basis total 47. To this, one should add four seats from Bihar and one seat from UP which the CPI has won. In addition the Left Front is assured of the support of two more seats from Bihar (Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Marxists Co-ordination Committee-one each). The Left Front total in the House thus comes to 54 seats. The Speaker is the final authority to decide the status of a recognised opposition party. It is yet ' to be seen whether the Front, which has contested the elections in alliance with its partners, will get this status. The leftist parties have indeed considerably improved their position. The Left Front had only 42 seats in the dissolved Lok Sabha - CPI-M 22 (17 from West Bengal), CPI eight, RSP four, Forward Bloc three, PWP (Maharashtra) four and CPI-ML one. TThe PWP is the only left party which has failed to win a single seat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-10-1980-cong-i-gets-two-thirds-majority-101641750140310.html
09-01-2022||India||Will help India ship humanitarian aid to Afghanistan: Iran||Iran has said it will cooperate with India in shipping humanitarian assistance, including wheat and medicines, to Afghanistan, even as foreign minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian stressed the need for an inclusive government in Kabul.The offer of cooperation – made by Abdollahian during a phone conversation with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Saturday – assumes significance in view of hurdles created by Pakistan for shipping 50,000 tonnes of wheat offered by the Indian side.The Indian government sent 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Afghanistan via Tehran on January 1 since there are currently no direct flights between India and Afghanistan.The situation in Afghanistan was a key part of the discussion between Abdollahian and Jaishankar, who reviewed a range of bilateral, regional and international issues. The use of Iran’s Chabahar port, where India operates a key terminal, also figured in the conversation.“A wide-ranging conversation with my Iranian colleague, FM @Amirabdolahian. Discussed the difficulties of Covid, challenges in Afghanistan, prospects of Chabahar and complexities of the Iranian nuclear issue,” Jaishankar said in a tweet.Abdollahian “referred to India’s humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, announcing measures and cooperation by the Islamic Republic of Iran to transfer this aid in the form of wheat, medicine and Covid vaccine to the country”, Iran’s foreign ministry said in a statement.He also “stressed the need to form an inclusive government” in Afghanistan. On January 7, India supplied two tonnes of life-saving medicines to Afghanistan, the third tranche of aid since last month, against the backdrop of a dire humanitarian situation exacerbated by a harsh winter. These medicines were routed through Dubai.The Indian government had sent 1.6 tonnes of life-saving medicines on a special charter flight between New Delhi and Kabul on December 11. All the medicines and vaccines were handed over to the World Health Organization (WHO) for use at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Kabul.The Taliban regime, which is not recognised by New Delhi, has welcomed Indian assistance. However, India’s offer to provide 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Pakistani land routes has been held up because of conditions attached by Islamabad. The offer was made in October, and Pakistan said last month it would allow wheat and medicines to be shipped via the Wagah land border crossing in Afghan trucks, but is yet to firm up modalities.Jaishankar and Abdollahian also discussed the Covid-19 response of India and Iran. Abdollahian referred to the “good trend” of vaccination in Iran and said, “We have been able to properly contain the virus, and so far 89% of people have been vaccinated and are receiving a third dose of vaccine.”Referring to the talks in Vienna on Iran’s nuclear programme, Abdollahian said the discussions are going in the “right direction”. He added: “We have the necessary will to reach a good agreement in good faith, and if the Western side also has this goodwill and determination, we can reach a good agreement.”Jaishankar said Abdollahian’s forthcoming visit to India would be a “very good opportunity to develop bilateral cooperation”, according to the Iranian foreign ministry’s statement.
09-01-2022||India||Bengal: Family of 3 kills self, streams it live on Facebook||An elderly couple and their son allegedly died by suicide in the Bakkhali area of South 24 Parganas district on Sunday and streamed the incident live on the Facebook page of the young man, police said. The family lived in the district’s Kulpi area. The couple and their son left home early on Sunday and went to a desolate place in the coastal village of Bakkhali where the incident then took place, police officers involved in the probe said. “The bodies have been sent for postmortem examination. We have started an investigation,” Bhaskar Mukherjee, superintendent of Sunderbans police district, told the media. The incident happened hours after the couple’s daughter, who was missing till Sunday evening, was accused of defalcating funds to the tune of ₹3 lakh by members of a self-help group for women, relatives of the family, told the police. The couple’s daughter, who is a member of the group, was allegedly accused by several women from the Sultannagar area of stealing the money they raised and then gave to her as a corpus fund. “A large number of these women stormed the family’s home at Kulpi on Saturday night. It is alleged that they assaulted the couple’s daughter who pleaded innocence. The family filed a complaint at Kulpi police station later in the night. Five of these women are being questioned,” a district police officer said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-family-of-3-kills-self-streams-it-live-on-facebook-101641749903657.html
09-01-2022||India||Changes to forest conservation act delayed after new objections||A proposal to redefine India’s forests is back to the drawing board as the tribal affairs ministry and several states raised concerns that the proposed modifications are not in sync with the law that protects the rights of forest dwellers. The environment ministry had put out a consultation paper on amending the Forest Conservation Act of 1980 on October 2 for public comments. It received over 5,000 comments from individuals, state governments and experts, according to officials familiar with the matter.One of the main objectives of the amendment was to clarify the scope of application of the act. Until December 1996, provisions of the Forest Conservation Act only applied to forests notified under the Indian Forest Act of 1927 or any other local law, and to those managed by the forest department. But a 1996 Supreme Court judgement ordered that all areas that conformed to the dictionary meaning of forest were to be also considered as forests.“Identification of such land is subjective and arbitrary to some extent. This leads to ambiguity and has been observed to have resulted into a lot of resentment and resistance, particularly from private individuals and organisations. Considering any private area as forest would restrict the right of an individual to use his/her own land for any non-forestry activity,” the ministry had said in the consultation paper. But a major concern raised by state governments and the tribal affairs ministry was whether application of the Forest Rights Act of 2006 will be affected based on changes brought in to the scope of forests law due to the modifications.“The Forest Rights Act and the Forest Conservation Act are two different legislations. The Forest Rights Act is very clear that no member of a forest dwelling scheduled tribe or other traditional forest dwellers shall be evicted or removed from the forest land under his occupation till the recognition and verification procedure is complete,” an official of the tribal affairs said on condition of anonymity. “So that is our position, which has been communicated to the environment ministry.” The forest rights law defines forest land as any land falling within any forest area. It includes unclassified forests, non-demarcated forests, existing or deemed forests, protected forests, reserved forests, sanctuaries and national parks.“It completely depends on the states as to where forest rights need to be recognised and whether that process of recognising forest rights is complete. We already held public consultations and over 5,000 comments have been received, which we have compiled,” an environment ministry official said, declining to be named. “But on certain issues like the reconciliation with FRA, more deliberations are needed.” The modifications also propose to raise private plantations on forest land that can be harvested. One of India’s voluntary contributions under the Paris climate pact is to expand carbon sinks by an additional 2.5-3 billion tonnes through more forest and tree cover by 2030. To achieve it, extensive plantations are needed in all available land outside government forests, the paper said. “But to ensure this, there is a need to dispel the apprehension among tree growers that vegetation or tree plantation raised on their private/non-forest lands will attract the provisions of the (forest conservation) Act,” the paper stated.“The ministry’s tentative approach to amend the jurisdiction of the forest conservation act reflects the vexed history of how forest lands have come to be governed through centralized statutes and judicial decisions over the last five decades,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research, a think tank. “This law cannot be tweaked for selective unlocking of lands to encourage private plantations,” she said. “The lands under the regulatory definition of forests are of huge concern to both farmers and forest dwellers belonging to adivasi, Dalit and other forest-dependent communities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/changes-to-forest-conservation-act-delayed-after-new-objections-101641749843786.html
09-01-2022||India||'Surge should be straight up and down ': What India's current Covid figures tell | 10 points||A day before India begins administering the third dose of vaccines to the most vulnerable population of the country, a total of over 1.59 lakh infections were reported, which is the highest in 224 days. The tally and the steady surge of cases in Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, West Bengal indicate that what India is experiencing is a fresh surge that many states have declared as the third wave. How will this wave move? Studying global trends, experts said the surge is likely to be short-lived. The curve is likely to be small with a quick up and down, believe experts who have been warning people against the floating notion that Omicron will act as a natural vaccine. “Let’s all just get Omicron isn’t exactly the best idea. Best to avoid altogether. The surge should be quick, straight up and down. See it through with utmost precautions," Dr Arvinder Singh Soin said on Sunday.Here are the top 10 updates on India's Covid-19 situation:1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday held a review meeting with the health officials and asked to ramp up vaccination of the youngsters between 15 and 18 years. Union health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting of state/UT health ministers on Monday.2. Delhi on Sunday reported 22,751 fresh infections taking the positivity rate to an alarming 23%. Gurugram on Sunday reported 2,338 cases.Maharashtra reports 44,388 new Covid cases, 12 deaths; Omicron tally at 1,2163. The Delhi government on Sunday said there will be no lockdown in the Capital. "Rising Covid cases are a matter of concern but there is no need to panic. Very few people are getting hospitalised. Wearing a mask is very important. There will be no lockdown if you continue to wear the mask. There is no plan to impose a lockdown as of now," chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said. 4. Tamil Nadu on Sunday reported 12,895 Covid cases. Nearly 80-85% of the Covid cases in the state were of Omicron variant while the remaining 15-20 per cent was Delta variant, health minister Ma Subramanian said, giving the data of genome sequencing of the past few days.Vaccinate teens in mission mode, PM Modi tells officials; asks to convene meeting with CMs5. Karnataka on Sunday reported 12,000 fresh cases and 4 virus-related deaths, taking the tally to 30,51,958 and the fatalities toll to 38,370.6. West Bengal broke all previous records of the single-day surge and reported an all-time high of 24,287 fresh cases, the highest since the first wave of infections in 2020.7. The Himachal Pradesh government on Sunday banned social and religious functions till January 24. It also prohibited any gathering of more than 100 people for indoor and 300 people for outdoor academic, sport, cultural and political events, according to an order.8. Night curfew and other restrictions to avoid ‘unnecessary crowding’ will begin in Maharashtra from Monday. Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu were under partial restrictions on Sunday. 9. Omicron is now the dominant variant across the country, reports said. Till a few days ago, it was only in the western region of the country that the surge in Covid cases was due to Omicron, while in the northeastern states, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Odisha the Delta variant was predominant. Now Omicron has emerged as dominant in these parts too, reports said.10. While Omicron was thought to be producing milder symptoms without causing any respiratory trouble, doctors are now reporting some change in symptoms among Omicron-infected children and adolescents. Dr Dhiren Gupta, Paediatric Pulmonologist at Sir Gangaram Hospital said he observed high fever and shivering in at least nine cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-should-be-straight-up-and-down-what-india-s-current-covid-figures-tell-10-points-101641748207471.html
09-01-2022||India||MSRTC starts process to hire bus drivers on contract basis||PUNE As the strike of Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) workers completed two months, the Pune division of the public transport body has started appointing private drivers on a contract basis.Earlier MSRTC had decided to take retired drivers but they received only one application.The state transport minister on Saturday announced about hiring drivers on contract basis to start operations and accordingly the process has been started at all the divisions in the state.Each driver will be given a salary of around ₹20,000 per month and these drivers are appointed in eight divisions - Pune, Nagpur, Bhandara, Dhule, Jalgaon, Nashik, Aurangabad and Solapur.Also, in the future, more than 3,000 drivers will be recruited on a contract basis in the state by MSRTC.As a large number of drivers and conductors are still participating in the protest, so this extreme decision has been taken by the MSRTC, said officials.“Tour agencies have been appointed to provide drivers on contract basis daily and initially daily eight divisions will be given 100 drivers each to start the service from Sunday. Accordingly, we have now started the bus operations on various routes,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, Pune divisional controller.For the last two months the MSRTC workers and their several unions are protesting for their various demands, a Kruti Samiti of the unions was formed earlier to have a conversation with the state government. But apparently, the main demand of merging the MSRTC into state government was compromised according to the workers, so now all the workers (apart from the union members) have spontaneously started the strike.While to support the state government the private tourist bus association came forward and gave their 2,000 buses across the state.But as these private tourist bus owners are charging high fares and passengers are suffering due to it, this decision to hire contract drivers was taken by the MSRTC.In the MSRTC Pune division, a total of 1,300 employees out of the 4,200 have resumed work. Whereas show cause notices to 69 workers have been sent and after three rounds of inquiry hearing, they would be dismissed from work if they don’t join back duty. The Pune division has suspended 488 workers out of which 66 workers have joined back. Still, the number is less to start back the bus operations in Pune division in full capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msrtc-starts-process-to-hire-bus-drivers-on-contract-basis-101641749303898.html
09-01-2022||India||Air India offers 'One Free Change' of date, flight number till March 31||Air India is offering 'One Free Change' of date or flight number or sector for domestic tickets with confirmed travel till March 31, in view of the current prevailing situation of Covid-19.In a tweet today, Air India said, "#FlyAI: In view of recent uncertainties due to surge in Covid cases, Air India is offering ONE FREE CHANGE of date or flight number or sector for all domestic tickets (098) with confirmed travel on/before 31.03.22."As Covid-19 cases continue to surge across the country, the aviation sector in the country seems to be reeling under pressure.IndiGo airlines also on Sunday anticipated that around 20 per cent of its current scheduled operations to be withdrawn from service.IndiGo, further said that it has waived change fees as scores of people are altering their travel plans.In its official statement, IndiGo said, "Owing to the increasing number of Omicron infections, large numbers of IndiGo customers are changing their travel plans. In response to customer needs, IndiGo is waiving change fees and is offering free changes for all new and existing bookings made up to January 31, for flights up to March 31, 2022. With the reduced demand, we will also be selectively withdrawing some of our flights from service.""Where possible, cancellations of flights will be done at least 72 hours in advance and customers will be moved to the next available flight and will also be able to change their travel through the use of Plan B on our website," the statement said.The official statement added, "Since our call centre is currently handling a large volume of calls, we are encouraging our customers to use our digital channels where possible. We anticipate that around 20 per cent of our current scheduled operations will be withdrawn from service."Amid a surge in the Covid-19 cases, the Central government on Friday announced a seven-day mandatory home quarantine for all international arrivals in the country. All the international arrivals in the country will have to observe a seven-day mandatory home quarantine with effect from January 11 till further orders.As per the order issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Friday, travellers from specified countries at risk will at first, submit a sample for the post-arrival Covid-19 test at the point of arrival (self-paid). Such travellers will be required to wait for their test results at the arrival airport before leaving or taking a connecting flight."If tested negative they will follow, home quarantine for seven days and shall undertake RT-PCR test on the eighth day of arrival in India. Travellers shall also be required to upload results of repeat RT-PCR test for Covid-19 done on the eighth day on Air Suvidha portal. If negative, they will further self-monitor their health for the next seven days. However, if such travellers are tested positive, their samples should be further sent for genomic testing at INSACOG laboratory network," read the order copy.India reported 1,59,632 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the daily positivity rate in the country to 10.21 per cent, said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday. With this, the Covid-19 tally has risen to 35,528,004 in the country.According to the Health Ministry, a total of 3,623 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus have been reported in India so far. The number of recovered patients from the variant rises to 1,409.Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of Omicron cases (1009), followed by Delhi (513) and Karnataka (441). The Ministry further informed that the active caseload in the country currently stands at 5,90,611 which accounts for 1.66 per cent of the country's total number of cases.On December 2, India detected its first case of Omicron Variant of Covid-19 in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-offers-one-free-change-of-date-flight-number-till-march-31-101641748362039.html
09-01-2022||India||Holds promise: ICMR on trial results of third dose of Covaxin||A day after Bharat Biotech released the trial results of the safety and immunogenicity of its Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ as a booster shot, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Sunday affirmed the findings. "Third dose of COVAXIN holds promise," the ICMR wrote on Twitter.The medical research body in its tweet further highlighted the benefits of getting Covaxin's precautionary dose. It said, "Reassuring information on safety and immunogenicity of a booster dose of Covaxin administered six months after completion of a two dose primary vaccination series with Covaxin.""Good neutralising antibody titre detected against homologous and heterologous SARS-CoV 2 variants following booster. Reactogenicity in both vaccine and placebo arm of the trial was minimal and comparable. No serious adverse events were reported," the tweet added.Also read | Covid-19 ‘precautionary’ dose: Facility to schedule third vaccine shot opensThird dose of COVAXIN holds promise. Detail information is accessible at https://t.co/WPCKxjdaKS@MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona #COVAXIN pic.twitter.com/1MtcV6Xn0gThis also came a day before the country starts administering 'precaution' doses of Covid-19 vaccines to frontline workers, healthcare workers and senior citizens with co-morbidities.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address on December 25, 2021, announced precaution doses for healthcare and frontline workers from January 10, and Covid-19 jabs for the teenagers aged 15-18 years."This has been done in the light of the amount of time that the frontline workers and health care workers spend in the service of Covid-19 infected patients. In India, this has been called 'precaution dose', not booster dose. The decision on precaution dose will strengthen the confidence of healthcare and frontline workers," the Prime Minister's office said.The Prime Minister also announced that the option of precaution dose will be available to senior citizens above 60 years of age with co-morbidities on the advice of their doctors.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holds-promise-icmr-on-trial-results-of-third-dose-of-covaxin-101641747757880.html
09-01-2022||India||Rajasthan to shut schools till January 30, imposes self-disciplinary curfew||In view of the spike in Covid19 cases, the Rajasthan government on Sunday decided to close schools up to Class-XII till January 30. Earlier, the government decided to shut Classes from I to VIII till January 17 in Jaipur and Jodhpur municipal areas. The state government has also imposed a curfew from Saturday 11 pm to Monday 5 am. The self-disciplinary curfew will remain in force from 11 pm to 5 am daily. All religious places will open till 8 pm and there will be a ban on offering garlands, prasad (sweets), Chadar, or any other offerings. The restaurants and clubs will be permitted till 10 pm with 50% sitting capacity. The new guidelines issued by the home department says according to expert opinion those who have been administered with two doses of vaccine have fewer chances of getting hospitalized due to the new variant of Covid19. Children should be encouraged to be vaccinated at the vaccine camps organised at educational institutes. With the rise in cases, it is recommended that children below 15 years of age should study at home and likewise it has been decided that schools up to class XII will be closed till January 30. For vaccination and solving academic problems, students from Class X to XII will be allowed after written consent from the parents. A maximum of 100 are permitted to attend marriage functions. Action will be taken against the marriage garden or the venue where the event takes place. A maximum of 20 are allowed in the crematorium. In public, social, political, sports, entertainment, education, cultural or religious program, a maximum of 100 are permitted. All religious places will open at 5 am for devotees and will be closed at 8 pm. The people visiting religious places have to follow Covid appropriate behavior such as vaccination, wearing masks, sanitising and social distancing. For commercial activities, the guidelines say that all restaurants and clubs will close by 10 pm, and operate with 50% capacity. The cinema hall, multiplexes, amusement parks, banquet halls, etc will be closed by 8 pm and operate with 50% capacity. All shops and shopping complexes will be allowed to be open till 8 pm. The state government has imposed a curfew from Saturday 11 pm to Monday 5 am, during which all the markets, workplaces, and commercial complexes will remain closed. Trades such as factories with continuous production and with night shifts, IT and e-commerce, chemist shop, marriage-related, emergency services, bus stand and railway station and health services are exempted. 
09-01-2022||India||Maharashtra reports 44,388 new Covid cases, 12 deaths; Omicron tally at 1,216||Maharashtra reported 44,388 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 12 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department figures released on Sunday evening. The fresh Covid cases took the state cumulative tally to 6,920,044 amid the rapid spread of the Omicron variant across the country.Maharashtra recorded 207 new infections of the Omicron variant on Sunday, including 40 from Mumbai, 57 from Sangli, 22 from Pune, 15 from Pimpri-Chinchwad, 21 from Nagpur, and 21 from Thane. Maharashtra is leading the Omicron tally with 1,216 cases, of which 454 have been discharged.Mumbai, meanwhile, lodged 19,474 new Covid cases, marginally lower than Saturday, and seven related deaths.Vaccinate teens in mission mode, PM Modi tells officials; asks to convene meeting with CMsThe surge in Covid-19 cases has prompted the Maharashtra government to tighten restrictions including capping the attendance at marriages and social, religious, cultural or political gatherings at 50. State health minister Rajesh Tope told reporters that the government will gradually introduce limitations at places of worship and other sites, including liquor vends, to control the virus spread."Curbs in crowded areas like liquor shops and places of worship will be imposed as well," Tope said. He, however, highlighted that hospital bed occupancy and oxygen demand remain low despite an increase in cases. "When these start rising, we will enforce stricter restrictions," he added.On Sunday, the state government revised its earlier order regarding beauty salons and gyms, allowing them to operate at 50 per cent capacity from January 10 midnight.As per the revised order, the beauty salons and gyms should be staffed with fully vaccinated individuals and the customers should also have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. The government has allowed only those activities to be taken up that does not require the removal of the mask by anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-44-388-new-covid-cases-12-deaths-omicron-tally-at-1216-101641743545375.html
09-01-2022||India||'Like Babur, Owaisi will be...': Himanta Biswa Sarma's dig at AIMIM MP||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said new India will have no place for Owaisi, Aurangzeb and Babur. In new India, people will not read the history of Nizams but will know about Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Rani Rudrama Devi and rulers of the Kakatiya dynasty. "The way Article 370 was scrapped, Ram Mandir's construction began...here also Nizam's name, Owaisi's name will be forgotten forever...that day is not very far," Himanta Biswa Sarma said addressing a programme in Warangal in Telangana in support of teachers and unemployed youth. By betraying his people & aligning with Owaisi, KCR Garu has only hastened his downfall.Bharat no longer reads about Nizams' history. The new Bharat reads the history of Sardar Patel, Rani Rudrama Devi & Kakatiyas. We have to take a pledge to take our country forward.@JPNadda pic.twitter.com/HlRnzNZo6x"I will have to come here again. In 2023, when BJP will come to power in Telangana, I will come again. People have the belief that with the support of PM Modi they will make a new Telangana. KCR garu has forgotten his promise of giving jobs. KCR Garu is only concerned with his family and not the people of Telangana. I will urge him to see on television that from May 1 to May 10, I will give 1 lakh government jobs, as promised during the election campaign. Is he ruling a state or a farmhouse, I doubt?" Sarma said.Owaisi has been campaigning extensively in Uttar Pradesh for the upcoming elections. His recent remarks against Uttar Pradesh Police came under fire as he asked who will save the police when Yogi Adityanath and Narendra Modi will not be in power. "I did not incite violence or give threats. I talked about police atrocities.... I said we will remember these police atrocities. Is this objectionable? Why is it offensive to remember how police have treated Muslims in UP? I asked cops: who will come to save them when Modi-Yogi retire? Indeed, who will? Do they think they've lifetime immunity?" Owaisi said countering the charges."Don't threaten to kill me. When I was 12 years old, Sangh people used to come in front of our house and gave 'Musalman kabirstan ya Pakistan' slogan. 15-20 people used to come. My brother Akbar is also familiar. Don't think about Asaduddin's head. Think about India. India and India's composite culture is bigger than Asaduddin," Owaisi recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-babur-owaisi-will-be-himanta-biswa-sarma-s-dig-at-aimim-mp-101641742080696.html
09-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi asks officials to vaccinate teens in 'mission mode', and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vaccinate teens in mission mode, PM Modi tells officials; meeting with CMs soonPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country in the wake of the rise in cases, fuelled by the Omicron variant, and asked to accelerate the vaccine drive for adolescents in a mission mode. Read more…Iran to cooperate with India in shipping wheat, medicines to AfghanistanIran has said it will cooperate with India in shipping humanitarian assistance, including wheat and medicines, to Afghanistan, even as foreign minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian stressed the need for an inclusive government in Kabul. Read more…Delhi Police upgrades citizen services to provide update to complainants on arrests, FIRsDelhi Police has upgraded its online citizen services to enhance complainant satisfaction by providing automatically generated updates to complainants on the investigation of their cases. The complainants will now get information on the arrest of the accused, filing of charge sheet or final report on their mobile numbers and through email, as per the direction of Rakesh Asthana, commissioner of police, Delhi. Read more…BJP shares video of Shivakumar 'coughing' during Mekedatu protest, calls Congress 'superspreader'Karnataka BJP on Sunday slammed Congress over its Mekedatu padayatra and sharing a purported video of state Congress chief DK Shivakumar coughing, it called Congress a 'superspreader'. Read more…When Sanjay Dutt revealed he made ₹500 making paper bags in jail, gave the money to MaanayataActor Sanjay Dutt’s acting career has often been overshadowed by his run-ins with the law. From his drug addiction issues in the 1980s to conviction under the TADA Act later in his career, he has had an eventful life. In fact, the actor has even spent considerable time behind bars. Read more…KKR remind fans about Gautam Gambhir's 'T20 master stroke' involving MS Dhoni in viral Ashes momentThe ongoing Ashes has been a fighting lesson for Joe Root's England and after already going down 3-0 the team survived another scare in Sydney. Stuart Broad and James Anderson returned unbeaten to prevent Australia from going 4-0 up. Read more…Sushmita Sen and daughters turn to dance for fun cardio workout, we are inspiredMaking the most of peppy and energetic music while working out in the studio, Bollywood actor Sushmita Sen and daughters Renee and Alisah laid the perfect workout energy for us ahead of Monday as they led fitness enthusiasts to opt for dance as an alternative cardio exercise session this Sunday. Don’t feel like working out? No problem! Sushmita and daughters got you sorted with their grooves as they turned to dance to tick off cardio workout and that is all the fitness motivation we need ahead of Monday. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-asks-officials-to-vaccinate-teens-in-mission-mode-and-all-the-latest-news-101641739009432.html
09-01-2022||India||Vaccinate teens in mission mode, PM Modi tells officials; asks to convene meeting with CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country in the wake of the rise in cases, fuelled by the Omicron variant, and asked to accelerate the vaccine drive for adolescents in a mission mode. A meeting with chief ministers will be convened to discuss state-specific scenarios, best practices and the public health response, PM Modi said.At the meeting, PM Modi was briefed about the global scenario of the pandemic. Health officials presented to him the situation in India, the states and districts of concern and the steps taken by the ministry so far. A progress report of the vaccination of teenagers between the ages of 15 and 18 years was submitted to PM Modi. From January 3 onwards, vaccination of adolescents has started in the country and, according to health ministry data, 31% of adolescents have been administered with the 1st dose so far within 7 days. "PM noted this achievement and urged to further accelerate the vaccine drive for adolescents in mission mode," the statement issued by the government said.Delhi may see 35-70k Covid cases at peak, but hospitalisations to max out at 12k: IIT modelPM Modi stressed the continuous need of adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour and directed that intensive containment and active surveillance should go on in clusters reporting higher cases.There should not be any disruption in the non-Covid health services, PM Modi said, urging officials to leverage telemedicine in remote and rural areas.PM Modi spoke about the importance of continuous scientific research in testing, vaccines and pharmacological interventions including genome sequencing given that the virus is evolving continuously.Union home minister Amit Shah, health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya, minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul, ICMR DG Dr Balram Bhargava and other top health ministry officials were present. Health minister Dr Mandaviya will interact with the health ministers of the states and Union territories on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinate-teens-in-mission-mode-pm-modi-tells-officials-meeting-with-cms-soon-101641738852684.html
09-01-2022||India||Iran to cooperate with India in shipping wheat, medicines to Afghanistan||NEW DELHI: Iran has said it will cooperate with India in shipping humanitarian assistance, including wheat and medicines, to Afghanistan, even as foreign minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian stressed the need for an inclusive government in Kabul. The offer of cooperation – made by Abdollahian during a phone conversation with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Saturday – assumes significance in view of hurdles created by Pakistan for shipping 50,000 tonnes of wheat offered by the Indian side. The Indian government sent 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Afghanistan via Tehran on January 1, since there are currently no direct flights between India and Afghanistan. The situation in Afghanistan was a key part of the discussion between Abdollahian and Jaishankar, who reviewed a range of bilateral, regional and international issues. The use of Iran’s Chabahar port, where India operates a key terminal, also figured in the conversation. “A wide ranging conversation with my Iranian colleague, FM @Amirabdolahian. Discussed the difficulties of Covid, challenges in Afghanistan, prospects of Chabahar and complexities of the Iranian nuclear issue,” Jaishankar said in a tweet. Abdollahian “referred to India’s humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, announcing measures and cooperation by the Islamic Republic of Iran to transfer this aid in the form of wheat, medicine and Covid vaccine to the country”, Iran’s foreign ministry said in a statement. He also “stressed the need to form an inclusive government” in Afghanistan. On January 7, India supplied two tonnes of life-saving medicines to Afghanistan, the third tranche of aid since last month, against the backdrop of a dire humanitarian situation exacerbated by a harsh winter. These medicines were routed through Dubai. The Indian government sent 1.6 tonnes of life-saving medicines on a special charter flight between New Delhi and Kabul on December 11. All the medicines and vaccines were handed over to the World Health Organisation (WHO) for use at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Kabul. The Taliban regime, which is not recognised by New Delhi, have welcomed the Indian assistance. India’s offer to provide 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Pakistani land routes has been held up because of conditions attached by Islamabad. The offer was made in October, and Pakistan said last month it would allow wheat and medicines to be shipped via the Wagah land border crossing in Afghan trucks, but is yet to firm up modalities. Jaishankar and Abdollahian also discussed the Covid-19 response of India and Iran. Abdollahian referred to the “good trend” of vaccination in Iran and said, “We have been able to properly contain the virus, and so far 89% of people have been vaccinated and are receiving a third dose of vaccine.” Referring to the talks in Vienna on Iran’s nuclear programme, Abdollahian said the discussions are going in the “right direction”. He added: “We have the necessary will to reach a good agreement in good faith, and if the Western side also has this goodwill and determination, we can reach a good agreement.” Jaishankar said Abdollahian’s forthcoming visit to India would be a “very good opportunity to develop bilateral cooperation”, according to the Iranian foreign ministry’s statement. 
09-01-2022||India||Made-in-India aircraft carrier Vikrant sets sail for critical sea trials||NEW DELHI: India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant, the largest warship to be built in the country, on Sunday set sail for crucial sea trials ahead of its scheduled induction into the Indian Navy this year, officials familiar with the matter said. The latest trials are the third set of trials since August 2021.“While the maiden sea trials in August last year were to establish propulsion, navigational suite and basic operations, the second sea trials in October-November witnessed the ship being put through its paces in terms of various machinery trials and flight trials,” the navy said in a statement.President Ram Nath Kovind visited the carrier in Kochi on December 22 followed by a visit by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on January 2.Designed by the Indian Navy’s Directorate of Naval Design (DND), Vikrant has been built at the state-owned Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL). The warship, with a displacement of 37,500 tonnes, will operate MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, MH-60R multi-role helicopters and the indigenous advanced light helicopters. It has been named after the aircraft carrier INS Vikrant operated by the navy from 1961 to 1997.#IAC now sails to undertake ComplexManoeuvres to establish specific data on how the ship performs in various conditions. Scientists from NSTL lab.@DRDO_India is also embarked for the trials(2/3)#AmritMahotsav@drajaykumar_ias@SpokespersonMoD@DefPROMumbai@PRO_Vizag@cslcochin pic.twitter.com/OwWKg6wWfh“Having gained adequate confidence in the ship’s abilities (during the first two trials), IAC now sails to undertake complex manoeuvres to establish specific readings of how the ship performs in various conditions,” the navy added.Vikrant has put India in a select league -- only the US, the UK, Russia, France and China have the capability to build aircraft carriers.India currently operates a solitary aircraft carrier, INS Vikramaditya, bought second-hand from Russia for $2.33 billion. In contrast, China operates two aircraft carriers — CV-16 Liaoning and CV-17 Shandong. It is building a third carrier as it expands its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region.Vikrant has an indigenous content of 76%. The construction of the aircraft carrier began in 2009.IAC is 262 metres long, has a beam of 62 metres and a height of 59 metres. It has 14 decks, including five in the superstructure, 2,300 compartments, can accommodate a crew of 1,700, including specialised cabins for women officers.Vikrant will be the fourth aircraft carrier to be operated by the Indian Navy -- first Vikrant (British origin) from 1961 to 1997, INS Viraat (British origin) from 1987 to 2016 and INS Vikramaditya (Russian origin) 2013 onwards.
09-01-2022||India||Delhi Police upgrades citizen services to provide update to complainants on arrests, FIRs||Delhi Police has upgraded its online citizen services to enhance complainant satisfaction by providing automatically generated updates to complainants on the investigation of their cases. The complainants will now get information on the arrest of the accused, filing of charge sheet or final report on their mobile numbers and through email, as per the direction of Rakesh Asthana, commissioner of police, Delhi.In case of multiple accused, updates will be sent to the complainant regarding the arrest of each accused as and when they are arrested. Once the FIR is registered, the complainants will be required to provide their phone number or email address wherein the updates regarding the FIR and chargesheet can be given to them.The automation and digitisation to provide updates to the complainants come after Asthana directed the Delhi crime branch, led by special commissioner of police Devesh Srivastava, to ensure regular updating of the complainants on the progress of the probe at various stages. As many as 4,654 messages have been sent to complainants regarding registration of FIR since the up-gradation, while 4807 messages have been sent for the arrests made in those cases.Out of 11,376 such automatically generated messages, nearly 1,500 messages have been delivered to complainants informing them about the submission of the final report. The latest upgrade is aimed at providing “hassle-free services to the citizens of Delhi in a transparent and victim-friendly manner.”
09-01-2022||India||BJP shares video of Shivakumar 'coughing' during Mekedatu protest, calls Congress 'superspreader'||Karnataka BJP on Sunday slammed Congress over its Mekedatu padayatra and sharing a purported video of state Congress chief DK Shivakumar coughing, it called Congress a 'superspreader'. "Watch Congress president DK Shivakumar coughing in public during his fake protest for Mekedatu dam. It appears that he is having Covid-19 symptoms but is still interacting with Congress workers without a mask. Is he hell-bent on increasing Corona cases?" the official handle of Karnataka BJP tweeted.  Watch CONgress President @DKShivakumar coughing in public during his fake protest for Mekedatu dam.It appears that he is having #COVID19 symptoms but is still interacting with CONgress workers without a mask.Is he hell bent on increasing Corona cases?#SuperSpreaderCONgress pic.twitter.com/RnXpAnSs5mAs visuals of the padayatra with people teeming emerged, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said action will be taken according to the law against the Congress leaders for going ahead with their march, demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river.The Congress today began its 10-days padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, at a time when the Covid-19 infections are again on the rise. The situation in Karnataka is concerning with daily cases galloping. The government has imposed a weekend curfew and there are strict restrictions on any kind of gathering in the state. All these restrictions are in place till January 19. Led by DK Shivakumar and Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly Siddaramaiah, the padayatra with the theme 'Namma Neeru Namma Hakku' (Our water, Our right) began at the Sangama, the confluence of Cauvery and Arkavathi rivers in Kanakapura in Ramanagara district. Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge was also present at the inaugural event. According to reports, after the inauguration, Siddaramaiah returned to Bengaluru after complaining of slight fever."Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah returns from his party's fake Mekedatu protest citing fever. Is he faking his fever or is he really having symptoms of Covid-19? Isn't Congress putting the lives of Kannadigas at risk for its political survival?" the BJP took a dig.Videos of former Chief Minister speaking to Bengaluru Rural MP D K Suresh, former minister R V Deshpande and other Congress leaders about him having fever and wanting to take rest for some time, and later leaving in his official car, have surfaced, news agency PTI reported. “We should understand he is nearing 74-75 years of age, he has stents. We had asked him not to climb the upward route today,” Shivakumar told PTI. Though Congress sources have confirmed that Siddaramaiah has left for Bengaluru due to fever after lunch and is likely to return to padayatra once he is fine, there is no official word yet from his office about the nature of the fever, the news agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-shares-video-of-shivakumar-coughing-during-mekedatu-protest-calls-congress-superspreader-101641735085671.html
09-01-2022||India||FIR against Bihar man who claimed to have taken 12 Covid vaccine jabs||MADHEPURA: Health authorities in Bihar’s Madhepura have lodged a first information report (FIR) against octogenarian Brahmadev Mandal who claimed to have taken 12 Covid jabs within a year. However, Mandal has alleged that the department is shifting the blame on him. Madhepura superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar while confirming the FIR at Puraini police station said the police will look into the violations of Covid guidelines as well as the lapses on the part of health officials. “An FIR has been lodged under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty) and 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by government) by Dr Arun Kumar, medical officer of Puraini primary health centre,” the SP said. Police sources said these sections cover the alleged offences committed by the octogenarian for taking multiple jabs that is being probed. On the other hand, acting civil surgeon Dr Abdul Salam (the civil surgeon is on leave after testing positive for Covid-19) said the FIR has been lodged to stop the man from taking more jabs. “The FIR aims at stopping the man from taking more covid jabs and not to harass him,” Dr Salam said. He added the two teams probing the matter has not yet submitted their report. Mandal said that the civil surgeon who visited his house requested him to withdraw his claim of taking 12 jabs or it will cost the job of at least three health officials. Mandal is still firm on his claim and once again said, “Vaccines have benefitted him to cure him of several ailments.” He wondered that while on the one hand health officials were negating his claim on the other hand an FIR admitting that he had taken multiple jabs was lodged. He said he will resort to legal action against health officials. Mandal has claimed that he has taken Covid jabs 12 times within a year. He took his first jab on February 13 last year and 12th jab on January 4 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-octogenarian-for-allegedly-taking-12-covid-jabs-within-a-year-101641734422725.html
09-01-2022||India||FIR on hair stylist Jawed Habib for spitting on a woman||An FIR has been registered against hair stylist Jawed Habib, at Police Station Mansurpur, Muzzafar Nagar on the information provided by victim Puja Gupta under Section 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person, otherwise than on grave provocation) of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 for the ghastly incident that has shook the entire country - Jawed Habib, has been captured on video spitting on Gupta’s head while styling her hair. The unfortunate victim, Gupta, paid ₹2500 for VIP access to attend one of his seminars. The victim says, “While Habib was explaining hair smoothening to the participants, I pointed out that the process cannot be achieved in 5 minutes, this probably irked Habib.” She says that after lunch, Habib was preparing to give a demonstration and asked for volunteers. Gupta, being a die-hard fan, immediately volunteered. Habib recognised that Gupta was the one who questioned him. In a video now viral, he can be seen smacking her on the head. The victim also alleges that she had requested Habib not to hit her as she suffers from cervical pain. The video recorded by her husband shows Habib spitting on her scalp while announcing “Agar paani ki kami haina... toh iss thuuk mein jaan hai.” The video shows that this act was received with laughter and cheers from the audience.On reaching out to Habib, he denied the entire incident and alleged that the video has been doctored. He said, “Dear its a seminar where I teach hair science & our culture. I tell people to drink haldi pani every morning. In olden age people used to use saliva every morning if you have pimples. It’s antiseptic. If people see the whole video they will know what I’m talking about. But the video is all edited. I’m in an industry since ages so people follow me. I’ve 900+ videos on my social media where I tell how to look after skin and hair. It’s all planned dear and I don’t sell any cosmetics. I sell gyan,” (sic).However, later he took to social media and posted a video where he can be seen explaining that the entire episode was an attempt at humour and he apologises for any offence caused. We also reached out to the victim who narrated her painful ordeal. “I have become a laughing stock for the entire world. I had gone there to learn and not get humiliated,” she says. While Gupta refused to share the entire video of the incident, she stuck to her allegation. Rubbishing the fact that the video has been edited, she said “If that was the case, why are Habib’s people calling me saying that Habib is ready to apologise to me in person.” “I feel my image has been publically eroded and I seek its restoration. I want him to publicly apologise to me,” she adds. The Chairperson, National Commission for Women (NCW), Rekha Sharma says, “We have written to the Delhi Commissioner of Police, and DGP, UP to take action against Jawed Habib. We are also summoning the relevant parties.”Yogita Bhayana, human rights activist says that Jawed Habib’s act is extremely humiliating and he must be taken to task for it. “It hurts the dignity of a human being. It’s shocking that during Covid times when we are not even sharing the same breath, Jawed Habib is seen spitting on someone’s head! He should be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act,1897. He should not think that just because he is a celebrity, he can get away with a criminal act,” says Bhayana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-on-hair-stylist-jawed-habib-for-spitting-on-a-woman-101641731842807.html
09-01-2022||India||Madhya Pradesh Police suspend constable for keeping a long moustache||The Madhya Pradesh Police have suspended a constable for indiscipline as he grew his hair and moustache despite being told to trim it, an official said on Sunday. The suspension order issued on Friday to constable Rakesh Rana, posted as a driver in the police's motor transport wing, surfaced on various social media platforms on Sunday. Assistant Inspector General, Cooperatives Fraud and Public Service Guarantee, Prashant Sharma, who issued the order, told PTI that Rana was suspended as he did not follow his senior's order about correcting his appearance.“When his appearance was checked, the constable was found with hair grown and a moustache till the neck. He was directed to trim the hair as his turnout was awkward, but he did not follow the directives,” the official said. Sharma also claimed the constable was adamant on keeping long hair and moustache, which was not in accordance with norms for the uniformed personnel. Hence, he was suspended as part of disciplinary action, the official said. The constable was posted as the driver of Special Director General, Cooperatives Fraud and Public Service Guarantee section of the Madhya Pradesh Police. He told a TV channel that he will continue to keep a moustache as it is a matter of "self-respect" for him. Claiming that he always wore a proper uniform, Rana said he will not compromise on this issue despite the suspension as he had been keeping the moustache since a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-police-suspends-constable-for-keeping-a-long-moustache-101641725175255.html
09-01-2022||India||Omicron effect: Govt offices to remain shut in Himachal Pradesh on weekends||The Himachal Pradesh government on Sunday announced more curbs in view of rising cases of coronavirus disease, including a ban on all social and religious gatherings in the state till January 24. The disaster management cell of the state revenue department issued an order directing all government offices to remain closed on weekends, i.e Saturday and Sunday, and to operate at 50 per cent attendance from Monday to Friday.The offices dealing with emergencies or essential services such as health, police, fire, banks, electricity, water and sanitation, public transport, telecom, will be exempted from the restrictions. The high court of Himachal Pradesh will issue separate orders with respect to the court and all other judicial offices on any Covid-related restrictions. All social and religious gatherings have been completely banned across the state.“Other gatherings/congregations like academic sports/entertainment/cultural/political are permitted up to 50 per cent of the capacity, subject to maximum of 100 persons in indoor built up/covered areas (whichever is lower) and in open spaces/outdoor areas permitted up to 50% of the capacity, subject to 300 persons (whichever is lower),” the order said."Prior information of gatherings shall be given to the District/Sub Divisional Administration and local administration can impose additional conditions upon the organizers, as deemed fit, in context of local COVID situation," it added.There will also be a total ban on langar, community kitchens, and dhaams across Himachal Pradesh. The district magistrates have been authorised to take a decision on fixing the timings of the shops and markets or staggering schedule for opening and closing. The order will remain in force from 6am on January 10 to 6am on January 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-effect-govt-offices-to-remain-shut-in-himachal-on-weekends-101641729255269.html
09-01-2022||India||Omicron effect: IndiGo to cancel around 20 pc flights, waives change fees||IndiGo on Sunday said it will cancel around 20 per cent of its flights because of the surge in Covid cases driven by the Omicron variant and waive change fees till March 31 in response to customer needs.Change fee is paid by a passenger to switch to a different flight date.In a press release, the airline stated that owing to the increasing number of infections, a large number of IndiGo customers are changing their travel plans. "In response to customer needs, IndiGo is waiving change fees and is offering free changes for all new and existing bookings made up to January 31, for flights up to March 31, 2022," it mentioned. The budget carrier said with reduced demand it will also selectively withdraw some flights from service."We anticipate that around 20 per cent of our current scheduled operations will be withdrawn from service.""Where possible, cancellation of flights will be done at least 72 hours in advance and customers will be moved to the next available flight and will also be able to change their travel through the use of Plan B (section) on our website," it noted.The airline encouraged the customers to digital channels since the call centres have been handling a large volume of calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-effect-indigo-to-cancel-around-20-pc-flights-waives-change-fees-101641728312795.html
09-01-2022||India||PM Modi reviews Covid-19 situation amid surge of infections||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday held a high-level meeting of officials to review the pandemic situation of the country. The last meeting by PM Modi was held on December 24. Since then, the pandemic situation in the country has changed with daily cases recording a massive surge, Omicron being the dominant variant in many cities. Other developments that took place in the intervening period include the announcement of the election schedule in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur, and the extension of the vaccination programme. Teenagers between the ages of 15 and 18 are being vaccinated against Covid, while precaution doses will be available for frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities from January 10. India's Covid-19 tally is on an upward trend increasing exponentially in the past few days. On Sunday, India reported 1.59 lakh cases, taking the active caseload to around 6 lakh. Several states have brought back weekend curfew, night curfew and other restrictions to contain the spread of Omicron, which is believed to be driving the present surge.Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur will go to the polls starting from February 10. The Election Commission has announced a one-month long schedule to complete the elections of these five states, which will be done adhering to all Covid guidelines. For the first time, the Election Commission has banned physical rallies in these poll-bound states till January 15 in view of the Omicron situation. Post the commission's review, the ban may get lifted, but EC's campaign curfew after 8pm will remain in place. According to scientists, India is witnessing the third phase of the pandemic which is different from the first two phases because of the wide vaccination coverage and fewer restrictions. The situation is dynamic and India may reach the peak of the wave later this month, experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-covid-19-situation-amid-surge-of-infections-101641728581550.html
09-01-2022||India||Railways planning to levy fee on passengers for boarding/alighting at redeveloped stations||The Indian Railways is planning to levy a station development fee on passengers boarding or alighting at redeveloped stations.A report carried by news agency PTI said the fee ranging from ₹10 to ₹50 will be charged from the passengers depending on their class of travel.The fee will be levied only after such stations become operational and added to the train tickets during booking. The fee will differ for every category: ₹50 for all AC classes, ₹25 for sleeper class and ₹10 for the unreserved class.Also read | Reservation, security measures: Railways minister lists facilities for womenThis, however, will not be applicable for suburban train journeys, PTI quoted a circular issued by the Railway Board as mentioning.Further, the platform tickets at these stations will also get costlier by ₹10, the circular said."Class-wise SDF for developed/redeveloped stations shall be charged as under: For alighting passengers at such stations, the SDF shall be 50 per cent of the rates indicated above. If both boarding/alighting such stations, in that case, SDF shall be 1.5 times of the applicable rate, the circular stated.SDF shall be uniform across all such stations and shall be charged as a separate component plus applicable GST, for which instructions shall be issued separately, it added.PTI quoted Officials as saying that the levying of the SDF will ensure a continuous revenue stream for the railways and will make the model financially viable for the national transporter to lure private players.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-planning-to-levy-fee-on-passengers-for-boarding-alighting-at-redeveloped-stations-101641726420360.html
09-01-2022||India||JD(U) to contest UP polls in alliance with BJP, seats to be decided: Kushwaha||PATNA: The speculations about realignment in Bihar politics ended as quickly as it emerged following Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) state chief Jagtanand Singh’s offer of support to Nitish Kumar on the vexed special state and caste census issues should the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) decides not to come on board. However, now all eyes are on the high stake UP elections, where Janata Dal (United) wants to contest “enough seats” to keep its hopes alive for achieving the national party status, but looks unlikely to get that many seats from the BJP. JD(U) parliamentary board chairman Upendra Kushwaha said the party will fight election in UP as part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), but how many seats JD(U) will contest is not yet clear. “We will fight as part of the NDA. It was decided during earlier meeting,” he added. Kushwaha said that union minister RCP Singh has been authorised to coordinate with the BJP in this regard. “With not much time left, this may be decided soon. Our strategy in UP is to contest enough seats so that we could have a chance of achieving national party status. But how many seats we will get to contest is something that will be decided after talks and that must be on. But the fact is that we will contest with BJP,” he added. Social analyst Prof Nawal Kishore Choudhary said that Nitish Kumar was a pragmatic politician and he was aware of his own strengths and weaknesses as well as that of his allies to play his cards deftly. “He knows a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. He will never go for an offer (RJD’s) that remains in the domain of uncertainty. Choudhary Charan Singh is an example who was made the PM, but could not even seek trust vote due to withdrawal of support before that. He is not the one who would be happy being a titular head, but at the same time wants to keep sending messages to the BJP that it has more options and that may help his party get some seats in UP as well for presence. BJP has been accommodating to Nitish, as it also does not want to lose another ally. If JD(U) gets even some seats in UP, where BJP fully dominates, to keep its flock together, that will be a step forward for the party,” he added. Former director of AN Sinha Institute of Special Studies DM Diwakar said that the ongoing political ‘noora-kushti’ (fixed fight) was apparently a balancing game due to future stakes, which will become important with a lot of key decisions to be made, viz. JD(U)’s stake in UP elections, Bihar legislative council elections, Rajya Sabha elections and appointment on a large number of seats, which have remained vacant for a long time. “Everyone knows in UP JD(U) does not have big presence, but as an ally it will like to have commitment for Bihar, where it has higher stakes. BJP-JD(U) alliance suits both in equal measure due to an unavoidable House arithmetic and hardly leaves room for manoeuvres,” he added. 
09-01-2022||India||India's first indigenous aircraft carrier begins another phase of sea trials||India's first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant began another set of sea trials on Sunday to carry out complex manoeuvres in high seas ahead of its planned induction in August.The 40,000-tonne aircraft carrier, the largest and most complex warship to be built in India, successfully completed a five-day maiden sea voyage in August and underwent 10-day sea trials in October."The IAC now sails to undertake complex manoeuvres to establish specific readings of how the ship performs in various conditions," Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said, adding various sensor suites of the ship would also be tested.The warship has been built at a cost of around ₹23,000 crore and its construction propelled India into a select group of countries having capabilities to build state-of-the-art aircraft carriers.President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu visited the ship recently in Kochi."After two successive high profile visits – the President and Vice President of India – within a span of less than two weeks, IAC Vikrant is heading out for the next set of sea trials," Commander Madhwal said."Both dignitaries, having reviewed the progress, had conveyed their satisfaction and expressed their best wishes to all the stakeholders involved in the project," he added.While the maiden sea trials were to establish propulsion, navigational suite and basic operations, the second sea trial witnessed the ship being put through its paces in terms of various machinery trials and flight trials."The ship in fact was out for 10 days proving its sustenance in the very second sortie. Various seamanship evolutions were also successfully cleared during the second sortie," the Navy official said.Several scientists from the Naval Science and Technological Laboratory, a DRDO facility based at Visakhapatnam, are witnessing the third phase of sea trials of Vikrant.The warship will operate MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, MH-60R multi-role helicopters.It has over 2,300 compartments, designed for a crew of around 1700 people, including specialised cabins to accommodate women officers.Vikrant has a top speed of around 28 knots and a cruising speed of 18 knots with an endurance of about 7,500 nautical miles, officials said.The IAC is 262 metres long, 62 metres wide and it has a height of 59 metres. Its construction began in 2009.The warship has been built by Cochin Shipyard Limited(CSL).India currently has only one aircraft carrier -- INS Vikramaditya,The Indian Navy has been focusing on significantly bolstering its overall capabilities in view of China's growing efforts to increase its military presence in the Indian Ocean Region.The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical to the country's strategic interests."That the ship has been able to carry out basic flying operations from its very first sortie itself is a landmark in Indian warship construction history," Commander Madhwal said."Despite surging COVID cases in the country and the resultant challenges, the combined teams from multiple organisations associated with the project are upbeat and committed to meet the timeliness," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-first-indigenous-aircraft-carrier-begins-another-phase-of-sea-trials-101641727222402.html
09-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Surgeries hit at AIIMS Patna after doctors test Covid positive, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Surgeries hit at AIIMS Patna after docs test Covid positiveElective surgeries have been practically put on hold at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after 14 of the 30 resident doctors and medical student in its anesthesiology department have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last couple of days, said the dean of the institute. Read more…Former RBI guv Urjit Patel appointed Beijing-based AIIB vice-presidentFormer Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Urjit Patel has been appointed as the vice-president of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), a multilateral development bank based in Beijing. Read more…BJP questions Priyanka Gandhi's post after Punjab CM says he briefed her on PM's security breachBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and spokesperson Sambit Patra on Sunday trained guns at Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi for being kept in the loop regarding Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security breach during his Punjab visit, raising questions on her post. Read more…AAP announces 2nd list for Goa polls, says will lead political transformationArvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday announced its second list of ten candidates for the upcoming Goa polls, two days after the party announced its first list of 10 candidates. Read more…India's IPL youngster shoots huge 'GOAT' warning to South Africa ahead of 3rd TestTeam India's Test captain Virat Kohli was forced to miss the second Test of the series against South Africa due to back spasms. In his absence, KL Rahul led the Indian team as the side faced a seven-wicket defeat in Johannesburg. Following the loss, Dravid said that he expects Kohli to be fit for the third and final Test in Newlands, which will also be a series decider. Read more…Soha Ali Khan recalls ‘terrifying’ experience of working with Sharmila Tagore, reveals what she said for Rang De BasantiSoha Ali Khan has recalled her experience of working with her mother, veteran actor Sharmila Tagore and called it 'terrifying'. In a new interview, Soha has said that Sharmila's 'standards are very high'. She also revealed Sharmila's advice to her during Rang De Basanti. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-surgeries-hit-at-aiims-patna-after-doctors-test-covid-positive-and-all-the-latest-news-101641726682224.html
09-01-2022||India||Surgeries hit at AIIMS Patna after docs test Covid positive||PATNA: Elective surgeries have been practically put on hold at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after 14 of the 30 resident doctors and medical student in its anesthesiology department have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last couple of days, said the dean of the institute. Over 150 hospital employees, which include 70% doctors, have so far contracted the virus, he said. “Six of our operation theatres (OTs) functioned for routine cases and three-four for emergencies on Friday. As of now, we are not sure how many OTs will function on Monday because three other resident doctors have reported unwell and we are awaiting their Covid-19 test report. We are already short of hands after 14 of our 30 resident doctors and postgraduate students have tested positive for Covid-19,” said professor and head, department of anesthesiology, Dr Umesh Bhadani, also the Dean (academics) of the institute. The anesthesiology department has 20 post graduate students, 10 senior residents and 12 faculty members in the rank of assistant professor and above. The sanctioned faculty strength in the department is 15. The institute has a total of 33 fully functional operation theatres, but is able to run a maximum of 15-16 OTs on normal days with the existing workforce in the anesthesiology department. During the pandemic, the number of routine OTs have reduced by more than half, said Dr Bhadani. “We cannot stop surgeries in the emergency or the obstetrics and gynecology department. So, we are utilising whatever available manpower resources we have to keep the OTs for emergency surgeries operational,” added Dr Bhadani. The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous institution of the state government, has already stopped elective surgeries. The AIIMS and the IGIMS have also restricted the number of patients to its outdoor patient departments (OPDs) to 50 a day. The two autonomous institutions of repute in the central and state government sector, respectively, have also introduced telemedicine facility and released phone numbers for OPD consultation. Prior telephonic and online appointments are mandatory for OPD consultation at AIIMS and the IGIMS. 
09-01-2022||India||Probe ordered after hundreds test Covid +ve at Amritsar international airport||A probe has been ordered against a private laboratory after a number of flyers who reached here from Italy recently tested positive for Covid-19 amid allegations by several of them that their test reports were incorrect, health officials said on Sunday.The Airports Authority of India has also replaced the services of the Delhi-based laboratory with a local lab, officials said.The probe had been ordered after several of the passengers who returned from Italy had alleged that their Covid positive report was not correct as they had tested negative hours before boarding the flight. They had raised questions on the testing practice adopted by the lab. Many among them had even created ruckus at the international airport here.Some of the passengers who had arrived here at Shri Guru Ramdas International Airport had subsequently tested negative in a re-test later, officials said.Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh said on Sunday, “A probe has been initiated by the Airports Authority of India against the alleged errant working of the lab. The services of the existing Delhi-based lab has been suspended and the new local lab has resumed its working at the airport."He said the services of this Delhi-based lab were engaged on December 15, 2021, by the Airports Authority of India.At least 173 passengers on a Rome-Amritsar chartered flight were found to be Covid-positive after being tested on arrival on Friday, officials said.This is the second consecutive incident wherein a large number of passengers coming from Italy to Amritsar airport have tested positive for the coronavirus on arrival.On Thursday, 125 passengers who were travelling from Milan in Italy on another charter flight were found positive after being tested on arrival at the Amritsar airport.According to the rules of the Union Health Ministry, passengers coming from "at-risk" countries to India have to compulsorily get tested for Covid-19 on arrival at the airport.All European countries, including Italy, have been deemed as "at-risk" countries by the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-ordered-after-hundreds-test-covid-ve-at-amritsar-international-airport-101641721790807.html
09-01-2022||India||Sambit Patra questions Priyanka Gandhi's post after Punjab CM says he briefed her on PM's security breach||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and spokesperson Sambit Patra on Sunday trained guns at Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi for being kept in the loop regarding Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security breach during his Punjab visit, raising questions on her post.Patra's remarks came a day after Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said he had briefed Priyanka Gandhi "on whatever happened " during Modi's visit to the state on Wednesday.“A sitting CM briefs Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on PM’s security! Why? What constitutional post does Priyanka hold and who is she to be kept in loop regarding PM’s security? We firmly believe that the Gandhi family should come out clean on this,” news agency ANI quoted Sambit Patra as saying.Also read | PM Modi's security lapse: SC orders protection of travel records in Punjab, halts probes till MondayThe Prime Minister was on his way to Ferozepur when his convoy was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes due to road blockage by some protestors about 30 km away from the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala. Following which, it was decided he should head back to Bathinda Airport.Channi maintained that there was "no threat" to Modi during his visit to the state and that he was "completely safe" after the Union home ministry sought a report from the Punjab government on the security breach."I am again saying there was no threat to the PM here, it was not there, will not be there . He was completely safe. His security was around him. No one went near him, for one kilometre no one came near him...I had a conversation with Priyanka Gandhiji and I had briefed her on whatever happened here," he was quoted as telling ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sambit-patra-questions-priyanka-gandhi-s-post-after-punjab-cm-says-he-briefed-her-on-pm-s-security-breach-101641720005607.html
09-01-2022||India||AAP announces 2nd list for Goa polls, says will lead political transformation||PANAJI: Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday announced its second list of ten candidates for the upcoming Goa polls, two days after the party announced its first list of 10 candidates.The list, released by AAP’s Goa incharge Atishi, includes Goa convener Rahul Mhambre who will contest from his hometown Mapusa besides Cruz Silva and Cecille Rodrigues who contested the 2017 assembly elections on AAP tickets from Velim and Taleigao constituencies. respectively.Other candidates include former BJP members Ramarao Wagh (San André) and Sudesh Mayekar (Calangute), Rajesh Kalangutkar (Maem), Prashant Naik (Cuncolim), Anoop Kurtadkar (Canacona), Anil Gaonkar (Sanvordem) and Sandesh Telekar (Fatorda). “The Aam Aadmi Party is fully geared up to bring change in Goa. I am happy to declare the second list of candidates who are going to lead this political transformation!” Atishi said as she made the announcement.Earlier the AAP released its first list of ten names that included former BJP minister Alina Saldanha and Mahadev Naik and others.AAP initially indicated that it was open to alliances but later decided to go alone.Goa’s 11.6 lakh-strong electorate votes on February 14 in a single phase along with Punjab and Uttarakhand.Meanwhile, independent legislator Prasad Gaonkar resigned as an MLAs on Sunday and is expected to join the Congress party later in the day. The Congress also welcomed former Goa BJP’s youth wing leader Gajanan Tilve into the party to bolster its ranks ahead of the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-announces-2nd-list-for-goa-polls-says-will-lead-political-transformation-101641721041907.html
09-01-2022||India||Maharashtra revises restrictions; beauty salons, gyms will function at 50% capacity||The Maharashtra government on Sunday revised its earlier order of restrictions to be imposed in the state from Monday, January 10, and allowed beauty salons and gyms to operate at 50% capacity. In a notification on Saturday, the government ordered all beauty salons, spas, gyms to be closed. Only hair-cutting salons were allowed to run business at half capacity. A day later, the government revised the order and put beauty salons and gyms under the category of institutions allowed to function at a restricted capacity. Only fully vaccinated people will be allowed inside the gyms and the beauty salons, the revised order clarified. Amid the increasing threat of Omicron which is apparently driving the ongoing surge of Covid cases, Maharashtra has imposed a night curfew between 11pm to 5am, starting from Monday. Apart from night curfew, which has again become normal in many states, the government put some curbs. Schools and colleges will remain closed till February 15. Shopping malls, restaurants will operate between 8am and 10pm at 50% capacity. Gyms, beauty salons and hair-cutting salons are now permitted to reduce their capacity by 50% and function.On Saturday, Maharashtra reported 41,434 new Covid-19 cases and 133 new Omicron cases. Mumbai's daily caseload remained around 20,000 on Saturday. Before the restrictions were imposed on Saturday, health minister Rajesh Tope said that the government was not mulling new restrictions as the demand for beds and oxygen in the state is under control. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said the aim of the government is to curtail unnecessary crowding and not lockdown. "The fact is that no restrictions will be effective unless we all adhere to Covid protocols," Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-revises-restrictions-beauty-salons-gyms-will-function-at-50-capacity-101641720816411.html
09-01-2022||India||Are you eligible for precaution 3rd dose of Covid vaccine? Check list as drive begins tomorrow||India will start administering the third dose of vaccines against Covid to priority groups of the population starting from January 10. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the decision of extending India's vaccination drive to include youngsters for the first two doses and priority population for their third dose. Teenagers of the age group of 15 and 18 started getting vaccines since January 3.Registration for the booster dose of precaution dose on Co-WIN began on January 8.Covid precaution dose: Eligibility, cost and everything you need to know1. Frontline workers and senior citizens with co-morbidities are eligible for the 3rd dose.2. Doctor's certificate is not required at the time of the administration of the precaution dose, but consulting the doctor before getting the precaution dose is advisable.3. There must be a gap of 9 months between the second and the third dose. So, if you got your second dose latest by the first week of April 2021, then only you are eligible for the precaution dose now. Otherwise, you will have to wait until it's 39 weeks since you got your 2nd dose. 4. If you have got Covishield, then your 3rd dose will also be Covishield. Same for Covaxin. The government has not allowed mix and match of vaccines.5. There is no need for fresh registration on Co-Win. Appointments can be booked from the site. Otherwise, walk-ins are also allowed.6. Voter ID, Aadhaar, passport, driving licence are some of the recognised documents by the health ministry.7. Vaccination of priority groups is free of cost in government hospitals. How important is booster dose?Several countries have been administering booster doses to their people. In India, this is not being called a booster dose but has been named as a precaution dose. The decision to administer this 3rd dose has been taken in view of the recent global surge of Covid-19 cases. In India too, cases are increasing exponentially and Omicron, the variant of concern detected on November 24, is being seen as the reason. Vaccinated people are also getting infected as Omicron has properties that can evade the body's immunity shield. Immunity, either from past infection or from vaccination, is also waning in people, scientists have found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-you-eligible-for-precaution-3rd-dose-of-covid-vaccine-check-list-as-drive-begins-tomorrow-101641719301583.html
09-01-2022||India||Sunday lockdown in Tamil Nadu: Chennai streets deserted, police intensify patrol||Chennai wore a deserted look on Sunday as a full lockdown to contain the recent resurgence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) came into effect.Police personnel were deployed at many points across the city to ensure adherence, while state health minister Ma Subramanian carried out an inspection.“Under the guidance of the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu MK Stalin, inspected whether the full lockdown in Chennai is properly being observed today,” Subramanian said in a tweet. State health secretary J Radhakrishnan, Greater Chennai Corporation chief GS Bedi were also seen with the minister during the inspection.மாண்புமிகு தமிழக முதல்வர் @mkstalin அவர்களின் வழிகாட்டுதலின்படி இன்று சென்னையில் முழு ஊரடங்கு சரியாக கடைபிடிக்க படுகின்றதா என்பதை சரியாக ஆய்வு செய்யப்பட்டது. #mkstalin #masubramanian #TNHealthminister #Chennai #lockdown #inspection pic.twitter.com/p8PCDtg5uqMeanwhile, some relaxations were offered to the public as the state government on Saturday said those travelling on Sunday to attend family events such as weddings would be permitted on producing the invitations. The maximum attendance at such events have been capped at 100.Also read | Amid Covid surge, Kejriwal says no plan for lockdown in Delhi, but some curbsOther relaxationsAmong other relaxations offered for the day, the government has said emergency services such as medicines, hospitals, milk booths, ATM machines, petrol stations, movement of goods carriers will be allowed to operate.However, all public transport systems, including Chennai Metro will not be operational. Restaurants are allowed to run only parcel services between 7am and 10pm and food delivery services would also be allowed during the same period. All other e-commerce services have been barred.On January 5, the state announced several restrictive measures, including a night curfew between 10pm and 5am, due to the increasing Covid-19 infections in the state.Also read | PM Modi to chair Covid-19 review meet at 4.30pm as active caseload nears 6 lakh18th mega vaccination campThe state organised its 18th mega vaccination camp on Saturday and administered 17,34,083 doses of the vaccine to eligible beneficiaries above 15 years of age.“The 18th Mega Vaccination Camp was held in which 17,34,083 beneficiaries received the jabs. Of this, 5,71,795 people received the first dose, while 11,62,288 received the second dose,” news agency PTI quoted Subramanian as saying.On Saturday, the state saw 10,978 new Covid-19 infections and ten related deaths. With this the total caseload reached 27,87,391 and the death toll mounted to 36,843.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday said as many as 185 Omicron cases have been reported from the southern state so far, all of whom have also recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunday-lockdown-in-tamil-nadu-chennai-streets-deserted-police-intensify-patrol-101641717145774.html
09-01-2022||India||NEET-PG counselling to begin from January 12: Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya||Union health minister Mansukh Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday NEET-PG counselling for 2021-2022 will start from 12 January.The minister’s statement came two days after the Supreme Court paved the way for starting the stalled counselling process that it said should go ahead based on the existing 27 per cent OBC (Other Backward Class) and 10 per cent EWS (Economically Weaker Section) reservations in the All India Quota seats.रेसीडेंट डॉक्टरस को स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय द्वारा दिए आश्वासन अनुसार, माननीय सर्वोच्च न्यायालय के आदेश के बाद MCC द्वारा NEET-PG काउन्सलिंग 12 जनवरी 2022 से शुरू की जा रही है। इससे कोरोना से लड़ाई में देश को और मज़बूती मिलेगी। सभी उम्मीदवारों को मेरी शुभकामनाएं।In a statement on Facebook, the health minister said the move will give more strength to the country in its fight against the coronavirus disease. “My best wishes to all the candidates.”There is an "urgent need" to begin the admission process, the apex court had said on Friday.The order came as a relief for the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA), which has recently led a weeks-long protest over the delay in starting of NEET-PG counselling that majorly affected healthcare services in government hospitals across the country, especially Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neetpg-counselling-to-begin-on-january-12-health-minister-mandaviya-101641716727853.html
09-01-2022||India||Rajya Sabha restricts staff attendance after Covid-19 outbreak in Parliament||The Rajya Sabha on Sunday issued fresh guidelines on the attendance of employees after more than 400 Parliament staff tested positive for the viral disease over the past days just weeks ahead of the Union Budget."Close to 402 staff tested positive for Covid-19 from January 4-8 and all samples have been sent for genome sequencing for Omicron variant confirmation," an official told news agency ANI on Sunday.Of these, 65 are from the Rajya Sabha, 200 from the Lok Sabha and 133 belong to the allied services.According to an official statement, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu reviewed the situation along with secretary-general PC Modi and advisor PPK Ramacharyulu.Naidu directed that necessary measures be taken to contain the spread of the virus among the Secretariat officials and staff ahead of the Budget session.The statement said 50 per cent officials and staff below the rank of undersecretary/executive officer will be required to work from home (WFH) till the end of January.Such officials and staff of the Rajya Sabha constitute 65 per cent of the total employees. Employees with disabilities and pregnant women are exempted from attending office.“Starting and closing timings of the secretariat are staggered to avoid crowding. All official meetings will be held virtually,” the statement further said.Naidu also instructed that all 1,300-odd officials and staff should be tested for Covid-19 and recovery of all infected employees should be closely monitored and assisted with hospitalisation and treatment if needed. The Vice President will review the situation on a weekly basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-restricts-staff-attendance-after-covid-19-outbreak-in-parliament-101641713626481.html
09-01-2022||India||Coast Guard apprehends Pakistani boat with 10 men inside Indian waters||A Pakistani boat with 10 crew members was apprehended by the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) as it had entered six-seven miles in the Indian waters off Gujarat’s coast. The boat was being brought to Porbandar for further interrogation, a defence statement said.It said the boat, named ‘Yaseen’, was caught by an ICG ship during an operation on Saturday night. "The Indian Coast Guard ship Ankit apprehended Pakistani boat 'Yaseen' with 10 crew in Indian waters at Arabian Sea during night ops on 08 Jan. Boat being brought to Porbandar for further interrogation," an official said in a tweet.The Pakistani boat was reportedly six-seven miles inside the Indian waters and tried to escape from there as soon as the crew saw the ICG ship.Pakistani boat was 6-7 miles inside Indian waters & tried to escape from scene after seeing the Coast Guard ship. So far, 2 tonnes of fish & 600 litres of fuel recovered from the deck. Further checks would be carried out once the boat reaches Porbandar: ICG officials pic.twitter.com/IMKkRF2N1FThe ICG recovered 2,000kg of fish and 600 litres of fuel from the ship whose crew did not have any document, the report added.On September 15 last year, the ICG had in a similar operation caught a Pakistani boat with 12 crew members in the Indian waters off the Gujarat coast. There has also been a rise in cases of such boats being used to smuggle drugs through the state coast.On December 20 last year, a Pakistani fishing boat with six crew members and carrying 77 kg of heroin worth around ₹400 crore was apprehended in the Indian waters off the Gujarat coast by the ICG in a joint operation with the state anti-terrorist squad.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coast-guard-apprehends-pakistani-boat-with-10-men-inside-indian-waters-101641714744268.html
09-01-2022||India||Veer Baal Diwas to be observed on December 26, PM Modi says on Guru Gobind Singh Jayanti||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday "Veer Baal Diwas" will be observed on December 26 starting this year as a tribute to the 10th Sikh guru Gobind Singh's four sons who were executed by the Mughals.The PM's statement came on Guru Gobind Singh Jayanti, the birth anniversary of the Sikh guru. “This is a fitting tribute to the courage of the "sahibzades" and their quest for justice,” Modi wrote on Twitter."Veer Baal Diwas will be on the same day Sahibzada Zorawar Singh Ji and Sahibzada Fateh Singh Ji attained martyrdom after being sealed alive in a wall. These two greats preferred death instead of deviating from the noble principles of Dharma," the PM wrote.Today, on the auspicious occasion of the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji, I am honoured to share that starting this year, 26th December shall be marked as ‘Veer Baal Diwas.’ This is a fitting tribute to the courage of the Sahibzades and their quest for justice."The bravery and ideals of Mata Gujri, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji and the 4 Sahibzades give strength to millions of people. They never bowed to injustice. They envisioned a world that is inclusive and harmonious. It is the need of the hour for more people to know about them," he added.Earlier in the day, Modi extended his greetings on the occasion of Guru Gobind Singh's jayanti and said the Guru's life message gives strength to millions of people."Greetings on the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. His life and message give strength to millions of people. I will always cherish the fact that our Government got the opportunity to mark his 350th Parkash Utsav. Sharing some glimpses from my visit to Patna at that time," Modi wrote, while sharing some pictures of his visit to the Bihar capital.The Modi government has been taking a number of measures to reach out to the Sikhs, a community which was perceived to be upset with the ruling BJP after three farm reform laws were enacted by Parliament following which farmers launched a year-long agitation. The prime minister recently announced the repeal of the laws.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veer-baal-diwas-to-be-observed-on-dec-26-pm-says-on-guru-gobind-singh-jayanti-101641713421421.html
09-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: BJP MP Varun Gandhi tests Covid +ve after visit to Pilibhit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP MP Varun Gandhi writes about ‘third wave & election’ after testing positive for CovidVarun Gandhi, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from the Pilibhit Lok Sabha constituency, said on Sunday that he was infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with fairly strong symptoms. Read moreKashmir journalist arrested for ‘anti-national’ activitiesA journalist has been arrested in Kashmir for allegedly uploading a protest video of the family of a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant, who was killed in an encounter with security forces earlier this week, his organisation said on Saturday. Read more Watch: Sikh driver assaulted in New York; India takes up matter with U.SIndia has reacted strongly to the assault of an Indian-origin Sikh taxi driver in New York and sought action against the accused. Read more 'We are very late in reacting to it': Ex-IND selector highlights major issue in India selection; 'Are they doing enough?Team India faced a seven-wicket loss against South Africa in the second Test in Johannesburg, as the Proteas registered a series-leveling victory. Read moreKatrina Kaif snuggles with Vicky Kaushal as they celebrate one month of marriage, Neha Dhupia says ‘gorgeous couple’Katrina Kaif shared a cosy photo with her husband Vicky Kaushal as they celebrated one month of marriage. Read more Kareena Kapoor's chic sweater worth ₹1k for outing with Jeh and Karisma Kapoor is winter look you needKareena Kapoor slayed in a chic beige sweater and leather pants for an outing with Jeh and Karisma Kapoor. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-mp-varun-gandhi-tests-covid-ve-after-visit-to-pilibhit-and-all-the-latest-news-101641710400993.html
09-01-2022||India||BSP to finalise candidates in Mayawati's high-level meeting today for UP Polls||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati will chair a high-level meet of party officials in Lucknow on Sunday to finalise the party's candidates for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections."Assembly polls in all the five states must be held peacefully. Police administration must work without bias. The people of Uttar Pradesh should vote for development. Our party will follow all guidelines of EC. I will chair a high-level meeting of party officials today regarding the final selection of candidates," said Mayawati while addressing a press conference here today.The Election Commission on Saturday announced poll dates for five states with Uttar Pradesh going for a seven-phase assembly election from February 10.The counting of votes in all states will take place on March 10.In the wake of the Covid-19 surge, the Commission directed that no physical political rallies and roadshows will be allowed till January 15, however, further rallies and election campaign meetings will be allowed only in earmarked places and with prior permissions of district administration.In the 2017 Assembly elections, the BJP won a landslide victory winning 312 Assembly seats. The party secured a 39.67 per cent vote share in the elections for 403-member Assembly. Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, BSP won 19 while Congress could manage to win only seven seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-to-finalize-candidates-in-mayawati-s-high-level-meeting-today-for-up-polls-101641708731267.html
09-01-2022||India||Ahead of budget session, over 400 Parliament staff test positive for Covid-19||Ahead of the Budget Session of the Parliament, more than 400 Parliament staff members were tested positive for COVID-19, according to official sources.The officials told ANI that 402 staff members were tested positive out of the 1,409 staff of Parliament for the virus from January 4 to 8 after which their samples were sent for genome sequencing to confirm the variant."Close to 402 staffs were tested positive for COVID-19 from January 4-8 and all samples have been sent to genome sequencing for Omicron variant confirmation," an official told ANI.According to an internal message from the staff of Parliament, the staff are advised to follow the precautions as per the guidelines of the government."There is a consolidated list of 200 Lok Sabha and 69 from Rajya Sabha and 133 allied staff who have tested positive, but we all need to take proper precautions," an internal message read.The above list does not include who were tested for COVID outside the Parliament premises.Several employees of both the Houses of the Parliament were put in isolation after they came into contact with their infected colleagues during work. Various officials of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha are also in isolation.A recent order by the DDMA directed all government offices to run under 50 per cent of staff capacity and the rest will work from home. Taking the new variant of COVID-19, Omicron seriously, the Central government also exempted its staff from biometric (daily punching) for attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-budget-session-over-400-parliament-staff-test-positive-for-covid19-101641705548704.html
09-01-2022||India||PM Modi to chair Covid-19 review meet at 4.30pm as active caseload nears 6 lakh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a review meeting of the Covid-19 pandemic situation across the country at 4.30 pm on Sunday.The review meeting comes amid a massive rise in the nationwide coronavirus tally with 1,59,632 fresh cases registered only in the last 24 hours.The active caseload currently stood at 5,90,611, while the daily positivity touched 10.21 per cent.The fast-spreading Omicron variant that is said to be driving the latest resurgence in cases in India and across the world has been detected in 27 states in the country with a total of 3,623 cases. During his last pandemic review meeting on December 23, last year, the PM had asked senior officials to maintain a high level of vigil and alertness. At the time, the country had seen a daily spike of a little over 7,000 Covid cases. “In view of the new variant (Omicron), we should be ‘satark’ (alert) and ‘saavdhan’ (take precaution),” the PM had said, while stressing the need for continued adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Meanwhile, dates have been announced for a seven-phased election in the five states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. A little over a fifth of India’s population will vote between February 10 and March 7. The Election Commission has, however, put a ban on rallies till January 15 amid the raging pandemic.The Union health ministry said the latest figures were the highest in 224 days. On May 29 last year, India had logged 1,65,553 infections in a day, the ministry said, adding the national Covid-19 recovery rate has decreased to 96.98 per cent.Delhi and Maharashtra continued to remain the top contributors with both recording over 20,000 coronavirus cases in a day till last available figures. Both the places have seeing a rapid resurgence of the pandemic in a very short span of time||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-covid-review-meeting-at-4-30pm-today-as-pandemic-spreads-alarm-101641705014497.html
09-01-2022||India||‘Sulli Deals’ app mastermind Aumkareshwar Thakur arrested in Indore: Delhi Police||The creator and mastermind of the ‘Sulli Deals’ mobile application was arrested from Indore on Sunday, the Special Cell of the Delhi Police said.The app had created a major uproar last year for targeting Muslim women and uploading their images without their consent. It has been back in the news since the latest row over the 'Bulli Bai' case that appears to be a clone of the ‘Sulli Deals’ app and lists Muslim women for ‘auction’.DCP KPS Malhotra, Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO), Delhi Police Special Cell, said Aumkareshwar Thakur (25), a resident of Newyork city in Madhya Pradesh, was arrested after he admitted during preliminary interrogation that he was member of the Trad-Group on Twitter and the idea was shared to defame and troll Muslim women.He had developed the code on hosting platform GitHub and the access was given to all members of the group. He had shared the app on his Twitter account. The photos of the Muslim women were uploaded by the group members.Also read | Bulli Bai mastermind Niraj Bishnoi was active during 'Sulli Deals' row, posed as reporterPolice said Thakur had joined a group on Twitter by the name of Tradmahasabha in January 2020 using the handle @gangescion. During various group discussions, the members had discussed about trolling Muslim women. He had developed the code/application on GitHub. Following an uproar over the Sulli Deals app, he had deleted his all the social media footprints. Police said further interrogation was underway, including analysis of the technical gadgets  to find out the codes/images related to the Sulli Deals app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sulli-deals-app-mastermind-aumkareshwar-thakur-arrested-delhi-police-101641702216821.html
09-01-2022||India||PM Modi extends greetings on Guru Gobind Singh's jayanti||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended his greetings on the occasion of Guru Gobind Singh's jayanti, the birth anniversary of the 10th Sikh Guru, and said that the Guru's life message gives strength to millions of people.The Prime Minister also shared some pictures of his visit to Bihar's Patna."Greetings on the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. His life and message give strength to millions of people. I will always cherish the fact that our Government got the opportunity to mark his 350th Parkash Utsav. Sharing some glimpses from my visit to Patna at that time," PM Modi tweeted.Earlier, Union Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday extended his greetings on the occasion of Prakash Parv of Guru Gobind Singh, and called him an epitome of courage and compassion.The Prakash Parv of Guru Gobind Singh is being celebrated on January 9 this year.Born Gobind Rai at Patna Sahib in Bihar, Guru Gobind Singh was the 10th and last of Sikh gurus in human form. He was enthroned at the 'Guru Gaddi' at the age of nine, following the martyrdom of his father, the ninth Guru, Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji.Meanwhile, in view of Guru Gobind Singh Jayanti, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has given relaxation to the devotees during the weekend curfew in Delhi, allowing them to offer prayers at Gurudwaras on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-greetings-on-guru-gobind-singh-s-jayanti-101641700401683.html
09-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 15 people test Covid positive at Jharkhand CM's residence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Wife, kids of Hemant Soren among 15 to contract Covid at Jharkhand CM’s houseA total of 15 people in Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren's residence, including his wife, two children and sister-in-law, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news. The chief minister has, however, tested negative for the viral disease. Read moreIND vs SA: 'The faster he learns the better it is' - Gautam Gambhir rates KL Rahul's captaincy in Johannesburg TestFormer Indian cricketer Gautam Gambhir gave his verdict on KL Rahul's captaincy in the second Test against South Africa at the Wanderers in Johannesburg earlier this week. Read moreWhen Farhan Akhtar revealed how he fooled his classmates into believing he went to school in a helicopterFarhan Akhtar, who turns 48 on Sunday, made several revelations about being a mischievous kid, in an old interview. Farhan had recalled hilarious incidents from school and revealed how he managed to convince his classmates that his mode of transport was a helicopter. Read moreKate Middleton pays tribute to Queen, Diana and Prince William in 40th birthday pics: Fans say future queenThe Duchess of Cambridge, Kate Middleton, paid a touching tribute to two of the most iconic Royal women in history with her new birthday portraits. The Royal turned 40 today, January 9, and the Kensington Palace released three stunning new portraits. Read moreWatch Mirabai Chanu on battling depression, competing with cramps and moreThe Indian weightlifting champion Mirabai Chanu reveals where she finds both her physical as well as mental strength in this interview with the HT brunch. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-15-people-test-covid-positive-at-jharkhand-cm-s-residence-and-all-the-latest-news-101641697201853.html
09-01-2022||India||Google doodle celebrates educator, feminist icon Fatima Sheikh’s 191st birthday||Google marks the birth anniversaries of several renowned personalities with a special doodle and on Sunday, the global tech giant celebrated the 191st birthday of Fatima Sheikh, educator and feminist icon.Sheikh, born on January 9, 1831, in Pune, is widely regarded as the country’s first Muslim woman teacher. She, along with fellow social reformers Jyotirao Phule and Savitribai Phule, co-founded the Indigenous Library in 1848, one of India’s first schools for girls, the company said.“She lived with her brother Usman, and the siblings opened their home to the Phules after the couple was evicted for attempting to educate people in lower castes. The Indigenous Library opened under the Sheikhs' roof. Here, Savitribai Phule and Fatima Sheikh taught communities of marginalised Dalit and Muslim women and children who were denied education based on class, religion, or gender,” Google said.Sheikh was a champion of the ‘Satyashodhak Samaj’ (Truthseekers’ Society) – the equality movement by the Phules to provide educational opportunities to the downtrodden communities – and went door-to-door and invited the members in her community to learn at the Indigenous Library to escape the rigidity of the Indian caste system. She met great resistance from the dominant classes who attempted to humiliate those involved in the Satyashodhak movement, but Sheikh and her allies persisted.The Indian government, in 2014, shone new light on her achievements by featuring her profile in Urdu textbooks alongside other trailblazing Indian educators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-doodle-celebrates-educator-feminist-icon-fatima-sheikh-s-191st-birthday-101641696237485.html
09-01-2022||India||Omicron now driving 3rd Covid wave in country; Delhi, Mumbai see over 20,000 cases||The number of daily new Covid-19 cases in the country has once again been increasing sharply and has remained above the 1,00,000-mark for two consecutive days with the Omicron variant (B.1.1.529) now driving the surge across many states.While the variant was only predominant in the western regions of the country, in the northeastern parts, and states like West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, it was the Delta variant which was driving the surge until a few days ago, news agency PTI reported citing official sources. Latest data suggested that a surge in Omicron cases could be seen across the country.Cases in DelhiIn the national capital, 20,181 people tested positive for the disease on Saturday, with the daily positivity rate being recorded at 19.60 per cent. The national capital has night and weekend curfews in place to contain the spread of the virus.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 8th January 2022🏥 #delhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/V7T9Dp4iSlThere are 48,178 active cases in Delhi currently. Exactly a month ago, on December 9, 2021, the city had only 386 active cases.Delhi has, so far, identified 513 cases of the Omicron variant and only 57 patients have recovered. However, hospitalisations have been considerably low despite the high daily caseload. A bulletin from the health department on Saturday showed that close to 89 per cent beds were vacant in dedicated Covid hospitals across the city. While 87 per cent beds were not occupied in dedicated Covid Care Centres (CCC), in dedicated Covid health centres (CHC) it was 85 per cent.More restrictions are highly likely in the city in the coming days if the daily positivity rate remains around the alarming 20 per cent-mark.Also read | ‘Great going’: Mandaviya says over 2 crore in 15-18 age group jabbed against Covid-19 in less than a weekMaharashtraMaharashtra capital Mumbai is another city where the daily caseload has been over 20,000 for the past three days. The city logged 20,318 cases on Saturday, 20,971 cases on Friday and 20,181 cases on Thursday.Meanwhile, 41,434 more infections were reported from across the state in the last 24 hours. With no respite in the high daily caseload since the past few days, the state has opted for more restrictive measures to check the transmission of the virus.Measure to contain the spread of COVID pic.twitter.com/S6FG4EEU1RSchools, colleges, gyms and swimming pools have been shuttered. Movement of people has been allowed between 5am and 11pm but not in groups of more than five and in the nights only essential movement is allowed.Maximum attendance at weddings and funerals has been capped at 50 and 20, respectively. Limits on seating capacity and operational timings have been imposed on commercial establishments in the state. All domestic travel to be allowed conditional on full vaccination and possession of vaccine certificates.Also read | Omicron: EC bans political rallies; night curfew back in MaharashtraThird wave to peak in February first halfEarlier this week, the Union health ministry said that the country has been recording an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases, largely due to the Omicron variant. Amid this, the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, has estimated that the third wave of infections might reach its peak between February 1 and 15, according to a PTI report.A preliminary analysis by the institute showed that the R-naught (R0) value, denoting the number of people an infected person can spread the disease to, was recorded close to four for the period between January 1 and 6. This indicates high transmission of the disease.“What we expect from the exploratory data analysis is that the peak will happen somewhere between February 1-15 and our analysis also shows that as compared to previous waves, there will be a sharper increase to the peak,” Jayant Jha, assistant professor at the department of mathematics in IIT Madras told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-now-driving-3rd-covid-wave-in-country-delhi-mumbai-see-over-20-000-cases-101641691433582.html
09-01-2022||NA||BREAKING: Maharashtra reports 44,388 fresh Covid cases, 12 deaths in 24 hours||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Bengal reports all-time high of 24,287 Covid-19 casesWest Bengal on Sunday reported an all-time high of 24,287 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the highest since the first wave of infections in 2020. The infections detected in the last 24 hours were 5,485 more than yesterday's, taking the tally to 17,55,046, the health department said.Centre excludes photo, name of PM from vaccine certificate in 5 poll-bound statesThe Union health ministry has applied filters on the Co-WIN platform to exclude Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photo from the vaccine certificate to be issued in the five poll-bound states. Read moreMaharashtra reports 44,388 fresh Covid cases, 12 deaths in 24 hoursMaharashtra reported a surge of 44,388 Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative infections from the viral disease to 6,920,044. Of the total cases logged in the past 24 hours, 19,474 infections came to light from Mumbai.After registering 12 Covid-19-related fatalities in the same time span, the death toll from the disease across the state jumped to 141,639. Rajasthan orders closure of schools in urban areas, Sunday curfewThe Rajasthan government on Sunday announced closure of schools in urban areas, Sunday curfews, time limits on markets and a cap on occupancy at restaurants and movie theatres in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases.Delhi reports 22,751 fresh Covid cases, 17 deathsDelhi has reported 22,751 fresh Covid-19 cases and 17-related deaths in the past 24 hours. Read moreMansukh Mandaviya to interact with state health ministers over Covid-19 situation on MondayUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will interact with state health ministers on Monday over the Covid-19 situation, ANI quoted people familiar with the development as saying.PM Modi chairs Covid-19 review meeting via video conferenceDelhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi chairs a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in the country, through video conference pic.twitter.com/EY5u7LAaC3Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday chaired a Covid-19 review meeting via video conference.Himachal Pradesh announces more curbs amid Covid-19 spread#Omicron: Himachal Pradesh Govt imposes more restrictions; all govt offices to remain closed on weekends, to work on weekdays at 50% staff presenceAll social/religious gatherings to be banned. DMs allowed to decide timing of shops/marketsOrder to remain in effect till Jan 24 pic.twitter.com/2Hf4ONBPzEThe Himachal Pradesh government on Sunday imposed more restrictions to check the Covid-19 spread.>All government offices to remain closed on weekends, to work on weekdays at 50 per cent staff presence.>All social/religious gatherings to be banned. DMs allowed to decide timing of shops/markets.>The order will remain in effect in the state till January 24.EC must curb rising misuse of religion in politics during polls: MayawatiBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Sunday expressed concern over the "increasing" use of religion in politics during elections and said the Election Commission must curb this “worrying” trend, reported news agency PTI.Maharashtra issues revised guidelines for gyms, beauty salonsA day after stating that gyms and salons will stay shut amid the Covid-19 spread, the Maharashtra government on Sunday issued revised restrictions for them.As per the revised guidelines, gyms and beauty salons can stay open with 50 per cent capacity. Only fully vaccinated customers will be allowed and wearing of mask is compulsory. Read moreCongress launches 11-day padayatra in KarnatakaKarnataka| Congress launched it’s 11-day padayatra seeking early implementation of Mekedatu drinking water project today morningPadayatra started from Sangam in Ramanagara district with a large number of Congress workers & leaders including CLP leader Siddaramaiah pic.twitter.com/w6AEzliH6UCongress on Sunday launched its 11-day padayatra seeking early implementation of Mekedatu drinking water project in Karnataka. Padayatra started from Sangam in Ramanagara district with a large number of Congress workers and leaders including CLP leader Siddaramaiah participating.NEET-PG counselling to begin from January 12, says Union health minister Mandaviyaरेसीडेंट डॉक्टरस को स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय द्वारा दिए आश्वासन अनुसार, माननीय सर्वोच्च न्यायालय के आदेश के बाद MCC द्वारा NEET-PG काउन्सलिंग 12 जनवरी 2022 से शुरू की जा रही है। इससे कोरोना से लड़ाई में देश को और मज़बूती मिलेगी। सभी उम्मीदवारों को मेरी शुभकामनाएं।Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that the NEET-PG counselling will commence from January 12. Rajya Sabha restricts staff attendance due to Covid-19, directs several officials to work from home till month endThe Rajya Sabha secretariat restricted the staff attendace in view of the rising Covid-19 cases and asked 50% of officials and staff below the rank of under secretary or executive officer to work from home till the end of January, reports ANI. ‘Expect 22,000 cases in Delhi today, surge concerning but not scary’: KejriwalCOVID cases are rapidly rising. About 22,000 cases are expected in today's health bulletin. Increasing cases concerning but need not be scared. I am saying so after analysing (comparing) data from the last wave: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal pic.twitter.com/8oRHPbhvwiArvind Kejriwal said that around 22,000 Covid-19 cases are expected in Delhi today, reports ANI. “Increasing cases concerning but need not be scared. I am saying so after analysing (comparing) data from the last wave,” he said.Kejriwal says no plans for lockdown in Delhi, there will be few restrictionsDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said that there were no plans for lockdown in Delhi but some restrictions would be implemented. Varun Gandhi tests Covid positive with ‘fairly strong symptoms’After being in Pilibhit for 3 days, I have tested positive for COVID with fairly strong symptoms.We are now in the middle of a third wave and an election campaign.The Election Commission should extend precautionary doses to candidates and political workers as well.BJP MP Varun Gandhi tested positive for Covid-19 with “fairly strong symptoms”, he said in a tweet. “We are now in the middle of a third wave and an election campaign. The Election Commission should extend precautionary doses to candidates and political workers as well,” he said. PM Modi to chair Covid-19 review meeting at 4.30pm todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi is set to hold a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the country, reports ANI. Click here to read moreArvind Kejriwal recovers from Covid-19करोना से ठीक होकर मैं वापिस आपकी सेवा में हाज़िर हूँ।Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said he was “back at your service” after recovering from Covid-19. Aumkareshwar Thakur, creator of Sulli Deals app, arrestedAumkareshwar Thakur, creator of the ‘Sulli deals’ mobile app has been arrested. He was arrested from Indore, Madhya Pradesh. Click here to read moreIndia's Omicron tally reaches 3,623: Maharashtra alone adds over 1,000 casesThe number of Omicron cases in India so far reached 3,623 and the variant has now been reported from 27 states and Union territories. Maharashtra accounted for 1,009 cases and Delhi added 513 cases to the tally. So far, 1,409 people have recovered.India reports 1,59,632 new Covid-19 cases, 327 deaths in 24 hours; Active caseload above 5,90,000India reported 1,59,632 new Covid-19 cases and 327 deaths in the last 24 hours with a daily positivity rate of 10.21%. The active caseload stood at 5,90,611 and the death toll climbed to 4,83,790.US condemns attack on Sikh man at JFK Airport last weekThe Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs (SCA) of the US Department of State condemned the attack on a Sikh cab driver at the JFK International Airport. “We are deeply disturbed by reports of an attack on a Sikh cab driver at J.F.K. airport, captured on video last week. Our diversity makes the U.S. stronger, & we condemn any form of hate-based violence,” the SCA tweeted.“We all have a responsibility to hold perpetrators of hate crimes accountable for their actions, no matter where such crimes occur,” it said. WATCH | Rain lashes some parts of Delhi#WATCH | Delhi: Rain lashes parts of the national capital; visuals from GT Karnal road pic.twitter.com/lwYriYAhwuSome parts of Delhi witnessed a rainfall during the early morning hours of Sunday. “Light intensity rain/drizzle to moderate rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of North Delhi, South-East Delhi, NewDelhi… during the next 2 hours,” the India Meteorological Department said. Delhi's air quality improves to ‘satisfactory’ level, AQI at 90The air quality in Delhi improved to 'Satisfactory' category with the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) recorded at 90, reports ANI citing data from the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-9-2022-101641690276802.html
09-01-2022||India||Devotees can visit city gurdwaras on Prakash Purab of Guru Gobind Singh||DDMA on Saturday allowed devotees to visit gurdwaras in the city on the occasion of the Prakash Purab of Guru Gobind Singh on January 9. Amid rising Covid-19 cases in the city, the authorities allowed religious places to remain open in Delhi but without visitors. The DDMA, however, granted special permission for the occasion of Sikh guru Govind Singh’s birth anniversary. “...Devotees will be allowed to visit gurdwaras of Delhi on the occasion of Prakash Purab of Guru Govind Singh ji to be held on January 9..,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-can-visit-city-gurdwaras-on-prakash-purab-of-guru-gobind-singh-101641681112567.html
09-01-2022||India||Two held for killing 2 taxi drivers in 5 hours||Two men wanted for the murder of two cab drivers within a span of five hours on the morning of January 7 have been arrested, police said on Saturday.Police said the two and their accomplice (yet to be arrested) posed as passengers, strangled the cab drivers and fled with their cellphones and money. Police identified the two arrested men as Akku alias Akash (19) and Junaid (19) – both residents of Anand Parbat in central Delhi. Their accomplice was identified as Pritam. Police have recovered three cellphones that they stole from the victims.On the morning of January 7, the three allegedly murdered two cab drivers in Anand Parbat and Bharat Nagar after booking rides with these cabs.Shweta Chauhan, deputy commissioner of police (central), said on Friday, around 8.45am, a police team spotted a WagonR car parked on Ramjas Road with a man lying unconscious inside.“The man was taken to RML hospital, where he was declared brought dead. No injury was visible but he had bled from the mouth. The identity of the deceased was later established as Anil Yadav (48), an Uber cab driver. The mobile phone and wallet of the deceased were missing and the manner of death seemed suspicious. When police contacted his wife, she said Yadav had left home around 6.30am for work,” Chauhan said.While police were investigating the case, they learnt of another murder in north-west Delhi’s Bharat Nagar. The driver, Chhavi Nath, was found dead and his Hyundai i10 was found parked in Gulabi Bagh area, about 4km from Bharat Nagar“The details of passengers were obtained from the Uber office in Gurugram... We mounted a technical surveillance and arrested Akku and Junaid from near the railway line, Zakhira flyover,” Chauhan said.The two men admitted to the killings and said they had planned to rob the drivers after posing as passengers to purchase drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-held-for-killing-2-taxi-drivers-in-5-hours-101641680865576.html
09-01-2022||India||I-T dept recovers ₹8 crore, 3 kg gold in raids on MP businessman||BHOPAL/DAMOH: The income tax (I-T) department seized ₹8 crore and three kg gold besides documents of property in raids which started early on Thursday and lasted till Friday night at the premises of businessman Shankar Rai and his brothers in Damoh district of Madhya Pradesh, said an official. Income Tax (Investigation) Jabalpur circle, joint commissioner Munmun Sharma said, “During the searches so far, ₹8 crore in cash has been recovered. Out of this, ₹1 crore was found in a bag which was hidden in a container of water. The department officers had to dry it by using iron and hair dryer before counting it,” said the officer. The officer said the documents found during the searches showed that Rai got the contract for liquor shops and was running luxury buses in the name of his employees. Sharma said the income tax department announced a cash reward of ₹10,000 for anyone providing information about the assets of Shankar Rai and his brothers. Officials said around 200 personnel, including income tax department employees and policemen from Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior, conducted searches at various premises of the businessman and his brothers Kamal Rai, Raju Rai and Sanjay Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-dept-recovers-rs-8-crore-3-kg-gold-in-raids-on-mp-businessman-101641670079643.html
09-01-2022||India||Mercury to drop by 4-6°Celsius in northwest India after heavy rains: IMD||Minimum temperatures over northwest India, particularly Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, are likely to drop by 4 to 6 degrees Celsius over the next two-three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted on Saturday, following an intense wet spell over several parts in the region.Intense rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy shower is also likely over Western Himalayan region during next 48 hours and over plains of northwest India during next 24 hours, IMD said. It further predicted that intense thunderstorm activity will continue over Central India from January 8 to 12 and over Eastern India during January 10 to 13.“A western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation lies over north Pakistan and neighbourhood with a trough (line of low pressure) aloft. The induced cyclonic circulation is lying over east Rajasthan and neighbourhood at lower tropospheric levels. There is high moisture incursion from Arabian Sea over northwest and adjoining central India, which is likely to continue during next two days. The confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal at lower tropospheric levels is likely over central India during next three-four days,” the IMD said in its evening forecast bulletin on Saturday.Widespread light to moderate rainfall or snowfall is likely over Western Himalayan region till Sunday and the same will decrease significantly thereafter. “Isolated very heavy rainfall or snowfall is very likely over Jammu-Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan-Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh on January 8. Isolated heavy rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Himachal Pradesh on January 9 and over Uttarakhand on January 8 and 9,” the bulletin added.Widespread rainfall is also likely to continue over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Western Uttar Pradesh, IMD said, adding it will decrease from Sunday. “Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall is very likely over East Uttar Pradesh & West Madhya Pradesh on January 8 and 9, over East Madhya Pradesh during January 8 to 12 and over Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh during January 10 to 12 and over Vidarbha during January 9 to 12, over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal during January 11 to 12,” the weather bureau said in the bulletin.M Mohapatra, director general, IMD, said Delhi has already recorded moderate rain due to the ongoing wet spell.“Now gradually rainfall will reduce over western parts of Punjab and Haryana. There was widespread snowfall over Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. Now intense rain is expected over Madhya Pradesh and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. The western disturbance which caused rainfall over northwest India is expected to move eastwards gradually and cause rainfall, thundershowers there,” said Mohapatra.There were two WDs in close succession that caused an extended wet spell over northwest India, he added. “The impact was higher because of moisture incursion from Arabian Sea. Over Central India we are expecting confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal so there can be widespread and heavy rain over Madhya Pradesh. As the WD moves away, very cold northerly winds blowing from snowclad Himalayas are going to bring down minimum temperatures by around 4 to 6 degrees over northwest India.”According to the weather agency, slight fall in minimum temperatures is likely over Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during next 24 hours and rapid fall by 4-6 degrees C during next 2-3 days and no significant change thereafter. “No significant change in minimum temperatures is very likely over Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh during next 2-3 days and fall by 2-4 degree C during subsequent 3 days,” IMD said.Several parts of the northwest India reported intense wet spell on Saturday. In Jammu and Kashmir, Udhampur IAF recorded 12 cm rainfall/snowfall, Katra (10 cm) and Jammu (8 cm). In Punjab, Kapurthala recorded 9 cm rainfall, Gurdaspur (6 cm) and Jalandhar (5 cm) each. In Central Delhi, Pusa (7 cm), Ayanagar (5 cm) and Palam recorded 5 cm of rainfall, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-to-drop-by-4-6-celsius-in-northwest-india-after-heavy-rains-imd-101641669239557.html
09-01-2022||India||GitHub case: Accused Bishnoi emotionless, hard to break, say police||Cunning, emotionless, and hard to break – this is how police officers describe Neeraj Bishnoi (21), the second-year BTech student arrested for creating the controversial Bulli Bai app on GitHub where doctored photographs of Muslim women were uploaded.In police custody, Bishnoi asked his interrogators to address him as Giyo -- a name he has taken from Giyu Tomioka, a fictional character who kills the demon in the Japanese comic book and animated series Demon Slayer.In the last two years, Bishnoi had created five Twitter handles using versions of the name Giyo such as @giyu2002, @giyu007, @giyuu84, @giyu94 and @guyi44 to promote the controversial app or make derogatory comments against women on social media.When police scanned his laptop, they found 153 different adult sites as tabs on his browser window.Bishnoi, who has been in police custody for about 48 hours, has been coming up with new revelations every hour. A city court had on Thursday evening sent him to seven days in police custody.“He claims to be a habitual hacker, who has been defacing websites since he was 15. He said he hacked his school’s website at 15. He claims he has in the past hacked or defaced different websites of schools and universities of India as well as of that of Pakistan. We are verifying the claims,” said DCP KPS Malhotra, chief of the IFSO (Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations), the Delhi police’s cyber cell.A team of IFSO and Assam police arrested Bishnoi from his house in Jorhat on Wednesday night.Investigating officials said that in the past 48 hours Bishnoi attempted to harm himself twice and also threatened to kill himself.“He is trying to delay the investigation and is not cooperating. We are ensuring he does not harm himself. We got his medical examination conducted. He is stable. He may be behaving like this due to his current mental condition or is trying to delay the investigation,” DCP Malhotra said.An investigating officer said that Bishnoi had used the Gurmukhi script instead of Devanagari or Roman to mislead investigators into believing that the controversial app may have been created by pro-Khalistan separatist groups.“Using the suspended Twitter handles, he promoted the app by claiming that it was against women who were opposing the construction of the Ram Temple. This was his way to gain more traction on social media from right wing groups. The truth is he was only targeting women. This coupled with the data in his laptop and the sites he browsed indicates that he has no ideology but is addicted to adult sites,” one investigating officer, who asked not to be named, said.Police are now trying to check the extent of his role in the first GitHub app case – a similar one but with a different name – that was surfaced in July last year. In the 24 hours before his arrest, Bishnoi claimed through his Twitter handles that he “cloned the repository” and “edited the code as well the graphics” from that first GitHub app to build the second app. He had also named a person who created the first app. HT is withholding the name of the person because police are yet to identify that person.DCP Malhotra said, “He disclosed that he was also in touch with the creator of the first GitHub case. His claim has been verified from the involvement of a Twitter account used by him in an FIR registered at Kishangarh police station in southwest Delhi. In the said FIR, using one of his Twitter accounts he had posted the photograph of a woman and used the same modus operandi. We are verifying the people he has named.”Delhi police are yet to arrest anyone in the first GitHub case.The second GitHub app and its circulation on social media channels sparked outrage after which different people filed complaints with Delhi and Mumbai police. The Mumbai police and Delhi police are separately investigating the case. Mumbai police have arrested three persons in the case, Sweta Singh (18), her friend Mayank Rawat (20), both residents of Uttarakhand, and Vishal Kumar Jha (21), an engineering student from Bengaluru. The three shared the app and promoted it on social media handles, according to Mumbai police.Explaining Bishnoi’s links with the persons arrested by Mumbai police, DCP Malhotra said, “He has claimed that he was virtually in touch with the persons arrested by Mumbai police and used to chat through Twitter group chats. He had never met those persons and even did not have their contact numbers. He had disclosed that he was using the Twitter account of the girl (Sweta Singh) arrested by Mumbai police.”Bishnoi, son of a grocer, has been suspended from the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Bhopal, where he was studying for his BTech.
09-01-2022||India||No complete lockdown in Kerala as of now, says health minister George||Despite the rising number of Covid-19 cases and its new variant Omicron in the state, Health Minister Veena George on Saturday said as of now, there were no plans on part of the Kerala government to impose a full lockdown.The minister said a complete lockdown will affect normal life in the state and urged the people to remain cautious.“The economic activities in our state and that of our people cannot be hampered now. We should work together to avoid a complete shutdown in the state. As of now we are not planning any lockdown,” she told the media.The Minister said the quarantine protocol for those coming from abroad was decided based on the directions issued by the Union government.Kerala reported 5,944 new Covid-19 cases and 242 virus-related fatalities on Saturday taking the total affected people in the state to 5,270,179 and the death toll to 49,547, a health bulletin stated.Of the deaths, 33 were recorded over the last few days and 209 designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court.Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest number of cases on Saturday with 1,219, followed by Ernakulam with 1,214 and Kozhikode with 580 cases.The state has tested 60,075 samples in the last 24 hours.“Currently, there are 31,098 active COVID-19 cases in the state out of which only seven per cent people are hospitalised,” the health department said in a release.Out of those who were found infected on Saturday, 80 people reached the state from outside while 5,479 others contracted the disease from their contacts. The sources of infection of 337 people are yet to be traced. Forty-eight health workers are also among the infected, the health department said.Meanwhile, 2,463 have recuperated from the disease taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 5,197,960.The health department said there are 111,316 people under observation in the state out of whom 2,473 are admitted in isolation wards of various hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-complete-lockdown-in-kerala-as-of-now-says-health-minister-george-101641667619285.html
09-01-2022||India||AIADMK welcomes SC verdict on OBC quota in medical admissions||The AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Saturday welcomed the Supreme Court upholding the 27 per cent reservation in all India Quota (AIQ) seats for medical admissions, and claimed this was a victory for its sustained struggle on the quota issue.The main opposition party also lashed out at its rival, the ruling DMK for claiming credit in the matter, alleging it had not made the smallest effort in the quota issue.AIADMK Coordinator O Panneerselvam and Joint Coordinator K Palaniswami also vowed to oppose the 10 per cent EWS quota.In a joint statement, the two leaders said the Friday judgement of the apex Court was a ‘victory’ to the party’s long-pending and sustained plea on the OBC quota front, they said, adding it will enable increasing seats in medical admissions.Claiming that the AIADMK had taken pioneering steps for the implementation of welfare measures for the socially and educationally backward sections of the population, they recalled reservation for the backward classes was increased from 31 per cent to 50 per cent during the rule of late Chief Minister M G Ramachandran in 1980, which has benefited the members in the areas of admission in professional education and government jobs.Similarly, late chief minister J Jayalalithaa piloted an Assembly bill in 1990, urging the central government to increase OBC quota in jobs from the then announced 27 per cent to 50 per cent, they said.Subsequently, in 1993 she enacted a legislation in Tamil Nadu allowing a total of 69 per cent reservation and ensured it was included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution and “thus ensured social justice,” they added.The party and its led government earlier moved the court against the non-provision of 27 per cent OBC quota in AIQ in medical admissions and the Madras High Court had in July 2020 directed the Centre to form a panel and decide on the matter, the two leaders recalled.Subsequently, based on the panel’s recommendations the Centre allotted reservation which was upheld by the SC on Friday, they said.“This is a victory for the AIADMK’s sustained struggle and insistence,” they said and lashed out at the DMK, saying the party despite its presence in central governments for 17 years, did not take any effort in the matter but were suddenly claiming credit for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmkwelcomes-sc-verdict-on-obc-quota-in-medical-admissions-101641667560582.html
09-01-2022||India||‘Deliberate, malicious’: Madras high court raps Christian priest for remarks on Hindus||The Madras High Court has ruled that an evangelist who made offending remarks against Hindus cannot claim immunity after outraging religious beliefs of others and stated he cannot be equated as a neutral commentator or a stand-up comedian like Munawar Faruqui.Partly quashing an FIR filed against priest P George Ponniah who was booked under different sections of the IPC including outraging religious sentiments, Justice G R Swaminathan said such immunity would be available only to rationalists or satirists or even academics under the Constitution. The judge, while batting for an individual’s decision to convert from one religion to another, however said “religious conversions cannot be a group agenda.” The judge made the observations while hearing a petition of Ponniah against whom a case was filed by the police for saying Bhooma Devi and Bharat Mata were sources of infection and filth.He had also made critical remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and a state Minister during a meeting at Arumanai in Kanyakumari district in the state.The judge said the petitioner cannot insult or outrage others’ religion or religious beliefs. “There was absolutely no need or necessity to mount a visceral attack on the religious beliefs of the Hindus. It was unwarranted and utterly unrelated to the occasion. That is what makes it deliberate and malicious. The petitioner poked fun at those who walk barefoot out of reverence for Mother Earth (Bhooma Devi). He stated that Christians wear shoes so that they wont catch scabies. He painted Bhuma Devi and Bharat Mata as sources of infection and filth,” the judge said.“A reading of the petitioner’s speech as a whole does not leave any one in doubt. His target is the Hindu community. He is putting them on one side and the Christians and Muslims on the other. He is clearly pitting one group against the other. The distinction is made solely on the ground of religion. The petitioner repeatedly demeans the Hindu community,” the judge said.The court said India was partitioned on the ground of religion and millions died in the ensuing riots. “That is why, our founding fathers consciously adopted secularism as the guiding principle of the new republic. There is something truly enchanting about the idea of India propounded by them. Equality, liberty, fraternity and egalitarianism were real promises meant to be fulfilled. Freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess and propagate one’s religion was made a fundamental right.” “But the tryst with destiny can be achieved only if the multicultural character of the Indian society continues to remain. In other words, the status quo in the matter of religious demography has to be maintained. Our Constitution guarantees freedom of conscience as a fundamental right. If an individual out of personal conviction wants to change his religion, his choice must be respected. The change of religion by such a person cannot be and ought not to be objected to. Dileep Kumar became A R Rahman (the Oscar-winning composer),” he said.The judge also referred to the instances of some other Tamil cinema celebrities embracing Islam and said “these are perfectly understandable and no exception can be taken.” “But religious conversions cannot be a group agenda. Our Constitution speaks of composite culture. This character has to be maintained. The clock of history can never be put back. But the status quo that obtains in the year 2022 as regards religious demographic profile may have to be maintained. When stand-up comedians Munawar Faruqui or Alexander Babu perform on stage, they are exercising their fundamental right to poke fun at others. Again, their religious identity is irrelevant. It is here, the “Who?” and “Where?” tests matter,” the court noted. He said the persons concerned voice their opinions or give vent to their expressions in their capacity as satirists. On the other hand, an evangelist like the petitioner cannot claim a similar privilege. “He cannot insult or outrage others’ religion or their religious beliefs and still claim immunity from the application of Section 295A/153A/505(2) of IPC. This is because he views the other religionists as a constituency to be poached,” he said. Section 295 (a) deals with deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs while 153 (a) is about promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony.“The offending speech of the petitioner prima facie attracts the offences under Sections 153A, 295A and 505(2) of IPC,” the judge said, but quashed other sections including one on unlawful assembly. “The impugned FIR is quashed to this limited extent as far as the petitioner is concerned,” the judge ruled. PTI SSN SA ROH ROH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deliberate-malicious-madras-high-court-raps-christian-priest-for-remarks-on-hindus-101641667559266.html
09-01-2022||India||Kidnapping of infant at Kottayam hospital was pre-planned, say police||The woman who kidnapped a new-born baby from the Kottayam Medical College Hospital dressed as a nurse recently had meticulously planned the crime to show her lover it was her child, Medical Education Department Joint Director Thomas Mathew, who has been probing the incident, said on Saturday.Mathew said the security measures inside the hospital and the maternity ward was up to the mark but the woman was able to bypass all of it as she was disguised as a nurse.“The woman came to the hospital with a proper plan. She entered the hospital and left the premises within a few minutes with the infant. In fact, the security measures inside the hospital are really good. But she was able to bypass all of it as she was disguised as a nurse,” Mathew told the media here.He said a report will be submitted to the minister soon.A woman, dressed as a nurse, entered the gynaecology department of the medical hospital on January 6 and walked away with the infant around 3 pm and it took more than half an hour for the child’s mother and relatives to realise that the baby had been kidnapped. However, police traced the infant within hours and handed it over to the mother.A woman, Neethu (33) who abducted the baby, was arrested.Police had said the woman abducted the child to show her lover, Ibrahim Badusha from Ernakulam that she had delivered a child. Police said Neethu, a married woman, was in a relationship with Badusha and became pregnant. However, she suffered a miscarriage but did not inform this to Badusha.Neethu had told him that she became pregnant and used to blackmail him when he decided to marry another girl, police had said. Neethu had reached Kottayam on January 4 and took a room there.“She visited the maternity ward and identified one child. She took the child to her room and clicked a photo and sent it to her lover. That was the reason behind the abduction,” Kottayam SP Shilpa Dyavaiah said.Police have also registered a case against Badusha after Neethu alleged that he had cheated her after borrowing over ₹30 lakh cash.Health Minister Veena George had ordered a probe into the matter.The Medical College Police was informed about the abduction around 4 pm on Thursday and it immediately swung into action and sent messages to all the police stations in the district and around the hospital.All vehicles arriving from the medical college area were stopped and inspected by police teams and even autorickshaw drivers, ambulance drivers, locals and medical shop staff in the vicinity of the medical college were told to keep an eye out for the baby, police said.Subsequently, an autorickshaw driver informed the police that a woman with a baby was seen entering the Park Hotel around 100 metres from the hospital. Police reached the hotel, arrested the woman and rushed the baby back to its mother at the hospital. PTI RRT HDA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kidnapping-of-infant-at-kottayam-hospital-was-pre-planned-say-police-101641667499381.html
09-01-2022||India||Bengaluru: Ugandan woman with 1kg of synthetic drugs arrested, says NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Bengaluru on Saturday seized around 1 kg of Methamphetamine from a Ugandan lady at Hubbali railway station, the agency said in a statement. The drugs were packed in two baby food packets.“Based on specific intelligence, the officers of NCB Bengaluru seized 995 grams of Methamphetamine at Hubballi Railway Station on 07.01.2022 from the possession of (a) Ugandan lady. She was travelling with the drugs in a concealed form on (the_ train. The drug was sourced from Delhi and for further distribution in the state of Karnataka,” according to the NCB statement on Saturday.“The drug was cleverly packed and further concealed in two Cerelac baby food carton boxes to avoid detection. Each box contained around 500 grams of Methamphetamine. By arresting the said Ugandan national by officers of NCB, Bengaluru has effectively neutralized a drug syndicate which was operating in the southern regions uniquely and systematically,” the statement added.The bust comes a day after the Bengaluru police made startling claims of an increase in the peddling and consumption of drugs in the city, especially those from other nationalities.In a press conference on Friday, Bengaluru city police commissioner Kamal Pant had shared details of the drugs it had seized as part of its ongoing campaign since early 2020. Pant had said that almost all synthetic drugs were coming through foreigners.“In 2021, against drugs, 177 foreigners have been caught and have filed two under NDPS (The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) and under Goonda Act,” Pant said on Friday.Data also shows an increase in the number of foreigners being arrested since 2019. There were 33 cases and 38 persons arrested in 2019 in Bengaluru under various crimes, and this more than doubled to 66 cases and 84 arrests in 2020. This number further doubled to 139 cases and 177 arrests in 2021, according to the data.The combined total number of cases and persons arrested in 2019 was 768 and 1,260, respectively, which rose to 4555 cases and 5749 persons respectively in 2021.In the same period, the seizure of synthetic drugs rose from 1.62kgs in 2019 to nearly 60 kgs.From a seizure of around 1.617 kgs in 2019, the quantum of seizure has risen to 56.96 kgs of synthetic drugs valued at over ₹2000 crore, data showed. Each gram of Cocaine, Pant said, sells for anywhere between ₹2000- ₹5000. Ganja or marijuana seizures went up from 1,047 kgs to 3,613 kgs while Ecstasy tablets rose from 1,539 to 8,211 in 2021.A total of 155 LSD strips were seized in 2019, which has now gone up to 12,451, data shows.Including all kinds of narcotics, the total seizure has gone up from 1,053 kgs to 3,706 kgs, valued at over ₹6000 crores, data showed.Experts said mental health issues triggered by the Covid pandemic-induced lockdown is part of the cause for the increase in people using more substances to deal with their problems.Dr Pratima Murthy, Director at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), professor and head of the department of psychiatry, said that issues like anxiety around Covid-19, family members getting infected, job losses, inability to travel, education and other social relationships have been deeply impacted.“We need to keep a careful eye on things. Support for people who are in severe distress. Domestic violence, substance use increase all of it is interrelated,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-ugandan-woman-with-1kg-of-synthetic-drugs-arrested-saysncb-101641667439450.html
09-01-2022||India||Karnataka Congress preps for march on Mekedatu amid Covid curbs||Karnataka Congress on Saturday held a meeting at the residence of state president DK Shivakumar in Kanakapura taluka as they began preparations for the 10-day-long 100 km padayatra for Mekedatu from Sunday.The padayatra is part of Congress’s plans to pressurise the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government to initiate work on the contentious Mekedatu reservoir-cum-drinking water project that has seen vehement opposition from neighbouring Tamil Nadu.The BJP has issued prohibitory orders in Ramanagara district citing the growing number of covid-19 infections in the state, which the Congress has alleged is being used to scuttle the 100-km march.“We had announced this (Padayatra) a month ago. They (BJP government) have done it on purpose and only in Ramanagara district. Why have they clamped only Ramanagara district with Section 144, and why not in other districts? That shows that their intention is not Bonafide,” Siddaramaiah, the Leader of Opposition, said on Saturday.He said that it remains to be seen if they will be “arrested or allowed” to carry on the march.Meanwhile, thousands of Congress workers started congregating in Kanakpura taluka to prepare for the padayatra, scheduled to begin on Sunday.The police and district administration have issued prohibitory orders against the march.“We have informed them of these restrictions. We will take action according to the law if there are any violations,” said a senior police official from the district.While the Congress maintained that the padayatra is to pressure the government to initiate works on the contentious project, it would also help the party mobilise much-needed support in the Old Mysuru region where it has lost some ground, largely due to the BJP and its tacit alliance with the BJP.This is the region where the JD(S) draws most of its strength in terms of elected representatives. The BJP has been trying to make inroads both organically and inorganically to help its ambitions of returning to power with a full majority in 2023.Congress, which both the BJP and JD(S) consider as the common enemy, has been trying to win back ground it lost since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.“Are there separate rules for Dala (JD(S), Congress or BJP? Whatever rules apply for common people will be implemented here as well. This is a political walk for power, and nothing else,” Araga Jnanendra, Karnataka home minister, said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-preps-for-march-on-mekedatu-amid-covid-curbs-101641667381490.html
09-01-2022||India||Parties in Tamil Nadu take stand to wage united legal battle against NEET||Political parties in Tamil Nadu, except the BJP, on Saturday resolved to wage a unified legal battle to completely abolish National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges in the State.A decision to this effect was taken at an all political party leaders meeting chaired by Chief Minister M K Stalin at the Secretariat here.The resolution passed by 12 political parties amid a walkout by the BJP states that NEET examination and the subsequent National Medical Commission Act have greatly affected the Tamil Nadu students by imposing NEET for admissions to medical colleges.“The Centre has deprived the State government of the right to decide on the manner of admitting its students to the State-run medical colleges. This is against State autonomy,” the resolution said.“NEET is the problem of Tamil Nadu - the problem of our students. .. In a country like India where the poor live, where there is inequality in the name of caste, the biggest and most difficult thing is to access education,” Stalin said at the meeting attended by even the opposition AIADMK.Abolishing entrance examinations makes higher education accessible to the poor and those with rural background, he argued.“NEET deprived those sections of the right to education and the State is opposed to NEET as it is an impediment to the educational development of Tamil Nadu students. “How can we accept the two-hour exam called NEET after plus two? Isn’t this social injustice? How many can afford to spend a huge sum for NEET coaching?” the Chief Minister asked. He explained the circumstances prompting him to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exempt TN from NEET, and recalled that the Assembly resolution seeking exemption from the test was passed unanimously on September 13, 2021.“We forwarded the bill to the Governor to be sent to the President for his assent. But the Governor had not sent the bill to the President,” he said and added that he had to meet the Governor in person and insist the bill be sent.“This is a situation where the State’s rights and the legislative power is under question that we have urgently convened this all-party meeting,” Stalin informed.NEET favoured those students who have access to coaching and it created the impression that the 12 years of schooling is of no use for admission to medical courses besides it renders the education system meaningless. “It not only shatters the dreams of the students but also destroys the principle of federalism,” the resolution further said. “Not sending this bill to the President is considered unbefitting to the sovereignty of the legislature,” the resolution said and mentioned about the efforts of the Chief Minister calling on the Governor to urge him to send the bill for Presidential assent. The Union Home Minister’s refusal to meet the all-party delegation is against democratic norms, the resolution said and added that the delegation would meet the Union Home Minister if an audience is given.Senior legal experts will be consulted for necessary legal measures to completely abolish the NEET system which is shattering the higher education dreams of poor and rural students and disrupting the principle of State autonomy. Hence, it was resolved that all political parties would work in unison and make all necessary efforts to ensure a consensus so that other States in the country can realise the disadvantages of NEET, the resolution said.“Nearly 12 out of 13 political party leaders who participated in the meeting resolved to meet the Union Home Minister on demanding exemption from NEET and also to consult legal experts on how to proceed with the legal battle,” Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma Subramanian said emerging from the meeting. The all-party delegation has planned to meet the Governor again to seek the nod for the Tamil Nadu Assembly Bill, he told reporters. Demanding a white paper on the status of admission of poor students to medical colleges and fee structure in and capitation demanded by the medical colleges before NEET came into existence, BJP Mahila Morcha national president and Coimbatore South legislator Vanathi Srinivasan said the DMK and other parties gave a picture that the BJP government at the Centre had introduced NEET.“It was introduced by the Congress-led UPA government in which the DMK was a constituent. The BJP does not agree with the NEET exemption resolution,” she said after staging a walkout from the meeting.She claimed that 69 per cent reservation being followed in Tamil Nadu ensured social justice and the allegation that NEET was discriminatory does not hold water. PTI JSP BN BN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-in-tamil-nadu-take-stand-to-wage-united-legal-battle-against-neet-101641667380183.html
09-01-2022||India||Punjab appoints new DGP amid furore over PM’s security breach||Hours before the model code of conduct for assembly elections came into force on Saturday, the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab government appointed 1987-batch IPS officer Viresh Kumar Bhawra as the state’s director general of police (DGP).Bhawra will replace 1986-batch IPS officer S Chattopadhyaya, who landed in a controversy over a security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur on January 5. On Friday, Chattopadhyaya, along with 13 other officers, was issued a show-cause notice by the home ministry for the “major security lapse”.An official familiar with the matter said Chattopadhyaya was replaced as his name was not included by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in the list of three officers sent to the state government earlier this week and in view of the row over the security lapse.The two officers other than Bhawra, who was previously the DGP of Punjab Home Guards, in the list were senior IPS officers Dinkar Gupta and Prabodh Kumar.“On the consideration of the panel received from the UPSC, the Punjab governor is pleased to appoint Viresh Kumar Bhawra, IPS as director general of police, Punjab (Head of Police Force),” an order released by the state government said.“His term shall be for a minimum period of two years from the date of assumption of office in pursuance of the Supreme Court orders,” it added.According to the Supreme Court’s guidelines, out of three shortlisted IPS officers by the UPSC, the state government finalises the name of one officer for the appointment of a DGP.Chattopadhyaya was due to retire on March 31. Channi, along with home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, however, decided to appoint a new DGP amid the row over the PM’s security lapse, the official cited above said on condition of anonymity.Bhawra, who served as the state intelligence chief when Captain Amarinder Singh was the chief minister of Punjab, is the third DGP to have been appointed by the Channi government during its brief tenure since September last year. After Dinkar Gupta was removed as DGP on October 4, Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota was given the charge of officiating DGP on November 29. He was then replaced by Chattopadhaya on December 16.Immediately after his appointment on Saturday, Bhawra transferred 47 deputy superintendents of police.
09-01-2022||India||20 million kids in 15-18 age group vaccinated already||Over 20 million teenagers aged 15-18 years have been given the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine since January 3, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday.“Shielding young India against Covid-19. Over 2 crore children between the age group of 15-18 vaccinated against Covid-19 since 3rd January. Congratulations to all my young friends who got vaccinated,” Mandaviya tweeted.His tweet was quoted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who congratulated eligible children of the age cohort and urged people to get vaccinated.“Excellent! Well done my young friends. Let us continue this momentum. Urging everyone to follow all COVID-19 related protocols and get vaccinated, if you haven’t already,” Modi tweeted.Since January 3, when the government opened vaccinations for children in the age group of 15-18 years, 20,226,790 teenagers have been vaccinated with the first shot of Covaxin, the central government’s CoWIN dashboard data showed.Uttar Pradesh topped the list of states that administered the most shots to this age category, with 1,715,615 children receiving the jab between January 3 and 7. Tamil Nadu vaccinated 1,463,079 children in the same period. In Maharashtra, 1,483,478 children were vaccinated. In Delhi, 204,902 children have been vaccinated since the drive began.India started its vaccination drive for teenagers on January 3, administering Covaxin for this age group in all states, which according to the central government requires a waiting time of 28 days between two doses.Since this age category is a mobile group, which has a comparatively greater level of interaction with the outside world, it is imperative that the maximum number of teenagers in this cohort is vaccinated at the earliest, according to Dr Piyush Gupta, former president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics and head of the paediatrics department at the University College of Medical Sciences, Delhi.“The 15-18 age category are a priority because these are the children who will be going for their board exams in a couple of months,” Dr Gupta said. “They cannot be held hostage for long because they have to go out, take their exams, sit in examination halls and mingle with other students. So, they have to be made free of this risk.”
09-01-2022||India||Centre restores FCRA licence of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity||The Union government has restored the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration of Mother Teresa’s organisation, Missionaries of Charity (MoC), less than a fortnight after it declined the renewal citing “adverse inputs”, people familiar with the development said on Saturday.The FCRA licence, mandatory for receiving and utilising foreign funds, was restored on Friday after the charity submitted “certain documents”, a person familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.A spokesperson for MoC in Kolkata said, “We had thought that the process might take some time. We never thought it would happen so fast. We are delighted.”The Union home ministry’s move on Friday, first reported by The Hindu, coincided with several British MPs raising the Indian government’s decision not to renew the registration in the UK’s Parliament. The MPs asked the Boris Johnson government to take up the matter with India.In India, a political controversy broke out over the Centre’s December 25 decision not to renew the charity’s registration. According to the Union home ministry data, the charity, set up by the Nobel Peace Prize winner in 1950, was among the 5,968 non-profits taken out of FCRA ambit in December 2021.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was among the first to launch a blistering attack on the Centre, accusing the home ministry of freezing the bank accounts of the charity headquartered in Kolkata.The home ministry promptly denied the charge, insisting that the Catholic religious order and philanthropic organisation requested its bank to freeze the account in view of the MHA’s decision not to renew its FCRA registration mandatory for receiving foreign funds.In a statement on December 27, the MHA said its FCRA registration, which was initially valid till October 31, 2021, was extended till December 31 since a decision on its request for renewal was pending.“However, while considering the MoC’s renewal application, some adverse inputs were noticed,” the statement said. The MHA, however, didn’t elaborate on the nature of the “adverse inputs” that led the government to decide against its renewal.The charity also confirmed in a statement the same day that it has asked its centres not to operate foreign contribution accounts until the matter is resolved.In Odisha, where Missionaries of Charity operates a leprosy home on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar housing 300 people and 12 orphanages with 600-odd inmates, chief minister Naveen Patnaik sanctioned ₹79 lakh to the charity to keep its shelter homes running.As news of Friday’s decision to grant Mother Teresa’s charity emerged, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien posted a screenshot of the charity figuring in the home ministry’s list of non-profits with FCRA registration. “The ‘adverse inputs’ harassed so many and then disappeared in two weeks,” he said in a swipe at the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-restores-fcra-of-mother-teresa-s-missionaries-of-charity-101641619732033.html
