10-01-2022||India||Decoding the multilayered Amazon-Future-Reliance legal drama||New Delhi: US-e-commerce giant Amazon and India’s Reliance Industries have been locked in a fierce battle for the future -- almost literally. At stake is control over India’s retail business estimated to reach $ 1.3 trillion by 2025 , setting off a spate of legal wrangles between Amazon and the Future Group. The see-saw legal battle between Amazon and Future have witnessed several challenges and decisions by judicial and quasi-judicial authorities in India since 2019. What is at stake?Future Retail has 1,800 retail stores across 400-plus cities and towns across India. Amazon, which intended to deliver products in select cities within two hours of a customer ordering them, looked at Future’s stores as intrinsic to its plan. Any alliance between Future and Amazon would have given the latter a massive advantage in consumer experience. Similarly, for Reliance, a deal with Future Retail would have established it firmly as India’s largest retailer with a presence in smaller cities and towns almost overnight, also helping the Mukesh Ambani-led company in last-mile access for its eCommerce delivery to small towns. The deal with Future Retail would have also given Reliance the leadership position in the online and offline retail segments How did the tussle begin?Kisore Biyani, who emerged as an uncrowned king of retail after setting up India’s first hypermarket retail store chain, Big Bazaar, in 2001, was under huge economic stress by 2019. Debts were piling up for the Future Group and it was at ₹12,778 crore in 2019. India’s leading credit rating agency ICRA also placed a negative rating on the Future Group. Pushed against the wall, Biyani inked a deal with Amazon to sell 49% of its unlisted entity, Future Coupons, for more than ₹1,500 crore. The long-term business agreements handed to Amazon the right to buy into flagship Future Retail after a period between three and 10 years, by exercising a “call” option. This stipulation authorised Amazon to exercise the option of acquiring all or part of Future Coupon’s stake in Future Retail within 3-10 years of the agreement. Such options are typically in a regulatory grey area -- allowing foreign entities the opportunity to hold stakes in sectors in which they wouldn’t normally be allowed to under the rules. For instance, in this case, foreign direct investment in multi-brand retail is barred. The deal also provided Amazon the Right to First Refusal, and a non-compete clause — barring Future’s dealings with potential competitors of Amazon, which included Reliance, Walmart, Google, SoftBank, Alibaba, Naspers, eBay, Target, Paytm, Zomato, Swiggy, among others. It also prohibited Future from selling a stake to anyone engaged in online or offline retail in food, non-food and retail. In November 2019, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) also approved Amazon’s proposed acquisition.The Covid-induced lockdown in 2020 worsened Future’s position in the market and by April 2020, Future Retail’s sales declined by about 75% from normal levels, adding enormous pressure on working capital flows.With the outlook looking grim for Biyani , Reliance entered the fray in May-June 2020 and positioned itself as a serious suitor for Future Retail. Biyani entered a deal with Reliance Retail, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries, in August 2020. The new ₹24,713 crore deal envisaged Future selling its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units to Reliance. The acquisition covered Future Retail, Future Lifestyle and Future Consumer. Biyani retained manufacturing and distribution of consumer and fashion products, Future Group’s partnership in insurance with Generali and its textile partnership with NTC.Amazon fires first salvo Aggrieved by the Future-Reliance deal (which effectively ended its hopes of having any stake in Future Retail), Amazon approached the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) in October 2020 filing an emergency arbitration case. Alleging violation of a non-compete clause and a right-of-first-refusal pact it had signed with the Future Group, Amazon asked SIAC to restrain Future Group from selling its assets to Reliance. SIAC, in its order on October 25, 2020, found favour with Amazon’s plea for the interim relief and issued a restraining order against Future, putting the Future-Reliance deal on hold. SIAC held that the deal could not go through until it finally decides the matter. Armed with the SIAC ruling, Amazon wasted no time in writing to Sebi, CCI and stock exchanges against the Future-Reliance deal, which was awaiting Sebi’s approval . The Delhi high courtFuture Group went to the Delhi high court against Amazon, imploring the court to restrain the US-based e-commerce major from writing to Sebi, CCI, and other regulators about SIAC’s order. Future contended this amounted to interfering with its agreement with Reliance. While the arguments before the single-judge bench of the Delhi high court proceeded, CCI approved Reliance Retail’s deal with Future on November 20, 2020 despite Amazon’s protest.A single-judge bench, in December 2020, declined to grant Future Retail’s plea to restrain Amazon from writing to the statutory authorities and regulators about the arbitral award. However, the judge made some prima facie observations -- that the August 2020 board resolution of Future Retail, approving the deal with Reliance was not invalid or void as claimed by Amazon, and that Amazon’s representations to statutory authorities and regulators was “based on incorrect assertions”.These observations by the single judge led to Amazon moving the division bench in the Delhi HC in January 2021, demanding reversal of the order. Meanwhile, on January 20, 2021, Sebi also cleared the Reliance-Future Retail deal, prompting Amazon to move the high court for enforcement of the SIAC ruling. This petition also asked for detention of Kishore Biyani and other directors of Future Group, besides attachment of their assets.Future Group defended its position by that Amazon’s deal was not with Future Retail but with Future Coupons, and that therefore, Future Retail was not bound by the arbitration. Second, that India’s Arbitration Act did not recognise the mechanism of emergency arbitration awards.In the meantime, the Future-Reliance deal received conditional approval from Sebi and the stock exchanges. Following approval from CCI and no objection from Sebi, Future approached NCLT, Mumbai, on January 26, 2021 seeking the tribunal’s approval to hold its shareholders meeting on the scheme of amalgamation with Reliance. On February 2, 2021, the high court affirmed the validity of the SIAC’s emergency award and ordered status quo, throwing g a spanner in the Future-Reliance deal. Future challenged this order before a division bench of the high court the very next day. On February 9, 2021, the division bench stayed the single-judge order, giving a go ahead to the Future-Reliance deal. The division bench held that Future Retail had no agreement with Amazon and therefore, the latter had “prima facie” no reason to stall the deal. It added different agreements have been signed between the three disputing entities — FRL, Amazon and Future Coupons Private Limited (FCPL) and hence, the doctrine of “group of companies” cannot be invoked.The Supreme Court Amazon moved the top court against the order of the HC division bench, questioning the maintainability of Future’s petition before the Delhi high court. Asserting that SIAC’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) order was an enforceable and valid order, its petition also termed the HC division bench order of revoking the single judge’s decision of February 2 on blocking the deal “illegal and arbitrary”. Admitting Amazon’s appeal, the Supreme Court on February 22, 2021, restrained NCLT from finally approving any amalgamation scheme (with Reliance) proposed by Future as it set about to examine the validity of the SIAC’s emergency order. Meanwhile, the single-judge of Delhi HC, which had in February passed a short interim order, delivered a detailed order on March 18, not only upholding SIAC’s order but also directing for attachment of properties of Biyani and other director of the Future Group. The single-judge bench also issued show-cause notice to Biyani and other directors as to why they should not be sent to prison, as sought by Amazon in its enforcement application.This order was taken to a division bench in HC by Future, which managed to secure a stay from the larger bench yet again. Amazon subsequently took this stay order to the Supreme Court, which asked all other courts to hold their hand until it delivered a final ruling of the SIAC’s interim order on stopping Future’s deal with Reliance. On August 6, 2021, the SC bench, headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman, ruled that the Future Group is bound by the SIAC’s emergency award and that it was enforceable under the Indian arbitration law. It further held that the appeals filed by Future against a single-judge bench before the division bench of the Delhi HC. Future then challenged the March 18 order of the single judge afresh, in the apex court. Meanwhile, the single judge in Delhi high court took up enforcement proceedings on August 17 and gave Future four weeks to obtain a stay order from the Supreme Court, failing which, it said, the coercive order on attachment of properties of the Biyanis shall revive.On September 9, 2021, the Supreme Court took up Future’s appeal against the single judge order and restrained the Delhi high court from passing any adverse directive against Future’s deal with Reliance or on attaching the assets of Future’s chairman and directors.While staying the enforcement proceedings before the high court, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, also directed that no statutory authority in the country should give its final approval to any scheme facilitating the Future-Reliance deal for the next four weeks. The bench noted that the interim order was being passed with the consent of both Future and Amazon to strike a balance between their competing interests. Fixing the case for the next hearing after four weeks, the top court also took note that Future’s plea was also pending before SIAC for vacating its interim stay. Another setback for Future at SIAC:The application by Future to lift the interim stay on its ₹24,713-crore deal with Reliance was rejected by SIAC on October 21, 2021. Significantly, SIAC further held that Future Retail was also a party to the ongoing arbitration between Amazon and Future Coupons in the dispute over the sale of its assets to Reliance Retail. Future Retail contended that it should be excluded from arbitration proceedings because it is not a party to the dispute between its promoter Future Coupons Pvt Ltd and Amazon. The tribunal declared that orders set out in the EA Award were correctly granted and that Future has not demonstrated that circumstances have materially changed to justify any change to the EA Award. After the dismissal of Future’s application, SIAC set down the arbitration case for a detailed hearing and final judgment.Back to courts: Future Retail moved the Delhi high court yet again seeking a stay on SIAC’s adverse order as well as for a nod to proceed with shareholders’ and creditors meeting for its proposed asset sale to Reliance. The high court on October 29 issued notice on Future’s petition fixing the case for a hearing on a later date but declined to stay SIAC’s interim order in the meantime or pass any other interim order. After the high court’s refusal to stay SIAC’s order, Future moved the Supreme Court on November 8, 2021, seeking permission for a meeting of its shareholders and creditors. The appeal contended that SIAC’s order would lead to grave and irreparable harm if Future was not able to proceed with the disputed transaction. Amazon, too, filed a fresh application in the top court for restraining all authorities, including NCLT, from allowing any measure that may facilitate the Future-Reliance deal till the matter is finally decided by the top court. On November 11, 2021, the Supreme Court took up Future’s fresh petition along with Amazon’s plea, and suggested all parties hold their hand until the final determination of the dispute by the court in the second round.The latest twist: Matters took a surprising twist on December 17 when CCI, India’s anti-trust regulator, suspended its nod to Amazon’s 2019 investment in Future Coupons, potentially denting the e-commerce giant’s attempts to block the sale of Future Retail to Reliance. Entertaining a plea by the Future Group, CCI held that Amazon had misled the commission to believe, through false statements and material omissions, that the combination and its purpose were the interest of Amazon in the business of Future Coupons. CCI found that Amazon had not disclosed details of the shareholder agreement at the time of acquisition and its purpose was to acquire strategic rights over Future Retail and to have a “foot in the door” in Indian retail. CCI put its prior approval to the combination in abeyance, giving Amazon 60 days to give notice for the combination, post which the Commission would “examine the combination afresh.” Amazon was also imposed a penalty of ₹200 crore for suppressing material facts at the time of seeking CCI’s nod. CCI’s order came as a shot in the arm for Future, which went to SIAC’s Delhi seated tribunal, asking for termination of the arbitration proceedings on the ground that the very foundation of Amazon’s case was removed after suspension of the approval by the anti-trust regulator. SIAC, however, decided to go ahead with hearing the main arbitration case, whose itinerary had already been fixed. It said that the new application by Future would be heard after the arguments in the main case. This prompted Future to move the Delhi high court, seeking a stay of the arguments in the main arbitration case before SIAC until its application on terminating the arbitration altogether was not decided. While a single-judge bench of HC on January 4 declined to suspend the ongoing arbitration proceedings, a division bench of the HC stayed till February 1 the proceedings before SIAC by an interim order on January 5. Meanwhile, Amazon on January 8 filed an appeal before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal against the CCI order suspending an approval to its 2019 deal with Future. NCLAT is expected to hear Amazon’s appeal later this week.And so, with a spectrum of proceedings still pending before the Supreme Court, Delhi high court, NCLT, NCLAT, CCI and SIAC, the battle between Reliance and Amazon rages on.
10-01-2022||India||PM security breach: Lawyers say getting calls to stop SC probe||Some Supreme Court lawyers received an anonymous, pre-recorded call from a group claiming responsibility for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security breach at Punjab and warning of dire consequences should the apex court take up the case. The call was received my some of the lawyers in the morning, at around 10.40 am, the same time when the court was hearing a public interest litigation on the matter, and decided to set up a committee to look into the breach. After several lawyers complained of receiving the call ,not once but twice during the day, the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (SCAORA) wrote to Supreme Court Secretary-General Virender Kumar Bansal seeking appropriate action as this was a breach of privacy with some of the lawyers who received the call suspecting that their mobile phones containing sensitive data could have possibly been hacked. One of the lawyers addressed a complaint to the Delhi Police Commissioner of Police to initiate a probe against the person behind the calls and referred a copy of the complaint to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as well.SCAORA in its letter said, “Several members of SCAORA received an anonymous, automated pre-recorded call from number +447418365564, once at approximately 10.40 am and another call at 12.36 pm on January 10 fastening responsibility for Prime Minister Modi’s security breach during his visit to Punjab on January 5 on Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) from US, wherein it was stated that SFJ is responsible for blocking PM Modi’s cavalcade at Hussainwala flyover in Punjab.”The Sikhs for Justice is a banned separatist group based in the US which seeks secession of Punjab from India. Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, an attorney at law in the US is considered to be the face of SFJ.The timing of the call corresponded to the moment when the Court was hearing the PIL filed by NGO Lawyers Voice demanding steps to avert similar security breaches in the future. It also sought action against those responsible for the situation when PM Modi’s cavalcade was left stranded on the flyover for about 20 minutes.The letter went on to state that “the caller further warned the Supreme Court judges to refrain from hearing the PIL filed by NGO Lawyers Voice seeking probe into the security breach on the ground that the SC has not been able to punish the culprits of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.”SCAORA President and senior advocate Shivaji Jadhav said, “Our demand is that the person responsible for these calls be identified and appropriate action be taken against such person. There is a genuine concern among the advocates-on record (AoR) in the Supreme Court that the sensitive data on their mobiles could be hacked. We are also worried about the privacy of our members and any enquiry or investigation from the top court will be welcome.”Advocate Nishant Katneshwarkar was one among many lawyers in the top court who received the calls. He said, “I got a call from +447418365564 and the display screen showed the call to be from United Kingdom. It was a recorded message, which was repeated a little after 12.30 pm.” He confirmed that the content of the call was the same as indicated in the SCAORA letter.Another lawyer Deepak Prakash practicing in the Supreme Court reported the incident to the Delhi Police in a written complaint addressed to Commissioner of Police Rakesh Asthana. “The said callers have claimed themselves to be a group from the United Kingdom and are calling from untraceable numbers +447418365564 which are registered under the name of “Likely Sales”. The said callers have categorically stated as follows “What did the SC do for the 1984 riots...nothing”.”Terming it to be a “serious criminal act” committed by an anti-national group, Prakash stated in his complaint, “The said calls are terrifying and have created fear in the AoR fraternity, who have been warned of dire consequences by the said group. Strict action must be taken immediately, failing which might lead to threat to the majestic powers of the Supreme Court and huge outbreak of riots, compromising on the national security and interest of the nation.”SCAORA also requested the SC Secretary General to take immediate action as the incident amounted to violation of privacy of the AoRs . “Their (lawyers’) registered mobile numbers are out in public domain and have been compromised as all confidential data and sensitive information pertaining to cases before the Supreme Court and banking details are stored on their mobile phones and the miscreants may misuse the sensitive data, if the mobile phones are hacked,” its letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-security-breach-lawyers-say-getting-calls-to-stop-sc-probe-101641839251596.html
10-01-2022||India||AIIMS director Randeep Guleria takes 'precautionary’ jab as India begins Covid-19 booster dose drive||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Director Randeep Singh Guleria on Monday took a 'precautionary dose' of COVID-19 vaccine.The country today started a nationwide 'precautionary dose' drive for frontline workers, healthcare workers and senior citizens above 60 years of age with co-morbidities.On the first day today of "Precaution Dose" for the identified categories of beneficiaries for COVID vaccination more than 9 lakh doses were administered to the eligible age group, the health ministry said.India's COVID-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 152.78 Crore (1,52,78,35,951) today. More than 82 lakh (82,76,158) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm today. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late tonight.The online registration for 'precaution dose' on the Co-WIN platform began on Friday (January 8). All HCWs, FLWs and citizens aged 60 years or above with comorbidities will be able to access the vaccination for precaution dose through their existing Co-WIN account. The precaution dose can only be taken after 9 months i.e., 39 weeks from the date of administration of 2nd dose.The Ministry of Health and Welfare has recommended that precaution dose for healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens with co-morbidities will be the same as given previously. It had also informed that the senior citizens with co-morbidities will not be required to produce a doctor's certificate or prescription at the time of administration of the precaution dose.Eligibility of beneficiaries for the precaution dose will be based on the date of administration of the second dose as recorded in the Co-WIN system. Co-WIN system will send SMS to such beneficiaries for availing the precaution dose when the dose becomes due. Registration and appointment services can be accessed through both, the online and the onsite modes. The details of the administration of the precaution dose will be suitably reflected in the vaccination certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-director-randeep-guleria-takes-precautionary-jab-as-india-begins-covid-19-booster-dose-drive-101641837807255.html
10-01-2022||India||Odisha orders 500,000 Omicron test kits, says it’s the 1st state to place order||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government has placed an order to procure 5 lakh Omicron testing kits, OmiSure, as the Covid-19 variant tally in the state crossed 100-mark with 28 more fresh cases reported in the state. Girish Krishnamurthy, CEO and managing director of Tata Medical and Diagnostics Ltd. on Monday said Odisha is the first state in the country to order the Omicron test kits. As OmiSure specifically identifies Omicron without the need for sequencing, it will help the government to combat the spread of the new variant of concern in the state, he said. OmiSure is the only test kit approved by the ICMR for RT-PCR detection of the Omicron variant. It targets 3 genes with a single tube, fully multiplexed assay in a unique design that identifies simultaneous S-gene Target Failure and S-Gene Mutation Amplification. The state government’s order for a large number of Omicron testing kits came as director of health services Bijoy Mohapatra said Odisha may witness the peak in Covid-19 cases by the end of January. Mohapatra said that a high number of Covid-19 cases have been recorded in four to five districts of Odisha while there is the presence of Omicron in all districts. As Delhi and Maharashtra are likely to witness a peak by January 15, Odisha may witness a peak after 10 to 15 days, he said. On Monday Odisha had reported 4,829 new infections in the last 24 hours, its single day high in last 7 months. Meanwhile, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation warned that a fine of ₹500 will be imposed on people violating Covid-19 guidelines. “Cases of Omicron variant of the virus are rising. People need to be more careful. Violation of Covid-19 guidelines will attract a penalty of ₹500,” the BMC said in its notification on a day Bhubaneswar reported 619 cases. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation said all markets in the city will be to decentralised and vendors will be asked to sell at designated places with social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-becomes-first-state-to-order-omicron-testing-kit-omisure-101641838532624.html
10-01-2022||India||Piyush Goyal to raise large trade deficit, market access with South Korea||NEW DELHI: Commerce minister Piyush Goyal and South Korean trade minister Han-koo Yeo are expected to focus on updating a bilateral trade pact during their meeting on Tuesday as part of efforts to address a trade deficit and market access issues.The Indian side has been pushing for a review of the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) finalised in 2009 to bridge its high trade deficit with South Korea. Goyal raised similar issues with his South Korean counterpart during their last meeting in October. “The discussion will focus on addressing the large trade deficit, market access issues and non-tariff barriers faced by Indian exporters,” a commerce ministry statement said ahead of Tuesday’s meeting. The discussions will also focus on investment-related issues, it said. The meeting is expected to boost India-South Korea trade relations in an “equitable and balanced manner to the mutual advantage of both countries”, it added. The meeting is expected to pave the way for the review of the CEPA, an official said, requesting anonymity. South Korea is an important trade partner for India and the two sides signed the CEPA in Seoul on August 7, 2009. The pact was operationalised from January 1, 2010. The trade deal committed the two sides to lowering or eliminating import tariffs on a wide range of goods over a period of eight years, and it helped expand opportunities for investments and trade in goods and services. South Korea was to phase out or reduce tariffs on 90% of Indian exports while India was to phase out or cut tariffs on 85% of South Korean exports, the official said. The CEPA helped enhance trade and economic ties between India and South Korea, with annual bilateral trade reaching $21.5 billion in 2018, and crossing the $20-billion mark for the first time, according to official data. However, bilateral trade slipped due to the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. Trade between the two countries was worth $16.9 billion during January-December 2020. South Korea’s total foreign direct investment to India up to September 2020 was about $6.94 billion. It is one of the key investors in India and several Korean companies have participated in the “Make in India” initiative that includes a production linked incentive (PLI) scheme, the official said. There are still potential areas for enhanced cooperation, such as manufacturing, food processing, electronics, biotechnology and research and development, he added. The South Korean side has also pointed to difficulties faced by its firms in entering India following a decision by many companies to shift from China in recent years. Despite these problems, 66 South Korean firms entered India amid the pandemic, taking the total number of companies with a presence in the country to more than 800.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-to-raise-large-trade-deficit-market-access-with-south-korea-101641837871111.html
10-01-2022||India||Making sense of the advance GDP estimates||The National Statistical Office (NSO) released the first advance estimates of GDP for 2021-22 on January 7 and put the number at 9.2%. This is 30 basis points – one basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point – lower than the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) December 2021 projection of 9.5%. Beyond the headline number what do the latest GDP estimates mean for the economy at large? Here are three charts which put this in perspective.The consumption challengePrivate consumption accounts for more than half of India’s GDP. It is here that economic recovery faces its biggest challenge. While overall GDP is expected to be slightly higher than the pre-pandemic level (2019-20) in 2021-22, Private Final Consumption Expenditure (PFCE) will continue to remain below the 2019-20 level. What has been the trajectory of PFCE in the post-pandemic period?A review of half-yearly and quarterly GDP aggregates – quarterly GDP numbers are available till September 2021 and we can estimate GDP in the second half of 2021-22 from the first advance estimates – can provide an answer.Overall GDP came back above pre-pandemic levels in the second half of the last fiscal (October 2020-March 2021). However, PFCE did not share this recovery and was 0.1% less than the pre-pandemic PFCE level in the corresponding period. To be sure, PFCE did go above pre-pandemic level in the quarter ending March 2021. However, this was more a result of pre-pandemic PFCE level being lower because of pandemic-related worries – PFCE annual growth in March 2020 was just 2%, the lowest since June 2012 – than a sharp rise in consumption demand in the March 2021 quarter.The second wave of Covid-19 – it peaked on May 9 in terms of seven-day average of daily new cases – inflicted a major shock to PFCE once again, which contracted by 11.9% below pre-pandemic levels in the quarter ending June 2021. This disruption percolated into the second quarter of 2021-22 as well, with PFCE showing a deficit of 3.5% vis-à-vis pre-pandemic levels in the quarter ending September 2021. The latest advance estimates show that PFCE will cross pre-pandemic levels on a half-yearly basis for the first time in the second half of 2021-22. While the advance estimates project a 1.7% growth over pre-pandemic levels in the second half of 2021-22, the impact of the third wave might generate headwinds for these prospects.If some private sector estimates are to be believed, economic activity was losing momentum even before the third wave erupted. “While the economic impact of the Omicron wave in 4QFY22 could be lower than previous waves, the activity momentum in 3QFY22 was much lower than our expectation. This has led us to revise downwards our FY22E real GDP forecast by 80bps to 9.0%YY, largely due to weaker 3Q activity”, a research note by Samiran Chakraborty Chief Economist India at Citi Research said.Employment-intensive services continue to sufferIf one looks at the Gross Value Added (GVA) statistics in the latest advance estimates, only one sub-sector of the services sector is expected to remain below pre-pandemic levels. This is the trade, hotel, transport, storage and communication subsector of the economy where the GVA component in 2021-22 is expected to remain 8.5% below the pre-pandemic level. This subset of the service sector not being able to regain pre-pandemic levels could have played a major role in the lag in private consumption demand. This particular sector had a share of 18.5% in total employment in 2018-19, the largest among major subsectors outside agriculture, as per data from the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS). The performance of this important subsector could actually end up being worse than what the advance estimates project because of disruption from the third wave of Covid-19. “The adverse growth impact of the third wave should be more muted than previous waves, but services will still take a larger hit”, a Nomura Research note issued on January 10 said.Surge in nominal growth: positive fiscal shock but adverse terms of trade shock to farm incomesAmong the most important takeaways of the latest GDP numbers is the fact that at 17.6%, nominal GDP growth is going to significantly exceed the budgetary projection of 14.4%. Coming weeks before the Budget, this is good news on the fiscal front as a higher than expected nominal GDP also means higher than expected tax collections. Nominal GDP exceeding the budgetary projection will be a first under the current government, as was pointed out in an HT analysis in December 2021.While inflation-driven higher nominal GDP growth is good news for fiscal math, it is bad news for the purchasing power of those dependent on farm incomes. This is because the current surge in inflation is mainly driven by non-food items. The divergence in inflation in food and non-food items is evident in the GVA numbers as well. While nominal growth component (nominal minus real GVA growth) for agricultural and non-agricultural GVA was 2.9 and 2.8 percentage points respectively in 2020-21, this difference has increased to 5.2 and 10 percentage points for 2021-22. The sharp rise in nominal growth differential between agricultural and non-agricultural economy also means that the former will find it difficult to afford the same basket of the latter’s commodities for the same amount of real output. This means that rural tailwinds to the larger economy are likely to weaken going forward.
10-01-2022||India||HT This Day: Jan 11, 1951 – Zamindari Abolition Bill Passed||LUCKNOW- At 5 p.m. today the U.P. Assembly passed the Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Bill after struggling with it for two years, six months and four days. Cries of 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ and 'Kisan Mazdoor Raj Ki Jai' rang out from the Congress benches but the zamindar members, as was not unexpected, staged a walk-out as a protest against the passage of the Bill after Nawab Jamshed Ali Khan, their leader, had made a brief statement with the special permission of the Chair. Thirteen members belonging to all sections participated in today's final debate in this House on the Bill. Pandit Pant, who preceded the Revenue Minister Thakur Hukam Singh, proudly declared that this measure ensuring justice to all classes of people in the State was superior to the agrarian legislation in even Communist countries. He was obviously replying to the Socialist firebrand, Mr Raja Ram Shastri, who during an impassioned oratorical feat had declared that the Bill would not achieve its proclaimed object of zamindari abolition but would only consolidate feudalism and stem the kisan revolution. Mr Shastri had also said that the kisans would soon be disillusioned and would rise and really end zamindari. Pandit Pant in his speech revealed that compensation to the zamindars might be paid only in the shape of bonds "considering present-day conditions." The Bill, it may be mentioned, states that compensation will be paid in cash or bonds or partly in cash and party in bonds as may be prescribed. He said the Government's desire was to enforce the measure on Republic Day but it depended on the President whose assent to the measure had to be secured. The Centre was being posted with copies of the Bill from time to time and the Government hoped for the President's assent before January 26. PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION Here are the other points which the Chief Minister made: " The Socialists are against compensation and the collection of 10 times the rent from the kisans for conferring on them bhumidhari rights. When the zamindari abolition resolution was passed by this House on August 8, 1946 nobody voiced against compensation. So compensation has to be given. Who will pay? Not the big zamindars who are losing their land. Not the townfolk who are not in the picture. Only the kisans whose rents will be halved after acquiring bhumidhari rights and who get the rights over the land have to pay. And nowhere has it been stated that the kisans must pay. If they pay their rents will be halved. If they do not they will continue to pay the same rent and will not be evicted from their lands though they will not enjoy the transfer rights. The landless labour will become the common owner of the uncultivated land in the village. I challenge anyone to produce a better Bill conferring better rights on the kisans. SYMPATHY WITH ZAMINDARS "My sympathies are with the zamindars who will be deprived of their standard of living they had been enjoying. But they should realize that people sacrifice their lives for the nation. For their material losses the Zamindars will gain in spiritual stature.  I appeal to them not to do anything which would leave a bad taste in the mouth. I pray that with the help of all the measure will be successfully enforced soon and the people of the State live a life of affectionate brotherhood and with peace and plenty for all." Other speakers from the Congress benches were Mr Jagannath Prasad Agarwal, Prof. Krishen Chand and Mr R. N. Upadhyaya. The Revenue Minister who spoke for hardly five minutes (he began his speech at 4-55 p.m. and had to end it at the 5 p.m. deadline) thanked all for their help to him in getting through this gargantuan piece of legislation. Because he had forgotten to include the Press in the list of officials and non-officials and colleagues who had been with him at the job, he specially called them, regretted the omission and expressed his gratitude to them for all they had done during the past two and a half years. P.T.I. adds: The Bill will now go for the second time to the Upper House for the consideration of one amendment made in the Assembly. After the Bill is passed by the Upper House on January 15, it will be sent to the President for his assent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-11-1951-zamindari-abolition-bill-passed-101641837182032.html
10-01-2022||India||Nagaland civilian killings: SIT submits preliminary report to state govt||The Nagaland government’s special investigation team (SIT) to probe the December 4 Oting killings has submitted a “preliminary report” to the state government on January 8, a police officer said on Monday, a day when hundreds joined a two-day 70-km walk seeking repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. “We have submitted a preliminary report because investigation is still going on, but we are trying to expedite the process,” a member of the Special Investigation Team investigating killing of 13 civilians in Oting village of Mon district said, asking not to be named. This person added that the final report should be ready soon.HT learns that at least 50 people including local eye-witnesses and security personnel were examined. Although the SIT was given a month’s time to complete its investigation, people who are aware of the matter said expert reports from the ballistics and laboratories are still awaited and therefore, the probe team submitted a preliminary report. The person cited above refused to divulge findings of the preliminary report , and declined comment on whether SIT has indicted army personnel for killing villagers.On December 4, six villagers were killed by the army in an ambush that went wrong and targeted the wrong people (it was based on intelligence that spoke of insurgents taking the same route); soon after the villages (miners returning from work) were killed, other villagers surrounded the security personnel and torched their vehicle, resulting in the latter opening fire, killing seven more. A 14th person was killed in an attack on an army camp the following day. The Union government has said the army mistook the miners for insurgents; the army has expressed regret for the incident and launched its own inquiry. . Meanwhile, residents started a 70-km walk on Monday from Dimapur, the state’s commercial hub, to the state capital Kohima seeking repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act 1958 (AFSPA). Demand for repeal of AFSPA, which gives sweeping powers to the security forces, a long-standing demand in the northeastern state has grown since the incident at Oting. “We cannot allow AFSPA to continue to be enforced in Nagaland. Oting massacre will not be the last unless AFSPA is removed in toto,” said Kevitho Kera, one of the organizers of the march. The walk, which started from Dimapur on Monday morning and will end with submission of a memorandum to the Governor seeking repeal of the Act. “We remember the victims of Oting as we walk… And also all the victims of other past atrocities,” Kera said.On the constitution of a high-level committee by the Centre to examine the withdrawal of the AFSPA from Nagaland on December 26, he said, “We cannot keep on waiting for these reviews. A government which truly cares for its citizens have ways to immediately get it (AFSPA) repealed.” The high-level committee is expected to submit its recommendations within 45 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-civilian-killings-sit-submits-preliminary-report-to-state-govt-101641837032409.html
10-01-2022||India||Trials of Rafale fighter jet’s naval version kick off in Goa||The French-origin Rafale-M fighter jet on Monday kicked off a demonstration to showcase its capability to take off from an angled ski-jump and prove its compatibility with Indian Navy’s aircraft carriers at a shore-based test facility (SBTF) at INS Hansa, the naval air station in Goa, officials familiar with the matter said.These fighters are embarked on the French Navy’s nuclear-powered aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle. The Rafale-M is a variant of Rafale fighters that operate from land bases. The Indian Air Force has also ordered 36 Rafale-B and Rafale-C fighter jets. SBTF is essentially an aircraft carrier setting on the ground where fighters use the ski-jump to takeoff and are recovered by arrestor wires or STOBAR (short takeoff but arrested recovery) in navy parlance.The navy is looking at buying more deck-based fighter jets to operate from its sole aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) Vikrant, which is currently undergoing sea trials. The Rafale-M demonstration of capability is expected to be carried out over the next two weeks and will be followed by a similar demonstration by the US-origin F-18 fighters in the next three to four months, the officials said.The F-18s operate from American supercarriers such as USS Nimitz and USS Ronald Reagan, with the US Navy accounting for a fleet of more than 600 such fighters.India has a requirement for 57 deck-based fighters for its carrier operations. But the figure is being revised, the officials said. A prototype of the naval version of the light combat aircraft landed and took off from INS Vikramaditya in January 2020 in a significant step towards India developing its own deck-based fighters. But the fate of that project is unclear.The Indian Navy currently operates Russian-origin MiG-29K fighters from INS Vikramaditya, a second-hand carrier bought from Russia.Aircraft carrier Vikrant, the largest warship to be built in the country, on Sunday set sail for crucial sea trials ahead of its scheduled induction into the navy later this year.Vikrant has put India in a select league -- only the US, the UK, Russia, France and China have the capability to build aircraft carriers.China operates two aircraft carriers — CV-16 Liaoning and CV-17 Shandong. It is building a third carrier as it expands its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region.Vikrant has an indigenous content of 76%. It will be the fourth aircraft carrier to be operated by the Indian Navy -- first Vikrant (British origin) from 1961 to 1997, INS Viraat (British origin) from 1987 to 2016 and INS Vikramaditya (Russian origin) 2013 onwards.
10-01-2022||India||Two Bajrang Dal activists held for U.P. posters, later released||Two Bajrang Dal activists were detained and later released on Saturday for putting up posters on the ghats of Varanasi asking those who did not follow sanatan dharma to stay away, police said on Monday.On Friday, posters had come up at several ghats of Varanasi which said, “Ganga, ghats of Varanasi and temples here are symbols of Sanatan Dharma, Indian culture and centre of our faith. Those who follow Sanatan Dharma are welcome at the ghats. These are not picnic spots.”Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Kashi unit of Bajrang Dal were named in the posters.Commissioner of police, A Satish Ganesh identified the two workers as Nikhil Tripathi Rudra and Rajan Gupta.“A notice was served under 107/16 of CrPC for breaching peace on Friday. Both of them were produced before the court of ACP in reserve police lines (On Saturday). Both of them submitted bonds worth ₹5 lakh each. Thereafter, they were released from the court,” the commissioner said.Later, Tripathi, who was the Bajrang Dal convenor in Kashi, said he had resigned from his post. “I have resigned... But I am still an active member of Bajrang Dal. I will keep working for the Hindutva as a Hindu activist,” he said.“This is not a request. This is a warning,” said Tripathi, accepting that the posters had been put up by them. He said that the Bajrang Dal workers would stage a demonstration if people don’t stop using the ghats as a picnic spot.The Kashi unit of VHP denied any knowledge of the posters. Executive member, Kashi region, Anurag Trivedi, said the ghats were public spaces and nobody could be stopped from entering them.VHP worker Rakesh Ranjan Tripathi reiterated Trivedi’s stand saying everyone was free to visit the ghats.Lallu Yadav, senior Samajwadi Party worker echoed those sentiments and said that this is against the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb of Varanasi. Ghats are a public place and anyone can go there and sit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-bajrang-dal-activists-held-for-u-p-posters-later-released-101641836971136.html
10-01-2022||India||UNESCO agrees to publish Hindi descriptions of India's world heritage sites on WHC website||The UNESCO’s World Heritage Centre (WHC) has agreed to publish Hindi descriptions of India's UNESCO World Heritage Sites on the WHC website.The information was shared by the Permanent Delegation of India to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) in Paris on Monday.“The Permanent Delegation of India is very pleased to announce that on the occasion of World Hindi Day, the Director of the World Heritage Centre has informed us that UNESCO’s World Heritage Centre has agreed to publish Hindi descriptions of India’s UNESCO World Heritage sites on the WHC websites. We welcome this historic decision,” it said in a statement.On the occasion of World Hindi Day, World Heritage Centre has agreed to publish Hindi descriptions of India's UNESCO World Heritage Sites on the WHC website: India at UNESCO pic.twitter.com/4iSfCa7CbuThe ministry of external affairs celebrated the programme on World Hindi Day virtually. The programme was presided over by minister of state for external affairs Meenakshi Lekhi, the MEA said in a statement.During this programme, messages by Prime Minister Modi and external affairs minister S Jaishankar were read out. The prime minister said Hindi plays an important role in spreading our knowledge and culture due to its simplicity, according to the statement.The PM said the increasing use of Hindi in the field of information technology and technology as well as its popularity among the youth present a bright future for it.In his message, Jaishankar said that together "we are continuously moving towards our goal of taking Hindi to the global stage".Lekhi said various steps have been taken by the MEA to promote the study of Hindi abroad. She said the government has established about 50 Chairs, including 13 Hindi Chairs, in universities abroad to promote Indian languages, culture and studies. She further said that Hindi language is taught in more than 670 educational institutions in more than 100 countries.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unesco-to-publish-hindi-descriptions-of-india-s-world-heritage-sites-on-website-101641835982431.html
10-01-2022||India||Vehicle tax by other name still unjust in PCB, say residents||PUNE Cantonment residents and former elected members of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) have come out strongly against the administration’s decision to continue charging commercial vehicles entering the cantonment a “vehicle entry fee”. On January 9, the Ministry of Defence’s (MoD) issued an order for the immediate stoppage of collection of the vehicle entry fee by Cantonments. However, the PCB has clarified that it is not an entry fee that is being charged, but a vehicle entry tax. PCB chief executive officer (CEO) Amit Kumar, in a public notice issued on January 10, says: “It is clarified to the general public that the vehicle entry fee from vehicles running in PCB area has been discontinued from January 7, 2022. However PCB levies a vehicle entre tax, since June 30, 2001 which is not discontinued”. Kumar said, “It is the entry fee which has been abolished and not the entry tax. This needs to be understood by citizens. The tax is being collected as per the notification of the central government and we will continue collecting it as per the central government’s directions. Ahmednagar and Aurangabad cantonment boards are already collecting the tax fees like us, as per the law.” The PCB is currently undergoing its worst financial crisis and faces a current fiscal deficit of over ₹600 crore. The PCB is yet to get ₹459 crore in dues from the state government. Former PCB vice-president Manzoor Shaikh said, “Vehicle entry fee ended in all cantonment board areas across the country and PCB is not an exception. If funds are not there with the PCB, the central government is the final authority and it will take necessary steps to fund the board and bail it out. Vehicle entry tax has been a very exploitative form of tax recovery and must end.” Azim Gudakuwala, a social worker from Kolsa Galli said, “It is the order of the central government and it is abiding by all the cantonments. Vehicle entry fee and vehicle entry tax are the same and all cantonment boards are accepting the order, so why not PCB? The PCB administration is now collecting tax illegally.” Advocate Netraprakash Bhog said, “The administration is not above the government of India and have to follow the order of the government as VET and VEF is the same. IThe VET must be abolished as it is illegal as per the new order.”The Ministry of Defence’s (MoD) issued an order dated January 7 ordering immediate stoppage of collection of vehicle entry fee by cantonment boards across India. PCB has been earning revenues of between ₹15crore- ₹20 crore annually from vehicle entry tax. The Director General of Defence Estates Office under the Defence ministry stated in its order: “It is observed that collection of vehicle entry fee by cantonment boards by installing barricades or nakas (collection kiosks) does not conform to the government’s initiative towards smooth movement of goods and traffic and impedes the efforts towards the ease of living and ease of doing business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vehicle-tax-by-other-name-still-unjust-in-pcb-say-residents-101641836136161.html
10-01-2022||India||India strengthens Covid-19 fight with precaution doses, review meets||Strengthening its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), India on Monday began administering precaution doses to healthcare and frontline workers and citizens above 60 years of age with comorbidities.More than nine lakh beneficiaries received their third Covid-19 vaccine on the first day of the country launching the booster doses, the Union health ministry said.With this, the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered across the country crossed 152.78 crore with over 82 lakh doses being administered on Monday.Also read | Let there be no lapses in Covid battle, Mansukh Mandaviya tells statesWith a massive resurgence in cases, driven by the Omicron variant, across the country, many states are bringing back precautionary measures, including imposition of a night curfew and setting a cap on the gathering limit.Here are the top updates of pandemic situation in India:- Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a tweet, requested all those who are eligible for precaution doses to get vaccinated. “As we all know, vaccination remains among the most effective means to fight Covid-19,” he wrote further.- Even as Delhi has been witnessing a steady surge in infections, authorities on Monday decided against imposing a full lockdown but announced some new curbs. The Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which formulates Covid-19 management policies for the capital, however, suspended dine-in facilities at restaurants and closed bars in view of the rising cases in the city. Delhi reported 19,166 fresh cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours and 17 related deaths.- The Andhra Pradesh government brought back night curfews in the state to contain the recent spread of the coronavirus disease. The night curfew will be imposed across the state between 11pm to 5am.- In a fresh advisory, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said not every person, who has come in contact with a Covid-infected patient, needs to be tested, but only those who are identified in the 'high-risk' category based on age or comorbidities.Also read | ICMR: No need to test contacts of Covid patients unless identified as high-risk- Maharashtra reported 33,470 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths on Monday. According to Maharashtra Public Health Department, there are currently 2,06,046 active Covid-19 cases in the state.- With five districts in West Bengal witnessing a huge surge in Covid-19 cases, the state government on Monday asked officials in these vulnerable districts, which include the metropolis of Kolkata and industrial districts of Howrah and Hooghly, to strictly enforce Covid restrictions and speed up vaccinations to arrest the disturbing trend.- Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya held a Covid-19 review meeting with his counterparts in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Maharashtra and the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. He advised them to keep a tab on infrastructural matters regarding medical oxygen to boost preparedness amid surge of Covid-19 infections.- The Centre informed states and UTs that no time limit has been set for the operationalisation of Covid vaccination centres, and that they can operate till 10pm daily based on availability of human resources and infrastructure.- Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told states and UTs that in the present surge, five to 10 per cent of active cases have required hospitalisation so far. However the situation is dynamic and evolving, and the need for hospitalisation may change rapidly, he added.- Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief ministers of Bihar and Karnataka – Nitish Kumar and Basavaraj Bommai – joined an increasing number of political leaders who have tested positive for Covid-19. BJP president JP Nadda was also infected by the virus. Senior CPI(M) leaders Prakash Karat and his wife Brinda Karat have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-strengthens-covid-19-fight-with-precaution-doses-review-meets-10-points-101641826300447.html
10-01-2022||India||Pune district administers 6,375 Covid booster doses||PUNE On Monday, January 10, the first day the civic body began giving the “third dose”, as a precaution as per guidelines set by the central government, Pune saw 6,375 doses administered. The precautionary jabs are being administered to senior citizens with a comorbidity, healthcare workers and frontline workers. The city’s overall vaccination number reached close to 100,000 on the day. Pune stood second, after Mumbai, where 10,515 got the third dose, while in Thane 4,692 precautionary doses were administered on Monday. Pune has an estimated 700,500 people who are eligible for the third dose of which 265,473 people are aged above 60 years, with comorbidities. A total of 198,399 healthcare workers and 291,924 frontline workers are eligible for the third dose in the district. The state saw a total of 49,307 third doses being administered on Monday. Dr Suryakant Deokar, civic immunisation officer said, “We had kept all our 179 centres open for vaccination of senior citizens with comorbidity to get the third dose, and also for the teens to get the vaccine so that there is no crowding at any of the centres. Pune is leading in terms of teen vaccination and also in terms of senior-citizen vaccination as more people are turning up at the vaccination centres to get the jab.” On Monday the state also marked the first week since the teen vaccination began for those aged between 15 to 18 years. Pune district has reported that 198,000 beneficiaries aged between 15 and 18 years got the jab and is leading among all districts with most teens vaxxed. As of Monday evening, the state had recorded that over 2 million have got the jab among those aged below 18 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-district-administers-6-375-covid-booster-doses-101641834931054.html
10-01-2022||India||Sikkim imposes entry restrictions, odd-even rule amid Covid-19 surge||SILIGURI: With Covid-19 positivity rate touching 27.2 % in Sikkim on Monday, the government imposed new rules such as the odd-even formula for use of vehicles and restrictions on entry into the Himalayan state. The state government has also announced that all educational institutions will remain closed till January 31. In the last 24 hours, 112 people tested positive. Officials said the positivity rate of 27.2 % is the highest so far. Sonam Gyeltsen Bhutia, Sikkim’s information, education, and communication officer said, “A 72-year-old man from Ranka died at STNM Hospital on Saturday night. The last death was reported 16 days ago.” So far, Sikkim has witnessed 410 deaths while the number of people affected by the virus is 32831. The state has a population of 0.611 million according to 2011 census. Data provided by Sikkim’s health department showed that the number of new positive cases has been on a rise since January 6. The number of new cases was 27 on January 6 and 34 on January 7. It was 45, 70, and 112 on January 8, 9 and 10 respectively. The government declared that people entering Sikkim should produce RT-PCR negative reports and the tests must be done within 72 hours before entry. Rapid Antigen Tests are being conducted at all entry points and the Pakyong airport. All foreigners, including people from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh who arrived in India more than a week ago, shall be allowed to enter Sikkim if they follow the new rule. Residents returning from foreign countries are required to stay in home quarantine for a week and undergo an RTPCR test on the eighth day. The odd-even formula for movement of vehicles shall not apply to commercial vehicles and those deployed for emergency services. 
10-01-2022||India||On video: Wild elephant chases passenger bus in Odisha, smashes window||A wild tusker on the rampage in the northern Odisha district of Mayurbhanj on Sunday morning left several passengers of a bus terrified as it chased and pushed the vehicle on the road for a few metres.A video of the incident which has gone viral on social media shows the angry tusker running towards the bus and then pushing it before the bus driver sped off. The passenger bus was on its way from Balasore district on Sunday morning when it came across the lone tusker at Tikapada village in Rasagovindpur area of Mayurbhanj district.Angry tusker attacks passenger bus in Odisha's Mayurbhanj district on Sunday morning. Passengers had a miraculous escape. pic.twitter.com/683IlLZf0BA villager who saw the wild elephant rushing and recorded the incident on his mobile phone said, the elephant damaged the glass pane of the bus, but no passenger was injured. “We thought the tusker would turn the bus turtle. It took everyone by surprise,” said the villager in Rasgovidnpur.In another incident, a herd of elephants went on a rampage through houses, paddy fields and a fire department vehicle after an elephant calf fell in an unused well in a village of Mayurbhanj.A herd of five elephants was passing by Sureidihi village under Rasgovindpur range of the district when the elephant calf fell on late Saturday night.By the time the forest officials and fire services team could launch the rescue operation, the herd of angry elephants started rampaging through homes.Though the calf was unhurt in the 5-feet deep well, the forest department personnel were unable to rescue it for several hours as the herd guarded it zealously not allowing anyone to come near the well.“We had to wait patiently for several hours till the herd went to a nearby pond to have water when we filled up the unused well with water so that the calf could float to surface,” said Baripada divisional forest officer Santosh Joshi.In September last year, a journalist of a TV channel in Odisha and a disaster rescue personnel were drowned to death while trying to rescue an elephant stranded in the swirling waters of the Mahanadi. The journalist who was in an inflatable dinghy with five personnel of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force when it capsized due to strong current of water near a barrage of the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tusker-chases-bus-in-odisha-forest-officials-rescue-calf-from-unused-well-101641829890645.html
10-01-2022||India||Chennai adds about a half of Tamil Nadu’s Covid tally, fresh curbs in place||Tamil Nadu witnessed yet another spike in its daily Covid-19 infections on Monday after 13,990 people were found positive for the virus. A day ago, the state had recorded 12,895 Covid-19 cases.Among the districts, Chennai with 6,190 cases contributed the most to the state’s daily tally of 13,990 followed by neighbouring Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur with 1,696 and 1,054 cases respectively. Chennai also accounted for nearly half the state’s active caseload with 30,843 patients under treatment.The government extended all existing Covid-related norms with additional curfews, in view of the upcoming Pongal festival, till January 31. Among major restrictions, all places of worship have been closed for the public between January 14 and 18.A full lockdown on January 16 (Sunday) will be imposed. The seating limit in buses has been increased to 75 per cent from the current 50 per cent keeping in mind the Pongal festival.Also read | Tamil Nadu allows ‘Jallikkattu’ with Covid curbs, mandates jabs, negative reportThe decision was announced following a review meeting by chief minister MK Stalin with state health minister Ma Subramanian and several other officials earlier in the day.The latest spike in cases came a day after the state saw a complete lockdown with few relaxations to contain the spread of the virus.Meanwhile, 11 more succumbed to their illness as the death toll climbed to 36,866.The state has so far reported 28,14,276 confirmed infections and currently has 62,767 active cases, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The active cases spiked by 11,432 from 51,335 on Sunday.As many as 1,35,266 samples were tested for the disease in the last 24 hours, pushing the total tests to 5,86,62,798.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-adds-about-a-half-of-tamil-nadu-s-covid-tally-fresh-curbs-in-place-101641828905367.html
10-01-2022||India||Rafale kicks off demo to show it can pair with Indian aircraft carriers||The French-origin Rafale-M fighter jet on Monday kicked off a demonstration to showcase its capability to take off from an angled ski-jump and prove its compatibility with Indian Navy’s aircraft carriers at a shore-based test facility (SBTF) at INS Hansa, the naval air station in Goa, officials familiar with the matter said.These fighters are embarked on the French Navy’s nuclear-powered aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle. The Rafale-M is a variant of Rafale fighters that operate from land bases. The Indian Air Force has also ordered 36 Rafale-B and Rafale-C fighter jets.SBTF is essentially an aircraft carrier setting on the ground where fighters use the ski-jump to takeoff and are recovered by arrestor wires or STOBAR (short takeoff but arrested recovery) in navy parlance.The navy is looking at buying more deck-based fighter jets to operate from its sole aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) Vikrant, which is currently undergoing sea trials.The Rafale-M demonstration of capability is expected to be carried out over the next two weeks and will be followed by a similar demonstration by the US-origin F-18 fighters in the next three to four months, the officials said.The F-18s operate from American supercarriers such as USS Nimitz and USS Ronald Reagan, with the US Navy accounting for a fleet of more than 600 such fighters.India has a requirement for 57 deck-based fighters for its carrier operations. But the figure is being revised, officials said. A prototype of the naval version of the light combat aircraft landed and took off from INS Vikramaditya in January 2020 in a significant step towards India developing its own deck-based fighters. But the fate of that project is unclear.The Indian Navy currently operates Russian-origin MiG-29K fighters from INS Vikramaditya, a second-hand carrier bought from Russia.Aircraft carrier Vikrant, the largest warship to be built in the country, on Sunday set sail for crucial sea trials ahead of its scheduled induction into the navy later this year.Vikrant has put India in a select league -- only the US, the UK, Russia, France and China have the capability to build aircraft carriers.China operates two aircraft carriers — CV-16 Liaoning and CV-17 Shandong. It is building a third carrier as it expands its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region.Vikrant has an indigenous content of 76%. It will be the fourth aircraft carrier to be operated by the Indian Navy -- first Vikrant (British origin) from 1961 to 1997, INS Viraat (British origin) from 1987 to 2016 and INS Vikramaditya (Russian origin) 2013 onwards.
10-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: India expects ‘constructive dialogue’ with China on Ladakh friction, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India is expecting “constructive dialogue” with China at the next round of military talks to cool military tensions in eastern Ladakh, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday. Read moreThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday said contacts of Covid-19 patients do not need to be tested unless identified as high-risk based on age or comorbidities. Read moreThe Nagpur police is trying to trace a local contact of terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in the city who was to provide logistics support to its 26-year-old operative sent from Kashmir in July last year to conduct surveillance of potential targets, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarters and Hedgewar Smruti Bhavan, senior police officers said on condition of anonymity. Read moreThe world of Twitter has its own concepts and beliefs. A slight hustle here and there, and fans feel certain things are happening. Well, that’s what Wriddhiman Saha’s latest Twitter posts triggered ahead of the third Test between India and South Africa starting on Tuesday in Cape Town. Read moreActor Soha Ali Khan has called her mother, veteran actor Sharmila Tagore a ‘nag’ saying that she 'loses her temper in Bangla'. In a new interview, Soha revealed that her brother, actor Saif Ali Khan and Sharmila fight with each other and then call her up. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-expects-constructive-dialogue-with-china-on-ladakh-friction-and-all-the-latest-news-101641827223406.html
10-01-2022||India||Gulmarg shivers at -10°C, Srinagar-Jammu highway opens for small vehicles||SRINAGAR: The Srinagar-Jammu National Highway was opened for light motor vehicles after its closure following snowfall and landslides last week while mercury plunged below zero at many places in Kashmir during the night, said officials. Officials said that the highway was opened this morning as per the plan, though there was a mild landside in Ramban which was cleared. “The highway is open for light motor vehicles from both sides. The landslide at Ramban was immediately cleared,” said an official of traffic control room. The ski resort of Gulmarg shivered at minus 10 degree Celsius for the second night on Monday following days of rains and snowfall across Jammu and Kashmir between January 4 and 8. However Ladakh is overcast on Monday with light snowfall at many places. The weather office said that five out of the seven weather observation stations in Kashmir valley recorded sub-zero temperatures during the night while Srinagar and Qazigund were slightly above zero. The mercury settled at 0.2 degree Celsius in summer capital Srinagar during the night while it was 0.6 degrees in south Kashmir’s Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu. The meteorological department said that the mercury plunged lowest in the ski resort of Gulmarg to settle at -10.0 degree Celsius, second time in the past two nights. Even the day temperature was -1.0 degrees at Gulmarg on Sunday. In the mountain resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir the mercury recorded -2.6 degree Celsius during the night. It was -1.7°C in Kokernag, -0.6°C in Kupwara and -1.0 °C in Konibal. The day temperatures at all the above station on Sunday remained 5 degrees or below except at Kupwara where the mercury settled at 6.5 degrees. Kashmir is under the grip of Chilai Kalan, the Valley’s harshest 40-day winter period, which started on Dec 21. Normal life resumed to a large extent in Kashmir and majority of flights operated at Srinagar International Airport on Sunday following improvement in wet weather conditions in Jammu and Kashmir after five days of rains and snowfall. In Jammu division, Banihal and Batote recorded -1.8 degrees and -0.8 degrees respectively during the night. In the union territory of Ladakh, Drass recorded lowest of -8.8°C while it was -9.5°C in Leh during the night. The weather is expected to improve in Ladakh from Tuesday. “Weather to remain overcast with light snowfall at most places in Ladakh. Please drive very slowly on snowed roads to avoid accidents and use low gear. Don’t apply sudden breaks,” said director of meteorological departments at J&K and Ladakah, Sonam Lotus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gulmarg-shivers-at-10-c-srinagar-jammu-highway-opens-for-small-vehicles-101641826710270.html
10-01-2022||India||Pro-Kannada activist, literateur and poet Champa dies at 82||BENGALURU: Noted poet, activist and one of Karnataka’s loudest pro-Kannada voices, Chandrashekar Patil, better known by his pen-name Champa, 82, died this morning in Bengaluru. Born in Hattimattur village of Haveri district, he attained fame as a revolutionary writer and was fondly called as Champa. The literateur was also a key activist who was among the many who led the Gokak agitation for the cause of Kannada and has been a strong voice against any imposition of Hindi in the southern state. “His contribution to Kannada language and Karnataka is immense. He was at the forefront of Gokak and many other movements for the cause of Kannada and Karnataka. He strongly advocated Kannada to be the medium of instruction in education,” Basavaraj Bommai, the chief minister of Karnataka said on Monday. Champa was a professor of English at Karnatak University, Dharwad and editor of ‘Sankramana’, a Kannada literary publication. He has also served as the head of Kannada Development Authority and Kannada Sahitya Parishat. “I am deeply saddened by the news of the death of Kannada poet, artist, playwright, revolutionary Chandrashekar Patil who became famous as Champa. The land has lost the voice of a senior pro-Kannada person. I pray that God will grant peace to him and strength to his family to bear the loss,” BS Yediyurappa, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former chief minister, said. In 2017, he was part of a forum that brought together warring groups from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to fight the imposition of Hindi by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government. “Language struggle cannot be done in isolation,” Champa said at the time. “I am saddened by the death of Prof Chandrashekar Patil who was a born fighter against injustice, inequality and dictatorship. I am part of his family and fans in this time of grief,” Siddaramaiah, former chief minister and leader of the opposition said in a post on Twitter. Bommai has said that the last rites will be conducted with full state honours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prokannada-activist-literateur-and-poet-champa-dies-at-82-101641824130126.html
10-01-2022||India||India expects ‘constructive dialogue’ with China to resolve friction in Ladakh sector||NEW DELHI: India is expecting “constructive dialogue” with China at the next round of military talks to cool military tensions in eastern Ladakh, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday. Indian and Chinese military commanders will hold the 14th round of talks to defuse border tensions at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on January 12. The talks come at a time when frontline soldiers are deployed eyeball to eyeball at friction points on LAC. The Indian side is looking forward to constructive dialogue to resolve the remaining friction areas along LAC where the two armies have been locked in a standoff since May 2020, the officials said. The remaining friction areas include Hot Springs and Depsang. The 13th round of military talks between India and China hit an impasse on October 10, with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army. “The fact that both sides are engaged in talks is a positive sign. It may take time but the dialogue will lead to a mutually acceptable resolution,” said former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd). India and China have continuously hardened their stance on LAC going by increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies in the midst of the ongoing border standoff. The Indian Army’s activities in the sector are in response to PLA actions and counter measures have been taken to stay ready for any contingency, as previously reported. Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points on LAC last year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry deployed in the Ladakh theatre. PLA did not agree to suggestions made by the Indian Army at the 13th round of talks on October 10. The Indian Army said it made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also did not provide any forward-looking proposals, while China accused India of unreasonable and unrealistic demands in an unusually aggressive statement. PLA carried out tank drills across LAC after the October 10 talks reached an impasse, and the Indian Army launched airborne drills in eastern Ladakh last November to validate and showcase its rapid response capabilities. In the Ladakh sector, outstanding problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs (Patrolling Point-15) and PLA’s forward presence in Depsang has also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to PP-10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. The 12th round of military talks led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or PP -17A, in early August 2021. No progress has been made after that.
10-01-2022||India||Jaish contact in Nagpur pulled out of mission to recce RSS HQ at last minute||NAGPUR: The Nagpur police is trying to trace a local contact of terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in the city who was to provide logistics support to its 26-year-old operative sent from Kashmir in July last year to conduct surveillance of potential targets, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarters and Hedgewar Smruti Bhavan, senior police officers said on condition of anonymity.But the local contact, who was assigned to meet alleged JeM operative Rais Ahmad Shaikh at the airport on July 13 last year, didn’t turn up. Deputy commissioner of police (crime branch) Chinmay Pandit said they are yet to identify the alleged JeM contact in Nagpur. Or figure out why he backed out at the last minute.“In the absence of any local support, Shaikh moved around the city using Google maps,” Pandit said. He did take some photographs and videos of his targets from a distance during the three-day trip, and sent them to his handler across the border.From all available indications, the information that Shaikh was able to gather wasn’t considered adequate by his Jaish handlers to plan an immediate attack.Shaikh, a class 10 pass out who works as an electrician, was arrested in December 2021 by security agencies from Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district.The information about Jaish’s contact in the city emerged recently when a team of Nagpur crime branch travelled to Jammu and Kashmir and interrogated Shaikh.Shaikh told them that his handler assured him that he will get logistics support in Nagpur but that didn’t happen, said Pandit.It was also revealed during the interrogation that JeM planned a “fidayeen” attack on the installations. The JeM operative was sharing details of the targets with his Pakistani handler while in Nagpur, a second police officer said.Shaikh, who checked into a hotel at Sitabuldi in the West Nagpur area, took an auto-rickshaw on July 14 and reached Badkas Chowk, adjacent to the RSS headquarters building with the help of Google Maps. His target was to conduct surveillance of six lanes connecting the RSS headquarters. However, after observing police patrolling and a huge presence of security forces deployed in the area, he did not dare to enter the lanes. The Pakistani handler wanted the operative to ‘go closer’ and collect more images of the ‘deep interiors’ of RSS headquarters at Mahal and the Hedgewar Smruti Bhavan at Reshimbagh. The operative could not move closer as tight security rings around these places had forced him to abort the plan, the second officer cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-contact-in-nagpur-pulled-out-of-mission-to-reccee-rss-hq-at-last-minute-101641822569981.html
10-01-2022||India||Let there be no lapses in Covid battle, Mansukh Mandaviya tells states||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday advised states and one Union territory to keep a tab on infrastructural matters regarding medical oxygen as the country battles with a fresh surge of Covid-19 infections, driven by the Omicron variant.Addressing a Covid-19 review meeting with five states and one UT, Mandaviya urged his counterparts there to ensure that “all kinds of oxygen infrastructure be checked such that it is in a functional/operational state”.According to an ANI input, the meeting took place at 3:30pm with health ministers of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Maharashtra and the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.“Let there be no lapses in our preparedness as we battle this surge of the pandemic. Holistic synergy between the Centre and states is most vital for seamless and effective pandemic management,” Mandaviya said.He further advised them to undertake a regular review of health infrastructure strengthening, establish teleconsultation hubs in every district and focus on widespread awareness regarding available infrastructure and healthcare services.Also read | 5-10% Covid cases need hospitalisation at present, may change rapidly: Health secy to statesEarlier in the day, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to his counterparts in states and Union territories warning of a rapid change in the number of hospitalisations. He said in the present surge, five to 10 per cent of active cases have required hospitalisation so far. However, the situation is dynamic and evolving, and the need for hospitalisation may change rapidly, he added.A day ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the pandemic situation across the country wherein he called for ensuring adequate health infrastructure at the district level and accelerating the vaccination drive for adolescents on a mission mode.According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), Modi said intensive containment and active surveillance should continue in clusters reporting higher cases and required technical support be provided to states which are reporting higher cases presently.India has been seeing a steady surge in Covid-19 cases, being driven by the Omicron variant that was first detected in South Africa.The country reported a fresh spike of 1,79,723 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the daily positivity rate in the country to 13.29 per cent, according to data uploaded on the Union health ministry website on Monday.The nationwide tally of Omicron reached 4,033, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum number of confirmed infections (1,216), followed by Rajasthan (529) and Delhi (513). About 1,552 patients infected with the new variant have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-covid-review-meet-health-minister-mandaviya-asks-states-ut-to-keep-tab-on-oxygen-infra-101641819034122.html
10-01-2022||India||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, his K'taka counterpart Bommai test positive for Covid-19||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and his Karnataka counterpart Basavaraj Bommai tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Both the chief minister are under home isolation. "On the advice of doctors, he has isolated himself at his residence," the Bihar CM's office said.माननीय मुख्यमंत्री श्री नीतीश कुमार कोरोना जाँच में पॉज़िटिव पाये गए हैं। चिकित्सकों की सलाह पर वह होम आइसोलेशन में हैं। उन्होंने सभी से कोविड अनुकूल सावधानियां बरतने की अपील की है।Taking to Twitter, Bommai wrote, “I have tested positive for COVID-19 today with mild symptoms. My health is fine, I am under home quarantine. I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested.”President of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Jagat Prakash Nadda was also infected by the virus during the day. The BJP chief said he was keeping fine and was self-isolating."I got my COVID-19 test done after witnessing initial symptoms. My report has come positive. I am feeling fine now. On the advice of doctors, I have isolated myself. All those who have come in contact with me in the last few days are requested to get themselves tested," tweeed Nadda in Hindi.Earlier in the day, defence minister Rajnath Singh said he was infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and that his symptoms were mild and he was isolating at home.“I have tested positive for Corona today with mild symptoms. I am under home quarantine. I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested,” the defence minister wrote on Twitter.On Sunday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he had recovered from the viral disease a few days after testing positive for Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-under-home-isolation-101641820679154.html
10-01-2022||India||Kerala caps attendance at events to 50 as Covid spreads, sets ambitious jab target for young adults||The Kerala government on Monday restricted the maximum number of people to be allowed at weddings and funerals in the state to 50 amid the latest rise in Covid-19 cases.The state reported 5,797 Covid-19 cases and 19 more fatalities in the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the health department showed. This pushed the active caseload to 37,736.A slew of pandemic-related announcements were made by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan after a Covid-19 review meeting during the day.A government order regarding the same, however, did not specify if the limit is applicable to closed locations or open venues or both, news agency PTI reported.Also read | No complete lockdown in Kerala as of now, says health minister GeorgeLast week, the government said 150 people would be allowed to attend such events in open spaces, while the limit would be 75 for closed venues.Other similar ceremonies such as reunions and social, political, cultural and community events can be celebrated online with the exception of urgent situations, the government also decided in the meeting. All events should take place by following precautions regarding the disease such as following physical distancing and when possible, public meetings should be avoided, the government said.Further, the CM directed the state department of health and education to ensure that vaccination of those between 15 and 18 years of age is completed by this week. The state is also considering carrying out the inoculation drive at educational institutions.Meanwhile, state health minister Veena George said that 17 more people in the state tested positive for the Omicron variant on the day. Of the new cases, eight have been reported from Ernakulam, two from Palakkad and Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad added a case each.Kerala has so far reported 345 cases of the ‘variant of concern’, she added. Of these, 231 people were from low-risk nations and 78 were from ‘high-risk’ nations. As many as 34 people among the rest were contacts of those already infected and two people were from other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-caps-attendance-at-events-to-50-as-covid-spreads-sets-ambitious-jab-target-for-young-adults-101641816019686.html
10-01-2022||India||Andhra Pradesh imposes night curfew as Covid cases see sudden jump. Check details||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday said night curfew will be imposed across the state between 11pm to 5am to contain the recent spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The decision came as the state saw a sudden jump in infections with over 4,000 cases being added in just the last five days.During a review meeting held during the day, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy directed health department officials to enforce other restrictions as well and ensure people strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to check the spread of the virus.Also read | Despite Covid restrictions, Andhra getting ready for traditional cockfightsIt was also decided that only 200 people will be permitted for any outdoor event, while 100 will be allowed for an indoor event.Only alternate seating will be permitted in cinema halls and auditoria. Physical distancing should be maintained in all places of worship."Ensure that people necessarily wear a (facial) mask. If not, impose a penalty. Shops and business establishments should strictly follow all Covid restrictions," the chief minister told officials.Reddy also asked the officials to set up one Covid Care Centre with all facilities in each of the 175 Assembly constituencies. He further asked the 104 emergency call centre to be strengthened so that any calls for medical help are promptly responded to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-imposes-night-curfew-as-covid-cases-see-sudden-jump-check-details-101641808878886.html
10-01-2022||India||SFI activist murder: Won't allow bid to create college riots, says CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday condemned the murder of an activist of the Student Federation of India (SFI) in Idukki district and said attempts to create riots in colleges will be not allowed.Dheeraj Rajendran (21), a student of Idukki Engineering College, was stabbed to death during a scuffle with Kerala Students Union (KSU) activists, police said.In a Facebook post, Vijayan wrote, “Murder of Dheeraj Rajendran, a student of Govt Engineering College, Idukki and an SFI activist, is extremely sad and condemnable. Attempts to create riots in colleges will not be allowed. Police have been directed to bring Dheeraj's killers before law.”The Kannur resident was stabbed around 1pm on Monday, police said, adding he was rushed to the local medical college, but could not be saved."College election works have been underway on the campus for the past few days. There were minor issues between both the student organisations," police said.Students alleged it was the Youth Congress workers who had attacked Dheeraj and stabbed him. According to reports, the attacker stabbed the student and ran away from the place. Hundreds of students and local Left leaders, including MLAs, have gathered at the Idukki Medical college where the body of the student activist has been kept.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sfi-activist-murder-won-t-allow-bid-to-create-college-riots-says-kerala-cm-101641814367976.html
10-01-2022||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh tests positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said he was infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and that his symptoms were mild and he was isolating at home.“I have tested positive for Corona today with mild symptoms. I am under home quarantine. I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested,” the defence minister wrote on Twitter.I have tested positive for Corona today with mild symptoms. I am under home quarantine. I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier tested positive for Covid-19. On Sunday, he said he had recovered from the infection. "After recovering from Corona, I am back at your service," Kejriwal had tweeted in Hindi.India has been seeing a steady surge in Covid-19 cases, being driven by the Omicron variant that was first detected in South Africa.Also read | 4 Supreme Court judges, over 100 staff members test positive for Covid: ReportThe country reported a fresh spike of 1,79,723 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the daily positivity rate in the country to 13.29 per cent, according to data uploaded on the Union health ministry website on Monday.The nationwide tally of Omicron reached 4,033, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum number of confirmed infections (1,216), followed by Rajasthan (529) and Delhi (513). About 1,552 patients infected with the new variant have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-defence-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19-with-mild-symptoms-101641812745821.html
10-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Akali leader Majithia gets interim protection from arrest and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Akali leader Majithia gets interim protection from arrest in Punjab drugs caseShiromani Akali Dal leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia, 46, on Monday got interim protection from arrest in the drugs case registered against him by Punjab Police in Mohali on December 20. Read MorePM Modi to inaugurate 11 new medical colleges in Tamil Nadu on Jan 12Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday inaugurate 11 new government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu via video conferencing. According to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), a new campus of Central Institute of Classical Tamil will also be inaugurated in Chennai along with the medical colleges on January 12. Read MoreKareena Kapoor and Alia Bhatt's trainer shares yoga guide for Covid-19 recovery and building immunityWith the Covid-19 cases rising again in the country fuelled by the Omicron variant, people are scared for themselves and their loved ones. Read More Mahindra-owned SsangYong Motor sold for $255 millionSouth Korea's SsangYong Motor will have new owners once again after the company confirmed on Monday that it had been acquired by a local consortium for 305 billion Won or approximately $254.56 million. Read More Amid calls of Twitter ban, Siddharth clarifies his tweet to Saina Nehwal: 'Nothing disrespectful intended'Actor Siddharth has issued a clarification on his reaction to shuttler Saina Nehwal's tweet after the lapse in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security on January 5 in Punjab. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-akali-leader-majithia-gets-interim-protection-from-arrest-and-all-the-latest-news-101641812097268.html
10-01-2022||India||‘Pity that vice chancellor can’t write two sentences properly’: Kerala governor||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan, who has an uneasy relationship with the Pinarayi Vijayan government over autonomy of universities, on Monday came down heavily on Kerala University vice-chancellor Prof. VP Mahadevan Pillai, saying he could not even write two sentences properly.“My head hung in shame. Pity the V-C can’t write two sentences properly… This university is one of the oldest in the country,” the governor told reporters without taking names, referring to a brief letter written by the vice chancellor to him that has been widely circulated on social media.A controversy erupted in Kerala after the university vice-chancellor declined the governor’s recommendation to consider conferring Kerala University’s honorary D.Litt on President Ram Nath Kovind. Khan was upset that the vice chancellor didn’t put the proposal before the university syndicate for consideration, and reportedly took the decision on instructions from the ruling party.“He told me some people were not interested in the idea. When I insisted, he said some syndicate members. When I asked did he call a meeting of the syndicate, he said no. Then I told him to write the reason on a paper and give it to me,” said the governor, adding he was shocked to read the letter written by the vice-chancellor.Kerala University VC Prof Mahadevan Pillai was not available for his comments. But state higher education minister R Bindhu said D-Litt proposal never came to her or the government and she has no idea why the VC was not willing. She refused to give a reply to the governor’s charges saying she did not want to drag the controversy. Khan continued. “Not only writing, he can’t converse properly. Whatever I asked, he failed to give a proper reply. After the letter, I feel ashamed to look at the face of others. I feel pity, this is one of the oldest varsities of the country,” he said.The governor made it clear that he did not want to resume working as chancellor.“The CM sent me three letters to requesting me to take up the position. He reiterated that there is no political interference. But I am firm with what I said,” he said adding he was aware of protocols and other limitations as he became a legislator and union minister at a young age. He also reiterated his charge that Kannur University VC’s re-appointment was “improper” and he was forced to sign in the appointment letter. Relations between the government and governor soured after the re-appointment of Kannur Vice Chancellor Prof Gopinath Raveendran. The governor sent a strongly-worded letter to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on December 8 in which he said he was really pained over the “dipping standard” of higher education sector and blamed “brazen political interference” for this. He asked the government to take up the chancellor’s post if political interference continued. Prof Gopinath Raveendran was re-appointed vice-chancellor of Kannur University for four years in November last year after the government issued a notification and appointed a selection committee to select the new V-C. But the government insisted on his re-appointment.
10-01-2022||India||BJP lashes out at Karnataka Congress chief over refusal to get Covid-19 test||BENGALURU: The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka has come down heavily on the senior leadership of the Congress party after its president DK Shivakumar was seen refusing to undergo a Covid-19 test after the first day of his massive padayatra in Ramanagara district. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that action will be taken against all those violating Covid-19 restrictions without discrimination. He said that an FIR has been registered against at least 30 members who had participated in Congress padayatra for the Mekedatu project. “Whoever violates the Covid rules, whether a common man or a big leader, there is no differentiation. Action will be taken in a uniform way according to the law,” Bommai said. “The Congress party has shown its tradition by abusing the additional district collector who had come to do his duty. He has tainted the padayatra which is a means of Satyagraha. The Congress is not doing a padayatra but a march to quench its thirst for power,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a post on Twitter. The statement came a day after Shivakumar was seen taking out his anger against district officials who had come to take the Congress president’s Covid-19 swabs after he undertook a massive rally that was attended by thousands of people. “If I have any problem, I will tell you. Bloody fellows, they are blackmailing me. They can’t blackmail me. Please go and tell your health minister to play with kids, against those who come from outside (abroad) to the airport. Why should I get tested? Ask him (health minister) to get tested,” Shivakumar is heard saying in a video that has gone viral online. Shivakumar and the Congress had disregarded all warnings by the BJP government and Ramanagara district authorities over the rally at a time when Covid-19 infections in the state had breached the five-figure in a single day on Sunday. Karnataka now has nearly 50,000 active cases and the padayatra as well as other political activities have exacerbated the risk of spread of infections in a state where restrictions have already crippled lives and livelihoods. Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition in Karnataka, who started the march on Sunday has decided to take the day off after feeling unwell, raising fears if he is infected. People aware of the developments add that Shivakumar is apprehensive of tests as it could scuttle his padayatra by which he aims to get some control over the Congress party in the state and assert his influence over the Old Mysuru region or Vokkaliga heartland. “I am fit and fine. You cannot compel me. I know the law of this land. You tell your home minister. I am perfect. Their health may be off... the HM or CM. I will not give any test and I have no need for it. I have walked 15 kms with all this pushing and pulling, have I stumbled? I will not do any test,” Shivakumar said, adding that he “never expected this from the chief minister”. Shivakumar had earlier justified going ahead with the padayatra claiming that the government were fudging Covid-19 infections to instil fear in people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-lashes-at-karnataka-congress-chief-over-refusal-to-get-covid-19-test-101641813449417.html
10-01-2022||India||5-10% Covid cases need hospitalisation at present, may change rapidly: Health secy to states||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Monday wrote to his counterparts in states and Union territories regarding the latest resurgence in coronavirus cases that he said appeared to be driven by the ‘variant of concern’ (VoC) Omicron and the continued presence of the other strain Delta.Bhushan said in the present surge, five to 10 per cent of active cases have required hospitalisation so far. He, however, warned that the situation is dynamic and evolving, and the need for hospitalisation may change rapidly.He said during the second surge of Covid infections in the country, the percentage of active cases that needed hospital care were in the range of 20-23 per centIn the present surge, 5-10% of active cases needed hospitalisation so far. The situation is dynamic & evolving, the need for hospitalisation may change rapidly. All States/UTs advised to keep watch on situation of total no. of active cases:Health Secy Rajesh Bhushan to States/UTs pic.twitter.com/vTElVzuumXThe senior officer urged authorities in all states and UTs to keep a watch on the situation of the total number of active cases, those under home isolation, and patients requiring oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilation support.The ministry said that based on this monitoring, the requirement of healthcare workers and their availability should be reviewed on a daily basis. It also asked the state and UT authorities to conserve healthcare workers by working out at staggered mode of work as both infrastructure and human resources have their limitations. It is also important to strictly follow the January 9 advisory, issued by the health ministry, for managing healthcare workers in Covid and non-Covid areas of healthcare facilities, Bhushan said.He further said states and Union Territories should earmark different categories of beds in private clinical establishments for Covid care.He also suggested engaging retired medical professionals or MBBS students for teleconsultation services and providing skill training of community volunteers in basic care and management at Covid Care Centres.The country recorded 1,79,723 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours as the Omicron variant continued to spread rapidly in the country. According to the data published by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the number of active cases breached the 700,000-mark.This is the fourth day when India’s daily tally has remained above the 1-lakh mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/510-need-hospitalisation-at-present-may-change-rapidly-health-secy-to-states-101641810344127.html
10-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu allows ‘Jallikkattu’ with Covid curbs, mandates jabs, negative reports||Amid surging Covid-19 infections, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday allowed the ‘Jallikattu’ event – a traditional bull taming sport usually held during the festival of Pongal in January – across the state with restrictions on the number of spectators and mandatory vaccinations.As part of the standard operating procedures (SOPS) issued during the day, the state government said only two persons – the owner of the bull and an assistant – will be allowed inside the arena with each bull. Also, district administrations will provide ID cards to the two people and those without the cards will not be allowed inside the ring. Full vaccination and a negative RT PCR test not older than 48 hours have been mandated for the participants.The full vaccination and the negative RT PCR certificate have been mandated for all players who participate in the sport. Players too, like the bull owners, will be provided with ID cards by respective district administrations. The districts have been directed to complete the process of issuing ID cards to owners and players three days before the event.Also read | To contain Covid-19, PETA appeals to Tamil Nadu govt to cancel JallikattuWhile 300 players are allowed to participate in ‘Jallikattu’ or bull taming, 150 players have been permitted to participate in the bull racing sport, called ‘Eruthu Viduthal’ in Tamil.Also, officials who are overseeing the preparations, organisers of the sport and spectators would have to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and have a negative test report, the government said.A limit on the maximum attendance has been imposed where either 50 per cent of the seating capacity of the open arena or a maximum of 150 viewers, whichever is lower, has been allowed.People residing in cities and towns other than the venue of the sport have been advised to watch the event through television or online. The government said the events should be organised with prior permission from the state and in compliance with the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the pandemic-related guidelines.The People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), which has constantly raised objections against the sport citing animal cruelty, earlier in December last year, sent a petition written by 80 doctors across the country to chief minister MK Stalin, urging him to not allow the event this year, citing the prevailing Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-allows-jallikkattu-with-covid-curbs-mandates-jabs-negative-reports-101641807482138.html
10-01-2022||India||‘Block his account’: NCW to Twitter for actor Siddharth's tweet on Saina Nehwal||The National Commission for Women (NCW) said on Monday it has written to Twitter to block the handle of actor Siddharth for a tweet on ace shuttler and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Saina Nehwal after the post, made on January 6, triggered outrage on social media.“@NCWIndia has taken cognisance. Chairperson @sharmarekha has written to @DGPMaharashtra for investigating & registering FIR in the matter. NCW has also written to @TwitterIndia for blocking the actor's account & to take appropriate action against him for posting such remarks,” the commission shared on Twitter.The NCW was responding to a tweet by its chairperson, Rekha Sharma, in this regard. “This man needs a lesson or two! @TwitterIndia why this person's account still exists? …taking it up with Concerned police,” Sharma posted. @NCWIndia has taken cognisance. Chairperson @sharmarekha has written to @DGPMaharashtra for investigating & registering FIR in the matter. NCW has also written to @TwitterIndia for blocking the actor’s account & to take appropriate action against him for posting such remarks. https://t.co/pW1hT9zz6WMeanwhile, Siddharth, who primarily works in Tamil and Telugu cinema, and has also done Hindi projects, including ‘Rang De Basanti,’ issued clarification for his tweet. “COCK & BULL. That's the reference. Reading otherwise is unfair and leading! Nothing disrespectful was intended, said or insinuated. Period,” he tweeted.
10-01-2022||India||Explainer: SC, SPG Act and PM Modi's security||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday directed that all materials related to the breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security in Punjab be kept safe with the registrar general of the Punjab and Haryana high court, while agreeing to examine a plea asking for the constitution of a court-monitored independent panel to investigate the unprecedented lapse.
10-01-2022||India||PM Modi to take part in National Youth Festival, asks for suggestions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and take part in the National Youth Festival in Puducherry on January 12. The festival is celebrated on the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda.PM Modi said on Twitter than he will take part in the event via video-conferencing and asked for suggestions from country's youth."On the 12th, I would be taking part in the 25th National Youth Festival via video conferencing. Apart from asking my young friends to join the programme, I also urge them to share their inputs as well. Always a delight to hear from India’s talented youth," PM Modi tweeted.On the 12th, I would be taking part in the 25th National Youth Festival via video conferencing. Apart from asking my young friends to join the programme, I also urge them to share their inputs as well. Always a delight to hear from India’s talented youth. https://t.co/nSmRPSzfvWThe Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that the National Youth Festival is one of the biggest exercises in social cohesion and intellectual and cultural integration. It aims to bring diverse cultures of India and integrate them into a united thread of 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat', the PMO added.The festival is being held virtually due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The inauguration will be followed by the National Youth Summit on January 13 wherein there will be panel discussions on four identified themes. In line with the youth-led development and motivating youngsters to solve the emerging issues and challenges, the themes will include environment, climate and SDG led growth; tech, entrepreneurship and innovation; indigenous and ancient wisdom; and national character, nation building and home grown, said the PMO.PM Modi will also inaugurate a Technology Centre of the MSME Ministry, established at Puducherry with an investment of about ₹122 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-take-part-in-national-youth-festival-asks-for-suggestions-101641803406809.html
10-01-2022||India||PM Modi to inaugurate 11 new medical colleges in Tamil Nadu on Jan 12||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday inaugurate 11 new government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu via video conferencing. According to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), a new campus of Central Institute of Classical Tamil will also be inaugurated in Chennai along with the medical colleges on January 12.These new medical colleges are being established at an estimated cost of about ₹4,000 crore, out of which around ₹2,145 crore has been provided by the Union government and rest by the Tamil Nadu government, the PMO further said.The districts where new medical colleges will be established are Virudhunagar, Namakkal, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Thiruvallur, Nagapattinam, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram and Krishnagiri.The PMO said that the event is in line with the Prime Minister's constant endeavour to promote affordable medical education and improve health infrastructure in all parts of the country. The inauguration is being done as part of a scheme where medical colleges are being established in districts, which do not have either a government or private medical college.The PMO also said that these colleges will have a cumulative capacity of 1,450 seats.Meanwhile, the new campus of the Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT) in Chennai is being built at a cost of ₹24 crore. It will be equipped with a spacious library, an e-library, seminar halls and a multimedia hall.The CICT is an autonomous organisation under the Union ministry of education, and contributes to the promotion of classical Tamil by doing research activities so as to establish the ancientness and uniqueness of the language.The institute library has a rich collection of over 45,000 ancient Tamil Books.It also aims to translate and publish ‘Thirukkural’ in various Indian as well as 100 foreign languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-11-new-medical-colleges-in-tamil-nadu-on-jan-12-101641802513893.html
10-01-2022||India||Goa minister, another MLA quit BJP||PANAJI: Goa minister Michael Lobo and lawmaker Pravin Zantye on Monday quit the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday, taking to four the number of legislators from the party to have quit since December 17 even as the state head into assembly polls on February 14.Lobo, who is expected to join the Congress, said he was upset with the functioning of the party, especially the manner in which the grassroots-level workers are treated.A vocal member of chief minister Pramod Sawant’s cabinet, Lobo is the third Christian lawmaker after Alina Saldanha and Carlos Almeida to have left the BJP citing changes in the party’s functioning following former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s death in 2019. Christians account for a little over 25% of the state’s population.Lobo’s departure also indicates unease among the BJP’s Christian MLAs especially in the light of attacks on Christians in neighbouring Karnataka that has not gone unnoticed among the state’s minority population. Clergymen have referred to the attacks that took place over Christmas during religious gatherings in Goa.Lobo said the BJP no longer values the contribution of grassroots workers. “Many came to me to complain. There will be ups and downs in a party but there cannot be a `lock, stock, and barrel ‘ replacement of workers,” Lobo said. “I have been saying this for a long time but nobody was willing to listen. I felt we were sidelined.”Lobo said he is in talks with other political parties but yet to take a decision on his future plans.Lobo’s resignation came a day after Congress leader Digambar Kamat said the former was in touch with the party leadership induction into the party.State BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade said Lobo’s departure would not make any difference to the party. “All this time he was only physically present in the party. We considered him as having left. We did not dismiss him out of deference to his long contribution to the party.”Jatin Naik, a political analyst, said Lobo’s departure will weaken the BJP in the politically-significant Bardez taluka, which sends seven lawmakers to the 40-member state assembly. “The BJP is on the back foot and with this development, the party’s ability to win a simple majority on its own is significantly diminished.”Lobo, who represented the Calangute constituency, plans to field his wife from the neighbouring Siolim constituency.Zantye, a cashew nut baron who represented the Maem constituency, is the son of Harish Zantye, a Congress Member of Parliament from North Goa from 1991 to 1996. He quit Congress after he was denied a ticket for the 2012 assembly polls and joined the BJP ahead of the 2017 elections.Zantye said he joined the BJP based on the assurances of Parrikar and that the party is not the same today. He blamed the government’s failure to restart mining and providing jobs in his constituency for his exit. “I will be joining the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP),” he added.The Congress emerged as the single-largest party in the state in 2017 with 17 seats in the 40-member assembly. But it was unable to form the government. The BJP, which won 13 seats, managed to form the government in with the MGP, the Goa Forward Party (GFP), and two independents. In 2019, 10 Congress lawmakers defected and gave the BJP a comfortable majority in the assembly.MGP has since quit the BJP-led alliance and has tied up with the Trinamool Congress. The GFP is now a Congress ally. And 26 of the 40 legislators elected in 2017 are no longer with the party on whose ticket they contested that election..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-minister-lobo-quits-bjp-ahead-of-expected-entry-into-congress-101641800248362.html
10-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 100 pairs of jute footwear sent to Kashi Vishwanath Dham workers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi sends 100 pairs of jute footwear for Kashi Vishwanath Dham workersPrime Minister Narendra Modi has sent 100 pairs of jute footwear for those working at the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, people aware of the developments said. Read More 4 Supreme Court judges, over 100 staff members test positive for Covid: ReportAt least four Supreme court judges have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far, according to news agency ANI. Around 150 staff members have also been infected as the Covid-19 situation is worsening in the country, as per the report. Read More Hrithik Roshan gifts fans Vikram Vedha look on birthday, turns blood-soaked gangster; fans compliment his ‘swag’Hrithik Roshan treated fans to his first look from the Vikram Vedha remake on his birthday. The picture showed him wearing a kurta and sporting a scruffy beard and dishevelled hair. Read MoreSara Ali Khan's bikini-clad Monday morning Instagram VS reality post is beachwear inspo: See pics hereIf you also woke up today feeling the full force of Monday blues, then you are not alone. Atrangi Re actor Sara Ali Khan took to her Instagram stories to post two bikini-clad pictures of herself comparing what Monday morning on Instagram looks like and the reality. Read More Skoda Kodiaq SUV returns, launched at ₹34.99 lakh in IndiaSkoda has launched the 2022 Kodiaq facelift SUV at a starting price of ₹34.99 lakh (ex-showroom) in India today. Launched in three trims, which include the Style, SportLine and Laurin & Klement variants, the price of the Kodiaq facelift SUV goes up to ₹37.49 lakh (ex-showroom). Read MoreNovak Djokovic wins court case, Australian judge orders release from immigration detentionAn Australian judge has reinstated tennis star Novak Djokovic's visa, which was canceled last week because he is unvaccinated. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-100-pairs-of-jute-footwear-sent-to-kashi-vishwanath-dham-workers-and-all-the-latest-news-101641797774457.html
10-01-2022||India||India's Covid-19 peak by January end, decline to be equally sharp: IIT professor||A professor of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, said on Monday that coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India will peak by the end of January and are likely to cross the number of cases seen during the second wave last year. However, by March, the peak will be almost over.“As per preliminary data, cases (nationally) will peak by the end of this month and are likely to cross second wave numbers. But the decline of cases will be equally sharp. By March, it (peak) will be almost over,” Manindra Agarwal, professor at IIT Kanpur, told news agency ANI.Also Read| India records nearly 1.80 lakh new Covid cases; active cases cross 700,000-markPreviously, researchers at the institution conducted a study that showed that the third wave of the pandemic in India might peak by February 3. It studied the trend of the Omicron-led surge in Covid-19 cases in other countries and forecast that India too will witness similar trajectory.Kanpur, UP | As per preliminary data, cases (nationally) will peak by the end of this month & are likely to to cross second wave numbers. But the decline of cases will be equally sharp. By March, it (peak) will be almost over: Manindra Agrawal, IIT Kanpur professor on third wave pic.twitter.com/XE11XqQtlAIndia's Omicron count crossed the 4,000-mark on Monday with 1,552 patients recovering from the fast-spreading variant till now. For the past four days, the daily Covid-19 tally has been well over 100,000-mark with nearly 180,000 infections reported in the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, professor Agarwal also told ANI on Monday that cases in Delhi, Mumbai are likely to peak around mid-January, adding that the ongoing wave in these cities will be over by the end of this month.Both Delhi and Mumbai are the worst-hit regions from the pandemic, registering over 20,000 cases daily.In Mumbai, the daily cases might be higher than what is being officially reported, according to experts. Hindustan Times reported on Sunday that the reasons behind this are asymptomatic not undergoing a Covid-19 test and increased reliance on home testing kits that allow no official supervision on infected cases.Officials in Delhi are currently holding a review meeting to decide whether the national capital will require more curbs to ward off the spread of Covid-19.Kolkata is the worst hit region across West Bengal and has been adding the most number of cases to the state's tally. The capital city clocked a cumulative weekly positivity rate of over 55% ending January 7.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-peak-by-january-end-decline-to-be-equally-sharp-iit-professor-101641795284000.html
10-01-2022||India||Ex-SC judge to head panel to probe security lapse during PM's visit to Punjab, rules top court||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Centre to set up a panel to probe the alleged breach of security during Prime Minister's Punjab visit last week. A former SC judge will head the panel, according to the top court's order. It will also include the DGP Chandigarh, National Investigation Agency (NIA) IG, Registrar General of Punjab and Haryana high courts. The Supreme Court will name the retired judge and other officers in its order to be released later today.A three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice NV Ramana, and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, were hearing a petition against the incident in Ferozepur on January 5 filed by an organisation named 'Lawyers Voice'.During the hearing, the court asserted that there was "a breach and the Punjab government has admitted as well". "The question is if an inquiry is held, what will be its scope. If you want to take disciplinary action against officers what remains for this court to look into?" it said.The court also told the central government that the show cause notice issued by it to Punjab officials "is self-contradictory". "By constituting a committee, the Centre seeks to enquire if there was a breach of Special Protection Group (SPG) Act and then it holds Punjab Chief Secretary and Director General guilty," it added.The court further asked both central and Punjab governments not to go ahead with their inquiries in the matter.On January 5, PM Modi was scheduled to visit Ferozepur district; however, the trip was cut short and his address had to be cancelled after his cavalcade was stopped on a flyover due to farmers' protest. Many leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have slammed the Punjab government, alleging that details of PM Modi's route were shared with unauthorised persons, which led to a blockade of the road by protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exsc-judge-to-head-panel-to-probe-security-lapse-during-pm-s-visit-to-punjab-rules-top-court-101641797965553.html
10-01-2022||India||PM Modi sends 100 pairs of jute footwear for Kashi Vishwanath Dham workers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sent 100 pairs of jute footwear for those working at the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, people aware of the developments said. The redeveloped project worth ₹339 crore in Varanasi was inaugurated by PM Modi on December 13 last year. He represents Varanasi in the Lok Sabha.According to people cited above, PM Modi recently found that most people working at Kashi Vishwanath Dham performed their duty bare-footed because it is forbidden to wear footwear made with Leather or rubber in the temple premises. These include priests, people performing seva, security guards, sanitation workers and others.He immediately got 100 pairs of jute footwear procured and sent over to Kashi Vishwanath Dham so that those performing their duties don’t have to stay bare-footed in the chilling cold, they added.The people working at Kashi Vishwanath Dham were very happy with the gesture, said the people aware of the developments.The Prime Minister has been taking keen interest in the project, which has taken a pivotal role in Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) in Uttar Pradesh, where elections will be held in seven phases in February-March this year.The party has campaign its will to showcase the redevelopment project in Varanasi as a “model of development” that can be replicated pan-India. It is being illustrated as the Prime Minister's ability to meld ideological demands with modern aspirations.The corridor connects the ghats of the River Ganga with the sanctum sanctorum of the Kashi Vishwanath temple. It has been designed to allow easy movement of pilgrims who had to navigate congested and unclean alleys.The foundation stone for the project was laid in 2019 and work carried out in record time despite the slowdowns imposed by the Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-sends-100-pairs-of-jute-footwear-for-kashi-vishwanath-dham-workers-101641796386179.html
10-01-2022||India||4 Supreme Court judges, over 100 staff members test positive for Covid: Report||At least four Supreme court judges have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far, according to news agency ANI. Around 150 staff members have also been infected as the Covid-19 situation is worsening in the country, as per the report.The top court has a total working strength of 32 judges, while 3,000 staff members also work there.Covid-19 cases in India have risen six fold in the seven days. On Monday, the country logged nearly 1.80 lakh cases of infections in the last 24 hours, which pushed India's infection tally to 3,57,07,727.Cases of Omicron variant are also spreading rapidly with numbers now breaching the 4,000-mark. According to the latest figures by the Union ministry of health, there are 4,033 cases of the highly transmissible strain. Maharashtra was at the top with 1,126 cases, followed by Rajasthan (529), Delhi (513), Karnataka (441) and Kerala (333), according to the health ministry.The daily positivity rate in the country rose to 13.29 per cent, according to Union health ministry data released on Monday morning.On January 2, the apex court decided to shift to the virtual mode of hearings in view of the rapid rise in the daily cases. A circular issued in this regard stated that an earlier circular prescribing standard operating procedure for physical hearing (hybrid hearing) will remain suspended for the time being.Meanwhile, a Covid-19 testing facility has been set up in the premises of the Supreme Court and is open from Monday to Saturday. "In view to contain the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus infection and sudden upsurge in the cases of Omicron variant of the coronavirus, it is reiterated that the entrants to the Supreme Court premises, i.e. the registry staff, staff of the coordinate agencies, advocates and their staff etc., particularly those who may be showing any symptom(s) similar to those notified for Covid-19 infection(s), may kindly get themselves tested at such facility...," a circular read.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-supreme-court-judges-over-100-staff-members-test-positive-for-covid-report-101641793473115.html
10-01-2022||India||As Covid-19 cases multiply, frontline workers and seniors receive ‘precautionary doses’||India began administering 'precautionary dose' of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine to frontline workers and healthcare staff, as well as citizens with comorbidities aged 60 and above on Monday, with the fast-spreading Omicron variant fuelling a six-fold rise in infections in the week gone by.India reported 1,79,723 new cases on Monday, most of them in the country's biggest cities - Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata - where Omicron has overtaken Delta as the most prevalent strain of the virus.Check eligibility and other details for the ‘precautionary dose’ "We feel fine. There are no side-effects, everyone should take the jab," one of the senior citizens, who took the dose at Delhi's RML hospital, told news agency ANI.The drive has been launched all across the country, with visuals from various states showing the eligible population taking the jab to secure them against the heavily-mutated Omicron strain.There were 146 deaths reported on Monday, bringing the toll to 483,936 since the pandemic first struck India in early 2020. Only the United States and Brazil have recorded more deaths.The fast spreading Omicron variant has caused infection in hundreds of healthcare and frontline workers, including police. Nearly 400 staffers at Parliament have also tested positive for Covid-19 ahead of the budget session, prompting Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to review the situation and direct officials to reimpose restrictions on employees’ attendance.In view of the cases, both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have sent one-third of its staffers to work from home, officials familiar with the matter said.In the drive that started from January 10, the government is not mixing and matching vaccines. This means that those who received to doses of Covaxin, will be given the third dose of the same vaccine in this stage of inoculation. Similarly, those receiving Covishield will be administered the same shot."The government is committed to provide additional security cover to healthcare and frontline workers on priority," Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Twitter on Monday morning.So far, about 67 per cent of the country's 939 million adults have been given both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-multiply-frontline-workers-and-seniors-receive-precautionary-doses-101641792120388.html
10-01-2022||India||India records nearly 1.80 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases; active cases cross 700,000-mark||In yet another huge spike, India reported 1,79,723 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, as the Omicron variant continues to spread rapidly in the country, according to the data published by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (Mohfw). The number of active cases breached the 700,000-mark, the updated data also showed.India is witnessing the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic as the virus is raging across states, leading to a spike in daily infections. This is the fourth day when India’s daily tally has stayed above the 1 lakh mark.The number of Omicron also surged and now stands at 4,033, with Maharashtra recording the maximum number of infections (1,126). It is followed by Rajasthan (529), Delhi (513), Karnataka (441) and Kerala (333), according to health ministry.The ministry also reported 146 new deaths, taking the total death toll to 483,936. After Monday's fresh infections, the cumulative cases stand at 3,57,07,727.The daily positivity rate soared to 13.29 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 7.92 per cent, according to the ministry.The national Covid-19 recovery rate decreased to 96.98 per cent, the ministry data also showed. As many as 46,569 people have recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative number to 3,45,00,172.As cases rise exponentially, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will chair a meeting on Monday to review the pandemic situation in five states and one Union territory (UT), news agency PTI reported.The meeting will be attended by the health ministers of Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situation across the country where he directed the officials to speed up vaccinations.Meanwhile, India began administering the 'precaution dose' of the Covid vaccine to frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities. Eligible beneficiaries can walk-in to their nearby vaccination centre and get the third dose, according to the Centre's guidelines.The guidelines also mandate the same vaccine to be administered to the beneficiary and no mix-match is allowed as of now. This means those who were administered with Covaxin as their first and second dose will receive the same as their 'precautionary dose', and people who received Covishield will be given the same vaccine again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-nearly-1-80-lakh-fresh-covid-19-cases-active-cases-cross-700000mark-101641786865121.html
10-01-2022||India||Surge in Covid-19 cases halts revival of travel industry||NEW DELHI: The surge in Covid-19 cases driven by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease has halted the revival of the travel industry as people have started deferring their travel plans.“In 2021, we experienced a 400% jump in advance bookings for flight tickets for the year-end holidays...the Omicron variant halted the travelling revival that we expected for this period. Despite this new surge, the travel sentiment remains strong,” said Rikant Pittie, the co-founder of the online travel firm EaseMyTrip.Pittie added the current customer trends shows a strong emphasis on safety and hygiene. “...customers are now starting to choose places that (follow)... high safety standards and which are following Covid-19 protocols.”Pitte said customers were yearning to travel once the restrictions are lifted. “Even with new variants, restrictions and limitations, the travel industry is expected to grow further in the coming year as industry stakeholders and travellers are gradually adapting to the evolved travel norms.”Rating agency ICRA cited the rising infections and added passengers are apprehensive about air travel and also some state governments have imposed restrictions on it. It added there was a limited impact of the new Covid-19 variant on travel in December 2021. “The average daily passengers for the week beginning December 27, 2021, was 3.4 lakh compared to 3.7 lakh and 3.6 lakh during the week beginning December 20, 2021, and December 13, 2021,” said Rajeshwar Burla, vice president and group head, Corporate Ratings, ICRA.Cleartrip, another online travel company, said the travellers were looking for flexible travel options that have them covered in case there is a sudden change in regulations due to the new variant.“As a result, we are seeing a higher interest in our products -- EzCancel that offers a 100% refund on cancellations and Flexifly which enables consumers to change plans. Customers buying Flexifly VAS have doubled since November while EZCancel is also seeing a spike,” said Prahlad Krishnamurthi, chief business officer, Cleartrip.Cleartrip has reported an increase in modification and cancellation of existing bookings over a couple of weeks as travellers are adjusting their plans due to revised advisories. Krishnamurthi said in 2022, the domestic flight trends were looking very strong compared to 2021. “Metro destinations are on track to exceed 2021 numbers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-covid-19-cases-halts-revival-of-travel-industry-101641785666849.html
10-01-2022||India||Rain, snowfall bring in cold in north India: What is the reason behind it?||The entire north India has been reeling under severe cold wave conditions, with mercury plunging to sub-zero levels in upper reaches of the Himalayas. Heavy rainfall has made the matters worse, bringing the day chill across the region.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that widespread rain and snowfall is likely to continue today.Also Read | These 4 states will see heavy rainfall from Jan 11The IMD has predicted a fall of 3-5 degrees Celsius drop in minimum temperature over northwest India. The states and regions which will see a drop in minimum temperature are: Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.Why is this happening?IMD scientists said that two western disturbances are behind the wet spell over north India, which has given the region a steady chill. "There were two WDs in close succession which caused an extended wet spell over northwest India. The impact was higher because of moisture incursion from Arabian Sea. Over Central India, we are expecting confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal so there can be widespread and heavy rain over Madhya Pradesh. As the WD moves away, very cold northerly winds blowing from snowclad Himalayas are going to bring down minimum temperatures over northwest India," said M Mohapatra, the director general of IMD.More snow on cards for the hillsThe western Himalayan region is very likely to experience scattered to fairly widespread rainfall and/or snowfall till January 10, the IMD has said in its forecast. Parts of Himachal Pradesh, which have been seeing snowfall the past few days, may see more heavy snow or rain in the coming days, it further said.Meanwhile, heavy rain lashed Delhi on Sunday, which led the minimum temperature to settle at 13.8 degrees Celsius, seven notches above normal.Also Read | Delhi’s AQI remains in ‘satisfactory’ categoryThe weather department said the city received 8 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours as recorded at 8.30am, while the relative humidity recorded at 5.30pm was 95 per cent.On Saturday, Delhi recorded its highest rainfall in a day for January in 22 years, yielding the city's best air quality in over two months even as the minimum temperature settled at 15 degrees Celsius, eight notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-snowfall-bring-in-cold-in-north-india-what-is-the-reason-behind-it-101641785261855.html
10-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Experts say Mumbai's daily Covid cases may be higher, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai’s daily Covid tally may be higher, say expertsAfter recording a massive and consistent spike since the last week of December, Mumbai’s daily caseload has hovered between 19,000 and 20,000 cases over the past four days. Read moreUP Assembly elections: BJP panel meet today to decide candidates for 1st phaseA 24-member panel of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will meet on Monday to finalise the poll strategy for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Read more'Virat will have to decide with Rahul Dravid': Former BCCI selector on 'big question' for India ahead of series deciderVirat Kohli was spotted training in the nets ahead of the third and final Test against South Africa, and the return of the Test skipper would perhaps lead to Hanuma Vihari's ouster from the team composition. Read moreGolden Globe Awards 2022 full list of winners: Andrew Garfield is Best Actor, Squid Game nabs a winJeremy Strong and Ariana DeBose won big at the Golden Globes this year as Hollywood boycotted the much anticipated night, leading to a lacklustre event. Read moreMiss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu goes shirtless with floral jacket, leather pants and boots to take over NYC: See picsThe 21-year-old star, who experienced her first snow in The Big Apple recently, took a ferry ride, gorged on Thai food and enjoyed a day out in the city. Read more'Real-life superheroes': Jawans braving harsh snow-clad peaks is winning TwitterViral videos of Indian jawans braving harsh snow-clad peaks is winning the Internet. The situation in higher reaches is even more harsh, with temperature plunging to sub-zero level. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-experts-say-mumbai-s-daily-covid-cases-may-be-higher-and-all-the-latest-news-101641781671351.html
10-01-2022||India||World Hindi Day today: History, objective, famous quotes||January 10 is celebrated as World Hindi Day every year to spread awareness about Hindi as an international language across the world. The day is especially observed by Indian embassies abroad.History:In the year 1975, the first-ever World Hindi Conference took place in Maharashtra’s Nagpur on January 10. The conference was inaugurated by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and saw participation from a total of 30 countries.And in 2006, former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh declared that January 10 will be observed as World Hindi Day every year. This was also the first time that the ministry of external affairs started celebrating the day abroad.Objective:Besides spreading awareness about Hindi as an international language, the World Hindi Da also emphasises creating a passion for the language. Hindi is the fourth most spoken language globally after English, Spanish and Mandarin. In India, it is one of the two official languages along with English.How different is World Hindi Day from the National Hindi Diwas?Often people confuse World Hindi Day with the National Hindi Diwas. The National Hindi Diwas, which is celebrated on September 14 every year, commemorates the adoption of Hindi as one of the official languages by the Constituent Assembly of India in 1949.Famous quotes“A nation is dumb without national language": Mahatma Gandhi“Hindi is the soul of Indian culture”: Kamalapati Tripathi“Hindi is not the language of any one state but is the most spoken language in the country”: William Carey“No one can stop the promotion and development of Hindi”: Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-hindi-day-today-history-objective-famous-quotes-101641780976419.html
10-01-2022||India||Police file new case against actor Dileep||The Kerala police crime branch on Sunday registered a fresh case against Malayalam actor Dileep, his brother and four others for allegedly threatening the investigating officer in the 2017 actor abduction and sexual assault case.The case took a fresh turn after director Balachandra Kumar’s interview to a TV channel in December last year in which he claimed Dileep was in possession of tapes of the assault. He also submitted several audio tapes to the police. In one of the tapes, one person allegedly identified as Anoop, Dileep’s brother, can be beard talking about a conspiracy to kill investigating officer Baiju Paulose. The conservation allegedly took place in November 2017 at the actor’s house in Aluva in Ernakulam district, the crime branch has said in its FIR.In another audio clip, a muffled voice is heard talking about using a truck to run over Paulose.“We may have to look at another ₹one-and-a-half crore in this regard,” the voice was heard saying, the crime breach pointed out in the FIR. The new FIR has been filed against six Dileep, brother Anoop, another relative Suraj, and two others (Appu and Babu) and a man director Kumar addressed as the ‘VIP.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-file-new-case-against-actor-dileep-101641781473729.html
10-01-2022||India||These 4 states will receive heavy rainfall from January 11 to 13, says IMD. Details here||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued yellow and orange alerts, projecting rainfall in several states in upcoming days, while also providing update on the rainfall situation in Delhi, as the national capital has witnessed showers over the last few days.Speaking to news agency ANI, RK Jenamani, a senior scientist with the weather body, said that a western disturbance is likely to hit the country's eastern region from January 11. This western disturbance, Jenamani said, will move further, and lead to heavy rain in the central and eastern parts of the country.Odisha: An orange warning has been issued for the state for January 11 and 12. This is because a hailstorm will take place here on January 11, Jenmani said. The IMD's ‘orange alerts warns of 'extremely bad weather' with the potential to disruptions such as road and rail closure, and interruption of power supply.Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal: For these three states, a yellow alert has been issued from January 11 to January 13.A yellow warning indicates ‘severely bad weather’ spanning across several days. As per this alert, the weather could also change for the worse, causing disruption in normal activities.Delhi: Rainfall in the city will decrease substantially, and there will be no showers between January 11 and January 17 as there is no western disturbance ahead, said the Met department.Also Read | Weekend rain gives city wettest Jan in 27 yrs, season’s lowest max temperatureRajasthan, Haryana and Punjab: The ongoing intense precipitation spell over the western Himalayas and the adjoining plains --Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab--began weakening on January 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-4-states-will-receive-heavy-rainfall-from-january-11-to-13-says-imd-details-here-101641780086234.html
10-01-2022||India||Jab certificates in poll-bound states not to have PM’s photo||The Union health ministry has made changes in the CoWIN system to remove the picture of Prime minister Narendra Modi from Covid-19 vaccination certificates in states where elections are to be held soon, according to people familiar with the development.“The changes have already been deployed in the CoWIN platform; necessary filters have been used as part of which the name and picture of the prime minister has been removed in states that are poll bound as model code of conduct has kicked-in in these states,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity..Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases with the counting of votes on March 10, the Election Commission announced on Saturday.Currently, the Prime Minister’s name and picture are printed on digital as well as hard copies of the vaccination certificate. With the announcement of the schedule, the model code of conduct for governments, candidates and political parties has come into force, and as a result no content that seems to be promoting a particular party can be seen on the certificate.In March 2021, the health ministry had taken a similar initiative during the polls held in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Puducherry as suggested by the Election Commission, following complaints raised by some political parties.Meanwhile, India will start administering the precautionary third dose to its high-risk population — healthcare and frontline workers, and people 60 and above with co-morbidities, from Monday. “Indian government is ensuring the security of health army that ensures the health security of the country.... Appointments are already available for them on CoWIN. From tomorrow the process of administering dose will commence,” tweeted Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.
10-01-2022||India||India witnesses 6-fold rise in weekly Covid-19 cases, shows data||India has seen a rapid rise in its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) caseload in the past week, as established by the data released by the Union health ministry. The surge in cases is ben attributed to the Omicron variant, which has nearly three dozen mutations and spreads faster than the Delta variant.Also Read | Health minister to chair Covid-19 review meeting with 5 states, 1 UT todayIn the week ending January 9, India recorded 6,38,872 cases of Covid-19. This is a sharp increase – of more than six times - from 1,02,330 cases recorded between December 27 and January 2.According to the numbers released by the Union health ministry and listed on the dashboard of World Health Organization (WHO), India saw its daily tally of Covid-19 rise from 6,531 on December 27 to 27,553 on January 2.The first day of the week that began after that (January 3), the cases went up to 33,750 and on January 9, the number had crossed 1.50 lakh-mark (1,59,632 to be exact). This was the second day in a row that India recorded more than one lakh cases of Covid-19.The related fatalities have also gone up, though at a much slower pace, indicating that Omicron infection is spreading fast but is not as dangerous as the second wave. In the week ending January 2, India recorded 495 fresh deaths due to Covid-19, which went up to 761 in January 3-9 period.The total fatalities in these two weeks were 2,020 (December 27-January 2) and 1,868 (from January 3-9). This is the sum total of all the adjustments done by various state governments.Also Read | Health staff, senior citizens to get 3rd dose of vaccine from todayIndia is at number 2 after the United States on WHO’s dashboard of countries affected the most by Covid-19. However, in terms of the number of new cases reported in the last week, India is at number 4.The US reported the highest number of cases in the past week (4,027,033), followed by France (1,419,654) and the UK (1,267,948).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-witnesses-6-fold-rise-in-weekly-covid-19-cases-shows-data-101641778643093.html
10-01-2022||India||Covid-19: DDMA meet today to discuss if Delhi needs more curbs||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will hold a meeting on Monday to discuss further restrictions in the national capital as Covid-19 cases are rising exponentially in the city. The officials are also exopected to discuss the stringent 'red alert' curbs under the Graded Response Action plan (GRAP).Under GRAP, red alert is the top-most level of restrictions, which includes total curfew, closure of all non-essential shops, Metro trains and government offices, except those dealing with essential services.The red alert is sounded when Covid-19 positivity goes beyond five per cent and stays above it for two consecutive days.Since December 28, the city has been functioning under 'Yellow alert.' The restrictions include night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, alternate day opening of shops of non-essential items and halved seating capacity in Metro trains and public transport buses among others. In view of heavy crowds at bus stands and Metro stations amid the highly transmissible Omicron variant, the DDMA has allowed 100 per cent seating capacity in the buses and Metro trains. Standing passengers, however, are not allowed.On Sunday, the national capital logged 22,751 infections in a single day spike. It also reported 17-related fatalities, while the positivity rate jumped to 23.53 per cent, according to the daily health bulletin.The number of new cases reported on Sunday was the highest since May 1 last year when the city recorded 25,219 cases with a positivity rate of 31.61 per cent.On Sunday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that his government does not intend to impose a lockdown in the city. "We do not want to impose any lockdown in the city. There will not be a lockdown if you follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. We do not intend to impose a lockdown at the moment. We want to impose the least restrictions so that the people can earn their livelihood," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-ddma-meet-today-to-discuss-if-delhi-needs-more-curbs-101641777753823.html
10-01-2022||NA||Breaking News: Over 9 lakh people receive ‘precautionary’ third dose on day 1||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Over 9 lakh people receive ‘precautionary’ third dose on day 1More than nine lakh healthcare, frontline workers and people aged above 60 with comorbid conditions receive their third Covid jab as the country began administering 'precautionary' doses today, reports PTI. PM Modi urges eligible beneficiaries to get Covid-19 ‘precautionary dose’India began administering Precaution Doses. Kudos to those who have got vaccinated today. I would request all those who are eligible to get vaccinated. As we all know, vaccination remains among the most effective means to fight COVID-19.Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged eligible beneficiaries to get their third ‘precautionary’ vaccine dose and called vaccination as one of the “most effective means to fight Covid-19.”TN extends Covid curfew till Jan 31 with additional restrictionsTamil Nadu extended existing Covid-19 related restrictions in the state till January 31. A full lockdown, allowing only essential services has been imposed on Sunday (January 16). All places of worship have been closed from January 14 to 18 during the Pongal festival. Meanwhile, buses have been allowed to operate at 75% capacity to facilitate ease of travel during the festival.Click here to read moreJP Nadda tests Covid positive, says, ‘feeling fine now, isolated myself’BJP president JP Nadda tested positive for Covid-19. "I got my Covid test done after experiencing initial symptoms. My report has come positive. I am feeling fine now. On the advice of doctors, I have isolated myself.All those who have come in contact with me in the last few days are requested to get themselves checked," he tweeted.Maharashtra reports 31 new Omicron cases, tally goes up to 1,247Maharashtra reported 31 new Omicron Covid-19 cases with Pune City alone adding 28 cases to the tally. Pune Rural added two cases and Pimpri Chinchwad reported one cases. With this, the state tally went up to 1,247.Maharashtra logs 33,470 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai's positivity rate touches 23% with 13,648 new infectionsWith 33,470 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra's total caseload went up to 69,53,514 and the death toll reached 1,41,647.In Mumbai 13,648 more people tested positive while five lost their lives, as the caseload and the total deaths in the city stood at 9,26,170 and 16,411 respectively.Covid-19 precautionary dose: Assam jabs 7,921 eligible people on day 1In Assam, on the first day of administering ‘precaution dose' or the third dose for Covid-19, as many as 7,921 healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens above 60 with comorbidities were administered the shot, reports ANI citing state government data. ICMR says contacts of Covid patients need no testing unless at risk due to age or comorbiditiesAdvisory on Purposive Testing Strategy for COVID-19 in India (Version VII, dated 10th January 2022) @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/0bFN4R5gZ4The Indian Council of Medical Research, in an advisory, said that the contacts of Covid-19 patients do not need testing unless identified as high risk based on age or comorbidities.Karnataka CM Bommai tests Covid positive with ‘mild symptoms’, under home quarantineI have tested positive for COVID -19 today with mild symptoms. My health is fine, I am under home quarantine. I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai tested positive for Covid-19 with “mild symptoms” and is under home quarantine. “I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested,” he tweeted. Delhi reports 19,166 new Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths in 24 hrs; active caseload at 65,806With 19,166 new Covid-19 infections and 17 deaths, the total caseload in Delhi 1,568,896 and the death toll mounted to 25,177. The daily positivity rate was at 25% and the active caseload stood at 65,806.DDMA shuts all restaurants, bars in Delhi amid Covid spread, allows only takeawaysDelhi Health Department was advised to make adequate arrangements for additional manpower in hospitals and to scale up the vaccination efforts including for those in age group of 15-18 years: Delhi LGThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority has ordered the shutdown of all restaurants and bars in the national capital and allowed only takeaway service to function, reports ANI. Dharavi reports 97 new Covid infections, active caseload at 943Dharavi in Mumbai reported 97 new Covid-19 cases and the active caseload there reached 943, reports ANI citing data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Uttarkhand shuts schools till Jan 16 for all classes due to Omicron spreadUttarakhand government has shut schools for all classes till January 16 due to the spread of Omicron Covid-19 variant, reports ANI. Online teaching will be continued, the government said. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar tests positive for Covid-19, under home isolationमाननीय मुख्यमंत्री श्री नीतीश कुमार कोरोना जाँच में पॉज़िटिव पाये गए हैं। चिकित्सकों की सलाह पर वह होम आइसोलेशन में हैं। उन्होंने सभी से कोविड अनुकूल सावधानियां बरतने की अपील की है।Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently under home isolation, his office said. In Covid review meet, health minister Mandaviya asks states/UTs to keep tab on oxygen infraUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a meeting with the health ministers of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and Maharashtra, advised them to ensure that the Oxygen infrastructure be kept in a functional and operational state, reports ANI.‘Deepest condolences to victims, closely following developments in Kazakhstan’: MEAThe ministry of external affairs said that India is closely following the recent developments in Kazakhstan, reports ANI. “We express our deepest condolences to families of innocent victims who have lost lives in the violence. As a close and friendly partner of Kazakhstan, we look forward to an early stabilization of the situation,” the ministry said. 27 test Omicron positive in Bihar, genome sequencing returns 1 ‘unknown variant’ As many as 32 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the genomic sequencing lab, out of which 27 samples have tested positive for Omicron, four for Delta and one for an unknown variant of the virus, reports ANI citing the director of Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna.Haryana to shut schools, colleges till Jan 26 amid Covid-19 surgeThe Haryana government has decided to shut all schools and colleges in the state till January 26 due to the rising Covid-19 infections. Online teaching to continue during the time, state education Minister Kanwar Pal said.The state had earlier declared winter holidays from January 3 to 12.Kerala reports 17 more Omicron cases, tally now at 345Kerala reported 17 more Covid-19 cases of the Omicron variant and the tally is now at 345, said state health minister Veena George.Chandigarh asks schools to brief students 15 to 18 years of age about Covid vaccinationThe Chandigarh administration asked the principals of all government and private schools in the UT to inform their students, between 15 and 18 years of age, about the options for Covid-19 vaccination, reports ANI. It also said that appropriate action will be taken in case of noncompliance.Defence minister Rajnath Singh tests positive for Covid-19, symptoms mildUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms. “I have tested positive for Corona today with mild symptoms. I am under home quarantine. I request everyone who have recently come in my contact to isolate themselves and get tested,” he tweeted.India & China to hold 14th round of military talks on January 12The 14th round of senior highest military commander level (SHMCL) talks between India and Chian will take place at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point, on the Chinese side on January 12. The Indian side is looking forward to constructive dialogue to resolve the balance friction areas, reports ANI citing officials from the Indian Army.Andhra Pradesh announces 11pm-5am night curfew amid Covid surgeAndhra Pradesh CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy announced a night curfew from 11pm to 5am in the State, in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, reports ANI citing the Chief Minister's Office (CMO).TN govt allows ‘Jallikattu’ event with restrictions amid Covid-19 surgeAmid rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Tamil Nadu government allowed the ‘Jallikattu’ event – traditionally held during the festival of Pongal – with restrictions on the spectator capacity.Only 50% of spectators or 150 people – whichever is lesser – will be allowed. Also, all spectators should be fully vaccinated. ‘Few defections won’t deter our agenda': Goa CM SawantBharatiya Janata Party is a big family that continues to serve the motherland with full devotion! A few defections, to fulfil the agenda of greed and personal interests cannot deter our agenda of Good Governance. 1/2Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that a few defections from the state BJP unit will not deter them from their agenda. “Bharatiya Janata Party is a big family that continues to serve the motherland with full devotion! A few defections, to fulfil the agenda of greed and personal interests cannot deter our agenda of Good Governance,” he tweeted.DDMA to not impose lockdown in Capital; some more curbs to be introducedDDMA on Monday decided to not impose lockdown in Delhi but some more restrictions will be imposed without creating disadvantage to people due to rising cases. Dine-in facilities at restaurants are likely to be prohibited, but takeaways will be allowedMoscow-led mission will end 'soon': Kazakh leaderKazakh leader says unrest was 'attempted coup d'etat,' says Kazakhstan will 'never fire' on peaceful protesters. Moscow-led mission will end 'soon,' he also said. 1,200 Rohingya refugees' homes gutted in a massive fireAround 1,200 Rohingya refugees' homes were destroyed in a massive fire in the Kata area of Camp-16 refugee camp in Ukhiya of Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh on Sunday. The cause of the blaze has not been established yet. No casualty has been reported so far.PM Modi sends 100 pairs of jute footwear for Kashi Vishwanath Dham workersPrime Minister Narendra Modi has sent 100 pairs of jute footwear for those working at the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, people aware of the developments said. The redeveloped project worth ₹339 crore in Varanasi was inaugurated by PM Modi on December 13 last year. He represents Varanasi in the Lok Sabha. Read MoreNovak Djokovic wins court case, Australian judge orders release from immigration detentionAn Australian judge has reinstated tennis star Novak Djokovic's visa, which was canceled last week because he is unvaccinated. Read MoreEx-SC judge to head panel to probe security lapse during PM's visit to Punjab, rules top courtSupreme Court directs setting up a panel, to be headed by an ex-SC judge to probe PM's security breach in Punjab last week. The panel will also include DG, Chandigarh, registrar general of Punjab and Haryana high court, an NIA officer and a senior police officer of the Punjab government.The court will name the retired judge and other officers in its order to be released later today.Novak wins court battle in triumphant hearing to stay in AustraliaWorld tennis number one Novak Djokovic won a shock victory in his bid to remain in Australia Monday, with a judge ordering his immediate release from immigration detention.‘Yes there is a breach': SC on PM's alleged security breach Hearing the petition on an alleged breach in the Prime Minister's security, the Supreme Court asserts, "Yes there is a breach and Punjab government has admitted as well. The question is if an inquiry is held, what will be its scope. If you want to take disciplinary action against officers what remains for this court to look into?"PM security breach: SC begins hearing on plea seeking court monitored probeThe Supreme Court begins hearing on a peition seeking court monitored probe into the alleged security breach of the Prime minister. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, tells Supreme Court that showcause notices were issued to DG and Punjab Chief Secretary before the proceedings of Central govt's Committee was halted. No hearing done by the committee appointed, he says, as per ANI. Djokovic wins fresh deportation delayAn Australian judge has agreed to delay any effort to deport tennis star Novak Djokovic to late Monday, as his court case continues in Melbourne, reports AFP.Rain, snowfall bring in cold in north India: What is the reason behind it?The entire north India has been reeling under severe cold wave conditions, with mercury plunging to sub-zero levels in upper reaches of the Himalayas. Heavy rainfall has made the matters worse, bringing the day chill across the region. Read MoreMyanmar's Suu Kyi convicted on new charges, jailed for four years: ReportA Myanmar junta court on Monday convicted Aung San Suu Kyi of three criminal charges, sentencing her to four years in prison in the latest round of a legal onslaught against the ousted civilian leader.A source with knowledge of the case told AFP the 76-year-old was found guilty of two charges related to illegally importing and owning walkie-talkies and one of breaking coronavirus rules.‘Govt committed to…’: Mandaviya as India begins administering precautionary doseThe central government is committed to provide ‘extra security cover’ to health care and frontline workers, said Union health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday, as India began administering ‘precautionary dose’ of Covid-19 vaccines to health care and frontline staff, as well as citizens with comorbidities aged 60 and above. Read MoreCovid-19 active cases in India top 700,000; tally rises by 179,723For fourth straight day, India sees spike in daily Covid-19 tally at 179,723; active cases top 700,000. Fire breaks out in a Mumbai godown; no casualitiesA level-2 fire broke out in a wooden godown near Mustafa Bazar in the Byculla area of Mumbai. 8 fire brigades reached on the spot to control the fire; no casualties reported so far, reports news agency ANI citing Mumbai Fire Brigade.Over 300 Delhi police personnel test positive for Covid-19Over 300 Delhi Police personnel, including the Public Relations Officer (PRO) and Additional Commissioner Chinmoy Biswal, test Covid-19 positive,  Delhi PoliceUS comedian and 'Full House' star Bob Saget found dead: policeBob Saget, the US comedian who delighted millions as the star of television's "Full House" in the 1980s and 1990s, has been found dead in a Florida hotel room, the local sheriff said Sunday."Earlier today, deputies were called to the Ritz-Carlton Orlando, Grande Lakes for a call about an unresponsive man in a hotel room. The man was identified as Robert Saget & pronounced deceased on scene. Detectives found no signs of foul play or drug use in this case," the Orange County Sheriff's office tweeted from its verified account.Health minister Mandaviya to chair Covid-19 review meeting with 5 states, 1 UT todayUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will on Monday chair a meeting to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in five states and one Union territory (UT), news agency PTI reported.Breach in PM Modi's security: Supreme Court to hear petition todayThe Supreme Court on Monday will hear a petition seeking a court-monitored investigation into the alleged security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Punjab last week. The Prime Minister's convoy had to spend 15-20 minutes on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-10-2022-101641775398350.html
10-01-2022||India||Breach in PM Modi's security: Supreme Court to hear petition today||The Supreme Court on Monday will hear a petition seeking a court-monitored investigation into the alleged security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Punjab last week. The Prime Minister's convoy had to spend 15-20 minutes on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters.A three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice NV Ramana, and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, will take up the petition. It was filed by an organisation named 'Lawyers Voice'.In the plea, the organisation has termed the incident during the Prime Minister's visit to Punjab's Ferozepur a "serious and deliberate lapse" on part of the state government. It has also demanded stern action against "erring" officials of the Punjab government.On Friday, senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing from petitioner's side, argued in the top court that the breach in the Prime Minister's security is not an issue of state subject or law and order, and falls under Special Protection Groups (SPG) Act.It is the duty of the Centre, state and other local authorities to act in aid of the director of any member of the SPG, he also told the court, according to news agency ANI. "The issue of Prime Minister protection is a national security issue and comes under parliamentary purview," Singh also said.Singh also argued that it was a serious lapse on the part of the Punjab government to allow the PM's cavalcade to be stranded on the road causing an unacceptable security breach.On January 5, PM Modi was scheduled to visit Ferozepur district; however, the trip was cut short and his address had to be cancelled after his cavalcade was stopped on a flyover due to farmers' protest. Many leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have slammed the Punjab government, alleging that details of PM Modi's route were shared with unauthorised persons, which led to a blockade of the road by protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breach-in-pm-modi-s-security-supreme-court-to-hear-petition-today-101641775530408.html
10-01-2022||India||Health minister Mandaviya to chair Covid-19 review meeting with 5 states, 1 UT today||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will on Monday chair a meeting to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in five states and one Union territory (UT), news agency PTI reported.The meeting will be attended by the health ministers of Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. Also Read| Health staff, senior citizens to get 3rd dose of vaccine from todayIt comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the pandemic situation across the country on Sunday that has been worsening due to the fast-spreading Omicron variant of Covid-19.At the meeting, PM Modi called for ensuring adequate health infrastructure at the district level and accelerating the vaccination drive for adolescents in mission mode.According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), Modi said that intensive containment and active surveillance should continue in clusters reporting higher cases and required technical support be provided to states which are reporting higher cases presently.“He (Modi) highlighted the need to ensure effective usage of masks and physical distancing measures as a new normal to control the spread,” the statement said.Also Read| Focus on Covid testing, genome sequencing to fight evolving virus: PM ModiThe Prime Minister also exhorted the need for effective implementation of home isolation for mild/asymptomatic cases and to disseminate factual information to the community at large, it added.India's Omicron count is over 3,600 with Maharashtra, Delhi and Karnataka being the maximum contributors. Maharashtra is the worst hit with the variant with over 1,000 cases followed by Delhi at 513 and Karnataka at 441.For the past three days, the country's daily Covid-19 tally has been well over the 100,000-mark with 159,632 new cases recorded on Sunday. The active cases are nearing 600,000-mark and the total recoveries and deaths stand at 34,453,603 and 483,790 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-to-chair-covid-19-review-meeting-with-5-states-1-ut-today-101641772605096.html
10-01-2022||India||Kathputli live: Musicians, puppeteers of Delhi colony to get digital viewers||These days a group of about half a dozen artistes of Kathputli colony — puppeteers, drummers, dancers – come together, wearing masks, to practise their art inside a small room made of aerocon. The room, its wall covered with black fabric, has a mobile phone on a tripod, microphone, an audio recorder, lights, and a laptop. The artistes are rehearsing for Kathputli Utsav, an online art festival to be hosted in February by the University of Manchester in the UK for the artistes of the colony.“The two-hour event will have performances, talks and panel discussions on the condition of artistes in India during the pandemic,” says Vijay Maitri, a community leader and a theatre artiste . “The online event will be beamed live from our colony to be seen live on a large screen at the university in the UK.Artistes here have been using technology to save their art and livelihoods during the pandemic.”Indeed, hundreds of performing artistes and craftsmen in Kathputli Colony, perhaps the country’s biggest community of performing artistes, have taken to technology in a big way in the past two years of the pandemic, organising online shows, workshops for children and making educational videos using puppets on various subjects, including Covid.When the pandemic struck, the artistes of the colony who used to perform at weddings, birthday parties, malls and restaurants struggled to make ends meet as shows dried up.In fact, Covid-19 was a double whammy for 2,800 families of the Kathputli colony, who, for over four years have been living in squalid conditions in a transit camp in Anand Parbat after their colony was demolished for DDA’s first in situ slum rehabilitation project. Displaced and out of work, they struggled to survive. “When the first lockdown happened, the situation was dire; many families here had nothing to eat. A few young artistes, who had some savings, collected money to help, and also approached non-profits across the city, which came forward to donate ration kits,” says Maitri.As part of the relief efforts, Maitri and his young team of volunteers also organized an online show on Zoom with the objective of getting people to contribute to the fundraising campaign they started on a crowdfunding platform. Over 100 people, says Maitri, watched the event live across the world and some of them contributed to the fund raiser. “That is when we realized that our artists can also do shows online to earn some money, ” says Maitri, an engineer-turned-social activist, who was born and brought in the Kathputli colony, where he came to live and work for the community after quitting his job with a multinational company. “ We started teaching young performers in the colony how to create live events on Zoom, Facebook, and Instagram.”The team also set up a makeshift studio in one of the rooms of the transit camp, to organise online performances. “We made a list of equipment we needed for live events-- speakers, microphones, lights, sounds mixers, cameras, and circulated it among our friends and well-wishers outside the colony on WhatsApp; they responded by donating many of this equipment, and we got going,” Maitri said.Many artistes have also turned their cramped one-room houses in the transit camp into a stage by using green or black fabric to cover walls and decorating the space with puppets and other handicrafts by local craftsmen.Vinay Bhatt, 26, a puppeteer, is one such artist. He often goes live on Zoom from his room in the transit camp and has so far done two dozen online shows and puppetry workshops. He says that until the lockdown he knew nothing about online shows, but he was trained by his friends in art circles outside the colony. One of his friends, he says, even gifted him a laptop and he got other equipment such webcam on Dariya Dil Dukaan , a gift economy forum on Facebook. Bhatt, who has studied up to fourth standard, has not only done several live shows but online puppetry workshops for a company providing Art Integrated Learning (AIL) for children and several educational videos using puppets on Covid and other subjects for various government and non-government organisations.“Online shows are not a replacement for physical shows because the artistes crave for the audience’s applause. In an online show, we perform for cameras, which get boring at times, but at least we are able to sustain ourselves financially and keep our art alive. Otherwise, our art and artistes may soon be forgotten without any kind of shows,” says Vinay Bhatt.And how much does he get paid for an online show? “ I used to earn about ₹7,000 for performing at a birthday party, but I get almost half the money for a similar online performance,” says Bhatt, who has also set up, Puppet Kala, which he describes as a ‘production house’ to help local artistes do online shows. His most recent online show, he says, was for a birthday party at an army officer’s house in the Delhi cantonment. “ While our income is nowhere close to pre-pandemic levels, but now I am confident that I can use all my experience and knowledge of various digital tools to sustain myself through the worst of times. I think every performing artist must learn technology,” he says.Agrees Santosh Bhatt, 50, another well-known puppeteer in the colony, who has done several online shows and workshops. He says before the pandemic hardly any artiste had a Paytm account, but now most receive payment for their online performances on online wallets such as Paytm or Google Pay. “ We were trained by young volunteers in using mobile wallets. While we are getting little money through online shows, at least we are getting newer audiences, which might help us revive our dying art,” says Santosh.Many Kathputli artistes, led by Maitri, are also collaborating with foreign artistes online. In October, for example, a group of drummers in the colony collaborated with artistes from Scotland, Jordan, Zambia, Kenya as part of a project by Tinder Box Collective, a community of young artists and musicians in Scotland. The project called ‘Samta Sessions’ aims to form an international collective of musicians, artists, dancers, puppeteers and community groups, in India, Kenya, Zambia, Scotland, Jordan, Nigeria and Ireland and create new opportunities for them.“It was a great experience creating music together with artistes from so many countries online. We hope it will also give us an opportunity to do more online and offline shows in these countries,” says Vinod Bhatt, a drummer.Maitri is now running a three- month fellowship for youngsters of the Kathputli colony in partnership with Pravah, an NGO. Under the fellowship, 10 youngsters are doing projects in mental health, education, digital literacy, among others in the colony.Rohit Bhatt, 21, is handling a project in digital literacy, helping the artistes in the colony organize online shows. “I go door to door training artistes in the use of the mobile phone for live shows. While youngsters here, though not very educated, are quick to learn, the older artistes find it difficult to use technology. But everyone is keen to adopt technology,” says Rohit. “We have so far trained over 100 artistes in creating online events on Zoom, Facebook and Instagram , and will train many more in the coming months. I firmly believe that technology can really help save our art. The pandemic made them hopeless, but technology is giving artistes a new hope.”
10-01-2022||India||Biomedical waste a concern amid soaring Covid-19 cases||With the number of Covid-19 patients in Delhi under home isolation increasing sharply over the past couple of weeks, the city’s municipal corporations have restructured their biomedical waste collection programmes to meet hygiene and safety standards required to keep residents andcivic workers safe. However, concerns over the mixing of contaminated waste and general municipal waste, as well as the lack of safety equipment among sanitation workers continue to remain a key concern among unions and organisations working with informal waste pickers.According to the health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Sunday, more than 35,000 Covid-19 patients in Delhi were isolating at home.A senior official from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) sanitation department said that the under the third wave action plan, the civic body has deployed one vehicle for each of the 104 wards under the corporation to collect biomedical waste from homes with Covid-19 patients.“Duty charts for each ward have been released and a nodal officer has been deployed at the zonal level to coordinate the collection of biomedical waste. The collection is taking place according to the lists provided by the district surveillance officers,” he added.Chhail Bihari Goswami, leader of the House, North Delhi Municipal Corporation said the civic body is deploying auto-tippers to collect contaminated waste at the zonal level.Bir Singh Panwar, chairman of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) standing committee said a team of a public health inspector, area malaria inspector, a domestic breeding checker and sanitation worker have been deputed to collect biomedical waste from homes where Covid-19 patients are isolating.“An adequate number of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, safety gear and yellow waste collection bags for contaminated waste have been provided to these teams. The collected waste will be taken to Swami Dayanand Hospital, where it will be incinerated,” he added.“The deputy health officer will share the details and addresses of Covid-19 patients with the sanitation inspector every day,” he said.Guidelines issued by the central anti-pollution body mandate that biomedical waste generated during the treatment of Covid-19 patients be treated and disposed off in accordance with the Biomedical Waste Management Rules (2016).Reports by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that Delhi produced around 18.79 tonnes of Covid-related biomedical waste in May last year, amid the fourth wave of infections. This fell to 7.6 tonnes a day in June, as the fourth wave subsided. It dropped further to 3.55 tonnes a day the month after that.However, staffers and resident welfare groups have flagged concerns over the safety of frontline workers engaged in collecting biomedical waste from homes where Covid-19 patients are isolating.Chetan Das Chavaria, who heads the Akhil Bharatiya Mazdoor Parshad, a sanitation workers union, said waste collectors and sweepers are at the frontline of hygiene operations and face the risk of contracting the infection.“We cannot work from home. It is a 24-hour risk to our families too. The administration should at least provide safety gear and mark the home isolation houses separately,” Chavaria said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biomedical-waste-a-concern-amid-soaring-covid-19-cases-101641773549464.html
10-01-2022||India||Food delivery agent run over by police constable in Rohini||A 38-year-old man working with a food delivery service was killed after a car driven by a Delhi Police constable rammed his motorcycle in Rohini on Saturday night, the police said.The police identified the victim as Salil Tripathi, a former manager with a small eatery, who worked as a delivery agent with the app-based service.According to the police, the suspect, Jile Singh, “appeared drunk” at the time, but this was yet to be conclusively ascertained.“We will know for sure once we receive his medical report,” said Pranav Tayal, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini).Singh, who serves at the Budh Vihar police station, was formally arrested from the accident spot, but has been hospitalised after suffering injuries himself.“He has been booked for causing death due to negligence and rash driving,” Tayal said.Tripathi was out to deliver a food order around 10pm on Saturday when the policeman’s car rammed his motorcycle head on.The accident took place on the service road near D Mall in Rohini. The car also went on to hit a DTC bus.Vijay Kumar, the bus driver, told the police that the car first hit the motorcycle and then crashed into the bus. The accident left the motorcycle mangled.Police learnt of the incident when Tripathi was rushed to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.The police then visited the accident site to find Singh sitting at a nearby bus stand, where he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-delivery-agent-run-over-by-police-constable-in-rohini-101641767589215.html
10-01-2022||India||TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee cancels Goa visit in view of Covid-19 pandemic||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee cancelled his Goa trip on Sunday in view of the rise in coronavirus infection across the country, party leaders said. Banerjee was supposed to leave Kolkata on Sunday for a three-day visit to Goa where the TMC will contest the upcoming assembly polls. The development came a day after Banerjee held meetings with bureaucrats and doctors in South 24 Parganas district and said that he personally feels that all religious festivals and elections should be put on hold for at least two months in the interest of public safety. “It is my personal opinion that saving lives and the society is more important. I cannot comment on verdicts passed by courts or orders of the election commission. I feel that everything can take place if people live,” Banerjee said on Saturday. Banerjee, who is the Lok Sabha member from Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas, also batted for some strict guidelines in view of the Ganga Sagar festival to be held in the district a week later. The guidelines he announced include wearing of two masks, control rooms in every gram panchayat area, mobile health check-up camps in certain pockets, 24-hour tele-consultation with doctors, isolation facilities and closure of markets for two consecutive days every week. The opposition parties targeted Banerjee since he made the statement two weeks before the elections at four municipal corporations in Bengal. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said, “If Abhishek Banerjee is so concerned about public safety, why isn’t the government postponing the civic body elections? These are tactics to mislead people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-abhishek-banerjee-cancels-goa-visit-in-view-of-covid-19-pandemic-101641763224522.html
10-01-2022||India||Rajasthan govt prepares draft of right to health law, defines patients’ rights||JAIPUR: At the time Covid cases are surging again due to Omicron variant, the Rajasthan government has prepared a draft of the country’s first Right to Health Law that defines rights of patients, their attendants and healthcare providers and provides for a mechanism to redress grievances of the stakeholders, according to senior Rajasthan government officials. A senior Rajasthan government official familiar with the development said the bill will be introduced in the budget session of the state assembly, likely to start in March, after getting an approval of the state cabinet. A final draft will be prepared for cabinet consideration after consulting all stakeholders, the official quoted above said. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot in 2021 budget announced that the state will provide right to health to all. He had also announced universal healthcare scheme worth ₹3,500 crore, under which every family in the state would get medical insurance benefits up to ₹5 lakh. According to officials, the right to health guarantees certain rights to people in government and private health institutions. “The Rajasthan government is already providing facilities such as free medicines and tests, Chiranjeevi health insurance of up to ₹5 lakh, etc. This law will ensure not just effective implementation but also rights to patients and their attendants,” he said. He said the bill provides for right of the patient or his attendant to know cost of treatment of certain disease, right to consult another doctor and seek discharge of the patient, if not satisfied with the treatment. The bill also makes it mandatory for hospitals to maintain secrecy of a patient’s health records and ensure informed consent in case of sharing of health records. “The aim is to ensure equity and affordable health care and treatment of patients with dignity and respect along with transparency in running health systems,” another senior official of the health department said. For this, the second official said the hospital will have to disclose to patients or their attendants about the disease, treatment adopted and about their right to take second opinion from other doctors. The official said another highlight of the proposed bill is human resource management in every government medical institution in urban and rural areas by way of health worker patient ratio. “It is usually seen that health staff is in excess in urban areas and inadequate in rural areas. The law will ensure that there is similarity of health staff vis-à-vis patients and the posts. For this, a transfer and posting policy would come into force, which would ensure that healthcare workers will have to work in rural areas,” he said. The official added that a similar policy is in place in Tamil Nadu since 1991, and has been successful in improving rural healthcare. A third official dealing with the right to health issue said the new law will provide for fixing prices of medicines and treatment even in private hospital, whose intake of patients is increasing every year. “The bill has provision to fix rates or packages, be it heart or liver transplant, even in private hospitals,” he said. The third official said the bill provides for block, district and state grievance and redress mechanism. “The government would constitute a state health authority to redress grievances and also issue standards for hospitals including pricing and basic facilities to be provided. A committee comprising elected representatives, locals, health and administration will be constituted at every level to redress grievances, be it related to behavior, infrastructure, medicines, treatment or mishap etc,” he said. The state government will also include provisions of laws such as Rajasthan Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions Act, Rajasthan Epidemic Act etc in the RTH, the third official said. On Tuesday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that they were waiting for Central government’s rules under Clinical Establishment Act to have clarity on what all can be part of the right to health law. The rules will provide for minimum standards for all clinics and hospitals including the private ones. “The final touches to the bill would be given once the rules come. A draft is being prepared in consultation with stakeholders. “When the rules are notified, the state will launch the Right to Health in a proper manner,” said Gehlot. On why a right to health care Act, Dr Narendra Gupta, Rajasthan convener of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA) said the need to enact a right to health care has become more urgent and acute in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic which has caused havoc across the globe by infecting more than 257 million and 5.1 million deaths in a short span of time. In India alone, as per government records, about 3.5 crore people got infection and more than 4.6 lakh died. “Possibility of resurgence of this pandemic or of new pandemics is always there and it is high time that Right to Health Care Act is enacted to prevent citizens from catastrophic financial hardship in accessing health care,” he said. He added that health spending of India is about 3.5% of the GDP and of this 1.15% is public spending, which is along lowest spending by any country in the world barring the few countries in Sub Sahara Africa. People rights activist and RTI campaigner, Nikhil Dey, who had participated in the consultation over the bill, emphasised on implementation of Right to Health. “We had suggested putting the draft on public domain. The human resource policy and grievance redressal mechanism are most important aspect of the Bill. The rights and entitlement are pointless if there is no redressal mechanism for which there should be accountability law. The social audit should happen at all level be it at CHC or PHC,” he said. Secretary, Private Hospital and Nursing Home Society, Jaipur, Dr Vijay Kapoor, said all government schemes seem to be good as they are for welfare of people but government should also look after interests of hospitals. “Already the public sentiments are against doctors and medical fraternity is facing problem. Any new policy should not affect our working. Free working should be there for medical professionals,” he said. According to the NSSO 71st round survey carried out in 2017, nearly 50 million people every year either slide into poverty or fail to rise out of poverty owing to payments made by them for seeking health care. A large segment of this expenditure is on medicines, medical consultations etc. The 64th round of NSSO done in 2004 noted that out of pocket spending on health care was the second major reason for rural indebtedness and nearly a quarter of the patients self-medicate on falling sick owing to financial hardship, said Gupta. The Indian Constitution does not expressly recognise Right to Health as a fundamental right under Part III of the Constitution (Fundamental Rights). However, through judicial interpretation, this has been read into the fundamental right to life & personal liberty (Article 21) and is now considered an inseparable part of the Right to Life, legal experts have said. They added that directive principles of state policy enshrined in Chapter IV of Constitution make it mandatory for the state to protect people’s heath. 
10-01-2022||India||GenNext of Jarkiholi brothers in Belagavi prepare for poll plunge||In the last nearly two years, the powerful ‘Jarkiholi’s’ have turned into a force to be reckoned with as their sphere of influence transcends political ideologies, especially within the two national parties. The entry of Lakhan Jarkiholi, as the fourth member of the clan into the state legislature, however, is just the beginning as the next generation of the sugar barons now prepare to make their entry into active politics in the border district of Belagavi, about 505 kms from Bengaluru.For the brothers, people aware of the developments said, family comes before the party as it was demonstrated once again with Ramesh and Balachandra backing their brother (Lakhan) in the December 10 MLC polls that led to the defeat of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate in the district.Despite not being the progeny of any political lineage, the brothers have an absolute grip over the district and surrounding regions, and at least one of them (Satish) was instrumental in helping Siddaramaiah save his position as MLA by engineering a victory in Badami in 2018.Satish had slashed the BJP’s margins in the Lok Sabha bypolls last year, reinforcing his hold over the district where dynasts rule the roost.Now, the next generation is set for active politics as Priyanka and Rahul, daughter and son of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Satish Jarkiholi, and Amarnath and Santosh, sons of BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi are ready to take the poll-plunge imminently.“Both Rahul and Priyanka have trained since the past three years about social behaviour, public speaking, communication skills, problems on the ground, how the administration works, etc. I have given them each ₹1 crore to spend on social works per year by meeting people in villages and those who are in distress. Both have shown their capabilities and now they are ready to solve public grievances” Satish Jarkiholi said speaking to the Hindustan Times.The entry of subsequent generations into active politics is not new in a state and the country where dynasts keep as much power within their households, leaving little for other workers. Leaders like BS Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah, HD Deve Gowda and several others in the state and country have their next of kin already in active politics and are gearing up for it.Rahul Jarkiholi already commands a significant fan base, people aware of the developments said. A qualified engineer in Aeronautics, Rahul has young followers in all 18 assembly constituencies in the district. It is being said that Rahul will replace his father Satish Jarkiholi at the Yamakanmardi assembly constituency, while Satish is likely to move to national politics next time around. MBA graduate Priyanka also attends public events and hears public grievances. She is getting popular among women.Among two sons of Gokak MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi, elder son Amarnath is the chairman of Belgaum District Co-operative Milk Producers’ Societies Union. The name of Amarnath did the rounds as one of the contenders to get a BJP ticket to contest Belagavi Lok Sabha by-elections held in April 2021.However, he played a defensive game by saying he would not contest if the party picks Mangala Angadi, widow of former Union minister Suresh Angadi. Another son Santosh is looking at the administration of the sugar factory.“It’s left to his (Amarnath) decision when to contest the elections and where. Every development will have its own time. We will wait for the proper time to launch him. We are not in hurry,” Ramesh Jarkiholi said.People aware of the developments said that the family is also considering the Raichur Lok Sabha seat to launch Amarnath, where the Valmiki community votes play a key role.“It looks like political power saturating in one family. Although we claim it is unhealthy for democracy, people love them. They are close to the people and address their grievances. People give them power according to the constitution. The attraction of youth towards the Jarkiholi family is the secret of their political success” said professor S M Peerjade from Abul Kalam Azad College, Gokak.According to Bhimappa Gadad, who was a strong contender against Balachandra Jarkiholi in the Arabhavi constituency during the last assembly elections, the Jarkiholi brothers have become so politically powerful now that they can control any political party. As far as Gokak and Arabhavi constituencies go, political parties are just for namesake, which is dangerous to democracy. Since the Jarkiholi brothers are playing a leading role in major political parties, opponents become weaponless and keep silent. Now, the next generation of the Jarkiholi brothers is entering politics that can snatch the opportunity of some more leaders. Gadag lamented, though, it was a ‘disease’ they were being elected constitutionally.“Saturation of political power in one family leads to dictatorship in a certain scale of the area. Centralization of power equipped with money and muscle strength has wide scope to keep followers intact. If four to five members of a family enter the legislature house, bureaucracy gets weaker and starts functioning in the interest of a particular family. This leads to control of the family on every authority. Because of all these factors” Ashok Pujari, a political rival of MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi of two decades, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gennext-of-jarkiholi-brothers-in-belagavi-prepare-for-poll-plunge-101641755546539.html
10-01-2022||India||Activists plan protest against Mekedatu project under Patkar||A section of activists and others have planned to hold a protest against the proposal to construct the Mekedatu reservoir-cum-drinking water project in Karnataka, adding to the complications of an already contentious issue.Noted activist Medha Patkar is expected to be part of the protests, according to people aware of the developments.Activists and environmentalists claim that the project, if taken up, will end up with over 12,000 acres of forests and other lands that will be submerged.“All 3 KA mainstream political parties are pushing for (a) destructive dam in Mekedatu. We oppose dam, want to preserve #Mekedatu & demand eco-friendly water methods. On Jan 14, 2022, we rights groups are uniting to protest the project. Our inspiration Medha Patkar will lead us,” Kannada actor and activist Chetan Kumar said on Sunday in a post on Twitter.“BJP/Congress/JDS want ₹9,000cr reservoir project that submerges 12,000 acres of forest in Mekedatu w/ Congress pushing for it via a padayatra. We oppose this environmentally-disastrous demand & all 3 opportunistic parties. We want dam project dropped immediately,” he added.The post comes on the same day the Congress party in Karnataka began their 10-day Padayatra towards Bengaluru to pressure the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government to start work on the project.“We can never create 12,000 acres of Forest. Who are we to destroy. Bengaluru has no right to keep swallowing all natural resources , villages around. Use the 9000 crore to develop other urban areas of Karnataka. Brain-dead politics to build big dams,” Vinay Srinivasa, lawyer and activist said in a post.Mekedatu, which literally means Goat’s crossing in English, is situated around 100 kms from Bengaluru in Karnataka’s Ramanagara district.The Mekedatu issue has evoked emotions on both sides of the border as it is an extension of the century-old Cauvery river water dispute that has defined generations in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, two of India’s most industrious and progressive states.The long-winding legal battles have been used as a political currency in the past as well as an active tool to deflect attention away from other issues both sides of the border and irrespective of the party in power.The Cauvery river basin originates in Karnataka and flows through Tamil Nadu and Puducherry before it enters the Bay of Bengal. Of the total catchment area of 81,155 square kilometers, 34,273 kilometers is in Karnataka, 44,016 square kms in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and about 2,866 sq kms in Kerala.Karnataka has maintained that the Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project is to generate 400 MW of power and additionally utilise 4.75 tmcft of water for drinking and domestic needs in the state and particularly Bengaluru.The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, soon after it came to power in 2013, announced the construction of the project which would cost ₹5,912 crore (now in excess of ₹9,000 crore) to help use the excess water to quench the thirst of surrounding districts, including Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activists-plan-protest-against-mekedatu-project-under-patkar-101641755545296.html
10-01-2022||India||Bengaluru logs 9k new Covid cases out of state’s 12k||Karnataka on Sunday breached the five-digit mark for the first time since June last year as the state reported 12,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths in 24 hours, the health department said.Bengaluru topped Sunday’s charts with 9,020 new cases while the state test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 6.33%, sparking fears of more restrictions by the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state.Sunday’s tally takes the active caseload in the state to just under 50,000, Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said in a post on Twitter.“Test positivity rate in Bengaluru stays around 10% as cases increase to 9,020 today. An increase of 27% over yesterday’s tally of 7,113. The Capital accounts for 75% of the state’s total cases,” Sudhakar said.The positivity rate in Bengaluru, the biggest contributor to the state’s covid-19 tally, is well over 10%. Karnataka accounts for 333 cases of Omicron, the new variant of the novel coronavirus. Strict restrictions like night and weekend curfews have already been imposed across the state to contain the growing number of Covid cases.However, DK Shivakumar, president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), said that the BJP was making up numbers for political reasons.“They are showing higher numbers. No one is admitted to the ICU. They are doing it for political reasons,” he said.The Election Commission of India (ECI), too, has announced elections in five states from February 10. The polls would see more gatherings and movement of people as political parties carry out campaigning and rallies to mobilise support.Sudhakar has said that experts said that the third wave is likely to peak in mid-February, triggering more restrictions. Businesses and establishments in Bengaluru and other places have already expressed their objections to the restrictions that add to their mounting losses due to the pandemic-induced lockdowns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-logs-9k-new-covid-cases-out-of-state-s-12k-101641755544116.html
10-01-2022||India||Congress begins Mekedatu march despite Covid-19 restrictions||The Congress in Karnataka on Sunday began its 10-day ‘padayatra’ (march), demanding implementation of the Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river, despite the Covid-19 restrictions and opposition from the BJP.Thousands of people poured into Sangama in Kanakpura taluka in Ramanagara district to take part in the 100-km padayatra. Leaders of the Congress at the national, state, and district local levels landed at the venue which resembles a large fair with performers, loud speakers and huge stages to host the people who are in Ramanagara on the first day of the march.Apart from pressuring the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government to initiate works on the contentious Mekedatu project, the padayatra is also an attempt by the Sonia Gandhi-led party to mobilise support ahead of crucial local elections in the state over the next few months and 2023 assembly polls.DK Shivakumar, the president of the Congress party in Karnataka, is hoping to find his footing and get some traction in his favour within an organisation torn between him and leader of opposition Siddaramaiah.“Only one aim - Mekedatu! And we are on the way to fulfil it!,” he said in a post on Twitter.The sea of blue hats continued its journey with leaders walking with their respective entourages.Though Siddaramaiah did begin his march, he was forced to leave after feeling unwell, according to reports.“Congress has undertaken politically motivated Mekedatu padayatra to fool the people. But you can’t fool the people again and again,” Basavaraj Bommai, the chief minister of Karnataka, said on Sunday.He added that the Congress was unable to submit a proper detailed project report during its five-year tenure.“Now as the assembly elections are approaching, they have taken out the padayatra with political motivation. A sense of guilt is haunting them as they had not done anything for implementing the project during their reign. So they are out to fool the people. This is a political padayatra,” the chief minister said.The BJP government has warned of action against the proposed march as it violates Covid-19 restrictions over a rise in infections across the state.“I pray with folded hands to the chief minister that he should withdraw the curfew. Take back the ban imposed by the DC (district collector). This struggle is for you as well since you also want to start the project and it is the duty of any political party to undertake such struggles,” Shivakumar told a local Kannada channel on Sunday morning.The Congress is hoping to repeat its 2010 march from Bengaluru to Ballari, about 320 kms, during the peak of the illegal mining scandal against then BJP minister and kingpin, Gali Janardhana Reddy, that eventually led to the collapse of the BJP’s first government in southern India and reduced the party to just 40 seats in 2013 as against 110 in 2008.The Congress is also trying to get various communities to back the march as part of its efforts to mobilise support, especially in the Old Mysuru region where it has a tough battle with the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) and even the BJP which has steadily increased its footprint in the Vokkaliga heartland.However, not all sections lent support for the cause.Kannada actor Chetan Kumar expressed his reservations over the project and the harm it actually would cause.“BJP/Congress/JDS want ₹9,000cr reservoir project that submerges 12,000 acres of forest in Mekedatu w/ Congress pushing for it via a padayatra. We oppose this environmentally-disastrous demand & all 3 opportunistic parties. We want dam project dropped immediately,” the actor said in a post on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-begins-mekedatu-march-despite-covid-19-restrictions-101641755484707.html
10-01-2022||India||CBI files case against Tamil Nadu rights group for FCRA rules violation||Based on a complaint from 2014, the CBI has registered a case against Madurai-based Centre for Promotion of Social Concerns (CPSC) under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976.The move comes at a time when the union ministry of home affairs removed 6,000 organisations, including Oxfam India, from the list of registered organisations under the FCRA from January 1.CPSC is a trust founded in 1981 and runs a programme unit called “People’s Watch” founded by well-known human rights advocate and activist Henri Tiphagne.People’s Watch is known for taking up cases of human rights violations such as custodial deaths, caste atrocities and extrajudicial killings, including representing the victims of the massacre in Thoothukudi district in 2018 where Tamil Nadu police have been accused of opening fire and killing 13 environment protesters.Tiphange, the executive director of People’s Watch, said CBI officials came with a search warrant to their organisation on Saturday to collect documents reviewed by their peers in 2012 and 2013.An FIR, a copy of which is with HT, was registered in Chennai on January 6, based on a complaint filed by the then director of the foreigners division (FCRA wing) in the Ministry of Home Affairs, AK Sinha in 2014.The complaint said the ministry conducted two inspections at CPSC in 2012 and 2014 and had found that after the suspension of FCRA registration, the organisation had withdrawn ₹28 lakh in July 2012.Another amount of ₹1.69 crore was withdrawn from 2008 to 2012 which did not tally with the available vouchers.Foreign contributions of ₹4454,000 were withdrawn in cash from 2011 to 2013 on 240 occasions.“The association used foreign contributions for a purpose other than for which it was received,” the FIR stated.The complaint added that People’s Watch was acting like a separate entity communicating directly with foreign contribution guarantee organisations and most of the vouchers and bills were not in the name of CPSC.The organisation has now been booked under sections 120-B r/w, 420 IPC, section 33,35 39, r/w 7, 8 and 13 of FCRA 2010.The FIR also added that in 2020, the then Tamil Nadu government (under the AIADMK) conveyed its consent to the CBI for investigation in the matter.Withdrawal and transfer of sums in the FIR were all legal under the law during that period (before an amendment to the FCRA), said Tiphange.“The FIR is coming 10 years later. It is based totally on falsehood,” said Tiphange.He said the details of the FIR relate to the period 2008-2012 on the basis of which there were three successive suspensions under the FCRA issued by the previous government.“After the third suspension order was given in 2013, we challenged that in the Delhi high court and in May 2014, the ministry of home affairs opened our bank account and said they have no problems in our functioning,” said Tiphange.“My simple question is—the so called FIR calls it a criminal case with offence of conspiracy and cheating. If that were true, relating to the period of the FIR , the ministry would not have allowed us to open the bank account. In 2016, once again we were forced to be closed. Our FCRA was not renewed and we went to court once again. It is pending in the Delhi high court.”Tiphange took to the social media to establish his position. “The union government believes that by intimidating us in these ways, we, the human rights workers, can be silenced,” he said during his Facebook live on Sunday.He took to Twitter to say that their FCRA account has been frozen for more than 2,500 days. “If this is not vindictiveness, what is it? We are willing to cooperate because of our trust in the rule of law.”
10-01-2022||India||Fresh case against actor Dileep, brother||The Kerala police crime branch on Sunday registered a fresh case against Malayalam actor Dileep, his brother and four others for allegedly threatening the investigating officer in the 2017 actor abduction and sexual assault case. The sensational case took a fresh turn after director Balachandra Kumar’s interview to a TV channel in December last year in which he claimed Dileep was in possession of tapes of the assault. He also submitted several audio tapes to the police. In one of the tapes, one person allegedly identified as Anoop, Dileep’s brother, can be beard talking about a conspiracy to kill investigating officer Baiju Paulose. The conservation allegedly took place in November 2017 at the actor’s house in Aluva in Ernakulam district, the crime branch has said in its FIR. In another audio clip, a muffled voice is heard talking about using a truck to run over Paulose. “We may have to look at another ₹one-and-a-half crore in this regard,” the voice was heard saying, the crime breach pointed out in the FIR. The new FIR has been filed against six Dileep, brother Anoop, another relative Suraj, and two others (Appu and Babu) and a man director Kumar addressed as the ‘VIP.’ Police also started a fresh inquiry to reveal the identity of the so-called VIP. The accused are charged under Indian penal code sections 116 (abetment of offence), 118 (concealing design to commit an offence), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation). A senior police official of the crime branch said all accused including Dileep will be questioned in a couple of days. Crime branch Additional Director of Police S Sreejith is supervising the investigation. After Kumar’s revelations, the Kerala government approached the Supreme Court last week with a plea to extend the trial for six more months. Kumar, a former friend of actor Dileep, claimed two weeks ago that the actor was in possession of the video of the assault on a woman actor and that he tried to influence many witnesses in the case. He also alleged that he had met the main accused in the case, Pulsar Suni, at the residence of actor Dileep in 2016 when he had gone there to discuss a film project. Later the prosecution moved a plea in the court to record Kumar’s statement under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The case relates to an incident in 2017 in which a woman actor was waylaid, kidnapped and sexually assaulted by a gang in Kochi while she was returning home after a shooting assignment. Six months after the incident, Dileep was arrested and made an accused in the case. Prosecution alleged that the attack was planned at the behest of Dileep to settle an old score with the woman. New allegations against Dileep and prosecution’s demand for a fresh probe surfaced at a time when the trial court’s six-month extension given by the Supreme Court is set to expire on February 16. Dileep was not available for his comment. But last week, he wrote to state police chief Anil Kant seeking Paulose’s removal. He said the officer was trying to influence film workers with whom he has uneasy relations and forcing them to depose against him. He said the controversial interview of director Balachandra Kumar was part of this plot and sought to examine call records of Paulose to buttress his charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-case-against-actor-dileep-brother-101641754823823.html
10-01-2022||India||High fever, shivering among common symptoms for children with Covid: Expert||High fever and shivering are the common symptoms found in COVID-19 infected children and adolescents in the age group of 11-17 years, informed Dr Dhiren Gupta, Paediatric Pulmonologist at Sir Gangaram Hospital in Delhi on Sunday.Speaking to ANI, Dr Gupta who has been treating COVID-19 infected children and adolescents said, "Children and adolescents between the age group of 11 to 17 years who are infected with coronavirus infection are witnessing high fever and shivering."According to the health expert, COVID-19 infected infants under two years of age are also witnessing high fever and shivering and some of them even require hospitalization."I have treated around nine infants infected with COVID-19, of which one required ventilation support. As is the case with other patients, infants required hospitalization because of high-grade fever," Dr Gupta said.He further informed that the severity of the infection in adults is lesser as compared to that of delta variant of coronavirus while the same cannot be said for the infants."As per my experience, babies with less than two years of age belong to a high-risk group and the infection severity in them is almost same as that of delta variant. While those in the age bracket of 11- 18 years are having more symptoms but their case is not as severe as that of the delta," he added.Speaking on the manifestations of the Omicron variant of COVID-19, the health expert said, "This time, we have found that the virus primarily affects the upper respiratory tract of the patient. Thus, the infection exhibits symptoms like cold, headache, nasal discharge and fever with shivering."Comparing the symptoms exhibited by coronavirus infection during the second wave to that of now, Dr Gupta said, "Contrary to the second wave, it is not very common for the Omicron patients to lose the sense of taste and smell. Only two to three per 10 patients are complaining about the loss of taste and smell. This also demonstrates that there is an overlapping between the clinical features of Omicron and delta."The health expert also stated that the Omicron symptoms in vaccinated and healthy people are less severe than those who are unvaccinated, especially with comorbidities."The patients who are taking some immunosuppressant, they're predisposed to the lung involvement, that is, pneumonia. Till now, I have come across three patients who have developed pneumonia. They required steroids for the treatment," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-fever-shivering-among-common-symptoms-for-children-with-covid-expert-101641751053611.html
10-01-2022||India||Despite Covid restrictions, Andhra getting ready for traditional cockfights||Ignoring a court ban, police restriction and latest threat of Omicron variant of coronavirus, people of coastal Andhra Pradesh are getting ready for cockfights - their traditional winter sports that involves large scale gambling running into rupees hundreds of crores.The blood-sport held for three days during Sankranti festivities starting Friday, involves a fight between two trained roosters fitted with razor-sharp blades and knives on their legs. The fight continues till one of the cocks faces death or backs off.More than 1,000 “baris” (arenas) are being readied for the cockfights in East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna and parts of Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram. “More than 500 arenas are erected only in the two Godavari districts, which are known for the traditional games,” said V Raju, correspondent of a vernacular television channel from Eluru in West Godavari district.Like every year, the police have announced that stringent measures would be taken to prevent holding of cockfights, this year, too. West Godavari superintendent of police Rahul Dev Sarma said the police would use drone cameras this time to keep a tab on the cockfights during the Sankranti festival.He said the police had already seized thousands of cock knives tied to feet of fighting roosters and notices were served on the suspected cockfight organisers.On Thursday, the high court admitted a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking to impose curbs on the cockfights and asked the state government to submit details on the measures taken to prevent the bloody game. The petitioner pointed out that the high court had banned cockfights in 2017 and it was upheld by Supreme Court in 2018. “Yet, the cockfights have been going on every year, as the police have failed to implement the court orders,” he argued.According to official figures released by the state police department, as many as 1,006 cases pertaining to cockfights were booked, 4,072 people were arrested, an amount of ₹47.93 lakh was seized and 1,739 cocks were confiscated in 2021.“This is just an eyewash. The police make a lot of hungama a week before the commencement of the cockfights. But when the real cockfights begin on the night of January 13, the police quietly disappear from the scene,” Raju said.Everything is done rather openly. “Tents are erected with seating arrangements for thousands of people coming from different parts of the state and also neighbouring states like Telangana and Karnataka. From politicians to big businessmen to rich farmers to even NRIs, everybody takes part in cockfights,” he said.According to Ayyappa Swamy, a cockfight enthusiast from Bhimavaram, a major hub for cockfighting, more than ₹1,500 crore changes hands in these three days in the form of betting. “The betting ranges from ₹2 crore to ₹15 crore on each fight, depending on the people involved,” he said.Swamy said this year, the local political leaders are betting big money on the game. “It is the best way to mobilise funds for the coming elections. These leaders have spent huge money in the local body elections held last year and they have to get back their money through cockfights,” he said.The entire Godavari belt gets festive look during the Sankranti festival and hotels are packed with punters coming from different parts of the state. “During this season, it is very difficult to get a hotel room in Bhimavaram. Some big hotels charge not less than ₹10,000 per room per day,” Swamy said.The cockfights also provide a brisk business for liquor shops, eateries and fast food centres. There would also be make shift casinos for gambling and card games. “Even entertainment programmes like dances and singing are arranged for the visitors,” he said.What about Omicron scare? “Yes, definitely there is a threat, when there is a mass gathering of so many people for cockfights. But it is a sensitive issue connected to the emotions of the people. We are only requesting the people to follow the Covid-19 protocols and avoid mass gathering. It is for the revenue and police department people to enforce the rules,” said state director of health G Hymavathi.
10-01-2022||India||Covid positivity rate crosses 11% mark in Kerala after 2 months||After a gap of two months test positivity rate crossed 11 per cent mark (11.52) in Kerala on Sunday as 6,538 new Covid-19 cases reported after 54,108 samples were tested, according to the health department.Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam districts reported maximum cases, 1,507 and 1,066. Active cases have also risen to 34,902.The state also reported 30 deaths taking the total to 49,591, said the health department. After Maharashtra, Kerala reported maximum Covid-19 deaths in the country.At least 25,000 backlog deaths were added to the list as per the directive of the Supreme Court after last July.Though cases are on the rise in the state no rush is visible in hospitals and bed occupancy is less than fifty per cent in most of the hospitals. Experts said high vaccination rate (99 pc got double shots and 81 per cent received both) is the major reason for slight symptoms and many remain in quarantine in their homes.On Omicron front also cases are going up steadily, 333 now. First case of the new variant was reported on Dec 7 and numbers crossed 300 in a month’s time, statistics show.Experts said good vaccination rate will help contain the new threat of Omicron but they want people to ensure covid-appropriate behavior. They said by February-end cases may peak in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-positivity-rate-crosses-11-mark-in-kerala-after-2-months-101641754704273.html
10-01-2022||India||KCR, Left meet leads to talk of realignment of anti-BJP forces||An impromptu meeting held by Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao with national leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Communist Party of India in Hyderabad on Saturday led to the talk of realignment of political forces to take on the BJP at the national level.KCR hosted lunch for CPI (M) national general secretary Sitaram Yechuri, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, former Tripura chief minister Manik Sircar, CPI (M) politburo members Ramachandran Pillai, Balakrishnan and others at his Pragathi Bhavan residence.Later, he held a separate meeting with senior CPI leaders including its national general secretary D Raja, CPI parliamentary party leader and Kerala MP Binay Viswam, Kerala revenue minister Rajan, Telangana CPI general secretary Chada Venkat Reddy and state secretaries Palla Venkat Reddy and Kunamneni Sambasiva Rao.The CPI (M) leaders were in Hyderabad to attend the three-day meeting of the party’s central committee, while the CPI leaders were there to participate in the All India Youth Federation meetings.An official release from the chief minister’s office said the national leaders of the Left parties had made a courtesy call to the chief minister and they discussed with KCR various issues including the national political scenario and the development of Telangana.However, a senior TRS leader familiar with the development said the Left parties had sought the cooperation of the chief minister in consolidation of the anti-BJP forces in the country so as to get rid of the saffron party in the next general elections.“KCR discussed with them in detail the anti-people policies of the National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre, including paddy procurement issue, massive disinvestment in public sector undertakings, usurping of powers of the states which is against the federal spirit, misuse of central agencies to target BJP’s political rivals etc.,” the party leader said.The inherent weakness of the Congress party in various states and its inability to take on the BJP at the national level also came up for discussion at the meeting of the Left leaders with KCR. “They also discussed the need to consolidate all the like-minded parties to create an anti-BJP platform in the coming days,” the TRS leader said.While the Kerala chief minister tweeted that it was a fruitful interaction with his Telangana counterpart, CPI national general secretary Raja told reporters on Sunday that it was time all secular parties and organisations come together to resist the anti-people policies of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the communal politics of the BJP.Reacting to the meeting between the TRS chief and the national leaders of the Left parties, BJP state leader Bandi Sanjay said the communists had lost their relevance in the country. “It is ridiculous that KCR, who had once heckled the Left parties, invited them for lunch. The CPI (M) strongly opposed the formation of Telangana and it is unfortunate that the TRS is joining hands with anti-Telangana parties,” he said.All India Congress Committee spokesman Dasoju Sravan said KCR was luring the Left parties to realise his dream of playing a role in the national politics. “The communists have not been consistent in their stand towards the TRS. They took up agitations against KCR government’s policies and at the same time, supported the TRS in local body election. They should take cognizance of KCR’s covert understanding with the BJP for the last seven years,” Sravan said.
10-01-2022||India||Abandoned tiger cub develops cataract, rewilding prospects hit||The ambitious programme of the Kerala forest department to reintroduce to the wild an abandoned tiger cub named Mangala in Periyar Tiger Reserve suffered a jolt after it developed serious cataract, a senior official said adding that in the present situation, chances of releasing her in the wild are slim. HT had reported in June 2021 that the cub was around two months old when two forest guards on patrol duty had spotted her in November 2020. The hind legs were paralysed, she had issues with vision and had suffered some injuries. At the time, forest officials had told HT it was difficult for the cub to survive but the ramped up efforts to treat her. They named her Mangala since she was found near the Mangala Devi temple near Kumily (Idukki). Now, the forest department is planning to import a drug from the United States called Lanosterol, which experts said can help dissolve the cataract to an extent. An expert committee has been formed to study the future of the rewilding -- as the process of reintroducing animals to the wild in known -- in the prevailing circumstances, the senior official who did not want to be quoted said. “Its vision was blocked about 80 per cent at one point but after intense treatment, it came down to 60%. Chances of releasing it in the wild are ruled out in the present scenario. We are hoping against hope,” said the official. CChief veterinary officer Arun Zacharia however is still optimistic about the rewilding process. “When it was recovered in November 2020, it was staring at imminent death. Its hind legs were paralysed and its vision was poor. Mother usually abandons its cub in extreme situation. We brought her back to life and she has started showing wild instincts fast,” said Zacharia. He said Lanosterol was being imported because surgery was not possible. “The medicine is not used in India and we heard it is very effective in fighting cataract. We hope it will help regain its vision fast,” he said. Officials said cost of a 5 ml vial of Lanosterol is around ₹16,000. Intensive treatment and physiotherapy had restored her hind legs in six months. At one point, three veterinary doctors and three foresters were at her disposal and a physiotherapist was engaged to rectify her limp, he said. Now, 14-month old Mangala weighs a healthy 50 kg and is kept in a natural enclosure. Officials said her wilding lessons were on track and were planning to release her into the wild once she attained the age of two years. Now however, the process will be delayed. “We have created a small natural forest near her present enclosure and started releasing small prey to acclimatise her with wild surroundings. She has passed a least half of her lessons despite her poor sight. She has won many battles; we hope she will come out this malady also,” said the senior official. Rewilding is a tiresome process aimed at restoring wilderness areas and atmosphere.It includes connecting such areas and protecting or reintroducing key predators and prey. The most high-profile experiment to rewild tigers was in Madhya Pradesh, where two tiger cubs were found abandoned in the Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve in 2017. They were one and a half months old. The two cubs, however, did not become used to the idea of killing their prey and were eventually shifted to Bhopal’s zoological park in 2020.In Maharashtra, attempts to rewild cubs have not succeeded. The cub of tigress Avni, who was hunted down in November 2018, was not able to survive in the wild and had to be sent to a zoo. In Pench, a male cub had to be sent to a zoo as he was not able to survive in the wilderness. However, Malini, a tigress, adapted to the wild easily after being kept in an enclosure for several months.Much before her, a hand-reared orphaned cub was successfully re-introduced in the Panna Tiger Reserve in 2010 and it mated with a tigress from Bandhavgarh a year later, reviving the tiger population in the Madhya Pradesh reserve that had lost all tigers in 2008.
10-01-2022||India||Communal clashes break out in Andhra’s Kurnool district, 12 people injured||At least 12 people, including seven police personnel, were injured in clashes between two communities over construction of a place of worship in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district on Saturday night.Police had to fire three rounds to quell the mob, who went berserk and indulged in stone pelting, besides setting fire to a few vehicles, including the car of a local political leader, in Atmakur town.“The situation is under control. We have booked five cases against the people involved in the incident, under various sections of Indian Penal Code, including rioting, inciting communal passion and destruction of properties,” Atmakur inspector of police BR Krishnaiah told HT on Sunday.According to police, a group of people belonging to a community took up the construction of a place of worship at a disputed site at Thotageri in the town a few days ago. Following a complaint from another community, the municipal, revenue and police officials stopped the construction which had no permission.“On Saturday, the first group resumed construction of the religious structure and the second group tried to stall it. This led to a heated argument between the people of the two communities,” the police officer said.Meanwhile, a local leader representing a national party came there in supporting of his community and the rival group tried to attack him. In the process of fleeing the spot, his car collided with a two-wheeler, causing injuries to two youths. This led to further clashes between the two groups.“The agitated rival community attacked the police station with stones and sticks, on coming to know that the political leader was lodging a complaint with the police. They ransacked his car and set it afire. They also set fire to a couple of other vehicles belonging to the rival group,” the inspector said.On receiving information, Atmakur deputy superintendent of police Yerragunta Sruthi rushed to the spot with additional police forces to disperse the mob by carrying out baton charge. “But the agitators went on ransacking the police station and attacked the cops with stones. As the situation was getting out of hand, the cops opened three rounds of fire in the air,” the police official said, adding that a fire tender was brought to extinguish the fire engulfing the car and two other two-wheelers.Kurnool superintendent of Police Sudheer Kumar Reddy reached Atmakur late in the night and held discussions with the elders of the two religions to restore normalcy.State Director General of Police Gautam Sawang said some communal elements were deliberately trying to create disturbances in Kurnool district. “The situation is under complete control. Police will take stern action against those who foment communal trouble,’’ he said.
10-01-2022||India||Pakistani boat captured off Gujarat coast, 10 crew members held||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) apprehended a Pakistani fishing boat with ten crew members in Indian waters in the Arabian sea off the Gujarat coast, it said on Sunday.The boat, named ‘Yaseen,’ was intercepted by the ICG vessel ‘Ankit’ during the operational patrol on Saturday night.When the crew members of the boat failed to justify their presence in Indian waters after being questioned, the ICG ship apprehended it, the ICG said in a release.The boat tried to flee towards the Pakistani waters, but due to the quick response by the ICG ship, it was made to stop and apprehended, said the ICG.Around 2,000 kg fish and 600 litres of diesel were seized from the boat, the ICG said, adding that the boat is registered at Keti Bandar in Pakistan.The apprehended boat, with the ten crew members, is presently being towed to Porbandar for detailed investigation and joint interrogation, it said.“Indian Coast Guard ship ‘Ankit’ during an operational patrol at the Arabian Sea apprehended a Pakistani fishing boat ‘Yaseen’ along with 10 Pakistani crew, operating in Indian waters during the intervening night of January 8, 2022,” the ICG said in a release.During the initial boarding, PFB Yaseen registered at Ketibandar was found in possession of approximately 2000 kgs of the fish catch along with 600 litres of diesel, the ICG added.Sometimes, Pakistani fishing boats cross the notional international maritime boundary and enter Indian waters during fishing expeditions. There has also been a rise in cases of such boats being used to smuggle contraband drugs through the Gujarat coast.The Indian Coast Guard had on September 15 last year apprehended a Pakistani boat with 12 crew members in the Indian waters off the Gujarat coast.On December 20, a Pakistani fishing boat with six crew members on board and carrying 77 kg of heroin worth around ₹400 crore was apprehended in the Indian waters off the Gujarat coast by the ICG in a joint operation with the state Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-boat-captured-off-gujarat-coast-10-crew-members-held-101641753984065.html
10-01-2022||India||Health staff, senior citizens to get 3rd dose of vaccine from today||High-risk heath and front line workers, and senior citizens with co-morbidities can from today walk into any vaccination centre for inoculation with a third precautionary dose, provided the second dose was taken nine months ago. They can also book a slot online through the government’s CoWIN portal. “The facility to get an appointment online for the precautionary dose was opened on Saturday on the CoWIN system, and it is always better to opt for it to avoid any sort of inconveniences later on,” an official said. “The walk-in option is always there.” “The eligible beneficiaries need not register again on the CoWIN platform for their third dose,” the official said, requesting anonymity. “They can simply book a slot of their third dose.”The central government has already issued detailed guidelines to all states and Union Territories, and conducted several meetings on how to implement the process smoothly. The third shot of Covid-19 vaccines will be of the same as the first two doses. “It will be a homologous third or precautionary dose,” VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said at a recent briefing of the health ministry. “Those who have received Covaxin will receive Covaxin, and those who have earlier received primary two doses of Covishield will receive Covishield,” The policy could be reviewed as and when the government gets more information and data on other vaccines, especially on mixing of doses, Paul said. The third doses are part of the government’s next phase on coronavirus vaccinations, which comes at a time when the country is in the grip of a third wave driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 25 announced the opening of the phase, beginning with the first of the under-18 population – children between 15-18 – to get a shot from January 3. He also announced expanding the coverage to all health and front line workers, and citizens aged 60 years or above with comorbidities as these were at high risk of getting severe disease. This population group will be able to access the vaccination for precaution dose through their existing CoWIN account, the health ministry said. Eligibility of such beneficiaries for the precautionary dose will be based on the date of administration of second dose as recorded in the CoWIN system. The health ministry also directed private hospitals that function as covid vaccination centres across the country to vaccinate their staff eligible for the precautionary third dose within their hospital, and those eligible beneficiaries who are a part of armed or special forces will take within their system, as was previously done. This category of people needed the additional dose, experts said. “The immune compromised people, or those on such type of treatment or suffering from chronic medical condition that could weaken immunity are vulnerable, and need additional protection,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.
10-01-2022||India||Mumbai’s daily Covid count may be higher: Experts||After recording a massive and consistent spike since the last week of December, Mumbai’s daily caseload has hovered between 19,000 and 20,000 cases over the past four days. The number of tests conducted in the city too, has remained consistently between 67,000 and 72,000. While this may present a picture of a stabilising third wave driven by the Omicron variant, experts warn that the numbers may be far higher that what is being officially reported. The reasons? On the one hand, an increased reliance on home test kits that allows no official supervision on positive cases, and on the other hand, asymptomatic persons who are not undergoing any tests at all. Though the daily caseload has risen by nearly 44% since December 31, the city on Sunday recorded 19,474 cases which is a 4% decline over the previous day’s 20,318 cases. Even the number of tests conducted — 68,249 — was down by 2,770 from Saturday, official figures showed. As a result, the daily test positivity rate (TPR) declined, too. In fact, TPR (a function of the number of positive cases per tests conducted) has steadily declined since last week, from 29.90% on Thursday to 28.90% on Friday, 28.60% on Saturday and 28.53% on Sunday. Experts said that TPR is no longer the most reliable indicator to judge the spread of the pandemic as a large number of people with less severe symptoms are choosing not to get tested and many are opting for home self-testing kits.Hospitalisation rates, however, must be tracked as they indicate the extent of the disease burden of the third wave, experts said. In the last one week alone, the Covid-bed occupancy has gone up to 21% from around 15% a week back.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said that Mumbai’s wave seems to have flattened with daily cases between 19,000 to 20,000. “But the true picture is difficult [to judge] due to the wide use of unreported rapid tests,” he said.“We need to focus on the other criteria like doubling rate, hospitalisations, patients needing oxygen, ventilator and intensive care. The variant is circulation is highly transmissible, therefore test positivity is likely to be higher,” said Joshi said.As many as seven self-test kits have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research including Coviself by Mylab, CoviFind by Meril Diagnostics, PanBio by Abbott among others. These kits are affordable for the middle class, and range anywhere between ₹250 to ₹350.“We have witnessed a jump of almost 700% sales of our self-test kit in Mumbai in the last one week. Self-test kit is turning out to be highly beneficial given the massive increase in cases because people can get tested quickly and immediately isolate themselves,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director and co-founder of Mylab Discovery Solutions, a Pune-based firm that manufactures Coviself. According to reports, nearly 500,000 such kits have been sold in Mumbai in the past week. Chemists in Mumbai have been selling anywhere between 300 to 400 self-testing rapid antigen kits daily. “Every chemist has been reporting a high demand, but it seems to have slowed down since the past two days, as the panic is settling down,” said Hakim Kapasi, a member of the Andheri Chemist Association, an umbrella body of more than 400 chemists in the Mumbai suburb.Most test kits have a mechanism by which the suspected patient can intimate their positive status on a mobile application, which is then sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal, and thereafter to the local bodies — but this is optional. The onus is on the user to responsibly update their positive result on the app. As a result, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation cannot accurately capture the number of positive cases detected on home kits.Even so, over the past four days, self-test kits have reported around 3,000 positive results on average every day in Mumbai based on what has been uploaded to the ICMR portal. Between August 1, 2021 and January 7, only 89,326 self-test positive reports in Mumbai were intimated on the portal.“We don’t have any control on reporting of the results of self-testing,” said Mumbai’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. “We have been adding the positive reports that we come to know to our everyday tally,” she said.What’s more, the changing presentation of the disease means that many city physicians have started prescribing tests only in cases where patients have symptoms that persist beyond three days and are likely candidates for hospitalisation or for the monoclonal antibody cocktail drug.Dr Bakul Parekh, a paediatrician from Ghatkopar saw 200-odd patients in the past 10 days, but prescribed RT-PCR tests only for four of them. This hasn’t stopped him from treating his other patients as though they were Covid-positive, he said.“In a surging pandemic, any case of flu-like symptoms should be considered as Covid-19 unless proven otherwise,” said Parekh. “There is no point in testing a patient if the line of treatment does not change with a positive result. Since my patients are children, I start them on symptomatic treatment immediately, and ask them to be isolated from the elders and those with co-morbid conditions in the family. All the children have recovered within three to four days,” he said.“There is no point in unnecessarily burdening the patients as well as the laboratories,” he said.Physician Dr Jalil Parkar from Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital too has been prescribing tests only in cases where the symptoms don’t subside and the patient is a likely candidates for hospital admission. “At a time, there are four to five people in a family who have symptoms. This is because the current wave is driven by the Omicron variant which is highly transmissible. But how many people will you put through the tests when most of them have symptoms like fever, cough and cold, which subsides within five days?” he asked.According to Parkar, some patients prefer testing with or without a doctor’s prescription. “I put my patients on paracetamol and other symptomatic treatment, watch them for three days and if symptoms don’t subside, I write the test just in case they need hospitalisation. But most recover by then,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbais-daily-covid-count-may-be-higherexperts-101641752847481.html
10-01-2022||India||Passengers opt for flexible air tickets amid Omicron scare: travel portals||NEW DELHI: The Omicron scare has halted revival of the travel industry for the period and passengers have started deferring their trips, travel portals said. They also mentioned that the travel demand has seen a slight drop and travellers are emphasising on hygiene and safety before selecting a destination.“The current customer trends showcase a strong emphasis on safety and hygiene, and customers are now starting to choose places that uphold high safety standards and which are following Covid-safe protocols. In 2021, we experienced a 400% jump in advance bookings for flight tickets for the year-end holidays; however, the dawn of the Omicron variant halted the travel revival that we expected for this period. Despite this new surge, the travel sentiment remains strong,” said Rikant Pittie, co-founder, EaseMyTrip.“Customers are yearning to travel once the restrictions are lifted. Even with new variants, restrictions and limitations, the travel industry is expected to only grow further in the coming year as industry stakeholders and travellers are gradually adapting to the evolved travel norms,” Pittie added.According to ratings agency ICRA, the rising infections due to Omicron variant could have some impact on the passenger traffic due to the passengers being apprehensive for air travel and also a few state governments imposing restrictions.“However, there has been limited impact due to the Omicron in December 2021. The average daily passenger for the week beginning December 27, 2021 was at 3.4 lakh when compared to 3.7 lakh and 3.6 lakh during the week beginning Dec 20, 2021 and Dec 13, 2021,” said Rajeshwar Burla, vice president and group head, corporate ratings, ICRA.While there is some softening in demand due to rising Omicron cases in the country, Cleartrip said that the travellers are looking for flexible travel options that have them covered in case there is a sudden change in regulations due to the new Covid-19 variant.“As a result, we are seeing a higher interest in our products - EzCancel that offers a 100% refund on cancellations and Flexifly which enables consumers to change plans. Customers buying Flexifly VAS have doubled since November while EZCancel is also seeing a spike in the adoption,” said Prahlad Krishnamurthi, chief business officer, Cleartrip.Cleartrip has seen an increase in modification and cancellation of existing bookings over the last couple of weeks as travellers are adjusting their plan due to revised advisories. Krishnamurthi said, “In 2022, the domestic flight trends are looking very strong compared to 2021. Metro destinations are on track to exceed 2021 numbers.”While Yatra.com said that it is too early to comment regarding summer travel, its spokesperson also said that travellers are more mindful of the destinations and properties they choose. “They are opting for travel and accommodation options following stringent procedures of safety and sanitisation measures at each touchpoint,” Yatra.com spokesperson reiterated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-opt-for-flexible-air-tickets-amid-omicron-scare-travel-portals-101641743483171.html
