12-01-2022||India||Five minors held for gangraping 13-year-old dementia patient in Karnataka||Bengaluru: Six minors were detained from north Karnataka’s Kalburgi district on Tuesday for allegedly gangraping a minor girl who suffers from dementia, police said, adding that the accused have all been sent to the district juvenile home. The accused gangraped the girl on January 5 and were taken into custody on Tuesday based on a complaint by the victim’s family members, Kalburgi commissioner of police, Y S Ravikumar said. All the accused are 15-16 years old, officials said. “The girl had dementia... On January 5, they took her to a desolate area ...where she was raped,” said a police officer. The parents of the girl filed a complaint in Gulbarga university police station on January 10. They said the girl suffered from dementia due to which the incident came to light very late. “The girl complained of stomach pain and later parents realised that she was raped. Following the complaint, we have conducted a medical test and rape was confirmed in the test,” Ravikumar said. Based on the complaint, police were able to zero in on suspects by Tuesday afternoon. “Since they (accused) were minors, we had to follow some regulations, such as not keeping them in custody etc. We have transferred them to a juvenile justice home. However, they have been booked under the IPC section 376 D (gang rape). We will see that the accused get maximum punishment,” the officer said. The girl was under treatment at a hospital, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-minors-held-for-gangraping-13-year-old-dementia-patient-in-karnataka-101642011831929.html
12-01-2022||India||CBI gets prosecution requests from UAE, Saudi against 19 absconding Indians||The CBI has received requests from the United Arab Emirates for local prosecution of 16 Indian absconders from the gulf country who are wanted in separate cases of fraud and murder there, officials said on Wednesday.The UAE and India have a bilateral extradition treaty which states that the nationals of the contracting states shall not be extradited to the other contracting state provided that the requested state shall submit the case to its competent authorities for prosecution if the act committed is considered as an offense under the laws of the both contracting states.The requests have been forwarded to the CBI by the UAE Embassy through the External Affairs Ministry for local prosecution following which the central agency has already registered two FIRs against two individuals wanted by the gulf country in their requests.The CBI has booked one Kerala-based Rajaneesh Das who is wanted by the UAE authorities in alleged 1.5 million AED fraud in a Dubai-based company where he was working as assistant manager. It is alleged he stole aluminum strips which he had sold.The agency has registered another FIR against Karnataka resident Soukath Ali Thirthahalli who is wanted for alleged embezzlement of 1.4 million AED in a construction company where he was working as Finance Manager.The MEA has also forwarded a request from the Saudi Arabia government for the local prosecution of three individuals wanted there for alleged breach of trust and leaving the Kingdom illegally, they said.Based on the request of the Saudi Arabia government, the CBI has registered a case against Abdul Rahuman, Abdul Samad Kamaludeen and Anish Sompalan. It is alleged by the complainant that he had left three lakh Saudi Riyals with the trio and went to pray but these three individuals escaped illegally from the country with the money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-gets-prosecution-requests-from-uae-saudi-against-19-absconding-indians-101642010707164.html
12-01-2022||India||Specially-abled girl found with injuries in Alwar undergoes surgery||Jaipur:A specially-abled minor girl who was found injured and bleeding from private parts on a road in Alwar district on Tuesday was operated upon in Jaipur on Wednesday, police said, adding that her condition is stable. Police suspect the girl was raped because off the nature of her wounds. According to a senior police officer who was familiar with the case, the girl was reported missing from her house on Tuesday afternoon and was spotted lying on a road near the Tijara railway crossing late in the evening the same day.She was bleeding profusely and was taken to the district government hospital, the officer said, adding that she was then referred to the J K Lone hospital in Jaipur.Police are waiting for the medical report to confirm whether the girl was sexually abused.Dr Arvind Shukla, superintendent of the JK Lone hospital, said, “The minor was admitted at around 2 am, was under shock and bleeding profusely. Blood transfusion was done. She is stable and has undergone a surgery, where plastic surgeons and gynecologists were called. Her blood pressure has come back to normal.” He said that a preliminary investigation had revealed that the wounds could have been caused by a sharp object. Health minister Parsadi Lal Meena, industries minister Shakuntla Rawat and women and child welfare minister Mamta Bhupesh visited the girl at the hospital and spoke to the officials treating her.Speaking to reporters, Meena said the girl’s life was out of danger. “The entire treatment of the girl will be free and arrangements for stay and food for family members have also been made,” he said.Alwar superintendent of police, Tejaswani Gautam, said different teams have been formed to investigate the case. “Over 150 CCTV cameras in the area were examined and probable suspects are being interrogated. The girl is mentally weak and unable to speak properly,” she said.The SP said the girl is a resident of a village under Malakheda police station of Alwar and her family members noticed at around 4 pm on Tuesday that she was missing. On failing to locate the girl till late evening, they approached the police.Dr Rakesh, who is heading the forensic science laboratory team sent from Jaipur, said that according to initial investigations, it appeared the girl was brought in a vehicle from Tijara.Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje targeted the state government over the incident.“In the state, daughters are falling prey to the lust day by day, but the government has become zero. The atrocities on daughters cannot be tolerated,” she tweeted. Raje said that Rajasthan had reached the top spot in the country when it came to crimes against women and demanded strong action from the government. Constituting a four-member team to meet the family of the victim, state BJP president Satish Poonia expressed shock at the incident. “The minor is deaf by birth, but the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan is deaf and dumb with its policy and intentions, who is not hearing the screams of the victim and culprits are out of reach of the police,” he said. 
12-01-2022||India||Govt warns against overuse, misuse of Covid medicines||Warning against overuse and misuse of Covid-19 medicines, the government on Wednesday asked people to adopt a rational approach to the drugs used for treatment of coronavirus.Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul expressed concern over the "overuse and misuse" of drugs."There is a concern that whichever medicines we give it should be rationally used, there should not be any overuse. Last time, we saw a very scary situation when the contribution of medicine was to a very large extent responsible for mucormycosis," he said."The use of steroids can increase the chances of mucormycosis. Steroids are very potent life saving drugs but they are also have side effects and they disturb the immunological protection, they disturb many biochemical pathways so it was a very big lesson...we were learning at that time but now we know it so this is an appeal that general public should be aware that there is a set of rational treatments that are listed under the national protocols -ayush and mainstream protocol and we must be confined to that," he added.Paul said these protocols have been developed by best experts and we have a true concern of overuse misuse of medicines in Covid treatment."For fever, paracetamol is given, and for cough, Ayush syrup can be used. This is what we have prescribed in the home care module too. If cough continues for more than three days, there is an inhaler called Budesonide these are the only three things that need to be done," he said.Other than that do gargle, take rest not overdo it has a cost, he added."When we go to the hospital too and there is a need for oxygen then based on clinical judgment there is medicine - methylprednisolone or dexamethasone. Heparin is also given by the doctors inside hospitals...there are clear cut guidelines for remdesivir too there is no point of giving it at home - it led to overuse, panic and misuse," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-warns-against-overuse-misuse-of-covid-medicines-101642010470445.html
12-01-2022||India||Maharashtra may see a rise in Covid hospitalisation by January end: Health department||Maharashtra health department on Wednesday told the state Cabinet that there could be a spike in the hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients in the last week of January or in the first week of February. The health department made this projection during a presentation before the state cabinet and the cabinet expressed concern over the projection, a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said, as reported by PTI.The daily requirement of medical oxygen in the state has witnessed a rise, it said, adding that the present demand is 400 metric tonnes. "If the oxygen demand rises to 700 metric tonnes, then stricter curbs will be required. Considering this fact, the district administration should expedite vaccination and take necessary steps," Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said during the meeting. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the coronavirus curve in the state is not flattening despite a dip in the number of daily infections. However, the plus point is that out of the 2.25 lakh active cases, only 14 per cent are under hospitalisation. Saying that he does not see the situation stabilise by January end or by early February, the health minister urged those who have not undergone vaccination to take jabs, besides strictly adhering to the mask rules. "The cases have seen a decline in the last two days, but this does not mean that the curve is flattening. There are 46,000 cases today. So there is no flattening of the curve," Tope said.On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported over 46,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and Mumbai reported 16,420 cases. Earlier in the day, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said the numbers of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai are coming down.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-may-see-a-rise-in-covid-hospitalisation-health-department-101642008432799.html
12-01-2022||India||Lateral flow tests can detect Covid from day 3 to day 8, for RT-PCR it's up to 20 days: ICMR DG||The Centre on Wednesday said lateral flow tests, which includes rapid-antigen and home-antigen tests, can detect Covid from the third day after exposure to the virus today eight while the RT-PCR test can diagnose the infection for up to 20 days.At a press conference, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava said on the first day one will test negative whatever tests they undertake."It takes time for the virus to grow in your system and that is known as the latent period. From day three it will be detectable in the Lateral Flow Tests and up to day eight which is the infectious period."That is why, the discharge policy and home isolation policy are focusing on the seven-day period," Bhargava explained.He said that RT-PCR test results will continue to be positive even after day eight because certain RNA particles which are non-infective will continue to be shed and  will continue to cause test results to be positive."The ICMR director-general said that for Omicron, lateral flow tests have become the backbone.Bhargava said that according to government advisory, high-risk contacts of confirmed Covid cases, identified based on age or comorbidities, those undertaking inter-state travel do not need to get tested.Also, asymptomatic individuals in community settings, patients who stand discharged according to home-isolation guidelines and those being discharged from a Covid-19 facility under the revised discharge policy do not need to get tested, he said.However, Bhargava stressed on seven-day home quarantine for all contacts of any positive case according to the guidelines and added that they should continue to wear a mask.Referring to the Advisory on Purposive Testing Strategy for Covid-19 in India issued by ICMR recently, he said symptomatic individuals, even if they test negative on a home test or rapid-antigen test should go for RT-PCR test.According to the advisory, testing can be undertaken either through RT-PCR, TrueNat, CBNAAT, CRISPR, RT-LAMP, Rapid Molecular Testing Systems or through the rapid-antigen test.A positive point-of-care test and molecular test is to be considered confirmatory, without any repeat testing. Symptomatic individuals, testing negative on home/self-test or rapid-antigen test should undertake RT-PCR test, the advisory stated.In community settings, symptomatic individuals, at-risk contacts (elderly and individuals with comorbidity) of laboratory-confirmed cases may be tested.Also, individuals undertaking international travel may be tested.In hospital settings, testing may be undertaken as per the discretion of the doctor with considerations such as no emergency procedure should be delayed for lack of a test and patients should not be referred to other facilities for lack of a testing facility, the advisory stated.All arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities, mapped to the health facility.There are 3,128 testing laboratories and India's daily RT-PCR testing capacity is over 20 lakh, Bhargava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lateral-flow-tests-can-detect-covid-from-day-3-to-day-8-for-rt-pcr-it-s-up-to-20-days-icmr-dg-101642007598846.html
12-01-2022||India||'Now, we have Indian experience of Omicron': What Centre says on Covid surge||The Centre on Wednesday flagged the Covid-19 positivity rate across the country as phenomenally high and said that there is no reason to take Omicron lightly, just because it is causing, at this moment, fewer hospitalisation, in comparison with Delta. Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said as the World Health Organization has rightly alerted, Omicron should not be taken as a common cold.Here are 10 points about Omicron and India's overall Covid-19 situation1. The present surge in the daily number of Covid-19 cases is led by Omicron, which is proved by the uniform surge across the country. On earlier occasions, the surge used to take place first in the western states. But this time, the surge all across the country has been fast.2. Dr Paul said now India has its own experience of Omicron, which shows that the hospitalisation might be lower, but the transmission is alarmingly high. "If one in the family gets it, the others are also getting it," Dr Paul said.Covid: Maharashtra, Delhi, 6 others emerging as states of concern, says Centre3. Omicron is not the common cold and should not be taken lightly, Dr Paul said. This variant has led to the collapse of the health system of some countries and it is this variant for which health workers at some places had to take leave leading to increased pressure, Dr Paul said.4. Vaccines do protect from severe diseases and hospitalisation and that is a fact, experts of the health ministry asserted.5. Though Omicron is the dominant variant, it can't be said that Delta has become ineffective in India. Many districts still may have Delta cases, the experts said. It is a mixed picture in many districts but will soon change with the rapid advent of Omicron. "Data from metro cities 10 days back showed 80 per cent cases were because of Omicron. But we can't say that Delta is not there. There is a mixed picture... it will also change," Dr Paul said.6. Experts on Wednesday explained why they have not recommended Molnupiravir in the treatment protocol of Covid-19. Warning against the risk factors involved in Molnupiravir, the experts said Molnupiravir should not be given to patients less than 18 years of age and to pregnant women.7. Mumbai on Wednesday reported over 16,000 cases in a 40% increase from Tuesday. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 46,000 fresh infections.8. Delhi on Wednesday reported 27,561 Covid cases, the second-highest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic.9. Karnataka reported over 21,000 new Covid cases out of which 15,617 were from Bengaluru alone.10. Maharashtra is expected to see a spike in the hospitalisation of COVID-19 patients in the last week of January or the first week of February, the state health department told the cabinet on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-we-have-indian-experience-of-omicron-what-centre-says-on-covid-surge-101642008130415.html
12-01-2022||India||Rocket scientist S Somnath to be new Isro chief, replacing K Sivan||S Somnath, an eminent rocket scientist, has been appointed as the chairperson of the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro), a personnel ministry order issued on Wednesday said. K Sivan, the outgoing chairperson, will be completing his extended term on Friday. Sivan was appointed as the Isro chief in January 2018 and was given a one-year extension till January 14, 2022.Somanath’s appointment as the Space secretary and the Space Commission Chairman is for a combined tenure of three years from the date of joining of the post, inclusive of an extension in tenure beyond the age of superannuation in public interest, the government order said.Expressing happiness over his appointment, S Somnath said, “Areas of focus will be technology, policy, implementation and areas where stakeholders need to be taken care of. We need to bring in newer approaches; have to work with various capacity builders like tech companies.”Here is all you need to know about S Somnath> S Somnath is a rocket scientist who at present is the director of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre.> Somanath, who will be the 10th chairman of the premier space organisation, took charge as the VSSC’s head on January 22, 2018, after a two and a half years stint as the Director of Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC), Valiamala, Thiruvananathapuram.> Previously, he served as the Associate Director (Projects) of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre and also as the Project Director of GSLV Mk-III launch vehicle.> Under S Somnath's leadership, the first experimental flight of LVM3-X/CARE mission was successfully accomplished on December 18, 2014.> The new Isro chief did his B Tech in Mechanical Engineering from TKM college of engineering, Kollam, and Masters in Aerospace Engineering from Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, with specialisation in structures, dynamics and control. He was a gold medalist.> Somanath joined VSSC in 1985 and was a team leader for the integration of PSLV during the early phases.> S Somnath is an expert in the area of system engineering of launch vehicles.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rocket-scientist-s-somnath-to-be-new-isro-chief-replacing-k-sivan-101642004589830.html
12-01-2022||India||Not early harvest package, looking at CEPA upgrade: South Korean minister Yeo||NEW DELHI: South Korea is hoping to conclude negotiations with India within 2022 to upgrade the bilateral Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) finalised more than a decade ago without going in for an early harvest package, South Korean trade minister Yeo Han-koo said on Wednesday.Yeo, who held wide-ranging talks with his Indian counterpart Piyush Goyal in New Delhi on Tuesday, told Hindustan Times in an interview that South Korea and India have great potential to forge stronger partnerships for the post-pandemic era in key areas such as supply chains, emerging technologies, climate change, digital, vaccines and public health cooperation. Edited excerpts:Q. Looking ahead at 2022, what are the priorities for India and South Korea and how are you going to work together on recovering from Covid-19?A: I think 2022 will be a very important year in the sense that we are bracing for this post-pandemic era, and now, the whole world, especially in terms of the global trading environment, we are going through a really big paradigm change. I would say the traditional scope of trade policy is expanding to [cope with] not just this market opening, but also supply chains, emerging technologies, climate change, digital and even vaccines and public health cooperation. In many ways, many countries are preparing for what to do in the near future. In this sense, I think Korea and India have great potential to forge stronger partnerships in this rapidly changing era, for example, in supply chains. Now, this is the buzzword around the world, and we have been so used to global supply chains that were developed decades ago. And now we realise that disruptions or even small and unexpected hiccups along the value chain can really have serious implications for global trading. Korea has its New Southern Policy, which puts Asean and India at the centre of our diplomatic, economic and industrial cooperation. India has its Make in India and [Atmanirbhar Bharat initiatives]. I think there’s a big potential for both countries to forge stronger ties. A lot of investments have been made by Korean companies into India, in critical areas such as automobiles, electric cars, mobile phones and displays. I think that is really the big proof that the supply chains between the two countries are getting interconnected and becoming more important.Q. India has been working jointly with several partners, such as France, Japan and Australia, on supply chains. Are you also looking at working with India and other third countries on supply chains?A: Yes, the thing is Korea and India are supplementary to each other. For example, Korean companies are very strong and world leaders in critical supply chains [for products] such as semiconductors, batteries, electric vehicles and displays. In India, you guys are very strong in bio-pharma, ICT and software...We value India as an important partner for complementing our supply chains. And in this sense, the CEPA could really bolster supply chains, this connectivity and cooperation.Q. Two focus areas of South Korea’s New Southern Policy (NSP) are Asean and India. Despite the disruption caused by Covid-19, has this policy had the kind of impact you were looking for? A: It has worked. Before I was appointed as trade minister, I was a secretary to the [South Korean] president on the New Southern Policy. I was deeply involved in developing the NSP-plus that we rolled out in 2020. Despite Covid-19, trade and investment are really picking up very rapidly, especially in NSP countries like India and Asean. I think in the case of India, our trade volume increased 50% compared to before the NSP. What happened during Covid-19 was the paradigm change in terms of rapid digitalisation. I visited Singapore in December to conclude a digital partnership agreement that was the first of its kind for [South] Korea, and the fourth one for Singapore. I think that is one example of how in this era of digitalisation, Korea and the NSP countries can forge stronger partnerships. India is a leader in ICT and software, and Korea is well-known for digital infrastructure, 5G, 6G, and hi-tech in those areas. I think if we forge more people-to-people contacts and business-to-business contacts in those areas, it could be mutually beneficial. Q. Upgrading the CEPA was one of the focus areas of your discussions with your Indian counterpart. What is the progress in this regard? I believe the Indian side raised the issue of an early harvest package finalised some time ago that needs to be notified.A: Yes, [commerce] minister [Piyush] Goyal and I had a very intensive, very constructive and fruitful discussion. We met for four hours. I think it was worth it for me to travel all the way to India. I think CEPA unleashed great potential [but] despite all this potential, I think CEPA could be sort of the framework to build on and then expand. The CEPA took effect in 2010, which was forever ago, and now the world is completely changed. We still rely on the framework that we negotiated like 15 years ago, and then came into effect about 11 years ago. We need an upgrade to jumpstart our bilateral cooperation. We launched these upgrade negotiations in 2016, but I think the progress has been sort of on and off. I think what we agreed on between the two ministers is that we really need to renew this momentum and then bring a new spirit into this process so that in 2022, we could really conclude a more upgraded and better CEPA. Q. Are you looking at concluding the process within this year? A: Yeah, absolutely within this year. Q. And the early harvest package? A: I think there was some misunderstanding on both sides. I think we cleared that misunderstanding [on Tuesday]. I think what I understand is that India took it as, okay, we agreed on the early harvest package, and [it came] into effect right away, and then the rest of the negotiations will continue. But at that time, what Korea thought we got into was that, okay, this is an early harvest package that we agreed on and this is sort of a first stage, but [it has] not [taken] effect. I mean, we create this momentum in stage one, and building on it, we continue to accelerate. And when we conclude, we take into effect all of this. In our system, the ratification process in the National Assembly is quite stringent and very, very intensive. We’ve never done [things] just partially, you know, partially concluded an early harvest [package], and then ratify it in the National Assembly, and then continue on with the rest of it. We never did it, our system doesn’t allow that. Q. So what you’re looking at is the full upgrade of CEPA? A: Yeah, exactly. Q. One of the things South Korean officials and companies mention, especially in the context of South Korean firms leaving China and wanting to come to India, is that it’s not easy for them to access the Indian market. Has this changed or are there things that can be done to ease their entry? A: I think there has been improvement in the meantime, but obviously, I think there could be room for improvement to really position India as a sort of a new centre of the supply chain competition in this changing world. A lot of really key, strategic Korean companies are flooding into India, but I think [with] an easier regulatory framework and more attention to induce good Korean companies, there could be many more Korean companies willing to come and invest and work with India. I think these are some of issues that Korean businesses are raising, for example, the BIS certification process, some customs issues, [such as] when the HS code was changed into a new system. I think there are some sort of hiccups [but] it’s not something that we don’t have common ground on. I mean we are in the process of trying to understand each other and trying to find an amicable solution. Q. I believe the Indian side also raised the issue of access for certain commodities such as steel, meat, agricultural products and organic products. Is this something that you’re looking at now? A: Yeah, I think this is mutual. You had a question about the Korean complaints and these [are] Indian complaints. I think in any healthy relationship, especially this trade relationship worth $20 billion, it’s natural that we have some sort of irritants, small or big on both sides. I think what matters is not those irritants, but how to bring this to attention and how to resolve them in a transparent, mutually trusted manner. I think that’s what CEPA is all about. We had a very intensive discussion on what Indian companies have issues with and also what Korean companies have issues with. I’m more confident that both authorities can keep the communication channels open and find a reasonable, win-win solution for those issues. During my interactions with the business communities of both countries – I met with the CII and also Korean businesses here – what I could observe is that maybe we need to understand each other better. Maybe there aren’t enough people-to-people or business-to-business contacts to really understand each other’s systems, how things work, and things like that. I think that could be one of the problems [behind these] issues. I feel we need to encourage more exchanges at the top level or medium level in business, as well as in the government. I think that could be our starting point for really strengthening our cooperation. Q. India’s Make in India Atmanirbhar Bharat [self-reliant India] initiatives have been described by some countries as protectionist. How does South Korea perceive these initiatives? A: I don’t know all the details about this specific policy element, but I think basically, around the world, one of the paradigm changes is the renaissance of industrial policy. Normally, East Asian countries were known for a very meticulous, articulate industrial policy, but now, in the US and in Europe, they are eager to compete with industrial policy. I think each country needs to judge what would be the ideal industrial policy that it wants to introduce. But I think what matters is that we need to use industrial policy in a way that complies with international trade norms and WTO rules, and not in a way to really close down, and then really just to be monopolies, but in a way to encourage investment flows in both ways, and keep things open. Q. The shortage of semiconductors is causing problems everywhere. Is that something that came up in the meeting with the Indian side? A: We didn’t discuss the semiconductor issue. But [South] Korea is a key player in semiconductors and I’m not surprised to go anywhere and get this question about semiconductors. I think basically this is [for] the private sector, they need to make a business decision based on business principles, but it’s also true that governments around the world are really concerned about this shortage of semiconductors. In this sense, I think government-to-government dialogue and exchanges could help. So we are open-minded. 
12-01-2022||India||HT This Day: Jan 13, 1966 - SHASTRI CREMATED NEAR SHANTI VANA||New Delhi- Thousands sobbed, many stood with heads bowed, others raised folded hands in respectful tribute as the body of the late Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, was consigned to fire on the banks of the Jumna here today. As the flames leapt from the sandalwood pile, enveloping the mortal remains of the late Prime Minister, there were anguished cries of "Lal Bahadur amar rahe." At 12-32 Mr Shastri's eldest son, Mr Hari Kishan, lit the funeral pyre as the small arms fired three volleys in salute. Officers and men of the three Services, headed by the Chiefs of Staff, stood to attention and the army buglers sounded the Last Post. Priests chanted hymns from ancient scriptures. Under a nearby shamiana world leaders looked sadly on as the last rites were performed. President Radhakrishnan led the mourners. Earlier, it had taken three hours to bring the gun-carriage carrying the late Prime Minister's body from his official residence to the cremation ground. It was a sad, solemn journey-his last. Over a million had thronged the ground around the cremation site near Shanti Vana, while another million had lined the six-mile route of the funeral procession from No. 10 Jan Path. Touching moment About noon, the gun-carriage halted a few yards from the cremation platform. The bier was gently taken off by senior army officers and carried reverentially to the sandalwood pyre. The bearer party saluted and withdrew. It was a touching moment. Close relatives broke down and some of them had to be taken away by consoling friends. According to the ancient Hindu custom, Mrs Lalita Shastri was not present at the time of cremation, but Mr Shastri's daughters and daughter-in-law were there. The religious rites were conducted by the family head priest, Shri Raja Ram from Allahabad, assisted by Goswami  Girdharilal of the Lakshmi Narain Temple, Delhi. Mr Hari Kishan, with folded hands and bowed head, went round the pyre thrice. Prime Minister Nanda was among those who saluted the departed leader for the last time. At 10 Janpath, 40 officers drawn from the three Services had kept vigil over the body of Mr Shastri as it lay in state all night with heaps of wreaths and flowers on it. Shortly before 9-15 a.m. the gun-carriage was drawn up near the portico. The family priest performed religious rites. The pallbearers, drawn from the three wings of the Armed Forces, lifted the body draped in the national flag and placed it on the gun-carriage. An armed detachment presented and reversed arms and drummers beat muffled drums. Within minutes the procession started. It was headed by a military column, led by Maj.-Gen. D. G. R. Rajwade, General Officer Commanding, Delhi and Rajasthan Area. Immediately behind the gun-carriage were the chief vallbearers, the three Services Chiefs, foreign dignitaries and VIPs, two army platoons, an IAF band, two naval and IAF platoons followed by the motorcade. The eight-mile route was lined by the troops at the "order arms." When the funeral procession came into View, they stood to attention and presented arms as the carriage passed by them. Then they rested on reversed arms till the rear escort had passed. Huge crowds had collected all along the route since early morning, braving the cold weather for the "darshan" of the late Prime Minister. The local police had a tough time in controlling the crowd as it surged forward at many points. Near India Gate, in the Connaught Circus area and from Rajghat onward the procession virtually pierced through a solid mass of humanity. People showered garlands and flowers at Mr Shastrit body. A continuous shower of flowers was also maintained by a helicopter which hovered over the cortege most of the time. The roofs of buildings along the route, tree-tops and the Tilak Bridge were all packed by crowds anxious to pay their last tribute to the departed leader.Mr Shastri's funeral was attended by dignitaries from many lands. Soviet Premier Kosygin led his country's delegation, which included Mrs Y. S. Nasiruddinova, Chairman of the Uzbek Supreme Soviet, and Deputy Foreign Minister Firyubin. The U.S. sent a strong 7-man delegation, led by Vice-President Hubert Humphrey and consisting of Secretary of State Dean Rusk, two former ambassadors to India, Mr John Sherman Cooper and Mr John Kenneth Galbraith, the Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs. Mr James Greenfield, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near-East and South Asia. Mr William Handley, and the Special Assistant to the Secretary of State for Food for Peace, Mr Richard Reuter. Afghanistan was represented by its Prime Minister, Mr Maiwandwal; UAR by its Vice-President, Mr Hussain el Shafi, and two other delegates; Yugoslavia by its Vice-President, Mr Jakov Blazevic and Secretary of the Foreign Ministry; Iran by Foreign Minister Aram and Canada by its Labour Minister. Queen Elizabeth was represented by Lord Mountbatten, while First Secretary of State George Brown represented the British Government. Other members of the party included Sir Paul Gore-Booth, Permanent Under-Secretary for Commonwealth Relations and a former British High Commissioner in India, and Lady Pamela Hicks, daughter of Lord Mountbatten. The British Opposition party leader Mr Edward Heath, accompanied by a team of 14 British officials, also attended the funeral. Pakistan Commerce Minister Ghulam Faruque and High Commissioner to India Arshad Hussain, who flew to New Delhi in the Soviet plane which carried Mr Shastri's body, represented their country. The Commonwealth Secretariat was represented by Mr N. C. Sen Gupta, head of the economic division of the Commonwealth Secretariat. France sent a four-man delegation, headed by Mr Louis Joxe, President de Gaulle's special envoy and Vice-Chairman of the French Council of Ministers. Other dignitaries included West German Co-operation Minister Walter Scheel; the personal representative of the King of Morocco, Mr Balafrej; Singapore Education Minister Ong Pang Boon; Thai Foreign Minister Khoman; leader of the Japanese ruling party Fu Nada and four others; Mr Rajasombash from Laos; Philippines President Marcos's brother-in-law; and Burmese Foreign Minister Thai Han and three officials. Hours after the funeral, hundreds of people---men, women and children-were still visiting the spot on the Jumna banks where the cremation took place. Among them were many foreigners. They went round the samadhi and offered flowers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-13-1966-shastri-cremated-near-shanti-vana-101642003430645.html
12-01-2022||India||This city has the highest weekly Covid positivity rate: Govt data||The Union health ministry on Wednesday released Covid's weekly positivity rate of the high-risk cities and revealed that in the past week Kolkata had the highest positivity rate, as high as 60.29%, higher than Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai. The weekly positivity rate which is the 7-day average of positivity rate provides a peek into the spread of the virus.
12-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 18 test positive for Covid-19 at IIT Jammu, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Eighteen people, including students, staff and faculty of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jammu have been tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The detection of these cases came after an RT-PCR test was conducted on 300 people. Read moreMumbai on Wednesday reported over a 40% spike in the number of Covid infections compared to yesterday's tally at a time when Mumbai's surge was thought to be starting to ebb. Read moreIndia's vaccine-maker Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said that a booster dose of its Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ neutralises both the Omicron and Delta variants of the coronavirus. Read moreA case was registered against actor Siddharth by the cybercrime wing of Hyderabad Police over his controversial tweet against ace Indian shuttler Saina Nehwal, police said on Wednesday. Read moreActor Arjun Kapoor on Wednesday squashed all rumours about his breakup with actor-television personality Malaika Arora. Taking to Instagram, Arjun posted a mirror selfie as he posed with Malaika. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-18-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-iit-jammu-and-all-the-latest-news-101641999703621.html
12-01-2022||India||One of the happiest moments of my life was when I spoke in Tamil at UN: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that one of the happiest moments of his life was when he spoke a few words in Tamil at the United Nations."One of the happiest moments of my life was when I got a chance to speak a few words in the world's oldest language, Tamil, at the United Nations", PM Modi said after virtually inaugurating 11 medical colleges in Tamil Nadu and the new campus of Central Institute of Classical Tamil in Chennai.Union Minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya, Dr L Murugan and Dr Bharati Pawar, Chief Minister Tamil Nadu Thiru MK Stalin were present on the occasion.Notably, the Prime Minister in an address to the United Nations in 2019 in the United States had spoken in Tamil.On several occasions in the past, the Prime Minister has expressed regret for not learning the "world's oldest language" Tamil.The Prime Minister remarked that he was always fascinated by the richness of the Tamil language and culture.He said that his Government also had the honour of setting up 'Subramania Bharati Chair' on Tamil Studies at Banaras Hindu University. He said that this chair located in his Parliamentary constituency will drive greater curiosity about Tamil.Commenting on the emphasis on the promotion of Indian languages and Indian Knowledge Systems in the National Education Policy 2020, the Prime Minister said that Tamil can now be studied as a classical language in school education at the secondary level or middle level.Tamil is one of the languages in the Bhasha-Sangam where school students get familiar with 100 sentences in various Indian languages in audio videos. The largest e-content of Tamil has been digitized under the Bharatavani project. "We are encouraging education in mother tongue and local languages at schools. Our Government has also started making technical courses like Engineering available to students in Indian languages", he added.The Prime Minister said 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat' seeks to enhance the spirit of unity in diversity and bring our people closer. "When a young child in Haridwar sees a Thiruvalluvar statue and finds out about his greatness, a seed of 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat' is laid in a young mind", he emphasised. He concluded by asking everyone to take all the precautions and maintain covid appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-the-happiest-moments-of-my-life-was-when-i-spoke-in-tamil-at-un-pm-modi-101641998839788.html
12-01-2022||India||18 test positive for Covid-19 in IIT Jammu, all under quarantine||Eighteen people, including students, staff and faculty of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jammu have been tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The detection of these cases came after an RT-PCR test was conducted on 300 people.Issuing an official statement on Twitter, IIT Jammu said, “However, everyone is under quarantine as per protocol and reports of mild to no symptoms while being constantly monitored and supported by the medical unit.”The campus is currently under sanitisation, IIT Jammu said and Covid-19 tests are being conducted periodically.The majority of the institute's students had left campus for the semester break in December last year. “IIT Jammu will conduct online classes and the staff and faculty members will continue to work from home until further instruction,” the statement also said, adding the entire institute is vaccinated against Covid-19.#COVID19 updates from #IITJAMMU pic.twitter.com/uHFh6p49nTThis Covid-19 outbreak in IIT Jammu comes 10 days after reports came in on January 2 that 13 students of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir tested positive for the virus. The university was immediately closed and the number of infections has surged to 187 including 140 students.The university's exams, which were supposed to start from January 3, have been postponed until further orders.The daily Covid-19 tally in Jammu and Kashmir continued an upward trend after 1,695 cases were recorded on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike in more than seven months. Wednesday's count is 47% more than Tuesday's when 1,148 people were found infected with Covid-19.More than 4,500 patients have died and 337,412 have recuperated so far. The active cases in the Union Territory stand at 6,242.The J-K administration has imposed a night curfew from 9 pm to 6 am, restricting the non-essential movement of people. The administration has also ordered online classes up to college-level amid the spike in daily cases.“There shall be no in-person teaching. Educational institutions shall be permitted to direct attendance of vaccinated staff for administrative purposes only,” an order issued on January 9 said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-iit-jammu-all-under-quarantine-101641993315832.html
12-01-2022||India||Mumbai reports 16,420 Covid infections in over 40% hike from yesterday; More than 46,000 cases in Maharashtra||Mumbai on Wednesday reported over a 40% spike in the number of Covid infections compared to yesterday's tally at a time when Mumbai's surge was thought to be starting to ebb. Mumbai on Wednesday reported 16,420 fresh infections; on Tuesday, the number was 11,647. On Wednesday, the test positivity rate stands at 24.38%, according to the municipal data. The civic authorities said the positivity rate will see a spike as the Centre has now asked the states and the UTs to test only the symptomatic patients. Since most of the symptomatic patients are likely to be positive, the positivity rate will be increasing. On Wednesday, 67,339 tests were conducted in the municipal area, the data revealed.Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 46,723 fresh infections. The state also added 86 new Omicron cases, including 21 from Mumbai, 53 from Pune city, six from Pimpri Chinchwad, one from Pune Rural, three from Satara and two from Nashik.Covid case positivity rate phenomenally high; Omicron not common cold: CentreMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Wednesday said the numbers of Covid-19 cases were slowing down in the city and appealed to its citizens to get vaccinated. In a recorded video message issued by the mayor's office, Pednekar said out of those who died due to Covid-19 so far since February 2021, 94 per cent of people were unvaccinated.For the last few days starting from January 7, Mumbai's Covid-19 tally recorded a steady fall. After crossing the 20,000-mark, the city's 24-hour tally decreased to 19,474 and then it sharply fell to 13,648 cases. On Tuesday, it further fell to 11,647 cases.The health ministry on Wednesday noted that Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Gujarat and Delhi remain states of concern as not only their daily cases are increasing, but also their positivity rates are on the rise. “In Maharashtra, the case positivity rate surged from 0.87% on December 22 last year to 22.39% today. The weekly cases in the state are at 257,000. In West Bengal, the positivity rate has gone up from 1.52% on December 22 to 32.18% today and cases are increasing rapidly. Similar trends are seen in Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Gujarat,” joint secretary of health ministry Lav Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-16-420-covid-infections-over-40-increase-from-yesterday-101641995340630.html
12-01-2022||India||Covaxin booster shot neutralises Omicron, says Bharat Biotech||India's vaccine-maker Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said that a booster dose of its Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ neutralises both the Omicron and Delta variants of the coronavirus.The study, sponsored by Bharat Biotech's partner Ocugen Inc, was conducted at the Emory Vaccine Center in Atlanta based on blood serum collected from 13 individuals, 28 days after their booster shot, reported news agency Reuters."The neutralisation activity of Covaxin-boosted sera was comparable to what has been observed in mRNA vaccine-boosted sera against the Omicron variant," Reuters quoted Bharat Biotech as saying in a statement."More than 90% of all individuals boosted with Covaxin showed neutralising antibodies," it added.Also read | Holds promise: ICMR on trial results of third dose of CovaxinCiting the study results, Bharat Biotech noted that more than 90 per cent of all individuals boosted with Covaxin showed neutralising antibodies.Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said the vaccine major is in a continuous state of innovation and product development for Covaxin."The positive neutralization responses against the Omicron and Delta variants, validates our hypothesis of a multi-epitope vaccine generating both humoral and cell mediated immune responses."Our goals of developing a global vaccine against COVID-19 have been achieved with the use of Covaxin as a universal vaccine for adults and children," he added.A booster shot of Covaxin is administered six months after the last of two doses.Covaxin is India's first domestically developed Covid-19 vaccine and received a WHO emergency-use listing late last year.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-booster-shot-neutralises-omicron-says-bharat-biotech-101641994469921.html
12-01-2022||India||‘Pre-planned conspiracy’: Yogi Adityanath on PM Modi's security breach in Punjab||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday alleged that the security breach which Prime Minister Narendra Modi faced during his visit to Punjab earlier this month was actually a “pre-planned sponsored conspiracy”. Claiming that the Punjab authorities did not follow the appropriate protocols as laid down for the Prime Minister's visit, Adityanath said that the Congress government, led by Charanjit Singh Channi, should “apologise” to the country.“Prime Minister Modi's security breach during his visit to Punjab was a pre-planned sponsored conspiracy,” the ANI news agency quoted UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath as saying. “Punjab government did not follow the protocol. There could also have been a drone attack or any other attack of a similar sort but the Punjab government ignored all this. Congress should apologise to the country.”PM Modi's security breach during his visit to Punjab was a pre-planned sponsored conspiracy. Punjab govt didn't follow the protocol. Drone or any attack might have happened there but Punjab govt ignored all this. Congress should apologize to country: UP CM Yogi Adityanath pic.twitter.com/T6PwSM0tKUModi, who landed in Bathinda in Punjab on January 5 and had to take the road route to Hussainiwala in Ferozepur because of inclement weather on Wednesday, was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes due to a blockade by some farmers, an incident the Union home ministry described as a “major lapse” in his security.Chief ministers of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states have been ramping up their attacks on the Congress-led Punjab government over the recent security breach incident, alleging that the state authorities intentionally put Prime Minister Narendra Modi's safety at risk.In a similar vein, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma also claimed that Prime Minister Modi's security breach incident was part of a “conspiracy”, the evidence of which was recorded in a sting operation that captured the conversation between two senior Punjab Police officials.Sarma, the chief minister of Assam, said that Punjab CID Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Sukhdev Singh's voice was recorded in a sting operation in which he was telling a Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) about the conspiracy as early as January 2.“When the incident took place on January 5, the CID provided all details over it to the higher officials,” said the Assam chief minister.Elaborating on the ‘sting operation’, Sarma added, “In the sting operation, he (Punjab CID DSP Sukhdev Singh) is also saying that the entire protest was organised by Khalistani supporters, they were not farmers.”Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, too, cited facts that have emerged from the sting operation conducted by a private news channel and said, “On their basis, it can be said that the breach in the Prime Minister's security in Punjab was not spontaneous but a big, premeditated conspiracy to harm him.”The sting operation raises serious questions about the manner in which the Prime Minister's security was handled by the Congress government in Punjab, Dhami said at a press conference in Dehradun. “The Congress must answer to the country on what happened in Punjab during the Prime Minister's visit,” he said.Notably, the Supreme Court has set up a five-member committee headed by retired SC judge Justice Indu Malhotra to probe the security lapse matter. The other members of the committee are the Director-General of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) or his nominee not below the rank of IG, DGP Union territory of Chandigarh, ADGP of Punjab (Security), and Registrar General of Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/preplanned-conspiracy-yogi-adityanath-on-pm-modi-s-security-breach-in-punjab-101641992723974.html
12-01-2022||India||Covid case positivity rate phenomenally high; Omicron not common cold: Centre||As India's Covid positivity rate on Wednesday stands at 11.05%, the Centre said the rise in the positivity rate in the last 12 days have been sharp and concerning. On December 30, the case positivity rate was 1.1 per cent. "It shows how fast the infection is spreading. Generally, the spread is seen moving from the west to the east of the country. But given that pattern, it would have taken longer for the surge. This did not happen, which shows that Omicron is rapidly replacing Delta," Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said during the weekly press conference of the health ministry.Echoing the recent concerns expressed by the World Health Organization that people are considering Omicron as mild and which is not right, Dr Paul said, "Omicron is not a common cold. It is not so simple and neither should it be taken so lightly. And even if Omicron appears less severe, it is because of the extensive vaccination coverage that we have achieved. The same Omicron has challenged the health infrastructure of many countries."“It is not possible to genome-sequence all Covid samples,” Dr Paul said, adding that still, it is clear that Omicron is fast replacing Delta in the country. "Data from metro cities at least 10 days back showed 80% cases were because of Omicron. But we can't say that Delta is not there. There is a mixed picture of Delta and Omicron which will also change," Dr Paul said.Giving an overall picture of the country's present Covid-19 situation, the ministry said a total of 300 districts in India are reporting a weekly Covid case positivity rate of more than 5%. Maharashtra West Bengal, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Gujarat are states of concern, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-case-positivity-rate-phenomenally-high-omicron-not-common-cold-centre-101641989666466.html
12-01-2022||India||Covid: Maharashtra, Delhi, 6 others emerging as states of concern, says Centre||The Union health ministry said on Wednesday that Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Gujarat and Delhi, are emerging as the states of concern due to a rapid increase in their cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Addressing a press conference, Lav Agarwal, the ministry's joint secretary said that these emerging states of concern are also reporting a high Covid-19 positivity rate.“In Maharashtra, the case positivity rate surged from 0.87% on December 22 last year to 22.39% today. The weekly cases in the state are at 257,000. In West Bengal, the positivity rate has gone up from 1.52% on December 22 to 32.18% today and cases are increasing rapidly. Similar trends are seen in Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Gujarat,” Agarwal said.Across India, Maharashtra has the highest number of active cases, followed by West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Karnataka, the health ministry's joint secretary also added.None of these eight states is going for a full lockdown and has imposed night curfew, weekend curfew and several restrictions to ward off the spread of Covid-19, fueled by the fast-spreading Omicron variant.Of the 4,868 cases of Omicron reported in India till now, Maharashtra has the highest at 1,281. Delhi, on the other hand, is the third-worst hit state in the country with 546 cases, followed by Karnataka at 479, Kerala at 350, West Bengal at 294, Uttar Pradesh at 275, Gujarat at 236 and Tamil Nadu 185.Among these, Tamil Nadu is the only state where all Omicron patients have recovered.During Wednesday's briefing, Lav Agarwal also said that there has been a high surge in Covid-19 infections in the country with an average of 150,000 people getting infected on a daily basis.Nearly 200,000 cases were reported in a fresh spike on Wednesday, which pushed the caseload to 36,070,510. Active cases are near the one million mark while recoveries and deaths stand at 34,630,536 and 484,655 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-maharashtra-delhi-6-others-emerging-as-states-of-concern-says-centre-101641985263978.html
12-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 1,700 Delhi Police personnel tested Covid + since January 1 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times1,700 Delhi Police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 since start of 2022As many as 1,700 out of the total 80,000 personnel of the Delhi Police have tested positive for Covid-19 since the beginning of 2022, a senior police officer told news agency PTI on Wednesday. Read more Aapke pass Sidhu hain...: Minister on Imran Khan's 'Pak better than India' claimUnion minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar on Wednesday mocked Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan, a day after the Pakistan PM claimed that Pakistan's economic condition is better than India. Read more ‘Wicketkeeper cannot be opening batter in Tests’: Gambhir explains why KL Rahul donning gloves 'is next to impossible'Rishabh Pant has received a lot of flak ever since his rash drive, which led to his dismissal on a 3-ball duck in the second innings of the Johannesburg Test. Read more  Danish Sait on his whacky satire Humble Politiciann Nograj: 'It's not left, it's not right, it's just pure buffoonery'Voot select's wacky new comedy series Humble Politiciann Nograj has had a two-year-long journey. Read more  Range Rover, Land Rover's most luxurious SUV, launched in India at ₹2.31 croreLand Rover has launched the new Range Rover SUV in India which was earlier introduced in global markets last year. Read more&amp;nbsp;Don't ignore these warning signs of calcium deficiencyCalcium deficiency can take a huge toll on your body and ignoring it for a long time may lead to disastrous consequences and cause a number of health issues from rickets in children, osteoporosis, to even seizures. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-1-700-delhi-police-personnel-tested-covid-since-january-1-and-all-the-latest-news-101641984242547.html
12-01-2022||India||Army chief expresses regret on Nagaland killings; says report to be submitted in 'day or two'||Army chief General MM Naravane on Wednesday expressed regret over the killing of civilians by special forces troops in Nagaland's Mon district in December last year, adding that the army's Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is investigating the killings, will submit its report in a ‘day or two.’Also Read | Nagaland’s walkathon against Afspa ends outside Raj Bhavan; campaign continues“The incident was regrettable. The inquiry is in its final stages, and the report may be submitted in a day or two. Appropriate action will be taken. The law of the land is paramount, we will do whatever is necessary to uphold it,” General Naravane, the senior most military officer in the country post the untimely demise of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat whom he also succeeded as army chief, said.Further corrections in the standard operating procedure (SOP) will be made upon the completion of the probe, he further said, as he addressed the annual army chief's press conference.On December 4, 2021, commandos of an elite unit shot dead six coal miners, in what the force and the Union government later described as a case of ‘mistaken identity.’ Immediately following the killings, the troops were confronted by furious villagers; in the subsequent melee, seven more villagers and a commando, too, lost their lives.A day later, as protests broke out, another civilian was killed as protesters stormed a local Assam Rifles camp, prompting soldiers to open fire.The killings triggered massive outrage, as well as calls to repeal the controversial Armed Forces Special Powers Act (Afspa) from across the northeast. The legislation grants troops operating in regions designated as ‘disturbed areas’ powers to search, arrest and even shoot people, if necessary' for maintenance of public order.In such cases, under Afspa, soldiers can only be prosecuted on sanction from the central government.At least two chief ministers in the northeast, Nagaland's Neiphiuo Rio, and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma, have publicly called for the act to be repealed.The Centre, on December 26, set up a high-level home ministry panel to review to look into the possibility of the withdrawal of Afspa. However, on December 30, it extended the act for a further six months in Nagaland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-expresses-regret-on-nagaland-killings-says-report-to-be-submitted-in-day-or-two-101641978772271.html
12-01-2022||India||‘100% administrative failure’: Kiran Bedi on PM Modi's security breach in Punjab||Puducherry's former lieutenant governor (L-G) Kiran Bedi said on Wednesday that the security breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's convoy in Punjab last week was a 100% administrative failure and a pre-planned conspiracy.“Plan to ambush the Prime Minister did not succeed. This is a 100 per cent administrative failure. The Prime Minister of this country survived a horrific attack,” Bedi said.The former officer of the Indian Police Service (IPS) also highlighted that Punjab is near the Pakistan border. “There could have been a bomb under the bridge. I think this country narrowly escaped the murder of its number one executive,” Bedi told news agency ANI.Also Read| SC appoints panel headed by ex-judge to probe PM Modi's security lapseHitting out at the Congress-led Punjab government, she said that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are accountable for the incident, and demanded the dismissal of the state's chief secretary and the DGP.“It is criminal negligence. They (chief secretary, DGP) have to be dismissed out of the service... no pension, nothing. A criminal case should be registered against them,” she added.On January 5, PM Modi was on his way to Ferozpur in poll-bound Punjab to lay the foundation stone of several developmental projects when his convoy was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes as a group of farmers blocked the route, which was around 30 km away from the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala.The Punjab government has already formed a high-level committee to investigate the lapses in Modi's security. Chief minister Channi has maintained that there was no threat to the Prime Minister's security and said that no protester was seen in a one-kilometre range of his convoy.Also Read| Explainer: SC, SPG Act and PM Modi's securityEarlier on Wednesday, the Supreme Court-appointed a five-member committee to probe the security breach.The committee will be headed by former SC judge Justice (retd) Indu Malhotra and will include the director-general of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), director-general of police Chandigarh, additional director-general of police (security) Punjab, and registrar general of Punjab and Haryana high court as the members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-administrative-failure-kiran-bedi-on-pm-modi-s-security-breach-in-punjab-101641977248739.html
12-01-2022||India||When will Covid surge in India decline? IISc-ISI model projects 3 scenarios||The latest projection by researchers at the Indian Institute of Science and the Indian Statistical Institute claims the present surge of India will begin to decline from February, though it will vary from state to state, and the present curve will be flattened by March-April. The peak might see over 8 lakh daily cases in India, the latest projection said. The latest projections take into account the rising Covid graph of India till January 10 and Omicron transmissibility rates in South Africa. For this projection, the scientists have provided three scenarios: 100% susceptible population, 60% susceptible population and 30% susceptible population. In all three scenarios, the curve will be flattened by April. In case of 30% and 60% susceptibility, the surge will decline in February, in case of 100% susceptibility, it will take some more time, the graph shows.Worried you may have Omicron? Here are the symptoms you should watch out for Here are the main takeaways from the latest projections1. India's estimated hospital requirement can go beyond 4 lakh per day in the worst-case scenario i.e. if 100% population is susceptible to the virus now.2. Considering 60% population susceptible, the hospital requirement can go a little above 3 lakh per day.Is the third wave finally starting to ebb in Mumbai and Delhi?ISI-IISC-Team provides new projections. More optimistic scenario than @IHME_UW, They also have a model from INDSCI SIM for states of India (@MenonBioPhysics et al)https://t.co/62MCbQkuER pic.twitter.com/anC4xDC00O3. The requirement of ICU beds can go beyond 20,000 in the worst-case scenario. Otherwise, it will remain between 10,000 to 15,000. 4. The wave will begin to decline in February and by March 1, the curve will start to flatten. In April 2022, the third wave will end in India. However, the exact timing will be different for different states5. Giving statewise predictions, the model shows that Delhi at present is reporting over 20,000 cases. If Delhi has a 60% susceptible population, then daily cases will rise over 40,000. In case of 100% susceptibility, daily cases may rise above 60,000.6. Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Punjab will see a delayed surge, the projection show, which means when cases in other states begin to decline, these states and UTs may see the surge.7. Maharashtra in the worst-case scenario will report over 1.75 lakh cases per day. In a60% susceptible situation, the state will report over 1 lakh cases per day at the peak.8. Karnataka in the worst-case scenario will report over 1.20 lakh daily cases, but in that case, the peak will come in February first week. In a 60% susceptible situation, Karnataka's peak will see a little over 80,000 cases daily.9. West Bengal may see between 30,000 and 40,000 daily cases considering 60% susceptible scenario. In the worst scenario, West Bengal will see over 50,000 daily cases.10. Kerala's daily cases could reach way above 1 lakh in a 100% susceptible situation. In the 60% susceptible situation, the daily cases could reach between 60,000 and 80,000.India on Wednesday reported 1.94 lakhCovid cases, taking the daily positivity rate to 11.05%. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the hospital admission rate has not risen in the past four-five days which is good news amid the third wave. "Fewer people are getting admitted to hospitals. It seems that the cases are going down. If they go down, then the restrictions will be reduced," the minister said.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said the numbers of Covid-19 cases and its fast-spreading variant Omircon were slowing coming down in the city and urged people to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-covid-surge-in-india-decline-iisc-isi-model-projects-3-scenarios-101641979068364.html
12-01-2022||India||How is India's military situation along the borders? What Army chief said||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Wednesday addressed the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Annual Press Conference 2022, where he provided brief updates about the country's military developments and its present status along the various border points. Talking in light of the recent clashes in multiple conflict-ridden areas, Naravane said that there are positive developments on India's northern and western borders although a rise in terrorist concentrations has been noted in a few regions, the armed forces remain alert as ever.Here's what COAS General MM Naravane said today in his brief to the media as part of the annual press conference:On the northern border: The Indian Army chief said that since January last year, there have been positive developments along India's northern and western borders. “On the northern borders, we have continued to maintain the highest level of operational preparedness while at the same time engaging with the PLA [People's Liberation Army; Chinese armed forces] through dialogue,” he said.On the western front: Highlighting his point that there has been some positive development on this front since last year, Naravane added that a rise in infiltration attempts by terrorists has also been noted. “On the western front, there is an increase in the concentration of terrorists at various launch pads and there have been repeated attempts of infiltration across the Line of Control (LoC),” he said. “This once exposes the nefarious designs of our western neighbour.”On Nagaland civilian killings: COAS General MM Naravane said that “the regrettable incident” that occurred in Nagaland's Oting on December 4, 2021, is being thoroughly investigated. “We remain committed to the security of our countrymen, even during the conduct of operations,” he said, adding that further corrections will be done in the standard operating procedures (SOPs) post-completion of inquiry into the Nagaland civilian killing incident.On situation along Indo-Myanmar border: Assuring that the situation in the northeastern part of India is under control, General Naravane said that with several Army battalions already deducted, the plan is to increase Assam Rifles battalions along the Indo-Myanmar border.On China's new border law: “Any law, which is not binding on other countries, is not legally tenable, and is not in keeping with the agreements that we have had in the past, obviously cannot be binding on us.”-Finally, acknowledging the role that media organisations are playing in 21st-century India, Naravane said that both the military and the media have a significant role to play along with the other pillars of the state in building a strong nation.“I look forward to a very strong and continuous partnership between the two of us – the media and the military – in the future,” the Army chief said, adding that with better intel and military capabilities, the Indian Army and all wings of the armed forces are now much better prepared to meet any challenge that is thrown at their direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-is-india-s-military-situation-along-the-borders-what-army-chief-said-101641977441006.html
12-01-2022||India||Smriti Irani slams Punjab govt for failing to provide safe passage to PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Union minister Smriti Irani on Wednesday slammed Punjab’s Congress government for failing to provide a safe passage to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cavalcade during his visit to the state on January 5, citing media reports indicating that it was aware of the protesters gathered along the route.“Why did the DGP (director general police) in Punjab give an all-clear in terms of the safety of the route that was to be taken by the Prime Minister?” Irani asked.PM Modi was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on his way from Bathinda to Ferozepur on January 5 due to a blockade by protesters. The security breach sparked a war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress government in Punjab. Both the Union and Punjab governments later set up their inquiry panels to probe the incident.Reports claimed that Punjab police personnel briefed their seniors and the state administration about the presence of protesters along the route that Modi’s cavalcade was to take during his visit.Irani cited the reports and said that it was “disconcerting” that Punjab Police officials in it have highlighted how they continuously engaged with the Congress government and administration in Punjab to bring to light the threat to the security of the Prime Minister and his entourage.“The question is, who in the Punjab Congress-led government continued to deliberately ignore these threats to the Prime Minister’s security?” she asked at a press conference.She slammed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for briefing Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra about the breach. “Priyanka Gandhi said she was briefed by the Punjab chief minister about the prime minister’s security breach. The question is, what security clearance does a citizen have that the chief minister is keeping her apprised about the prime minister‘s security. The details should be given only to the security agencies... why is it being given to a private citizen?”There was no immediate response from the Congress party or the Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-in-punjab-govt-ignored-threats-to-pm-security-asks-smriti-irani-101641977500438.html
12-01-2022||India||Kerala records 76 Omicron cases, highest-ever single-day spike||Kerala’s cumulative count of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 climbed to 421 on Wednesday after 76 new cases were reported, the highest single-day spike in the state so far.Kerala health minister Veena George said that the situation is really serious in Pathanamthitta district.On Monday, 17 patients in Kerala were found to be infected with the 'variant of concern' while 23 cases were reported on Sunday. More than 140 patients have recovered from Omicron in Kerala till now.Also Read| Kerala caps attendance at events to 50 as Covid spreads, sets ambitious jab target for young adultsKerala is the fifth worst-hit state from Omicron after Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi and Karnataka.Despite the fast-spreading variant wreaking havoc along with a surge in daily Covid-19 infections, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led state government has ruled out a possibility of a lockdown in Kerala.Veena George said last Saturday that the government can't hamper with the economic activities, adding that people should work together to avoid a complete shutdown.However, the state government has introduced some restrictions to check the spread of the Omicron variant. These include the number of people in weddings and funerals restricted to 50 and holding social, political, cultural events online except in urgent situations.Also Read| 100% increase in Covid cases in one week in Kerala: Health MinisterPreviously, a night curfew was implemented in Kerala from December 30 to January 2 from 10pm to 5am, allowing only essential services to function. Restrictions were also placed on New Year’s eve where no celebrations were allowed after 10pm and crowds were controlled in major tourist destinations and beaches.Last week, the state government decided to not reimpose the night curfew.The Covid-19 infections in Kerala are nearing 5.3 million, including 50,053 deaths, 5,205,210 discharges and 44,441 active cases. On Tuesday, the state reported a high of 9,066 fresh cases along with 296 deaths and 2,064 recoveries.State health minister Veena George said on Tuesday that cases are rapidly surging in Kerala and there was a 100% increase in cases in the last week. She added that the majority of the affected patients fall under the 20-40 age group.(With inputs from Ramesh Babu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-76-omicron-cases-highest-ever-single-day-spike-101641969920903.html
12-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi inaugurates 25th National Youth Festival and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesPM Modi inaugurates 25th National Youth Festival with mantra of ‘compete and conquer’Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday gave the mantra of ‘compete and conquer’ during his opening remarks at the inauguration of the 25th National Youth Festival in Puducherry. Read MoreHaridwar hate speech: Supreme Court issues notice to Uttarakhand govtThe Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to Uttarakhand government on a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking prosecution of those involved in making hate speeches at Haridwar Dharma Sansad. The event was organised in December last year. Read MoreAnushka Sharma, Virat Kohli host daughter Vamika's birthday bash, thank the 'warmest people' for being part of itAnushka Sharma and Virat Kohli celebrated their daughter Vamika's first birthday in South Africa. The family is in a bio bubble since Virat is playing for Team India in the ongoing Test series against the host nation, but Anushka confirmed that Vamika's birthday was perfect in every manner. Read More'When you win, you can say that': Gavaskar's epic reply to Elgar after SA captain says their intensity 'flustered' IndiaIndian Test captain Virat Kohli showed enormous grit and patience for his 79-run knock during the first innings of the third and final Test against South Africa on Tuesday. Read MoreKomaki Ranger electric cruiser bike revealed. Check out details Komaki Electric Vehicles has revealed its most awaited electric cruiser motorcycle Ranger on its website on Wednesday. This comes as the first pure electric cruiser motorcycle in India. The price of this electric motorcycle is slated to be announced on January 16. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-inaugurates-25th-national-youth-festival-and-all-the-latest-news-101641970946617.html
12-01-2022||India||PM Modi inaugurates 25th National Youth Festival with mantra of ‘compete and conquer’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday gave the mantra of ‘compete and conquer’ during his opening remarks at the inauguration of the 25th National Youth Festival in Puducherry. Speaking at the National Youth Festival programme, PM Modi said that the world has recognised India's two limitless powers of demography and democracy.“The youth of India carry democratic values along with demographic dividends. India considers its youths as development drivers,” he said.The day, January 12, being the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, is observed as National Youth Day. “The year 2022 is very important for the youth of India. Today's youth has to live for the country and fulfill the dreams of our freedom fighters... The strength of the youth will take India to greater heights,” he added.PM Modi stressed that the contributions of many freedom fighters did not get the recognition they deserved."The more our youth write and research about such individuals, the more awareness will increase in future generations of the country," he urged.PM Modi to inaugurate 11 new medical colleges in Tamil Nadu today, new CICT campus also on cardsThe prime minister also inaugurated a technology centre of the MSME ministry and Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Manimandapam, an auditorium with an open-air theatre in Puducherry via video conference. The auditorium, which can accommodate more than 1000 people, would primarily be used for educational purposes.After inaugurating the technology centre, PM Modi said that the role of the MSME sector is very important in creating 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. “It is very important our MSME use the technologies that are changing the world. The new MSME centre is an important step in that direction,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-25th-national-youth-festival-with-mantra-of-compete-and-conquer-101641968772253.html
12-01-2022||India||‘Happy he apologised’: Saina Nehwal on Siddharth’s ‘rude joke’||Indian shuttler Saina Nehwal said on Wednesday that she was not bothered about actor Siddharth's derogatory remarks about her, adding that a woman should not be targeted like this.Speaking to news agency ANI, Nehwal, who entered the second round of India Open 2022, said that she is happy that Siddharth apologised.Also Read| Siddharth apologises to Saina for his tweet, she says ‘shouldn’t target a woman’"Happy that Siddharth has apologised, you should not target a woman like that. It is okay, I am not bothered about it, I am happy in my place, God bless him," the Indian shuttler said.Nehwal's comments came a day after Siddharth issued a public apology on his Twitter handle for his rude joke directed towards her.He (actor Siddharth) said something about me first & then apologized. I don't even know why it went so viral. I was surprised to see myself trending on Twitter. Happy that Siddharth has apologized: Badminton player Saina Nehwal https://t.co/uKdfRPXMgn pic.twitter.com/Ls0qWVLJ8X“Dear Saina, I want to apologise to you for the rude joke that I wrote as a response to a tweet of yours, a few days ago. I may disagree with you on many things but even my disappointment or anger when I read your tweet, cannot justify my tone and words,” Siddharth tweeted on Tuesday night.The controversy erupted on January 6 when Siddharth responded to Nehwal's tweet that expressed concern over the security breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to poll-bound Punjab on January 5.“Subtle cock champion of the world… Thank God we have protectors of India. Shame on you #Rihanna,” Siddharth's tweet, which was later deleted, read.The actor received nationwide flak for his response on the microblogging site.The National Commission for Women (NCW) requested Twitter to block his account for the "sexist" tweet against Nehwal.Also Read| Law minister condemns tweet on Saina Nehwal, says reveals person's ‘mentality’Various activists slammed Siddharth for his sexist and misogynistic comments against Nehwal and demanded an apology.Union law minister Kiren Rijiju said on Monday that making a cheap comment on Nehwal exposed the person's ignoble mentalityAmid the widespread condemnation, Siddharth on Monday issued a clarification by saying he did not mean to disrespect anyone and his subtle cock tweet had no kind of insinuation.“Cock and bull. That's the reference. Reading otherwise is unfair and leading. Nothing disrespectful was intended, said or insinuated. Period,” he tweeted on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/happy-he-apologised-saina-nehwal-on-siddharth-s-rude-joke-101641967546788.html
12-01-2022||India||Haridwar hate speech: Supreme Court issues notice to Uttarakhand govt||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to Uttarakhand government on a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking prosecution of those involved in making hate speeches at Haridwar Dharma Sansad. The event was organised in December last year.The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, also allowed the petitioners, a former high court judge and a journalist, to approach local authorities with their plea to stop a similar event, which is scheduled to take place in Aligarh on January 23.The court posted the matter for hearing after 10 days.The petitioners have sought a direction for "an independent, credible and impartial investigation" by an special investigation team (SIT) into the incidents of hate speeches against a community.The Supreme Court had agreed on Monday to hear the PIL after the matter was mentioned before the CJI by senior advocate Kapil Sibal. The lawyer pointed out that no arrests have been made in the case.One event was organised in Haridwar by Yati Narsinghanand and the other in Delhi by 'Hindu Yuva Vahini'.Videos of the Dharma Sansad in Haridwar were widely posted on social media, in which the speakers were heard calling for the genocide of members of a community.The Uttarakhand Police filed the FIR under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code against Sant Dharamdas Maharaj, Sadhvi Annapoorna alias Pooja Shakun Pandey, Wasim Rizvi aka Jitendra Tyagi, and some others associated with the Dharma Sansad. The police later added the names of Yati Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haridwar-hate-speech-supreme-court-issues-notice-to-uttarakhand-govt-101641969144930.html
12-01-2022||India||India's Omicron tally inches closer to 5,000, Maharashtra and Rajasthan top chart||India's Omicron tally reached closer to 5,000-mark on Wednesday after the morning update by the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed that the country has so far logged as many as 4,868 cases of the new Covid-19 variant.All states and Union territories (UTs) of the country have confirmed cases of the Omicron variant. Maharashtra and Rajasthan lead the chart with 1,281 and 645 infections, respectively. Delhi, which was for a longer period of time in the second slot of the countrywide tally, has retained its third position with 546 cases of the new ‘variant of concern’. On January 10, Rajasthan overthrew the national capital as the second most-hit state in India by Omicron.Other states and UTs in the top 10 worst-affected regions include Karnataka (479), Kerala (350), West Bengal (294), Uttar Pradesh (275), Gujarat (236), Tamil Nadu (185), and Haryana (162).Of the total 4,868 Omicron cases that the country has detected so far, as many as 1,805 have recovered. This means, there are 3,063 active infections of the Covid-19 variant in India, according to the Union health ministry update.This comes on a day India witnessed a spike in single-day Covid-19 cases yet again with a total of 194,720 fresh infections. The death toll of the country also rose to 484,655 after new fatalities witnessed a jump to 442 from Tuesday's 277.The latest surge in India, which is considered as a third coronavirus wave, is primarily due to the Omicron outbreak. It has triggered a majority of states and UTs to impose strict restrictions, including night curfew, shutting of schools and colleges, closure or curbs on restaurants and bars, among others.On Tuesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to all states and UTs, directing them to ensure that optimal availability of medical oxygen is ensured at all health facilities amid the increasing coronavirus cases. He stated that all health facilities across the country must ensure that they have a buffer stock of medical oxygen adequate for "at least 48 hours."
12-01-2022||India||SC appoints 5-member panel headed by ex-judge Indu Malhotra to probe PM Modi's security lapse||The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed its former judge Indu Malhotra as chairperson of a panel to investigate Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security lapse in Punjab last week. The committee will look into the causes of the security breach that left PM Modi's convoy stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes while it was on its way to the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala, a few kilometres away from the Pakistan border.The other members of the committee are the director-general of the National Investigation Agency, director-general of police Chandigarh, additional director-general of police (security) Punjab, and registrar general of Punjab and Haryana High Court.The apex court said that the independent committee will also probe people responsible for it and find out measures to be taken in future for preventing such security breaches of VVIPs. It directed the registrar general of Punjab and Haryana High Court to submit documents on security arrangements for PM's visit to Justice Indu Malhotra.It asked the committee to submit a report on the issue at the earliest.Explainer: SC, SPG Act and PM Modi's securityThe ministry of home affairs last Thursday constituted a three-member committee to probe into the lapses in the security arrangement during PM Modi's visit to Punjab's Ferozepur. The committee will be led by Sudhir Kumar Saxena, secretary (security), Cabinet Secretariat.The two other members are Balbir Singh, Joint Director, intelligence bureau, and S. Suresh, IG, special protection group (SPG).The home ministry said that the convoy was stuck on a flyover around 30 kilometres away from the memorial of freedom fighters as the road was blocked by some protestors."This was a major lapse in the security of the Prime Minister,” the ministry said in a statement following the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-appoints-5-member-panel-headed-by-ex-judge-indu-malhotra-to-probe-pm-modi-s-security-lapse-101641964948091.html
12-01-2022||India||Compromised I&B ministry’s Twitter account restored, probe on||NEW DELHI: The Twitter handle of the Union information and broadcasting (I&B) ministry was compromised on Wednesday as its name was changed to that of entrepreneur Elon Musk temporarily before it was restored.“The account @Mib_india has been restored. This is for the information of all the followers,” the ministry, which has 1.4 million followers on Twitter, tweeted after the account was restored.HT reached out to the spokesperson for the ministry, the office of I&B minister Anurag Thakur and Twitter, but did not receive a response immediately.An official said an investigation will be conducted to see what exactly happened.Also Read | PM Modi’s Twitter handle ‘briefly compromised’: PMO after bitcoin link shareAfter the account was hacked, several tweets containing links to “amazing news” with Bitcoin written in the background were shared. HT cannot confirm what these links led to.Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Twitter account was briefly hacked after a tweet claiming that India has “officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender” was put out from it. The tweet was brought down a few minutes later.Twitter said that all necessary steps were taken to secure the compromised handle.The Prime Minister’s Office had tweeted, “The Twitter handle of PM @narendramodi was very briefly compromised...In the brief period... any tweet shared must be ignored.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compromised-i-b-ministry-s-twitter-account-restored-probe-on-101641965739489.html
12-01-2022||India||US F-18 fighter op-demo in Goa for INS Vikrant in April-May||US defence major Boeing is planning an operational demonstration of F-18 Super Hornet carrier-based fighter at the shore-based test facility (SBTF) at INS Hansa in Goa in April-May this year as a possible contender for Indian Navy’s sole aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and soon to be commissioned INS Vikrant. Both the Indian aircraft carriers use ski-jump to launch the fighters with arrested recovery through the net.According to officials in knowledge of the matter in Washington and in New Delhi, the US Navy conducted ski-jump trials of F-18 fighter at Naval Air Station Patuxent River in Maryland in US or Pax river in December 2020 but the Indian Navy team could not attend the demonstration due to travel restrictions on account of the coronavirus pandemic. However, the US Navy shared extensive data of the ski jump trials with the Indian Navy. A year later in December 2021, both the US Navy and the aircraft manufacturer did a site inspection of SBTF at INS Hansa in the presence of Indian Navy officials.While presently the operational demonstration of Rafale-Marine is on at the INS Hansa as the other option for Indian aircraft carriers, both the twin engine aircraft are virtually of the same later 1990s vintage and of the same 4.5 generation.Even as the Indian Navy will be evaluating both the aircraft, the F-18 is a two seater fighter, which is more suitable to carrier based operations for better orientation at sea. Rafale-M is a single seater fighter, while it has a two seater trainer but that can only be operated from the shore.The other important factor that weighs in favour of the F-18 is that it can fit the INS Vikramaditya or INS Vikrant lift with folded wings without compromising on its operational readiness.In case of Rafale-M the fighter will only fit to carrier lift after the wing tips of the aircraft are removed as the wings cannot be folded and the span is more than that of a folded F-18 fighter.Aviation experts says that an adapter platform will have to be fitted for F-18 Super Hornet as it allows faster movement of jets from lower deck to deck under combat and high seas condition.Although both France and US are close allies of India, the Modi government will also take into account the license, maintenance and spare parts issues as it cannot afford to be caught on the wrong foot in a rapidly changing security environment.Under no circumstances, the Modi government will allow India's strategic autonomy and operational readiness to be compromised.
12-01-2022||India||India Covid-19 cases: In fresh spike, close to 200,000 people test positive; active caseload nears 1 million||In a massive spike, India reported nearly 200,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, with as many as 194,720 people testing positive, data published by the Union health ministry on Wednesday showed. Daily fatalities, too, witnessed a rise, with 442 lives lost due to the viral disease, the data further showed.With this, the nationwide infection tally has risen to 36,070,510, including a related toll of 484,655.Also Read | ‘Have mild symptoms…’: Nitin Gadkari tests Covid-19 positiveIn a concerning development, the number of active cases is once again near the 1 million-mark, and currently stands at 955,319, an increase of 133,873 cases from Tuesday's bulletin. Also, 60,405 more patients were discharged, pushing the total recovery count to 34,630,536.Recoveries, active cases and deaths comprise 96.01 per cent, 2.65 per cent and 1.34 of the overall caseload, as per the data.On the Omicron front, the infection count stands at 4868, a rise of 407 from the the new variant's caseload on January 11.Also Read | Worried you may have Omicron? Here are the symptoms you should watch out forAlso, more than 8.5 million additional doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered, pushing the total number of doses administered since January 16 last year, when the nationwide inoculation drive commenced, to more than 1.53 billion (153 crore).On Monday, India began the latest phase in its vaccination drive, as 'precautionary doses' were administered to health care workers, frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-fresh-spike-india-logs-close-to-200-000-daily-covid-cases-active-caseload-nears-1-million-101641954335833.html
12-01-2022||India||Worried you may have Omicron? Here are the symptoms you should watch out for||The Omicron variant of the coronavirus is wreaking havoc across the world, with as many as 4461 cases reported across India as well. Classified as a variant of concern (VoC) by the World Health Organization (WHO), Omicron is likely to become the dominant strain in the country in the near future, according to health experts.Also Read | Omicron cases increase by more than 400 in 24 hours; 28 states, UTs now affectedMeanwhile, Dr Sonam Solanki, consultant pulmonologist and bronchoscopist at Mumbai-based Masina Hospital, has listed out symptoms of Omicron:(1.) Symptoms generally start with body ache, generalised weakness, fatigue, headache and fever in the initial days.(2.) Eventually, people will develop a cough, which is likely to be dry. They are also likely to develop cold, leading to water from the nose, sneezing etc.(3.) In at least 80 per cent cases, fever goes away in the first three days itself. However, if it persists, then that is a sign of moderate to severe infection which requires close monitoring.How to mitigate its effect: According to Dr Solanki, isolating at the right time and preventing the infection's spread is the key. Taking RTPCR test will assure no symptom of the Omicron variant is missed.Also Read | Omicron: Britain reports drop in daily Covid cases amid record surge in US“Since Omicron is more infectious than the other mutant, it is important o be very cautious. Hence, not only an Omicron patient, but anyone stepping out should be properly masked. However, those who are showing symptoms should necessarily wear an N95 mask when leaving home for whatever reason. A simple or surgical mask may not suffice,” said Dr Solanki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worried-you-may-have-omicron-here-are-the-symptoms-you-should-check-for-101641954823576.html
12-01-2022||India||Cold wave in north India, dip in Delhi temperature and rain in eastern areas over next few days: IMD||Several parts of north India, including Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, are battling the extreme cold wave conditions, while those in other parts of the country are bracing for heavy rainfall starting today, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Arunachal Pradesh and Gangetic West Bengal are likely to witness heavy downpours during the day, the IMD further said.Heavy rainfaill has also been forecast for Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam, Meghalaya, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. East Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha in Maharashtra are expected to witness isolated and scattered rainfall, respectively.Also Read | These 4 states will receive heavy rainfall from January 11 to 13, says IMD. Details hereSeveral southern states such as Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh will also receive rainfall, according to IMD. Telangana has been forecasted to see fairly widespread rainfall by the Met department, while isolated downpours will happen over Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Andhra Pradesh will receive scattered rainfall, the IMD said.Although a majority of the north Indian states and Gujarat in the western side of the country will remain dry, the Met department has forecast light to moderate rainfall over and in adjoining areas of Kurukshetra in Haryana, Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh during the next hour on Wednesday (January 12).12/01/2022: 07:21 IST; Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Kurukshetra (Haryana) Saharanpur, Deoband, Muzaffarnagar (U.P.) during next 2 hours.On Tuesday, the IMD sounded an orange alert in Odisha that remains in place today as well. In Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand, a yellow alert was issued till January 13. Notably, orange alert signifies "extremely bad weather" while yellow means "severely bad weather" existing for several days.IMD scientist RK Jenamani told Hindustan Times on Tuesday that minimum temperature in Delhi has once again started dropping, and could reach six degrees Celsius by Saturday. He added that fresh spells of snowfall in the mountains will trigger a drop in minimum temperature in the national capital though cold wave conditions are “unlikely this week.”This morning, Delhi recorded a temperature of 8.6 degrees Celsius, up from Tuesday's minimum temperature of 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD bulletin. On Tuesday, maximum temperatures were "markedly below normal (-5.0 degrees or less) at most places in west Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha, at few places in Haryana, Chandigarh, east Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi, and at isolated places in Odisha.Also Read | Rain, snowfall bring in cold in north India: What is the reason behind it?The Met department has forecasted cold wave conditions in northeast Rajasthan between January 12 and 14, and in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on January 13 and 14. Meanwhile, dense to very dense fog is very likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi over the next four to five days till January 16. Similar fog predictions have been made for north Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh for January 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dip-in-delhi-temperature-rain-in-eastern-areas-over-next-few-days-imd-101641953752875.html
12-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to inaugurate 11 medical colleges in Tamil Nadu, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to inaugurate 11 new medical colleges in Tamil Nadu today, new CICT campus also on cardsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate as many as 11 new government medical colleges, and the new campus of the Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT) in Tamil Nadu today. Read moreOmicron: Britain reports drop in daily Covid cases amid record surge in USThe United States continue to report an exponential surge in infections and record-high Covid-19 hospitalisations, largely driven by the highly contagious Omicron variant. Read more‘Kohli left his ego behind in the kit bag’: Gambhir impressed with Virat's disciplined approach in Cape TownIndia Test captain Virat Kohli displayed a rare side of him as he scored 79 off 201 balls on the opening day of the third Test against South Africa in Cape Town. Read moreSiddharth apologises to Saina Nehwal for 'rude joke' in open letter: 'Can't justify my tone and words'Siddharth's tweet was widely criticised as ‘sexist’, prompting a response from even Saina Nehwal, following which the actor issued a letter of apology late night on January 11. Read moreGabriella Demetriades has a goal for the end of the month. Hint: it's all about PilatesGabriella Demetriades is working out like a beast. The designer and model, who celebrated the holiday season of Christmas and New Year in style, flanked by his family. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-11-medical-colleges-in-tamil-nadu-and-all-the-latest-news-101641954257538.html
12-01-2022||India||‘Have mild symptoms…’: Nitin Gadkari tests Covid-19 positive||Union minister Nitin Gadkari is the latest politician to test Covid-19 positive, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader taking to Twitter to announce he has contracted the infection.Also Read | Delhi reports 23 Covid deaths, highest in 208 days“I have tested positive for Covid-19 today with mild symptoms. Following all the necessary protocols, I have isolated myself and I am under home quarantine. I request all those who have come in contact with me to isolate themselves and get tested,” Gadkari posted on Tuesday night. I have tested positive for Covid 19 today with mild symptoms. Following all the necessary protocols, I have isolated myself and I am under home quarantine. I request all those who have come in contact with me to isolate themselves and get tested.The minister for road transport and highways joins several party colleagues, such as defence minister Rajnath Singh, BJP national president JP Nadda, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, party vice-president Radha Mohan Singh, among others, in testing positive for the virus.Also Read | Rajnath, Nitish, Bommai, Nadda test positive for CovidUnion minister Mahendra Nath Pandey, too, was diagnosed with Covid-19, though he informed on January 10 he has recovered completely. साथ ही आप सभी शुभचिंतकों का भी मेरे लिए कामना करने के लिए धन्यवाद एवं आभार। पुनः आप सभी से भी #COVID के नियमों का पालन करने का आग्रह करता हूँ।Meanwhile, also on Tuesday, Bihar CM and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar and legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar, too, returned positive test result for the viral illness.Also Read | Lata Mangeshkar admitted to ICU after testing positive for Covid-19Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquired about the health of Bommai, Kumar and Mangeshkar, media reports said.Amid a massive spike in the nation's daily coronavirus infections, PM Modi will, on Thursday, chair a virtual meeting with chief ministers to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-mild-symptoms-nitin-gadkari-tests-covid-19-positive-101641952611527.html
12-01-2022||India||PM Modi to inaugurate 11 new medical colleges in Tamil Nadu today, new CICT campus also on cards||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate as many as 11 new government medical colleges, and the new campus of the Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT) in Tamil Nadu today. The medical colleges will be inaugurated across the southern state while the new campus of the central institute will be opened in the capital city Chennai. The inauguration event will be held at 4pm via video conferencing, according to a statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).Taking to Twitter on Tuesday, PM Modi stated that the new medical colleges will “augment health infrastructure and ensure affordable healthcare to the people of Tamil Nadu.”
12-01-2022||NA||PM Modi to interact with CMs of all states tomorrow at 4:30pm on Covid-19 situation, reports ANI||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:1 cop martyed in encounter with terrorists in Kashmir's Kulgam, reports ANIOne police personnel was martyed in an encounter with terrorists in the Pariwan area of Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, reported news agency ANI citing Kashmir Police. Three army soldiers as well as two civilians were also injured during the encounter.During the encounter, one JeM terrorist was killed. Bengaluru logs sharp spike in Covid infections with 15,617 fresh cases; 6 deathsBengaluru Urban on Wednesday registered 15,617 fresh cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a spike of 4,817 infections as compared to previous day's 10,800, according to the health department bulletin. With this, the total infections in the district rose to 13,34,957. Read morePM to interact with CMs of all states tomorrow on Covid-19 situationPrime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of all states/UT on the Covid-19 pandemic situation on Thursday, reports news agency ANI.Delhi sees rise in daily Covid-19 tally at 27,561🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 12th January 2022🏥 #delhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/D7UeVgxT21Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally continued an upward trend on Wednesday after 27,561 cases were recorded, according to the health department's bulletin. Forty more patients died and nearly 15,000 recovered, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 25,240 and 1,505,031 respectively. Mumbai reports 16,420 new Covid-19 cases, 14,649 recoveries#CoronavirusUpdates12th January, 6:00pmPositive Pts. (24 hrs) - 16420Discharged Pts. (24 hrs) - 14649Total Recovered Pts. - 8,34,962Overall Recovery Rate - 87%Total Active Pts. - 1,02,282Doubling Rate - 36 DaysGrowth Rate (5 Jan - 11Jan)- 1.85%#NaToCoronaMumbai's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surged again on Wednesday after 16,420 new cases were reported, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Jammu and Kashmir reports 1,695 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hoursJammu and Kashmir has reported 1,695 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. Of the freshly reported cases, 812 are from Jammu while 883 are from Kashmir.The active cases in the Union territory currently stand at 6,242.India's retail inflation surges sharply to 5.59% in Dec 2021 from 4.91% in NovIndia's annual retail inflation accelerated to 5.59% in December from 4.91% in the previous month, pushed up by rising prices of manufactured items, government data released on Wednesday showed.PM Modi inaugurates 11 new govt medical colleges in Tamil NaduPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday virtually inaugurated 11 new government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu.Sensex gains 533.15 points to settle at 61,150.04; Nifty rises 156.60 points to 18,212.35Sensex gains 533.15 points to settle at 61,150.04; Nifty rises 156.60 points to 18,212.35State minister Dara Singh Chauhan resigns from Yogi cabinetUttar Pradesh minister Dara Singh Chauhan has resigned from his post. The resignation came a day after another cabinet minister Swami Prasad Maurya resigned from his post and said he will join the Samajwadi Party on January 14.1,700 Delhi police personnel tested COVID-19 positive from Jan 1 to Jan 12: ReportAs many as 1,700 Delhi Police personnel have tested positive for the coronavirus infection since January 1, news agency PTI reported officials as saying on Wednesday.Shiv Sena to contest 50-100 seats in UP polls: Sanjay RautShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday that the party will contest 50-100 seats in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. “I will be visiting western Uttar Pradesh tomorrow,” he told ANI.Panel set up by SC is ‘most welcome and absolutely needed’: Kiran Bedi on PM's security breach matterFormer IPS officer Kiran Bedi said on Wednesday that the panel formed by the Supreme Court is “most welcome and absolutely needed” in PM Modi's Punjab security breach matter. “It has been the most disastrous performance by Punjab civil administration and police, which set a very bad example for the rest of the country,” she was quoted as saying by ANI.Capt Amarinder Singh tests positive for Covid-19I have tested positive for #Covid with mild symptoms. Have isolated myself and request all those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested.Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh informed on Twitter on Wednesday that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and has “mild symptoms.” “Have isolated myself and request all those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested,” he added in the tweet.Cong central election panel to meet tomorrow to finalise candidates for Punjab pollsCongress central election committee will meet tomorrow (January 13) to finalise candidates for February 14 Punjab Assembly elections, ANI reported.SC issues notice to U'khand govt on PIL seeking prosecution of those involved in Haridwar hate speechSupreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Uttarakhand government on a PIL, seeking prosecution of those involved in the Haridwar Dharma Sansad case. The top court also allowed petitioners, a former high court judge and a journalist, to approach local authorities with their plea to stop a proposed Dharma Sansad in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh on January 23. Read more here.‘People of India are young, minds of India are also young’: PMPM Modi on the occasion of 25th National Youth Festival said that the world today looks at India with one hope and faith because not only are the people of the country young, but their minds are too. “India is younger than its potential…younger than its dreams. India is younger than its thoughts…younger than its consciousness,” he added.PM Modi inaugurates technology centre and auditorium in Puducherry on 25th National Youth FestivalPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated the technology centre of MSME and an auditorium - 'Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Manimandapam' that has an open air theatre, via video conferencing in Puducherry. He launched the projects as part of the 25th National Youth Festival.SC appoints its ex-judge as inquiry panel head to probe PM's Punjab security breach matterSupreme Court appoints its former judge Indu Malhotra as chairperson of the inquiry committee to investigate PM Narendra Modi's security breach in Punjab last week. Read more here.Rajesh Bhushan asks states, UTs to ensure optimal availability of medical oxygen amid rising Covid casesIn a new letter to all states and Union territories (UTs), Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has directed for adopting immediate measures to ensure “optimal availability of medical oxygen at health facilities.” This comes as India has been witnessing major spike in daily Covid-19 cases for the past few weeks.India's daily Covid cases gain see spike with 194,720 new infectionsIndia's Covid-19 tally on Wednesday again saw a spike with 194,720 new infections in 24 hours. The death toll also rose from 277 to 442.AAP to announce candidate for Punjab polls next week: KejriwalAam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that his party will announce its chief ministerial candidate for the February 14 assembly elections in Punjab next week.At least 481 resident doctors in Maharashtra have tested Covid positive so farAt least 481 resident doctors have tested positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra so far, ANI reported quoting Dr Avinash Dahiphale, president, Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors.Light to moderate rainfall over parts of Haryana & UP in next 2 hoursThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted light to moderate rainfall over and in adjoining regions of Kurukshetra in Haryana, and Saharanpur, Deoband, Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh during the next two hours.Delhi's air quality dips to ‘moderate’ from ‘satisfactory’: SAFAR-IndiaDelhi's air quality on Wednesday deteriorated to 'moderate' category from ‘satisfactory', with the city recording an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 193, according to SAFAR-India.PM Modi to inaugurate National Youth Festival in Puducherry todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday inaugurate and participate in 25th National Youth Festival in Puducherry. The programme will start at 11am and will also see him inaugurating ₹145 crore projects, including a technology centre and an auditorium with an open air theatre. Read here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-in-25th-national-youth-festival-in-puducherry-today-101641948921782.html
12-01-2022||India||PM Modi to participate in 25th National Youth Festival in Puducherry today, inaugurate ₹145 crore projects||On the occasion of Swami Vivekananda Jayanti, which is observed as the National Youth Day all over India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 25th National Youth Festival in Puducherry today. The festival will be held virtually on January 12 and 13 owing to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, according to a statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).Modi will address the inauguration programme at 11am today.Apart from this, the Prime Minister will also inaugurate a technology centre, which will funtion under the Union ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), and an auditorium with open air theatre known as the 'Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Manimandapam'.Taking to Twitter on Tuesday, PM Modi informed about today's event and provided some pictures of the auditorium. Earlier on Monday (January 10), he had asked his “young friends” to join today's programme and also urged them to "share their inputs."In the same programme, will also inaugurate a Technology Centre of the MSME Ministry which will boost skill development among the youth. The Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Manimandapam, a modern auditorium with an open air theatre will also be inaugurated. pic.twitter.com/ImNdgsvbP8“Always a delight to hear from India's talented youth,” Modi tweeted on Monday.The technology centre has been built at a cost of nearly ₹122 crore with a focus on the electronic system design and manufacturing (ESDM) sector. It will cater to the skill development of youth and also train around 6,400 trainees per year, the PMO statement read.The auditorium, on the other hand, has been constructed at a cost of about ₹23 crore. “It would primarily be used for educational purposes, and can accommodate more than 1,000 people,” the PMO statement added.The National Youth Festival is aimed at shaping the minds of India's youth and transforming them into a "united force for nation building." "It aims to bring diverse cultures of India and integrate them into a united thread of 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat'," the PMO statement read.Also Read | National Youth Day 2022: History, significance and Swami Vivekananda's influenceFollowing the inauguration of the festival by Modi, the National Youth Summit will take place in which panel discussions on four themes - environment, climate and sustainable development goals (SDG) led growth; technology, entrepreneurship and innovation; indigeneous and ancient wisdom; and national character, nation building and home grown; will happen.Participants during the festival will also see recorded video capsules of Auroville, Puducherry, Immersive City Experience and indigenous sport games and folk games. Open discussions with Olympians and Paralympians will follow next along with a live performance this evening. Meanwhile, a virtual yoga session will be organised in the morning.During the inauguration programme, Modi will unveil selected essays on "Mere Sapno ka Bharat" and "Unsung Heroes on Indian Freedom Movement." The selection took place from more than 1 lakh submissions by Indian youth on the two above-mentioned themes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-participate-in-25th-national-youth-festival-in-puducherry-today-101641944684415.html
12-01-2022||India||Swami Vivekananda: Know about one of India's greatest philosophers||India is celebrating National Youth Day today, to honour the life and teachings of one of the greatest philosophers, Swami Vivekananda. The day celebrates Vivekananda’s “inspirational” ideas and how the youth will benefit from them.Chief disciple of the 19th-century mystic Ramakrishna Paramhansa, Vivekananda introduced the world to the Indian philosophies of Vedanta and Yoga.On January 12, 1863, Vivekananda was born as Narendranath Datta in an aristocratic family of North Calcutta. He is seen as a major force behind the revival of Hinduism in India and is credited with creating interfaith awareness as well.In 1881, he first met Ramakrishna Paramhansa, following which he journeyed down the path of spirituality. Vivekananda, who founded the Ramakrishna Math and the Ramakrishna Mission, is also credited with instilling a sense of nationalism in people in a colonial India.Both these became important centres for the teaching of the philosophy and principles associated with Vedanta.Vivekananda wrote four classics - Jnana-Yoga, Bhakti-Yoga, Karma-Yoga, and Raja-Yoga - which are his treatises on Hindu philosophy and the teachings of Vedanta. In addition, his ideas and philosophy come through in the many lectures he delivered, the letters he wrote to friends and disciples, poems and songs composed by him.Vivekananda is best known for his famous 1893 speech where he introduced Hinduism to the Western world in Chicago.He had also warned against the dangers of sectarianism and bigotry. Here’s an excerpt from the same:Sectarianism, bigotry and its horrible descendant, fanaticism, have long possessed this beautiful earth. They have filled the earth with violence, drenched it often and often with human blood, destroyed civilisation and sent whole nations to despair. Had it not been for these horrible demons, human society would be far more advanced than it is now.Swami Vivekananda died on July 4, 1902. He was meditating at Belur math when a ruptured blood vessel in his brain led to his death. His followers believe that the rupture was due to brahmarandhra (an opening in the crown of his head) being pierced when he attained mahasamādhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swami-vivekananda-know-about-one-of-india-s-greatest-philosophers-101641947454076.html
12-01-2022||India||Supreme Court to hear plea seeking probe into Haridwar hate speech case today||The Supreme Court will hear a plea on Wednesday seeking immediate action against those who allegedly made hate speeches targeting the Muslim community at two separate events in Haridwar and Delhi. The matter will be heard by a three-judge bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli.The petition has been filed by journalist Qurban Ali and former Patna High Court judge Anjana Prakash seeking direction for an "independent, credible and impartial investigation" by a Special Investigation Team (SIT). On Monday, the apex court agreed to hear the plea after the matter was mentioned before CJI Ramana by senior advocate Kapil Sibal."I have moved this PIL in respect of what happened in Dharam Sansad in Haridwar on December 17 and 19 (last year). We are living in difficult times where slogan in country has changed from 'Satyamev Jayate' to 'Shastramev Jayate'," Sibal said.The senior advocate told CJI that FIR has been registered but no arrests have been made so far.“No action will be taken without the court’s intervention,” he said.The petition specifically mentions the hate speeches delivered between December 17-19 at Haridwar and Delhi organised by Yati Narsinghanand 'Hindu Yuva Vahini' respectively. In the video shared widely on social media, the speakers at the “Dharma Sansad” were heard calling for the genocide of members of a community.The Uttarakhand Police initially filed the FIR under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code against Sant Dharamdas Maharaj, Sadhvi Annapoorna alias Pooja Shakun Pandey, Wasim Rizvi aka Jitendra Tyagi, and some others associated with the Dharma Sansad. The police later added the names of Yati Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-seeking-probe-into-haridwar-hate-speech-case-today-101641946762158.html
12-01-2022||India||National Youth Day 2022: History, significance and Swami Vivekananda's influence||The birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda is celebrated across India as National Youth Day, to honour one of the greatest philosophers and spiritual leaders. It also marks his ideas on how the young should participate in the modern world while upholding their values.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to virtually inaugurate the 25th National Youth Festival today in Puducherry on the occasion.History of National Youth DayThe decision to celebrate Vivekananda’s birthday as National Youth Day was taken in 1984, and it was first marked on January 12, 1985.The government had then said that the philosophy of Swamiji and the ideals for which he lived and worked “could be a great source of inspiration” for the Indian youth.How National Youth Day is celebratedThe day is marked all over India at schools and colleges, with processions, speeches, music, youth conventions, seminars, Yogasanas, presentations, competitions in essay-writing, recitations and sports every year. But due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and the schools being shut, most of the events will be held in virtual mode.At the Puducherry event, to be inaugurated by PM Modi, panel discussions on four identified themes: Environment, climate and SDG led growth; tech, entrepreneurship and innovation; indigenous and ancient wisdom; and national character, and nation-building.The Prime Minister will also unveil chosen essays on two topics - "Mere Sapno ka Bharat" and "Unsung Heroes of Indian Freedom Movement". These essays have been selected from submissions by over 1 lakh youth on the two themes.About VivekanandaSwami Vivekananda was the chief disciple of 19th century mystic and yogi Ramakrishna Paramhansa. He founded the Ramakrishna Math, a monastic order based on his guru’s teachings in Kolkata and a worldwide spiritual movement known as the Ramakrishna Mission based on the ancient Hindu philosophy of Vedanta.Vivekananda is credited with contributing to a revival of modern Hinduism and inspiring nationalist consciousness during colonial rule. But he is best known for his famous 1893 speech where he introduced Hinduism to the Western world in Chicago.Swami Vivekananda died on July 4, 1902.Vivekananda’s influenceVivekananda’s writings and teachings had an impact on many of India’s nationalist leaders, who were fighting against the colonial rule. Subhas Chandra Bose called Vivekananda “the maker of modern India” and Mahatma Gandhi credited Vivekananda’s with increasing his “love for his country a thousandfold”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-youth-day-2022-history-significance-and-swami-vivekananda-s-influence-101641946670464.html
12-01-2022||India||Uttarakhand government revises night curfew timings. Details here||The Uttarakhand government has extended the night curfew, imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), by an hour. It will now be in place from 10pm to 6am, instead of 10pm to 5am.The hill state is a popular tourist destination and has been taking various steps to check the inflow of people and reduce the spread of the infection.The state government has imposed a ban on religious gatherings on Makar Sankranti, prohibiting devotees from taking bath in the Ganga in Haridwar and Rishikesh.The entry of devotees to Har ki Pauri in Haridwar, Triveni Ghat in Rishikesh, and other ghats has been banned, Haridwar collector Vinay Shankar Pandey and Dehradun district magistrate R Rajesh Kumar said in their separate orders.The Uttarakhand government has also announced that hotels, dhabas and eateries will be allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity.While anganwadi centres, schools and other educational institutions will remain closed till January 16, conference halls, spas and gyms in hotels are allowed to utilise 50 per cent of their capacity while hosting guests.These guidelines come in the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand over the past few days, with a total of 2,127 infections reported on Tuesday and 1,292 the day before.Tuesday’s count was the highest single-day spike in over seven months, according to state health department. The state had reported 2,146 cases on May 27. One Covid patient also died in Uttarakhand on Tuesday.Dehradun district reported the maximum number of 991 cases, followed by Nainital (451), Haridwar (259), Udham Singh Nagar 189 and Pauri 48.The state has so far reported eight cases of the new and highly-mutated Omicron variant of the coronavirus, according to Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-government-revises-night-curfew-timings-details-here-101641945037982.html
12-01-2022||India||Bihar health dept warns computer operator after mismatch in Covid test results||PATNA: The Bihar health department has issued a stern warning to a data entry operator, allegedly guilty of making incorrect entry about Covid-19 test result on the state portal that led to many people getting contradictory result through SMS, said state health officials on Tuesday. On Sunday, 8-10 people were stumped after they received SMS intimation of being negative, but found their real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) test report to be positive. The special Covid-19 sample collection camp was held at Patna’s Budh Marg locality on January 6 and results were declared on January 9. Rama Shankar Lall, 58, Devanand Rai, 45, and Shiv Shankar Prasad, 30, were among the 10 people who tested positive for Covid-19, but received SMS of being negative. “On Sunday, I received an SMS stating that my Covid-19 test was negative. However, when I checked the RT PCR report on the link provided to me, it was positive. I then went for a rapid antigen detection (RAD) test on Monday and it was negative. It’s all too confusing,” said Lall. Rai and Prasad, however, tested positive even on the RAD kit on Monday and were advised home isolation. Most of the samples were tested at the Rajendra Memorial Institute of Medical Sciences Institute, a bio-safety level 2-plus laboratory and research institute of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at Patna’s Agamkuan. There were similar complaints last year too during the second wave of the pandemic. Such was the load on government laboratories then that in a few cases, the RT-PCR test report and SMS notification arrived after the death of a patient. “We found there was one centre in Patna where the data entry operator was making incorrect entry on our Covid-19 health portal, the data of which is automatically integrated on the ICMR website. This led to people getting contradictory results through SMS and their actual test report. We have done the correction and issued last warning to the data entry operator concerned,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar. Meanwhile, Bihar reported five Covid-19 deaths and added 5,908 new cases, taking the count of active cases to 25,051. Five Covid-19 patients, all males with pre-existing diseases, died during the last 24 hours on Tuesday. The deaths were reported from the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), Sai hospital and one from Bhagalpur, said Singh. Younger people getting infected People in the younger age group were getting infected by the virus more this time as compared to the second wave, said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health, on Tuesday. Giving a breakup of the age-wise distribution of the people infected by SARS CoV-2 between January 1 and 10, he said 28% were in the 20-29 years age bracket, 23.9% in 30-39 years age group, 15.2% between 40 and 49 years of age, 12.5% in 50-59 years age group, 10% in 10-19 years of age, 8.6% above 60 years of age and 1.9% in 0-9 years of age. With Covid-19 cases increasing rapidly in Bihar, up from 352 on January 1 to 5,908 on January 10, the state’s test positivity rate also moved up from 0.37% to 3.14% during the corresponding period, he said. Patna, which had the state’s highest test positivity rate of 20.65%, added 2,202 new Covid-19 cases on Monday followed by Muzaffarpur (264 cases), Samastipur (249), Darbhanga (232), Bhagalpur (210), Jamui (180) and Gaya (160). 
12-01-2022||India||‘Don’t use EVMs else..’ Chhattisgarh CM’s father’s bizarre appeal to Prez||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s father Nand Kumar Baghel has written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking instructions to the Election Commission to conduct elections in the country using ballot papers and not voting machines. The senior Baghel also said he should be permitted “euthanasia” on January 25 if his demand isn’t accepted.“All the constitutional rights of the citizens of the country are being violated on a large scale. The three pillars of democracy- Legislature, Judiciary and Executive, are being destroyed. The media is also working at the behest of the three pillars of democracy. No one is paying heed to the citizens of the country. There is a sense of fear among citizens,” Nand Kumar Baghel’s letter on Monday said.The Nand Kumar heads a local outfit that seeks to create awareness about voting.“The right to vote is the supreme right of democracy which is being executed through EVMs. No nationally or internally recognized institutions or governments have certified the EVMs as a cent per cent accurate…There is no guarantee whether my vote is cast in favour of whom I pressed the button through the EVM machine,” he said. Many developed countries in the world have adopted ballot paper and box system of elections, he claimed. “In such circumstances, when all my rights are being violated, then the very purpose of my life is getting lost and being a citizen of India, my conscience is not allowing me to live any longer. Honourable President Ji, you have taken an oath to protect the Constitution, but my constitutional rights are not being protected, due to which I have no option but to die,” he said. He urged the President to issue an order to conduct elections using ballot papers in place of EVMs in the larger interest of healthy democracy and said, “if voting with ballot paper is not possible, then he (President) should allow me euthanasia on National Voters’ Day on January 25 this year”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-use-evms-else-chhattisgarh-cm-s-father-s-bizarre-appeal-to-prez-101641933277988.html
12-01-2022||India||Modi to meet CMs to discuss Covid situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual meeting with chief ministers over the Covid-19 situation on Thursday as the number of virus infections sees a surge due to its Omicron variant, officials familiar with the matter said.Fresh curbs have been imposed in various parts of the country to check the spread of the highly transmissible virus. Reviewing the Covid situation at a high-level meeting on Sunday, Prime Minister Modi had called for ensuring adequate health infrastructure at the district level and accelerating the vaccination drive for adolescents in mission mode.The precaution vaccination drive for healthcare and frontline workers besides those over 60 years of age with comorbidities has also started.Vaccination remains among the most effective means to fight Covid, Modi had said. The prime minister has held numerous meetings with chief ministers to spearhead India’s response to the disease since its outbreak in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-meet-cms-to-discuss-covid-situation-101641931328189.html
12-01-2022||India||In Karnataka, all healthcare roads lead to private hospitals||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday visited Manipal Hospital, one of Bengaluru’s biggest private medical establishments, for a checkup after testing positive for Covid-19 a day before.Bommai is not the first Karnataka chief minister to get treatment at a private centre. Former chief ministers BS Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah and HD Kumaraswamy also received treatment at a private healthcare centre earlier when they had tested positive for Covid-19 or for other treatments.“He had just gone there for a check-up after he tested (Covid) positive on Monday,” said an official from the chief minister’s office (CMO), requesting anonymity.At a time when the state is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, activists and experts pointed out that the head of government’s visit to a private hospital does not help in gaining people’s trust in the public health care facilities. To be sure, Karnataka’s gross allocation (total demand +IEBR ( Internal & Extra Budgetary Resources) ) for health and family welfare is 4% of the total budget or ₹11,908 crore, according to the 2021-22 budget presented by former chief minister BS Yediyurappa in March last year.“This points to the fact that private hospitals are ubiquitous in cities while government hospitals are difficult to find,” said Adithya Pradyumna, faculty at the Azim Premji University (AZU), who also works in the areas of environment and health, public health and health impact assessment.He added that there is some sense of confidence that private hospitals will do a “better job” than government facilities.Experts also pointed at the declining real expenditure on public health.A 2021 study by AZU, ‘Urban Healthcare at Crossroads: Assessing Healthcare Vulnerabilities for Urban Poor in India’, highlighted those complexities in defining urban boundaries in the urbanisation process and the multiplicity of health care providers both within and outside the government are challenges to urban health governance. It added that overlapping administrative jurisdictions and lack of coordination result in chaos in urban health.“Our evidence from Bengaluru shows that 30% of even the poorest quintile seeks delivery care from private sources. Since there is a 10-fold difference in cost between public and private facilities, this significantly adds to their financial burden,” the report added.Treatment for covid-19 is free in public hospitals while private medical establishments were capped prices for treatment in covid-19 hospitals at ₹5200- ₹11500 depending on the type of ward and if on ventilator. Private hospitals also protested that 50% of their total capacities were asked to be set aside for free treatment for government-allocated patients while it had very little room to treat their walk-in patients as well as those with other ailments.This has been done away with as the number of cases came down in the later half of 2021.Prasanna Saligram, a public health and community health researcher with Jana Swasthya Abhiyan Karnataka, pointed to a deep “class system” within the society, saying inequality is a big determinant of health.“Evidence globally shows that if you invest in public health systems, then you have better health outcomes,” Saligram said, adding, “Glorification of the private sector in Karnataka is phenomenal.”He added, “Because of inequalities, the ruling, upper and elite class get what they want and naturally the have-nots or poorer sections have to make do with the poorer services.”There were allegations that people in public hospitals or those patients allocated by the government to private hospitals were made to find life-saving drugs like Remdesivir on their own while keeping their stocks for higher paying walk-in patients. Even when most public hospitals ran out of vaccines, large private hospitals with direct agreements with vaccine makers, had steady supply of doses which was paid for.Private or paid inoculation accounted for more than half of all inoculations in Bengaluru alone, according to senior government officials, leaving those dependent on public medical establishments in a state of despair.Interestingly, the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government brought in the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (Amendment) Bill, 2017 to regulate the cost of treatment in private establishments. However, the bill hit a stone wall after doctors from private hospitals protested for several days. More than 22,000 doctors in Bengaluru participated in the protests. Later, a diluted version of the same bill in November 2017 that sought to ensure that elected representatives and government employees, who are eligible for medical treatment reimbursement, get treated in government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-all-healthcare-roads-lead-to-private-hospitals-101641930336709.html
12-01-2022||India||SC-appointed committee proposes tree conservation authority in every state||NEW DELHI: The seven-member expert committee set up by the Supreme Court to assess the value of trees cut for development projects on non-forest land has recommended a tree conservation authority to be set up at the state and local levels for overseeing compensatory afforestation and to act as custodians of public-owned trees on non-forest land (PTNFL). Submitting a 184-page report to the top court last week, the Committee assigned the task of assessing the value of PTNFL said, “Though this Committee favours a cost-based approach, it agrees that a benefit-based approach based on net present value (NPV) criteria is a better way of assessing the value and making developers pay, as is proposed for land-use change. However, a paucity of studies providing information and data impedes its application in the Indian context.” The Committee recommended a large-scale national research project to conduct a species-specific tree ecosystem service valuation to arrive at their NPV, considering the same as functions of age, girth-at-breast height, etc. “This may well be a long-term project given the number of species and the biogeographic diversity of the country.” said the Committee headed by former chairman of Wildlife Trust of India MK Ranjitsinh Jhala. The Committee proposed the criteria for assessing the value by two methods – transplantation cost method and substitution cost method. It said, “While valuing public trees using the transplantation-cost method, a user agency (project proponent) would bear the cost of transplanting trees including pre-conditioning, hardening, rootstock consolidation, refuge site preparation, transportation, transplanting at a refuge site, and aftercare.” After preparation of a site tree report, the Committee said, “For all 15 transplanted trees that do not survive, indigenous tree species of 4.5 meters (15 feet) height and at least 15 cm diameter need to be planted, at a ratio of 1:5, by the user agency.” Under the substitution-cost method, the Committee said, “The appraisal method using the trunk formula can be used to assess the value of trees to be felled based on the four parameters of girth, species rating, condition rating and location rating.” The expert committee proposed state tree conservation authority (STCA) in each state be formed that should assess the nursery gate price and the planting cost once in three years and fix a uniform unit price to be made applicable across the state. “In no case shall this unit price be less than ₹200 per square cm. As the tree is standing on public land, it is the property of the state and hence standard practices prevalent in the state regarding the felling of trees, their disposal and crediting the proceeds to government revenue shall apply in this case as well.” Following this, the Committee said, “The user agency shall transfer this tree compensatory levy (TCL) to the STCA before approval for felling is accorded. The STCA can fix a numerical threshold based on the number of trees to be felled, beyond which all felling proposals must be routed to it by the local tree conservation authority (LTCA) for approval. Below this threshold, the LTCA can dispose of a proposal at the local level itself.” The Committee felt the need for a national model Act that will codify the functions, powers and composition of the tree conservation authority at various levels, mainstream tree conservation aspects in developmental planning, and articulate the mitigation hierarchy to govern decision making, enable public participation, prevent abuse of trees, lay down the monitoring protocol and other ancillary aspects to be adopted by the state governments in a time-bound manner. The Committee was constituted by the Supreme Court in March 2021, and in December the top court directed the Committee to submit its report in four weeks. The task of the committee was to fix the value of trees taking into account the intrinsic and instrumental value of trees based not on their timber worth but their age, girth and environmental contribution. This remaining members of the committee include Jigmet Thapka, joint secretary of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) as member secretary, Arun Singh Rawat, DG, Indian Council for Forestry Research, Sandeep Tambe, professor of forestry at the Indian Institute of Forest Management, Bhopal, Gopal Singh Rawat, former dean and director, Wildlife Institute of India, Nilanjan Ghosh, director, Observer Research Foundation, Kolkata, considered an expert in ecological economics, and environmentalist Pradeep Krishen. The order constituting the committee was passed while considering a petition filed by Association for Protection of Democratic Rights which opposed felling of primitive trees for construction of five road over bridges (ROB) as part of a road widening project undertaken by West Bengal government. In considering this matter, the Court took opinion from a group of experts on valuing ornamental trees. These experts opined that a tree’s worth can be calculated by setting a multiplier of ₹74,500 to the age of the tree. A heritage tree with a lifespan of over 100 years can even be worth over ₹one crore, it submitted in a report given to the Court. The matter related to chopping of over 300 trees. The bench in its March 25 order said, “The guidelines shall prescribe a mechanism for assessment of both intrinsic and instrumental value of the trees, based not only on the value of timber, but also the ecosystem services rendered by the trees and its special relevance, if any, to the habitat of other living organisms, soil, flowing and underground water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scappointed-committee-proposes-tree-conservation-authority-in-every-state-101641929742556.html
12-01-2022||India||India to export mangoes to US; import cherries, pork||The US has approved import of mangoes and pomegranates from India and secured New Delhi’s approval to supply of cherries, alfalfa hay, pork and pork products to India, the two governments said in separate statements.The export of Indian mangoes and pomegranates to the US is in accordance with a recent agreement between India’s Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare and the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) for implementing the “2 Vs 2 Agri market access” issues, the commerce ministry said in a statement. “Under the agreement, India and the US would follow joint protocol on irradiation for India’s mango exports and pomegranate exports to the US and import of cherries and Alfalfa hay from the US,” it added.The agreement was signed in pursuant to the 12th India-US Trade Policy Forum (TPF) meeting held on November 23, 2021.Meanwhile, the United States Trade Representative (USTR) also announced India’s agreement to allow US pork and pork products into India.A statement issued by the office of USTR on Monday said: “United States Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack today announced that the government of India has agreed to allow imports of U.S. pork and pork products into India, removing a longstanding barrier to U.S. agricultural trade.”It added: “This news follows the successful revitalisation of the US-India Trade Policy Forum [TPF] held in New Delhi in November 2021, during which Ambassador Tai raised the importance of access for U.S. pork with Indian Minister of Commerce Piyush Goyal.The statement quoting Vilsack further said: “This new opportunity marks the culmination of nearly two decades of work to gain market access for U.S. pork to India – and it signals positive movement in US-India trade relations.”TPF, one of the bilateral dialogue mechanisms between the US and India to discuss trade issues, was established in 2005, but it was dormant since its last meeting in October 2017 until Indian commerce minister Goyal and Ambassador Tai decided to revive the forum during their phone conversations in March and May last year.As the government has secured the approval of USDA for export of Indian mangoes to the US in the new season, consumers in that country will now have access to excellent quality mangoes from India, the commerce ministry said in its statement.“As part of the mutual agreement, India will be able to export mangoes to the USA in the mango season commencing with the Alphonso variety of mangoes by March onwards,” it added. The export of Indian mangoes has been restricted by the US since 2020 as USDA inspectors were unable to visit India to inspection irradiation facilities due restrictions imposed on international travel because of Covid-19 pandemic.“A revised work plan has been worked out, including phase-wise transfer of oversight of pre-clearance of irradiation treatment to India as agreed upon between both the countries,” the commerce ministry statement said.While the pomegranate exports will start from April 2022, exports of alfalfa hay and cherries from the US will begin in April 2022, it said.There is a huge acceptance and consumer preference of Indian mangoes in the US as India exported 800 metric tonnes (MTs) of mangoes to the US in 2017-18 and the export value of the fruit was $2.75 million, it added.Similarly, in 2018-19, 951 MT of mangoes worth $3.63 Million were exported to US and 1,095 MT worth $4.35 million were exported to the country in 2019-20.“As per estimates received from the exporters, the export of mangoes in 2022, may surpass the figures of 2019-20,” the statement said.The USDA approval will pave the way for exports from traditional mango production belts such as Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. According to the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), the development will also provide an opportunity for the export of other varieties of mangoes from north and east India such as Langra, Chausa, Dasehri and Fazli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-export-mangoes-to-us-import-cherries-pork-101641929256539.html
12-01-2022||India||98,507 OBC students enrol in Navodaya schools||The Centre’s Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) witnessed 98,507 enrolments of students from other backward classes (OBCs) in standards 6 to 12 during the academic year 2020-21, the first in which 27% reservation in admissions for the OBC category was implemented at the school level.According to the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samithi’s 2020-21 annual report, of the 287,967 students enrolled in 661 JNVs across the country, 34.21% (98,507) fell in the OBC category, 25.13% (72,376) in the Scheduled Caste category, and 20.30% (58,460) in the Scheduled Tribes category.The report is available on the body’s official website.The residential schools, JNVs, meant to cater to talented students in rural areas, had 15% reservation for SC students and 7.5% for students from the ST community since the inception of the institute in 1985-86, according to the report, and the 27% OBC quota was introduced in 2020.The 2020-21 numbers show that the enrolment of students from each of these communities was much higher than the seats reserved for them.In 2019-20, of the 272,491 students enrolled in JNVs, 69,158 were enrolled in SC category and 55,496 in ST.Seats were reserved for OBC students at the school level for the first time ever in April 2020 in JNVs and Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) after a recommendation by a parliamentary committee in February that year. Though 27% reservation existed for OBCs in government jobs and higher education, it was not offered at the school level until them.According to the JNV annual report 2020-21, Uttar Pradesh witnessed maximum OBC enrolments at 16,368, followed by Madhya Pradesh (10,010), Bihar (9,525), Karnataka (7,973) and Rajasthan (7,552).A senior official at the education ministry said that the number was likely to further increase in the ongoing 2021-22 academic session. “The government is committed to the proper implementation of OBC reservation. The data for the academic session 2021-22 is yet to be compiled by the ministry,” the official added, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/98507-obc-students-enrol-in-navodaya-schools-101641929079590.html
12-01-2022||India||Central vista project work delayed by 1-2 days due to heavy rain: Puri||The redevelopment of the central vista avenue in New Delhi, where the Republic Day parade is scheduled to be held, has been delayed by a couple of days due to heavy rain earlier in the month, housing minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday.Speaking at an event to release the plan for the ‘Smart Cities, Smart Urbanisation’ showcase in Surat, Puri said, “The highest amount of rainfall in January has been witnessed, for any day, in many years…  [but] the central vista avenue work probably lost a day or two, not more.”Construction work where the parade will be held is complete, ministry officials said.Overall work had indeed been hampered due to the rainfall, an official of the Central Public works Department said. “The manholes were filled with water. The space of work got affected. But we are trying to finish the work in the next few days,” he said, requesting anonymity.HT had recently reported that the Rajpath, adjacent paths, lawns, canals and parking lots were ready. “Currently, arrangements for the Republic Day parade are being made. The canals have been repaired, but water will be filled later on,” a senior ministry official had told HT.The redevelopment of the central vista avenue, part of the Centre’s ₹13,500 crore redevelopment project, started in February last year. The project was to be completed by end of December.While large parts of the ₹608 crore project have been completed ahead of the parade, pedestrian underpasses at Janpath and India Gate and amenity blocks will be completed after January 26, said a ministry official.Meanwhile, the ‘Smart Cities, Smart Urbanisation’ event will see a range of events such as workshops, foot races, panel discussions on important issues such as slum-free cities, etc.“The ministry’s Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav initiatives, covering the whole of government approach, are built around large-scale people’s participation,” Puri said. “They highlight not only the country’s rich cultural heritage, but also its future aspirations and spirit of innovation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-project-work-delayed-by-1-2-days-due-to-heavy-rain-puri-101641928716682.html
12-01-2022||India||SFI leader’s murder triggers clashes at many places in Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram:A day after a Students Federation of India (SFI) activist was allegedly killed by Youth Congress workers in an engineering college in Idukki district, clashes broke out at many places in Kerala on Tuesday as both the Congress and ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) engaged in a war of words. Offices of the Congress were attacked at Thiruvalla (Pathanamthitta), Thaliparamba (Kannur), Perambra (Kozhikode) and Malappuram, police said. The SFI observed bandh at educational institutions across the state and carried out protest rallies. At many places, the rallies turned violent, police said. In Malappuram, the situation turned tense on Monday night after a group of CPI(M) workers marched to the venue of a meeting presided over by state Congress president K Sudhakaran. A clash was averted after timely intervention of leaders and police. In Kollam, Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) member of Lok Sabha NK Premachandran’s vehicle was allegedly attacked by a group of CPI(M) workers. “It was a deliberate attack. It seems the CPI(M) is waiting for a chance to settle old scores,” said Premachandran. The MP was earlier with the Left camp and later crossed over to the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). On Monday, 21-year-old SFI activist Dheeraj Rajendan, a resident of Kannur, was allegedly stabbed to death by Youth Congress workers at around 1 pm at the Idukki Engineering College, police said. Condoling the death, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said attempts to create violence in campuses cannot be accepted. “The murder of Dheeraj Rajendran, a student of Idukki Painavu Government Engineering College and an SFI activist, is extremely sad and highly condemnable. Attempts to create violence in college campuses will not be allowed under any circumstances. Police have been directed to bring Dheeraj’s killers to justice as soon as possible,” Vijayan said soon after the incident. In a complaint filed on Monday, police have cited political rivalry behind the murder. So far, four persons, including main accused Nikhil Pyly, a Youth Congress worker, have been arrested in the case, police said. Kerala Youth Congress president Shafi Parambhil said the party will take strict action against the accused.On Tuesday, a dozen workers of the Kerala Students Union (Congress student wing), including a few women, were hospitalised at Maharaja’s College in Ernakulam after an alleged attack by SFI workers on Monday night, police said. While the ruling CPI(M) blamed new PCC chief K Sudhakaran for increased violence, the latter asked the ruling party to shed its “politics of violence” to ensure peace in the state. “After Sudhakaran took over the reins, Congress workers are in a belligerent mood. He gives free licence (to party workers) to attack political opponents,” said CPI(M) leader MV Jayarajan. Sudhakaran, however, said, “The party is against violence and we condemned the killing. But the CPI(M) is using this unfortunate incident to target party offices and workers. You take out the list, maximum political murders were committed in the state by CPI (M).” He added that if the attack continued like this, party workers will be forced to retaliate. According to the police, the body of Rajendran was taken to his native place in Kannur on Tuesday by road after conducting post-mortem. “We are keeping a strict vigil in politically volatile north Kerala district,” said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sfi-leader-s-murder-triggers-clashes-at-many-places-in-kerala-101641928656638.html
12-01-2022||India||Supreme Court to hear Haridwar hate speech case today||The Supreme Court will on Wednesday hear a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a former Patna high court judge and a journalist, demanding stringent action against those involved in making hate speeches at a religious events held in Haridwar last month. A bench, headed by chief justice of India NV Ramana, will take up the petition filed by former HC judge Anjana Prakash and journalist Qurban Ali. The other judges on the bench are justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli.On Monday, the bench had agreed to urgently list for hearing the petition after senior advocate Kapil Sibal mentioned the plea.“I have moved this PIL in respect of what happened in Dharam Sansad in Haridwar on 17 and 19 December. We are living in different times where slogans in the country have changed from Satyamev Jayate (truth alone wins) to Shashtramev Jayate (those with arms only win),” Sibal submitted before the bench.The event in Haridwar, held from December 17-19 last year, was organised by Yati Narasimhanand, a religious leader who has been accused in the past of inciting violence with his incendiary speeches.After several controversial videos from the event that were circulated on social media triggered outrage, the Uttarakhand police registered a first information report (FIR) against Jitendra Narayan Singh Tyagi, formerly known as Waseem Rizvi, and others for allegedly giving a “provocative speech” against “a particular religion” at the Dharm Sansad. Some speakers at the event allegedly called for violence against Muslims and Christians.Former Patna HC judge and senior advocate Prakash, and journalist Qurban Ali, approached the Supreme Court complaining of inaction against those who made hate speeches at the Haridwar Dharm Sansad and in Delhi.It said that the speeches made at the Sansad posed a grave threat not just to the unity and integrity of the country but also endangered the lives of millions of Muslim citizens.The plea cited some viral videos of the incident, reportedly showing proclamations made by various religious leaders at the event while contending that the police authorities are hand in glove with the perpetrators of communal hate.The petition has urged the court to set up a special investigation team to probe the incident and bring guilty to book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-hardiwar-hate-speech-case-today-101641928478155.html
12-01-2022||India||Punjab elections: Amarinder continues to hold seat-sharing talks with BJP, SAD||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) (Sanyukt) and Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) held a second round of discussion on the seat sharing agreement for the upcoming assembly elections in the state on Monday, people familiar with the matter said. The two hour-long meeting was attended by the former chief minister’s son Raninder Singh, state BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma and SAD (Sanyukt)’s Parminder Singh Dhinda at Chandigarh.The three parties are expected to arrive at a conclusion in the coming days, the people cited above said.They had formed a joint six-member committee comprising two leaders from each party to finalise the seat sharing pact. The parties are also yet to issue a joint manifesto for the impending elections. Meanwhile, former Congress MLA and businessman Arvind Khanna joined the BJP along with Kanwar Singh Tohra, grandson of late Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief Gurcharan Singh Tohra, in the national capital on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-elections-amarinder-continues-to-hold-seat-sharing-talks-with-bjp-sadsanyukt-101641927996886.html
12-01-2022||India||Foxconn to resume ops with nearly 500 workers today||Chennai: Operations at Apple’s contract manufacturing firm, Foxconn, will re-open in a staggered manner from Wednesday, after being shut since December 18 last year following protests by employees demanding better living conditions, quality food and more water in their hostels. Government officials, who are overseeing the changes, said that less than 500 people will be brought back to the hostels before Wednesday. Among the new norms to be followed at hostels include providing bedding to all employees, lodging fewer people inside each room, providing four liters of drinking water per day to each employee and allowing workers to go home when they request for leave, the officials added. On December 29 last year, Apple Inc put the site of the Taiwanese electronics major Foxconn on probation, following which all employees were sent back home to various districts across Tamil Nadu. Salaries for the probation period have been paid to employees. Production at the manufacturing firm at Sriperumbudur, 42 km from Chennai, where iPhones are assembled, has been shut since December 18 last year following protests by thousands of workers demanding safe food following a major food poisoning episode. About 159 employees were hospitalisedafter eating a meal at the hostel’s eatery, managed by the company. Women employees at the firm had complaint about crammed hostel rooms forcing them to sleep on the floor, besides a time limit on water usage in toilets and not enough water and food for them. The state government stepped in with a few recommendations, to which Foxconn’s management agreed. Kancheepuram district collector M Arathi said that Foxconn had outsourced the manpower management to a third-party vendor, which had led to the issues. “Now they will directly monitor everything and they are going to take feedback from the employees on a weekly basis,” the collector said. “Earlier if they made six people stay in a room, it has been brought down to four. Previously they were given a mat and a pillow to sleep. Now they will have bunk beds.” The state government has also suggested that a single, centralised kitchen be decentralised so that employees could be served warm, if not hot, food. “They work eight hours a day and then they are idle in their hostels. So, the Foxconn management is bringing in some sports activities and skill development for them,” the collector added. A top government official involved in talks with Foxconn, who did not wish to be identified, said that officials from various departments, including labour welfare and health, are coordinating the efforts to reopen the factory and ensure that basic facilities made for employees at hostels will meet the required standards. “It will re-start with a minimum workforce and step by step production will increase,” the official said. “There is no doubt that employees will be brought back only after corrective steps have been taken,” the official added. HT reached out to the spokespersons of Apple Inc and Foxconn, but they were yet to respond till the time of going to press. However, they had released independent statements on Monday. “For the past several weeks teams from Apple, along with independent auditors, have been working with Foxconn to ensure a comprehensive set of corrective actions are implemented in the off-site accommodations and dining rooms at Sriperumbudur. Workers will start to return gradually as soon as we are certain our standards are being met in every dormitory and dining area,” Apple’s statement read. Hon Hai Technology Group (Foxconn) said, “We have implemented a range of corrective actions to ensure this cannot happen again and a rigorous monitoring system to ensure workers can raise any concerns they may have, including anonymously. We will gradually begin to welcome back team members as each offsite dormitory becomes ready and is approved.” This was the first such protest at the company that employs 15,000 people, of which over 10,000 are women. Thousands of workers sat in protest for more than eight hours on the busy Chennai-Bengaluru highway, demanding the health status of their colleagues. The workers are not unionised and their protest was supported by members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) wing in Kancheepuram district. In a statement released on Tuesday, the CITU said there is no clarity on when the remaining employees will be brought back. “CITU will continue its struggle for the basic rights of the workers. The administrations should engage in the best interest of the workers,” the statement read. 
12-01-2022||India||Former BJP minister Michael Lobo joins Congress ahead of Goa elections||Former Bharatiya Janata Party leader Michael Lobo on Tuesday joined the Congress, a day after resigning from the Goa cabinet and quitting the saffron party.Lobo joined the Congress along with his wife Delilah and a host of BJP supporters in the presence of Congress’s Goa in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat. The development came weeks ahead of the assembly elections in the state. “If Goa is to be taken forward, the way forward for the people of Goa is only Congress. We have seen the work of Digambar Kamat from 2007 to 2012. In this coming election, Goa needs to go in the right direction. We will ensure that the party wins 22 seats (in the 40-member Goa Assembly),” he said. On Monday, Lobo said he was upset with the functioning of the party, especially the manner in which the grassroots-level workers are treated.A vocal member of chief minister Pramod Sawant’s cabinet, Lobo is the third Christian lawmaker after Alina Saldanha and Carlos Almeida to have left the BJP citing changes in the party’s functioning following former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s death in 2019. Christians account for a little over 25% of the state’s population.Welcoming Lobo to the party, Kamat said: “Let us work hand in hand to bring back a people-friendly Congress government in Goa and remain committed to protect the identity of Goa.” With Lobo’s resignation, the number of BJP legislators who changed sides since the 2017 assembly elections has risen to 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bjp-minister-michael-lobo-joins-congress-ahead-of-goa-elections-101641927696533.html
12-01-2022||India||80-year-old gets jail term over cruelty to daughter-in-law||An 80-year-old woman convicted of cruelty to her daughter-in-law was sent to prison for three months on Tuesday despite her advanced age by the Supreme Court, who took a serious note of the matter. Mira, a resident of Chennai, was convicted and sentenced by a trial court under section 498A (relative causing cruelty to women) of the Indian penal code, which was later upheld by the Madras high court. Her daughter-in-law committed suicide in 2006 and it was established that Mira frequently taunted her daughter-in-law.“When an offence has been committed by a woman by meting out cruelty to another woman, i.e., the daughter-in-law, it becomes a more serious offence. If a lady, i.e., the mother-in-law herein does not protect another lady, the other lady, i.e., daughter-in-law would become vulnerable,” a bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna said on Tuesday.The court reduced the sentence from one year to three months and directed the woman, currently on bail, to surrender and undergo the punishment.The mother of the victim had filed a case against her daughter’s husband, mother-in-law and father-in-law under Section 498A and Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the penal code. The victim was staying with her in-laws as her husband used to work in Saudi Arabia.The lawyer appearing for Mira had pleaded to the Court for a lenient view, considering her advanced age and the fact that the High Court had already acquitted her of the charge under Section 306. It was submitted that the victim did not want her husband to go back to Saudi Arabia and for that she quarrelled with her husband and other family members. This, according to Mira’s lawyer, was the root cause that led to her committing suicide.The bench, however, said, “It is to be noted that the appellant – mother-in-law is held to be guilty for the offence under Section 498A of IPC. Being a lady, the appellant, ought to have been more sensitive vis-à-vis her daughter-in-law….In the present case, even the husband of the victim was staying abroad. The victim was staying all alone with her in-laws. Therefore, it was the duty of the appellant, being the mother-in-law and her family to take care of her daughter-in-law, rather than harassing or torturing and meting out cruelty to her daughter-in-law regarding jewels or on other issues. Therefore, as such, no leniency is required to be shown to the appellant in this case.”The high court had passed the order against Mira in April 2019, refusing to interfere with the finding of guilt recorded by the trial court against the mother-in-law alone. The husband and father-in-law were absolved of both charges.The top court went through the material on record and noted the statements recorded by the mother and father of the victim establishing the acts of cruelty by the appellant. “Mother of the victim in her evidence has clearly stated that her daughter was frequently subjected to harassment by her mother-in-law for not adorning jewels…At the time when the incident occurred, the appellant was approximately between 60-65 years. The incident is of the year 2006. Therefore, merely because long time has passed in concluding the trial and deciding the appeal by the High Court, is no ground not to impose the punishment or to impose a sentence of period already undergone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80yearold-gets-jail-term-over-cruelty-to-daughterinlaw-101641927401216.html
12-01-2022||India||BSF constable killed by cattle smugglers near Indo-Bangladesh border||KOLKATA: A Border Security Force (BSF) constable was allegedly killed by cattle smugglers at Malda in north Bengal in the early hours of Monday, officials said. According to senior BSF officials, Vivek Tiwari, 30, a constable with the 59 Battalion, was overpowered and drowned in a canal by cattle smugglers close to the Indo-Bangladesh border. “We have lodged a complaint with the Bamangola police station in Malda. A case has been initiated,” said SS Guleria, DIG BSF (South Bengal Frontier). According to BSF officials, Tiwari was on patrolling duty in the early hours of January 10 when he spotted cattle being smuggled across a canal located close to the international border. “He challenged the smugglers by firing from his rifle and alerted his colleague who was around 80 metres away. He then chased the smugglers in the dense fog without waiting for his colleagues to arrive. He was intercepted, overpowered and drowned by the cattle smugglers,” said Guleria. Tiwari, who hails from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh is survived by his wife, who is pregnant, and a one-year-old daughter. He joined the BSF in May 2017. Among all states West Bengal has the longest and one of the most porous international boundaries. The state shares 2216 km international border with Bangladesh. It also shares around 100km border with Nepal and 183 km border with Bhutan. Data placed by the union ministry of home affairs in parliament in March 2020 shows that in 2017, 2018 and 2019 security agencies arrested 1175, 1118 and 1351 people respectively along the entire stretch of the Indo-Bangla border in India. The Union government has recently amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 kms, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Following the decision, a political row erupted in the state with the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal hitting out at the Centre alleging that it was an infringement on state land through the back door. The Congress echoed the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-constable-killed-by-cattle-smugglers-near-indo-bangladesh-border-101641927398025.html
12-01-2022||India||927k third vaccine jabs administered on day 2||Nearly 1.9 million (18,52,611) third doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered since Monday, when India started giving third vaccine doses, according to data from the government’s Co-WIN dashboard. On Tuesday, 927,970 precautionary doses were administered across the country, of which 241,600 were given to the people aged 60 years and above with comorbidities. A total of nearly 7.6 million Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered on Tuesday in all, including to those in the 15-18 age group and all other adults taking their first or second doses, the provisional vaccination data released by the government showed. People above the age of 60 with certain illnesses and those working in high-risk sectors such as healthcare and front-line jobs have been allowed to take what the government has classified as precaution doses, as long as their second shots were taken more than nine months ago. On December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced expanding Covid vaccination coverage under its national immunisation programme to high-risk population group from January 10 onwards, and among children aged 15-18 years from January 3. During his review with certain states on Monday, health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya emphasised on administration of precaution dose for the identified categories commencing from Monday, January 10, and urged the states to ensure full coverage of the vulnerable population as soon as possible. For the convenience of beneficiaries, the health ministry also wrote to states asking to keep running hours flexible at the Covid vaccination centres in their states. “...it is to reiterate that no time limit has been set for the operationalisation of the Covid vaccination centres... The session timings are subject to the demand and the requirement at a particular Covid vaccination centre In case of an increased demand, it is advised that multiple teams may be arranged at each Covid vaccination centre to cater to the need. It is again reiterated that the timings of the covid vaccination centres is flexible and can be up to 10 pm in the night based on availability of HR and infrastructure,” additional health secretary Manohar Agnani wrote in a letter to states. The third dose will be the same as the previous two, the government has mandated. It offers full portability that means even if the third dose is taken at a different centre, it will be the same vaccine taken before. There is no option of mixing doses. Health and front line workers vaccinated earlier in the general category can upload their employment certificate on CoWIN and get tagged in the appropriate category to avail of the precautionary dose facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/927k-third-vaccine-jabs-administered-on-day-2-101641927156825.html
12-01-2022||India||Odisha panchayat polls from February 16: SEC||The three-tier panchayat elections in Odisha will be held in five phases from February 16 to 24 amid strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols, the state election commission (SEC) announced on Tuesday. While no political rallies and victory processions will be permitted, door-to-door campaigns with the participation of maximum five people, including the candidate, will be allowed, it added. The state poll body’s announcement came even as a few political parties sought to halt the forthcoming panchayat elections if reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) is not ensured. The Odisha high court had last month directed that there must be no reservation for backward classes in the panchayat elections — in compliance with recent Supreme Court orders.Addressing reporters here, SEC Aditya Prasad Padhi said voting for 853 zilla parishad seats, 91,916 wards and 6,794 gram panchayats will be held on February 17, 18, 20, 22 and 24 between 7 am and 1 pm. The counting of votes, which will be carried out at the block sardar level, will be held on February 26, 27 and 28. “In view of the Covid cases, only door-to-door campaigning with not more than five people including the candidate would be allowed. No physical rally of political parties or probable candidates or any other group related to election would be allowed,” he said.The model code of conduct has come into effect from Tuesday and will be in place till February 28, he added. “Only fully-vaccinated persons after a negative RT-PCR report will be allowed into the counting centres,” Padhi said.With the high court last month ruling out reservations for OBC, the state, perhaps for the first time, is going to witness an election on the basis of caste as political parties rush to give more representation to the community. The OBCs constitute at least 54% of the total population. While the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) had initially said it would give 27% of the tickets to the OBCs, last month, it raised the figure to 40%. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress are yet to make announcements in this regard, they are likely to match or surpass BJD’s allocation for the community.The BJP said it would challenge the high court order on OBC reservation in the top court. “We will challenge the HC order on OBC reservation before the Supreme Court in the next couple of days. Let the poll process go on. We are determined to get at least 27 per cent reservation for the OBCs in the panchayat polls,” Surath Biswal, head of BJP’s OBC morcha, said. Congress leader and MLA Suresh Routray said: “It’s good that panchayat polls are happening on schedule. We will win 40 per cent of the seats in the zilla parishad.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-panchayat-polls-from-february-16-sec-101641927036618.html
12-01-2022||India||Mayawati won’t contest UP elections: BSP’s Misra||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati will not contest the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, party national general secretary Satish Chandra Misrasaid on Tuesday.Misra said he too will not fight the elections, which are slated to be held in seven phases from February 10. “I am a member of the Rajya Sabha and Mayawati has to review the poll preparations of the party in three states. We are not contesting assembly election,” he said in a statement. The party leader’s statement came three days ahead of the release of the notification for the first phase of assembly elections. Mishra said the party will contest the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh on its own and in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab. Top BSP leaders, including Mayawati, will chalk out the poll strategy as well as campaign in the three states, he added. He expressed confidence that the BSP would win the polls in Uttar Pradesh, whereas the BSP-SAD alliance would form the government in Punjab. In an earlier statement, Mayawati said that people had made up their minds to bring the BSP to power in Uttar Pradesh despite a few poll surveys claiming that the party was out of the race. “In 2007 too, they had predicted the defeat of the BSP. Again, the BSP would prove all surveys wrong to form a government in UP with a majority,” she said. The party is likely to release the names of candidates for the first phase of polls along with the Election Commission of India’s notification on January 14. Mayawati has already held meetings with party office bearers over the list of candidates in Lucknow, people familiar with the developments said. On Mayawati’s decision to not contest the polls, SP state unit spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “It’s for the BSP to decide who will contest the assembly election. It’s an internal matter of the BSP.”Meanwhile, speculations are rife that chief minister Yogi Adityanath may contest from Ayodhya and Gorakhpur, and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav from Mainpuri, in the upcoming polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-won-t-contest-up-elections-bsp-s-misra-101641926976376.html
12-01-2022||India||DGCA issues guidelines for Covid positive air crew||Flight and cabin crew who exhibit moderate to severe symptoms of Covid-19 will have to undergo special medical examinations and obtain a certificate that they have clinically recovered before they can rejoin work, the country’s civil aviation regulator has said in fresh guidelines. The special medical exam will be held at one of the Indian Air Force boarding centres after complete clinical recovery, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said in a circular posted on its website on Monday. “Such pilots can be considered for unrestricted flying provided their clinical examination and laboratory investigations reveal no finding that can cause a functional deficit,” the circular said. “Once declared ‘fit for flying’ at the IAF Boarding Centre, the aircrew can commence flying only after DGCA Medical Assessment is issued.”If the isolation of a crew member was more than 14 days, he or she will be examined by DGCA-certified class 1 medical examiner, who will have to issue a cure certificate, the regulator said. “The aircrew can commence flying only after DGCA medical assessment is issued.”Aircrew members who experience mild symptoms can remain in home quarantine for seven days after onset of symptoms and no fever for three days. “There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over” in such cases, the circular said.Asymptomatic aircrew will undergo home isolation, and on completion of seven isolated days, the aircrew can be declared fit for unrestricted flying by his or her company doctor, provided their clinical parameters are normal. “The cure certificate issued by the company doctor or concerned specialist will have to be sent to DGCA medical cell for inclusion in the crew’s previous medical record,” the circular stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-issues-guidelines-for-covid-positive-air-crew-101641926918331.html
12-01-2022||India||Comorbidity rider may be lifted for boosters for above 60: Officials||The government is likely to formally do away with “comorbid conditions” as a pre-requisite for people above the age of 60 to be eligible for their third doses of a coronavirus vaccine, officials aware of discussions said, while adding that the rider was put in to ensure the most vulnerable get doses first without triggering a demand surge.At present, people above 60 with certain illnesses and those in healthcare and front-line jobs who completed their primary vaccination course more than nine months ago are eligible for what the government refers to a “precaution dose” since January 10.On January 3, the government opened vaccinations for children in the 15-18 age group.An official involved in the process said the decisions on each age group as part of the drive expansion was carefully considered. “The expert standing group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) recommended expanding the coverage in a phased manner for both precaution dose and for children aged 15-18 years if vaccine supplies were a constraint,” said this person, asking not to be named.“Even though vaccine supplies are no longer an issue for the government, it was decided to begin administering the third dose in a phased manner for 60 and above [age group] as compared to children, since it is a bigger cohort,” this person added.To be sure, at present, the government does not require a verification of health certificates to prevent any person above the age of 60 from taking a jab if they can’t show the existence of the illnesses. The only rider is a 39-week gap interval since the second dose.The cohort of the entire 60-plus age group includes over 137 million people, which was why the government decided to break it up by on the status of comorbid conditions, this person said. “That is a bigger chunk so we were careful even though we have not asked for any medical certificates etc., and it was kept purely based on the advice of their medical practitioner. It began with those who were at most risk and gradually it will be expanded to all in this population group. We expect more supplies in coming months as more vaccines have received emergency use authorisation,” added the official.The expert committee had been deliberating on expanding the coverage since November 1, 2021; with the members having held multiple meetings on the issue, at one point also considering allowing only children with comorbid conditions to be eligible first.“[But] since supplies have been adequate for a while now, we decided to do away with the comorbidity criteria for children,” said the official.Experts said it is reasonable to protect the vulnerable first. “It makes sense to protect those who are immmunocompromised, elderly, co-morbidites etc. as much as possible and as early as possible,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, a top vaccine expert, and a senior faculty at the Christian Medical College, Vellore (Tamil Nadu).
12-01-2022||India||Death, live on FB: How mob justice drove three of a family to suicide||On the morning of January 9, at 10:35am, a 25-year- old man went live on Facebook from a coastal village in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district. His hair was unkempt, eyes haggard, and voice shaking. In Bengali, he launched into a defence of his “didi” (elder sister).“My sister is innocent. She has not stolen any money. They have locked up our home. We are homeless. We have no option but to die. We have met many people and the police. Nobody helped us. They said we have to settle the accounts with the bank.... Police will recover my mobile phone. All documents, audio calls and voice records are saved in it,” the man in the video said. His voice grew ever more frantic, and the allegations starker. “Why didn’t the people of Sultanpur lodge a police complaint earlier? They should be punished for this. They are wrongly suspecting a woman and torturing her…They tortured my sister by shoving a stick in her private parts. Please save her and my brother-in-law. Share this video,” the man said. In the video, as the man spoke, a phone rang intermittently in the background, but he refused to pay heed. At 11am, 25 minutes after he had started the Facebook live, he placed his handset on the ground, as his father, aged 63, and his mother, in her late forties, walked into the frame. The three then embraced, breaking down in tears. Minutes later, one after another, they climbed onto the branch of the tree behind them, and hanged themselves. His last words in the video were, “We are dying, but let them (sister and brother-in-law) have justice.” When the police found the bodies, his phone was found resting against the stump of a tree. The family had captured their own deaths by suicide. What happened beforeThe family of three lived in South 24 Paraganas, and left early on Sunday morning for a spot on the Bakkhali beach where they committed the act, police said. But their pain and humiliation stemmed from a series of events months in the making, culminating in a mob beating, at the centre of which was the 25-year-old’s sister. The family belonged to a lower caste community which was dominant in the village. The man and his father did odd jobs to run the family, police officers said. For several months, police said, people in the village where the man’s sister and husband stay, also in the South 24 Paraganas district, have been accusing her of siphoning off around ₹10 lakh raised by members of a self-help group, (SHG) run by local women. Her husband works as a labourer at construction sites.The SHG has 12 members and is involved in raising funds for business projects for local women through a micro-financing scheme. The man’s sister, who heads the SHG, was accused by her colleagues of stealing the money they gave to her as a corpus fund. These allegations started in November 2021. The 28-year-old woman has consistently denied these charges, claiming that she deposited the money in the bank account that the SHG holds with the local branch of the Indian Bank. Puja Das, one of the members of the SHG, told HT, “When we charged the man’s sister with stealing our money she said she would return it. She was part of other SHGs as well.” The district has several SHGs, which, also encouraged by the government, have been set up to provide employment to local women and develop skills in making handicrafts and food items, among other things. The groups also help these groups market their products.Goutam Mitra, the officer-in-charge of Diamond Harbour police station, told HT that a preliminary probe by his officers has revealed that money from the bank account is missing. “The man’s sister claimed that she has receipts issued by the bank, but the bank says that those receipts are forged. The local community block development officer (BDO) initiated a probe into this a couple of months ago since SHGs are under his jurisdiction,” Mitra said. The ‘instant justice’On the afternoon of January 8, the day before the mass suicide, another video did the rounds of the area, shot by residents of the village where the 28-year-old woman and her husband live. The video showed the two tied with ropes and being paraded on the streets. Locals have also alleged that the couple were tied to a lamp post and beaten with a stick, after which they were paraded to her parental home in another village a kilometre away. “These women stormed the family’s home on Saturday. It is alleged that they tortured the youth’s sister although she pleaded for mercy. A police team reached the spot and dispersed the mob,” said a district police officer. Locals said that an angry mob went to the house of the woman, and dragged the couple out. They were assaulted, tied up and paraded. Threats were issued that if they did not return the money, their home would be forcibly “taken over”. One of the women and her husband, who allegedly led the assault, were arrested on Tuesday. Police officials said that the investigation had already started before the family died by suicide. But even as arrests were being made, the authorities received word, that the 28-year-old’s brother and parents killed themselves. Mitra said that though the woman’s brother had alleged sexual assault in the live video, this has not been borne out by investigation thus far. “A medical test was done on the woman. It did not show any such evidence,” Mitra said on Tuesday afternoon. Puja Das, the member of the SHG group maintained that while people did go to the woman’s home on Saturday to confront her, there was no assault. Police investigationThe police have arrested seven people, including six women, in the case, based on a complaint of Saturday’s events by the 28-year-old woman. “All the accused have been remanded to police custody. The accused have been charged under several sections of the Indian Penal Code including Section 307 (attempt to murder). Though the young man’s sister has been accused of defalcating funds, the police have not filed any case against her because the BDO is probing the complaint. The BDO will decide whether charges should be brought against the bank or the woman,” Mitra said. Diamond Harbour’s superintendent of police, Avijit Banerjee, said that some more people are under the scanner for alleged financial irregularities. “The man’s sister has also named an officer of the bank as a suspect. We will question everyone,” Banerjee said. On Monday, Bhaskar Mukherjee, superintendent of police, Sunderbans police district, in whose jurisdictional area the suicides took place, told HT that his department is conducting a parallel probe and a case of abetment to suicide has been registered. “The five women arrested by Diamond Harbour police station have been named in the case filed by us. There are several other suspects. The fact that probes are being conducted by two police districts will not hinder the judicial outcome of any of these cases,” said Mukherjee. The block development officer, Milan Tirtha Samanta, could not be contacted despite several efforts.The incident has led a controversy on social media. Rajya Sabha member Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya said, “These suicides should be seen a planned social murders. The incident shows how the state government’s loan-dependent policies have also made people dependent on loans.”
12-01-2022||India||Variant watch: Omicron likely evolved in mice, say Chinese researchers||The Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus may have evolved within mice and jumped back into humans, according to new research by scientists from the Chinese Academy of Sciences.The origins of the variant is among the key questions of research into the coronavirus right now, with implications for the future of the pandemic. Scientists have till now considered three possibilities – that it evolved in a population with sparse genome testing over a period, or it kept mutating in an immuno-compromised patient with a prolonged infection, or it is the product of reverse zoonosis, that is, it jumped to infect an animal and jumped back into humans.At present, several scientists have leaned towards the second scenario, since at least one variant of concern (VOC), Alpha, is very likely to have had such an origin.The report by the Chinese scientists, published in the Journal of Genetics and Genomics, finds the third scenario to be likely because of three reasons. First, they calculated that the coronavirus naturally evolved at a rate 0.45 mutations a month, including all the other VOCs. The number of mutations in the Omicron variant, however, meant that it would have had to evolve at three times the speed, at 1.5 mutations a month, which did not appear to be the natural rate of evolution within human hosts.Second, and most crucially, they found that the molecular nature of mutations in the Omicron variant when it first was detected in humans was not the same as when the coronavirus evolved within humans. The mutations, however, were consistent evolution in animals, in particular mice. Third, they found the closest relative of the Omicron variant, two B.1.1 family viruses, where last seen in May 2020. Till that time, the mutations in those two viruses were on expected lines.In essence, then, it meant that Sars-CoV-2 took a remarkable evolutionary leap by being able to infect mice, and continued to evolve within the rodent for over a year, before picking up traits to be able to infect humans, the scientists said.They wrote that their findings suggest Omicron’s progenitor “experienced a reverse zoonotic event from humans to mice sometime during the pandemic (most likely in mid-2020) and accumulated mutations in a mouse host for more than one year before jumping back to humans in late 2021”. This is a scenario that has long been talked about by molecular biologists. Previously, scientists have found that minks in a farm in Denmark were infected with Sars-CoV-2 by humans, and they passed the virus back to some humans.The Chinese scientists also say that the virus could have come to be through another mechanism, by a recombination of the human variant with that of an animal variant, possibly in an animal host.The findings are consistent with some of the other studies that have been published recently. On January 6, this column reported two studies, one by researchers from University of Amsterdam who found that Omicron had landed so far from the evolutionary tree of the coronavirus that it created almost a distinct “antigenic cluster”, and another by the Imperial College of London, where researchers found the variant now was able to infect domestic poultry, horseshoe bats, and mice.It also fits in with what we are seeing globally – the Omicron variant loses a very significant trait of the Sars-CoV-2: the ability to thrive in the lungs. Without it, the virus is significantly less dangerous, even though it has picked up traits that make spread faster than any other variant.These findings reinforce the big uncertainty that now lies ahead: the variant can now evolve in any direction, and it seems to have become better at infecting even more animals, thereby expanding the reservoir of hosts where it can keep taking evolutionary short-cuts. The Chinese scientists allude to this. “Humans represent the largest known reservoir of Sars-CoV-2, and frequently come in contact with other animals, including livestock animals, pets, or wild animals that invade homes searching for food and shelter,” they said in their conclusion. “Given the ability of Sars-CoV-2 to jump across various species, it appears likely that global populations will face additional animal-derived variants until the pandemic is well under control. Our study thus emphasises the need for viral surveillance and sequencing in animals, especially those in close contact with humans”.
12-01-2022||India||Parliament gears up for session amid Covid spike||Top officials of the two houses of Indian parliament are exploring options including a staggered timetable for the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and a highly dispersed seating arrangement for the MPs for the upcoming budget session scheduled to start on January 31 amidst an Omicron-led surge in fresh Covid-19 cases.“We are looking at various options. But the final decision will depend on the Covid situation towards the end of this month. The Lok Sabha Speaker and the Rajya Sabha chairman will meet around January 25 or 26 to decide how to run the session,” said a top-ranking functionary.The budget session is perhaps the most important sitting of Parliament, and also its longest. The Union Budget is presented at the beginning of the session.The functionary cited above said it is not clear whether the session will run its normal course in the shadow of the third wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic, one that has affected several lawmakers, key leaders and officials of both houses. A top official of Parliament said that elections in five states including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are another key factor that might result in a curtailed session.On Monday, Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu spoke to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to take stock of the situation and also directed both secretary generals accordingly. The two of them wanted to review the adequacy of Covid-safetly protocols followed during the last winter session in the context of the third wave.“Our main target is to ensure lawmakers and other people who come to Parliament remain safe. So, to minimize the crowd and keeping in mind social distancing, we might have to opt for two different timetables for the two houses. One will start in the morning and the other in the afternoon,” said a second functionary involved in the discussions.This would also allow prevent all lawmakers from gathering in the chamber. “In the monsoon session of 2020, we decided that the Rajya Sabha sits in the morning and the Lok Sabha in the afternoon. So, MPs from one House could occupy a seat in the chamber, the galleries and in the other House as well,” added this person.The same arrangement may be followed in the budget session.A high-ranking Lok Sabha functionary said, “Indian Parliament has run during the Covid pandemic and we have shown our ability to adhere to parliamentary norms even during a major health crisis.”On Tuesday, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla inspected the Parliament House Complex to take stock of health safety related measures and other preparations put in place in light of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in the country.
12-01-2022||India||Is the third wave finally starting to ebb in Mumbai and Delhi?||The earliest urban hot spots of India’s third wave of Covid-19 – Mumbai and Delhi, which were among the first regions in the country to reflect a rising trend in infections – appear to be exhibiting early signs that their infections curves may be flattening, data shows.While key data indicators in Mumbai suggest that numbers in the city have already started peaking, Delhi is experiencing what could be the first indication that the rise of cases has slowed down.In Mumbai, the positivity rate has started dropping. Positivity rate (the proportion of daily tests returning positive for Covid-19) is one of the first statistical measures that indicate a reversal in trend. This number has now fallen for five days in a row – the figure was 29.9% last Thursday, 29% on Friday, 28.6% on Saturday, 28.5% on Sunday, 23% on Monday, and touched 18.8% on Tuesday.As expected, this trend was closely followed by a drop in daily infections, which have now fallen for four consecutive days – there were 20,971 cases on Friday, 20,318 on Saturday, 19,474 on Sunday, 13,648 on Monday, and finally 11,647 on Tuesday.In Delhi, while cases and positivity rate have not yet started declining, the rapid rise seen over the past two weeks appears to have slowed , hinting that the peak may be approaching – a factor that has been pointed out by several health experts, both government and independent.While daily cases in the Capital more than doubled in four days from 10,665 on Wednesday to 22,751 on Sunday, cases have stayed below Sunday’s level over the two following days – there were 19,166 new cases on Monday (when fewer tests were conducted), and 21,259 on Tuesday. The rapid rise in positivity rate in Delhi has also slowed . While daily positivity rate jumped more than 11 percentage points between Wednesday (11.9%) and Sunday (23.5%), it has only increased two percentage points between Sunday and Tuesday (25.6%).If this trend continues, these numbers may be headed to a peak in a few days, something that Delhi health officials have suspected may happen based on an analysis by a team of medical experts along with an assessment of Sutra – a mathematical model developed by scientists at IIT-Kanpur and IIT-Hyderabad to assess the peak in Covid-19 cases in India – that says that Delhi could see a peak in Covid-19 infections around January 15.“We are expecting a peak in cases in the next day or two. But we are prepared to handle the spike in cases,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday.To be sure, doctors and health experts said that numbers on the ground may be higher as a lot of people have resorted to using home test kits due to milder symptoms occurring with the Omicron variant, and do not necessarily follow up with a RT-PCR test if they are positive, thereby staying off the radar.There is, however, no way to map these cases since most mild patients are recovering in home isolation.Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said that the wide use of self-testing kits is a matter of convenience but when looked at from a public health perspective, it could present a skewed picture of the spread of infection. “The authorities should consider devising a mechanism through which reports of all self-tests are recorded,” he said.Experts, however, said that so far the waves in Mumbai and Delhi appear to be following trends seen in Omicron waves the world over – a very rapid rise in infections that peaks just as fast, coupled with a relatively higher share of mild cases, causing fewer hospitalisations.To be sure, they also warned that the marginal improvement in numbers witnessed over the past few days needs to become a sustained trend, and that keeping in mind the high transmissibility of the Omicron variant, the focus remains on keeping hospitalisations low.In Mumbai, authorities said they were optimistic, but wanted to remain cautious. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said, “It looks like the cases are stabilising but we will have to wait for this week before commenting on whether we have reached the peak .”Experts also expressed optimism about the reduced number of hospitalisations and comparatively fewer deaths so far.Delhi government numbers show that as of Tuesday, despite a consistent rise in the cases, less than 15% of hospital beds designated for Covid-19 patients were occupied. In Mumbai, this number was under 20%. A tally of data compiled by HT from 16 regions in India showed that fewer 15% of hospital beds are occupied across the country as of Tuesday night.And even among those hospitalised and those dying, the numbers are dominated by those who are unvaccinated. On Monday, HT reported a Delhi government analysis of deaths among Covid-19 patients in Delhi between January 5 and 9 that showed that 35 out of 46, or 76%, of the fatalities were in unvaccinated people.“We are in comfortable situation during the third wave and are handling all symptomatic patients or those from high-risk groups. This time the demand for oxygen and ICU beds is low due to which we are in a much better situation. However, we are on alert if cases increase drastically we will have to further ensure every patient gets a bed,” BMC’s Kakani said.Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope said that so far Oxygen requirement has not been an issue like it was in the country’s brutal second wave. “The need for oxygen has not risen a great deal. The bed occupancy has not shot up to a concerning level. However, we need to remain cautious and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour... Out of the active cases, only 2% are on oxygen support and 1% are in ICU in the state. The numbers are not such that would burden the medical infrastructure,” he said.And like in Delhi, an overwhelming majority of medical resources such as Oxygen beds in Mumbai were currently deployed towards the unvaccinated. On Saturday, HT reported that 96% of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen support in Mumbai’s hospitals are unvaccinated.Doctors and health experts have repeatedly said that considering the high transmissibility of the Omicron variant, it would be better to look beyond reported infections and towards hospitalisations instead.“Infection-wise the on-ground reality could be 10-100 times also because a lot of people are taking home tests. But what is important is to see the hospitalisations, the requirement of oxygen and ventilators because that is a very small percentage. There is no point now looking at just case numbers because a majority of the infections are mild. If we see the trends in other countries, the rise in cases is steep because this variant is definitely more transmissible but since the infection period is also shorter, the fall is also equally fast. But we will have to wait and watch how the trends are here because taking a definitive stand,” said Dr Sumit Ray, head (department of critical care), Holy Family Hospital.With inputs from Soumya Pillai in Delhi, and Swapnil Rawal, Mehul Thakkar and Jyoti Shelar in Mumbai
12-01-2022||India||TMC promises land titles, homes for homeless in Goa, if voted to power||PANAJI: Ahead of the upcoming Goa assembly elections, the Trinamool Congress (TNMC) has promised land and housing rights to people of the state if voted to power. It is the TMC’s third ‘major’ promise in Goa ahead of the polls. Announcing the scheme, the party said it will ensure that within 250 days of forming the government, all the Goan families residing in the state since 1976, or before, will be provided with title and ownership rights of land under possession while 50,000 homeless families will be given subsidised homes. Party member Kiran Kandolkar said that the TMC will amend Goa’s Mundkar (tenant) Act to enable the grant of full title to the persons residing before 1976 or they will be paid a compensation. He also promised the cessation of long pending cases once the laws planned by the TMC are enforced. Deepak Dhavalikar, the president of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, which has allied with the TMC for a pre-poll alliance, said that Goa’s land to the tiller Act and the Mundkar (homestead) Act were diluted by subsequent governments rendering them ineffective, something the party was keen to change once elected to power. The TMC has already announced a scheme to provide ₹5,000 per month to one woman per family styled as the Griha Laxmi scheme, as well as a Yuva Shakti scheme in which the party promises loans at low interest rates for youth to begin their own businesses. “It is time to bring an era of pro-people legislation which seeks to protect the lives and livelihoods of Goenkars (Goans),” the party said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-promises-land-titles-homes-for-homeless-in-goa-if-voted-to-power-101641925896530.html
12-01-2022||India||Suspected Naga militant killed in firing near Assam-Manipur border||SILCHAR: A suspected Naga militant was killed in firing between two suspected militant groups on Monday at Assam’s Jirighat area near the inter-state border between Assam and Manipur, police said.The incident happened at Rongmai Basti area under Jirighat police station in Assam’s Cachar district.According to the Assam police, the firing between two suspected militant groups started at around 11 pm on Monday where a person named David Rongmai (30) died. Superintendent of police of Cachar district, Ramandeep Kaur along with a team of police and CRPF rushed to Jirighat area on Tuesday morning.Kaur said, “The firing took place between two suspected militant groups and the person who died, himself was a suspected Naga militant. We have talked to the locals and according to them, the groups which were firing, were in mask. We are investigating the matter.”The SP also informed that security arrangements have been strengthened in the border area after the firing.“This area was already a high-risk zone because of possible movements of suspected militant groups. We have deployed more security forces now,” she added.A villager was shot twice on his leg by suspected NSCN (IM) militants near Assam-Manipur border area last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-naga-militant-shot-dead-in-gang-war-near-assam-manipur-border-101641923316336.html
12-01-2022||NA||BREAKING: Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari tests Covid-19 positive with mild symptoms, goes under home isolation||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi congratulates Dutch counterpart Mark Rutte on 4th termCongratulations to my dear friend Prime Minister @markrutte and best wishes for a successful fourth term in office. Confident that we will together advance the wide-ranging partnership between India and the Netherlands to new heights.Pune Zilla Parishad launches contest for best Covid-19 management, winner gets ₹50 lakh grant“We've announced a competition among gram panchayats to encourage them to participate in providing best services to curb Covid-19. The top gram panchayat will be awarded a grant of ₹50 lakh for doing good work in COVID19 management,” said Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad, speaking to ANI.Nitin Gadkari tests Covid-19 positive with mild symptomsUnion transport minister Nitin Gadkari has tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms. He has isolated at home."Following all the necessary protocols, I have isolated myself," he tweets.Haryana CM announces ₹10 lakh to next of kin of workers who died cleaning sewersHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday announced that the next of kin of the workers who died while cleaning sewers will be given financial assistance of ₹10 lakh, reports ANI.Maharashtra's daily Covid tally rises slightly with 34,424 new cases; Omicron count nears 1,300Maharashtra sees a mild dip in Covid-19 cases with 34,424 fresh infections. The total caseload from the disease now stands at 6,987,938. The state's Omicron tally has reached 1,281.France's new Covid-19 cases to top 3,50,000 first time ever todayFrance will see a new anti-record on Tuesday with more than 3,50,000 cases of coronavirus expected to be registered by the end of day, news agency ANI quotes health minister Olivier Veran as saying. Mumbai logs 11,647 fresh Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in 24 hoursMumbai has reported 11,647 fresh Covid-19 cases and two related deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the active caselaod to 1,00,523.SC to hear plea seeking independent inquiry into Haridwar hate speech caseThe Supreme Court will on Tuesday hear a petition seeking an independent inquiry into the Haridwar 'Dharm Sansad' hate speech case, reports news agency ANI. The matter will be heard by a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana.BCCI gives clearance to Lucknow, Ahmedabad IPL franchisesBCCI has given formal clearance to Lucknow and Ahmedabad franchises of IPL. Both teams have been given two weeks to finalise their draft picks. IPL auction will be held in Bengaluru on Feb 12 and Feb 13: IPL Chairman Brijesh Patel to ANICentre extends deadline for filing Income Tax Returns till March 15The deadline to file Income Tax Returns (ITR) for financial year 2021-22 has been extended till March 15, 2022.Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally up again with 21,259 new cases; 23 more dieDelhi saw a slight rise in daily Covid-19 infections as compared to the previous day after 21,259 new cases were logged in the past 24 hours. As many as 23 people succumbed to the infection.Haryana bans strikes by healthcare workers for 6 monthsThe Haryana government has banned strikes by healthcare workers for six months by invoking the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA), reports ANI citing state health minister Anil Vij.13 MLAs are going to join Samajwadi Party: Sharad Pawar“13 MLAs are going to join Samajwadi Party,” says Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar after BJP leader Swami Prasad Maurya resigns from the party and joins SP.People of Punjab will decide who will be the CM: Navjot Sidhu#WATCH | People of Punjab will decide who will be the CM. Who told you that the (Congress) high command will make the CM?: Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu pic.twitter.com/AXC0yFWARjPunjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu said the decision to choose the the chief minister of the state for the upcoming polls lies with the people of the state and not the party's high command. Goa deputy CM Manohar Ajgaonkar tests positive for Covid-19Goa deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to Manipal Hospital near Panaji.Swami Prasad Maurya joins Samajwadi Party after resigning from Yogi cabinetSwami Prasad Maurya has joined the Samajwadi Party after resigning from the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh cabinet ahead of the state assembly polls. BJP's Swami Prasad Maurya resigns as ministerBJP leader Swami Prasad Maurya resigns as UP minister just ahead of assembly elections in state.Despite Covid surge, Congress continues ‘padayatra’ in KarnatakaKarnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar and former CM Siddaramaiah continue their ‘padayatra’ in Ramanagara despite a surge in daily Covid cases.India successfully test-fires BrahMos missileIndia today successfully testfired BrahMos supersonic cruise missile from Indian Navy destroyer INS Vishakhapatnam off the Western coast. The sea to sea variant of the missile was testfired at the maximum range and hit the target ship with pinpoint accuracy: Sources in Indian NavySpecial yoga classes for Covid patients: CM Arvind KejriwalDelhi govt to start special yoga classes for Covid patients in home isolation, announces CM Arvind Kejriwal.Only fully vaccinated allowed at Gangasagar mela: Calcutta HCOnly those with two doses of Covid-19 vaccine and second dose certificate permitted to enter Gangasagar mela; those having negative RT-PCR report from at least 72 hours earlier will be permitted to enter; 2-member committee to monitor adherence to Covid protocols: Calcutta HCAll private offices in Delhi to be closed: DDMAAll private offices in Delhi shall be closed, except those which are falling under the exempted category; work from home shall be followed. All restaurants and bars shall be closed, takeaways allowed: DDMA in its revised guidelinesPuducherry logs 655 new Covid-19 cases, 22 recoveriesPuducherry reports 655 new Covid-19 cases, 0 death and 22 recoveries, active cases stand at 2355.EU parliament president no moreEuropean Union parliament president David Sassoli has passed away: SpokespersonUpper age limit for Odisha state civil services raisedOdisha cabinet increases upper age limit for state civil services from 32 to 38 years.India logs 168,063 new Covid-19 cases, 277 deathsIndia reports 168,063 new Covid-19 cases, 277 deaths and 69,959 recoveries. Total case count rises to 35,875,790.Arvind Kejriwal to address important press conferenceDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will address a press conference on Covid-19 at 12 noon.6.4 magnitude quake in CyprusAn earthquake of magnitude 6.4 occurred 137km west of north Nicosia, northern Cyprus at 06:37 hours: National Center for SeismologyDelhi's AQI in ‘satisfactory’ categoryDelhi's Air Quality Index (AQI) presently at 93 (overall) in the ' Satisfactory' category: SAFAR-IndiaBallistic missile fired by North Korea: ReportsNorth Korea reportedly fires what may be a ballistic missile, the second apparent launch in less than a week after leader Kim Jong Un urged the military to make more military advances.Mexico's President contracts Covid for second timeMexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has tested positive for Covid-19, almost a year after contracting the illness for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-11-2022-101641860203738.html
12-01-2022||India||Aapke pass Sidhu hain...: Union minister on Imran Khan's 'Pak better than India' claim||Union minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar on Wednesday mocked Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan, a day after the Pakistan PM claimed that Pakistan's economic condition is better than India. The remark drew sharp reaction from Indian politicians and Union minister of state for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar's was one of themWhile addressing the inaugural ceremony of the International Chambers Summit 2022, Imran Khan reportedly said despite unprecedented challenges, Pakistan's economic condition was better than many countries of the region, particularly India."Pakistan is still one of the cheapest countries...they (opposition) call us incompetent but the fact is that our government has saved the nation from all crises," PM Khan said. Oil prices in Pakistan are cheaper than those in other countries, Imran Khan said at a time when his government is introducing a finance bill in Parliament as part of a condition requested by the IMF. The bill will clear the decks for $1 billion for Pakistan.In an apparent reply to Imran Khan's claim, Chandrasekhar tweeted, "Yes bcoz aapke paas Sidhu hain, aur hamare paas sirf fastest growng economy, sabze jyaada unicorn aur FDI hai (Yes because you have Sidhu (Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu), but we have fastest-growing economy (India), most unicorn companies and highest Foreign Direct Investment."The minister's jibe 'you have Sidhu' comes in an oblique reference to the inauguration of Kartarpur Corridor in 2019 when Imran Khan looked for Navjoy Sidhu and said, "Where is our Sidhu?'Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi also reacted to Imran Khan's claim as he tweeted, "In order to talk up its economic stocks, Imran Khan refers to Pakistan as one of the cheapest countries in the world. Of course, you are when - beg from Saudi, auction your land & resources to China & sell donkeys in order to survive."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aapke-pass-sidhu-hain-union-minister-on-imran-khan-s-pak-better-than-india-claim-101641983517359.html
12-01-2022||India||‘New parties come to fool Goans’: Michael Lobo joins Congress, takes on TMC too||PANAJI: Former BJP minister and MLA Michael Lobo along with his wife and a host of supporters joined the Congress on Tuesday evening, promising to bring the Congress back to power in 2022.Lobo quit the BJP on Monday, saying he was upset with the functioning of the party, especially the manner in which the grassroots-level workers are treated. As he joined the Congress on Tuesday with his wife Delilah , Lobo pledged to work to get the Congress 22 plus seats in the 40-member Goa assembly. Goa votes on February 14.“If Goa is to be taken forward, the way forward for the people of Goa is only Congress. We have seen the work of Digambar Kamat from 2007 to 2012. In this coming election, Goa needs to go in the right direction. We will ensure that the party wins 22 seats,” he said.As he urged people to bring the Congress back to power with a clear majority, Lobo also took a shot at parties such as the Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party that are trying to find a toehold in the state politics.“Many new parties have come to Goa and are trying to fool Goans. Goa needs to move forward in the right direction, hence I have resigned from the government and joined the Congress”, the 45-year-old politician said.I request the people of Goa to bring Congress party back to power with clear majority. Many new parties have come to Goa and are trying to fool Goans. Goa needs to move forward in the right direction, hence I have resigned from the govet & joined the Congress: Shri Michael Lobo pic.twitter.com/WqPgdeIA2S“Let us work hand in hand to bring back a people-friendly Congress government in Goa and remain committed to protecting the identity of Goa,” Congress leader Digambar Kamat said.One of the vocal members of chief minister Pramod Sawant’s Cabinet, Lobo was the third Christian lawmaker after Alina Saldanha and Carlos Almeida to have quit the BJP. While Saldanha joined the AAP. Carlos and Lobo have both joined the Congress. The three have said the party has taken “a different turn” since the death of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar in 2019. Christians account for 25% of the state’s population.Lobo’s departure from the BJP is seen to indicate the unease among the BJP’s Christian MLAs especially in the light of attacks on Christians in neighbouring Karnataka that have not gone unnoticed among the state’s minority population. Clergymen have referred to the attacks that took place over Christmas during religious gatherings in Goa.Congress, which emerged as the single-largest party in the state in 2017 with 17 seats, was unable to form the government as the BJP, which won 13 seats, formed an alliance with the help of the Goa Forward Party and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party. With Lobo quitting the BJP, the number of legislators who have changed sides since the 2017 assembly election touches 25.62% of the legislators now find themselves in a party different from the one they were elected on back in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parties-come-to-fool-goans-michael-lobo-joins-congress-takes-on-tmc-too-101641931358012.html
