13-01-2022||India||UP elections: BJP ally Apna Dal’s MLA set to join SP||In yet another jolt to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh, another MLA, Chaudhary Amar Singh of the Apna Dal, quit on Thursday and announced to join the Samajwadi Party on Friday.Chaudhary, the Sohratganj (Siddhartnagar) MLA of Apna Dal (Sonelal) and OBC leader, announced his decision following a meeting with Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday evening.“More will come along with me...I have tendered my resignation, met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and will join him. This government is a liar, no development has happened under this government. Soon more will join me,” he said.On Chaudhary’s decision, an Apna Dal (Sonelal) said: “At this stage, I won’t say anything.”
13-01-2022||India||Terrorist killed in Kulgam was from Pak, say police||Police Thursday identified the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorist killed in Kulgam encounter on Wednesday as Babar Bhai, a native of Pakistan.Apart from Bhai, a police constable was killed, and three army soldiers and two civilians were injured in the encounter at Pariwan area of south Kashmir’s Kulgam district.This is the ninth encounter in the Union Territory since January 1. Meanwhile, IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar visited the encounter site and special operation group (SOG) camp Nillow Kulgam, where besides interacting with Jammu and Kashmir Police, army and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, he also reviewed the security grid and operational aspects.Kumar said, “The owner of the house — where Bhai was hiding — deliberately misled the search team by concealing the information of his whereabouts which led to collateral damage. Action under terror law will be taken against them.”Bhai, a top Pakistani JeM terrorist was active since 2018 in Shopian, Kulgam and its adjoining areas, said the police, adding, misleading information by the house owner led to the killing of the police constable — Rohit Chib — and injuries to three soldiers.“All the injured were rushed to the hospital. The condition of injured is stated to be stable,” police said. One AK-47 rifle, one pistol and two grenades were also recovered from the encounter site.Starting this year, 14 terrorists have been neutralized, out of which seven were foreign terrorists. As per the J&K Police official figures, last year, 171 terrorists were killed in Kashmir. The January figures take the number of terrorists killed in last 13 months to 185.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-killed-in-kulgam-was-from-pak-say-police-101642098062764.html
13-01-2022||India||“You give ticket to criminal and...’: Parrikar’s son Utpal pans Goa BJP leaders||PANAJI: Utpal Parrikar, the son of former union defence minister Manohar Parrikar on Thursday hit out at the BJP leadership in Goa, asserting that he will not sit quietly if the BJP gives the party ticket for the Panaji constituency to incumbent legislator Atanasio Monserrate.Utpal, who has been keen to contest from the seat represented by his father for more than 25 years, was reacting to BJP Goa in-charge Devendra Fadnavis’s remarks that just because an aspirant is the son of Manohar Parrikar or any leader, didn’t automatically qualify him for the BJP’s ticket. “The kind of politics that is happening in Goa, I cannot tolerate it. It is not acceptable to me. Are they suggesting that only winnability is the criteria (and that) integrity doesn’t matter? Character doesn’t matter? And you are going to give the ticket to a person who has criminal antecedents and we have to sit home quietly?” Utpal Parrikar said in comments to the media. “These are very important things and this is not only about Panaji. What is happening in the Goa political scene is not acceptable. It has to change. Which is what I am trying,” Utpal said.Utpal is up against Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate, a former Congressman who is facing a string of cases including rioting, rape dating as far back as 2008. In the 2019 assembly bypolls held after Parrikar’s death, Monserrate, then a Congress candidate defeated the BJP candidate Siddharth Kuncaliencar who was chosen over Utpal for the party ticket. Monserrate subsequently joined the Congress along with nine other Congress MLA including his wife Jennifer.Fadnavis’s comments on Utpal Parrikar were seen to indicate that he could be overlooked for the party’s ticket once again.“Manohar Parrikar did a lot of work to establish the BJP party in Goa. But just because you are Manohar Parrikar’s or anybody’s son doesn’t mean you will get a BJP ticket. If he/she has the work to show for it, then we think about it. But a decision regarding this is not taken by me, it will be taken by the parliamentary board,” Fadnavis had said. Utpal said that all the party workers and supporters who were with his father since 1994 (when Parrikar was first elected) were with him today.“If now you go on the field, you will see that the people who were with baba (his father) since 1994 and who have made the party what it is in Panaji are with me today. I am going to the people of Panaji and I was meeting them privately and now that elections are near, I am meeting them publicly. The workers who were with Manohar Parrikar are now with me. And with them, I am going ahead,” Utpal said. He however stopped short of saying that he will be contesting the upcoming elections saying that he will announce his decision at the right time. “I haven’t finalised yet. At the right time, I will decide,” Utpal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-give-ticket-to-criminal-and-parrikar-s-son-utpal-pans-goa-bjp-leaders-101642098061131.html
13-01-2022||India||Wordle: Twitter shares 5 interesting facts about Indians playing the word puzzle||As Wordle, the new word puzzle online game of yellow, green, grey boxes, has got people hooked, Twitter shared some interesting facts on how people on Twitter are talking about wordle, discussing the origin of the game, sharing their daily score, competing with each other etc.Here are the 5 trends that Twitter observed about Wordle players. > Since the game's public release in October 2021, there have been 840K tweets mentioning the word 'Wordle'.> Since November 2021, Twitter is witnessing a spike in the use of green box and yellow box emojis; there have been 773K tweets containing both these emojis, Twitter said.> Indians, however, have discovered the game recently. Twitter says 96% of Wordle conversations in the country is taking place in January 2022.> There has been a 48% daily average growth in Wordle conversations among Indians on Twitter, it said.> A Tamil version of Wordle has also come into being amid the frenzy of guessing the right word.
13-01-2022||India||HT This Day: Jan 14, 1988 — Another Pak attack in Siachin repulsed||JAMMU- A heavy Pakistani attack was repulsed by the Indian jawans in the Siachin area two days ago. There were no casualties on our side.This was revealed by Lt-Gen B. C. Nanda, GOC, Northern Command, at a Press conference here today.Gen Nanda said Pakistani troops attacked with artillery some Indian defended locations at Saltaro ridge in the glacier area on Jan. 10 and 11 last.The attack continued for about 48 hours but no loss of life from the Indian side was reported, he said.The Pakistani troops have also been firing almost daily for the past many days in the Poonch-Rajouri sector in Jammu and Kashmir, he said.The Pakistani authorities are creating tension in Siachin and Poonch-Rajouri sectors "for reasons best known to them", the General added.He said Indian troops has been given strict instructions not to provoke Pakistani troops across the Line of Actual Control and act only in retaliation if they were fired upon from the other side.The General said there were 1,440 instances of Pakistani firing on our side on the northern border last year. The Indian forces retaliated by firing back. The Pakistani tactics could be termed as "harassment" because it was still not reconciled to the Simla agreement and also wanted to keep the Jammu and Kashmir issue alive in the world forum.Regarding Siachin, he said the Indian troops were guarding the borders from heights varying from 15,000 ft to 21,000 ft in harsh weather.He said those manning the border at such heights invariably lost weight and even their speech became slower. It was for this reason that the troops were not kept there for more than six months at a stretch.Talking about the attack in April last year, Gen Nanda said Pakistan occupied a post at a height of 21,140 ft and started firing on our helicopters and "our troops found it hard to survive for some time." Left with no option but to knock the enemy out, troops of the J and K Light Infantry led by Sub Bana Singh launched an assault and recaptured the post at the end of June.On Sept. 22 evening, Pakistan started massive artillery bombardment and then attacked in three columns led by their SSGs (like our commandos)."We stood ground and beat back the attack. The Pakistanis tried again the next night, but were again repulsed suffering heavy casualties. They lost 150 soldiers, while "we lost 24 men and 56 were injured.”The bodies of the Pakistani soldiers could not be collected because of the fear of firing from the Indian side and now these have been covered with a thick layer of snow, Gen Nanda said.On Oct. 7 again there was some activity followed by an attack. There was constant shelling and the whole area was full of pot holes.Gen Nanda said that in the Poonch sector, because of constant firing the Indian army had lost four jawans, with 15 injured, last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-14-1988-another-pak-attack-in-siachin-repulsed-101642094062791.html
13-01-2022||India||Rakesh Tikait by his side, Raut says Sena will contest against Yogi in Ayodhya too||MUMBAI: Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Thursday reached out to prominent farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait to gauge the pulse of farmers as it plans to contest upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to Tikait as Sena leader Sanjay Raut met the farm leader in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar to seek “blessings” of the farmers in its fight in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.The Shiv Sena, which is planning to field candidates on around 50 to 100 seats in Uttar Pradesh, is banking on the support of farmers.Raut, who is on a visit to New Delhi and UP to mobilise party workers and chalk out its plan, said the party will contest elections at Mathura, Varanasi and against UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Ayodhya.Despite its thin presence in UP, Sanjay Raut said the Sena will win seats in the upcoming election, as a “change of power” is expected in the largest state in the country.Raut, who described his meeting with Tikait as “apolitical”, said they mostly discussed issues related to farmers. Thackeray in his phone conversation with Tikait spoke about the Maharashtra government’s policies to support the farmers. Thackeray also invited Tikait to visit Maharashtra, Raut said.“Both Uddhav ji and Rakesh Tikait had a long conversation and both leaders discussed farmers’ issues. We will never ask Tikait ji to enter electoral politics. But this country’s politics cannot function without the support of the farmers. Farmers decide who sits on the throne, and history has shown that once people come to power, they forget the farmers. [But] two months after coming to power, Uddhav ji wiped out the loans of the farmers,” Raut said at a press conference along with Rakesh Tikait.The farmers’ leader said he intended to visit Maharashtra soon. “He invited me to Maharashtra and said that we will discuss Maharashtra’s policies for agriculture and farmers. We will see their policy and spread it elsewhere in the country. We are not connected to politics. It is a political party’s job to contest an election. The Maharashtra government has always supported the farmers’ movement in Delhi. Whenever there was a bandh announced, it was followed in Maharashtra,” said Tikait.Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP added that the party will not enter into an alliance with any political party in UP. The Sena leader said it will win seats in UP in the upcoming elections. “We are confident that we will have a representation in the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly.” At the legislative assembly level in Uttar Pradesh, apart from getting one MLA elected in 1991, all of Sena’s previous attempts have drawn a blank.The party will also field a candidate in Ayodhya opposite chief minister Adityanath.“We are not here to contest against any one person alone. We are here to do our brand of politics and contest elections. Does it say in the Constitution that we cannot contest against some particular person? Yes, we will contest the election in Ayodhya,” said Raut when asked if Sena will field candidates against the Yogi Adityanath, who may contest from Ayodhya instead of Gorakhpur seat.The Shiv Sena is also expected to take up the Hindutva agenda in its campaign in Uttar Pradesh. Raut said that the Ram temple in Ayodhya is built after the court’s verdict and no political party can take its credit. “If they take the credit, Shiv Sena has a major role in it... We have never abandoned Hindutva. Now even Rahul Gandhi speaks of Hindus and Hindutvawadis,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-by-his-side-raut-says-sena-will-contest-against-yogi-in-ayodhya-too-101642093200538.html
13-01-2022||India||Cong should realise its leaders are not emperors of India: TMC leader||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mahua Moitra on Thursday hit out at the Congress, saying it should realise that its leaders are not "emperors of India" and added that had the grand old party discharged its duty well in Goa, there was no need for the TMC to enter the coastal state's poll fray to defeat the ruling BJP. She said the TMC is ready for an alliance in Goa as defeating the BJP is the "need of the hour", but added that the Congress should get off its "high horse" and wake up to its depleted strength. Moitra was reacting to senior Congress leader P Chidamabaram's assertion made earlier in the day that the Congress and the BJP are the two main contestants in Goa and if the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the TMC fielded candidates and secured some votes in the upcoming assembly polls, in effect they will be splitting the non-BJP vote. In an interview to PTI, Chidambaram also said that the TMC and the AAP do not have cadre base in constituencies in Goa and they attempt to build their parties through defections. Referring to the Congress leader's statements, Moitra said the fight in Goa is between the BJP and anti-BJP forces. "The anti-BJP forces in Goa today are Congress, AAP and TMC. Now, this is a fight between them. Neither of them can stake a claim that we are the only ones in the fray," she said. Moitra, who is TMC's desk-in-charge for Goa, said that all the three parties are in the fray in Goa, and this is the reality that the Congress should wake up to. "I think that it is important for people to realise that if Congress had done its job, there was no need for us (TMC) to be here. We are here because Congress could not do their job. Congress is a platform which is not adequate enough to defeat the BJP," she added. The TMC is ready for an alliance, Moitra said, adding, "We are saying come to the table and talk to us to see how we can defeat the BJP. This is the need of the hour." She said the people of Goan will respect the fact that the TMC is not sitting on a high horse and that the party has no ego. "TMC is saying if everybody come together we can defeat the BJP," she said. She said that Chidambaram and Congress leadership should realise that the time is ripe to fight the BJP and the time is also right for the Congress to get off its high horse and realise that it has not been able to fight this battle alone. Referring to Chidambaram's statement that the Congress was "dismayed" when the TMC "lured" its MLAs into its fold, Moitra said the Congress should not speak about defections as they have welcomed (BJP minister) Michael Lobo, BJP leader Delilah Lobo, former minister Carlose Almeida in the party. This attitude that if they do it, it is right and if everybody else does it then it is wrong does not suit the Congress. I would like to remind the Congress that all those people who find it impossible to have a fighting platform in the Congress are the ones who are coming to the TMC, she added. "By Congress' definition, (TMC supremo and West Bengal CM) Mamata Banerjee is a defector. By their definition, (YSR Congress chief and Andhra Pradesh CM) Jagan Reddy is a defector. But these are the people who are chief ministers and running the states. It is high time that Congress wakes up of its depleted strength and realise that they are not emperors of India," she added. "We appeal to the people of Goa, that we are here to offer an anti-BJP platform. We are open for an anti-BJP platform...we have said that, but if people think that they are emperors and they are doling out largesse, then fine we are there as a platform and Mamata Banerjee is anti-BJP leader," she said. Assembly polls for all 40 seats in Goa will be held on February 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-should-realise-its-leaders-are-not-emperors-of-india-tmc-leader-101642089275697.html
13-01-2022||India||Was detecting 1 out of 33 cases previously: IIT expert on India's Covid testing||The latest guideline of the Indian Council of Medical Research that only those who have symptoms of Covid-19 should get tested has got experts divided. IIT mathematician Manindra Agrawal said it is a correct approach as the wave is going to have a very large number of cases with "nearly all of them mild". It is better to focus resources towards those who need treatment instead of testing a very large number of people, Prof Manindra Agrawal tweeted."Some have argued that if we do not detect and isolate asymptomatic cases, they may infect a person with comorbidity causing serious illness. This is partly true. However, one needs to keep in mind that we were only detecting 1 out of 33 cases in India even with the previous strategy. So isolating some asymptomatic cases is not going to make any material difference in how the pandemic spreads or in protecting people with comorbidities," Prof Agrawal said.Some doctors are of the opinion that the transmission chain will not be broken if asymptomatic patients are not tested and isolated. "If you just presume that you are COVID positive without any test, you would not take isolation measures as strictly as you would have taken, if you had the confirmed report. Therefore, it is important that you get yourself tested and then go through strict isolation measures so that we can break the transmission chain," Dr Arvind Kumar, senior surgeon, Medanta hospital, told ANI."If anybody has an impression that it is like common flu, then we need to convince them otherwise, we are going to face serious problems because if a massive number of people get infections at the same time, we might be facing a situation like last year. It is best avoided," Dr Kumar said.According to the new testing guideline people who have cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste or smell and breathlessness should be tested. Asymptomatic people, unless identified as high-risk, do not need to be tested, the ICMR has said. Apart from asymptomatic individuals, patients out of home isolation, discharged from Covid-19 facilities and those undertaking interstate domestic travel need not be tested.The testing number has come down, as a result of the new guideline, but case positivity rates in states have gone up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-testing-only-symptomatic-people-for-covid-right-strategy-what-experts-say-101642089092082.html
13-01-2022||India||Narottam Mishra slams Priyanka over 'Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon' campaign||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday said that Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's campaign 'Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon' will be proved successful only if she visits Rajasthan and fight against the "disgusting" and "condemnable" Alwar rape case.In a veiled attack against Congress, he said that the party was in power at the time of the Nirbhaya rape case also and currently the ruling government in Rajasthan belongs to the Congress party."If Priyanka can fight then she must go to Rajasthan and fight against the Alwar rape case. The occurrence of a disgusting incident like Nirbhaya has happened in Alwar is worrying and condemnable. Priyanka ji should go to Rajasthan and fight there against the rape case. Congress was there at the time of Nirbhaya also and currently in Rajasthan as well there is Congress government," Mishra said in a press conference in Bhopal.Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh reported 4,037 Covid-19 cases, 783 recoveries in the last 24 hours, he informed.There are currently 17,657 active cases in Madhya Pradesh, he added.In the last 24 hours, 80 policemen have been infected, so far a total of 227 police personnel have been infected, he stated.On being asked about imposing restrictions amid rising Covid-19 cases, he said, "Our objective is to prevent Covid-19 and that people should continue with their lives in normalcy simultaneously. The government is serious about preventing the spread of corona infection, that is why the Sankranti fair had been banned, mass Surya Namaskar had been banned, all the fairs had been banned".On being asked about suicides due to Online games, he said, "An act will come in Madhya Pradesh on online games. Suicides due to online games are a serious subject, which is fire game, to curb the tragic incident that is happening, we are bringing the act of online games in Madhya Pradesh, whose draft has been prepared, very soon it will come in shape"On Ban on meeting prisoners in jail, he said, "Till March 31, the meeting of prisoners and relatives in jails has been completely stopped, for the time being, discussions can be done through E calls".Congress Party is running a campaign across the state to target women voters with the slogan "Ladki hun Lad Sakti hun " under which such marathons were being organized over the last few months which were addressed by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of UP, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narottam-mishra-slams-priyanka-over-ladki-hoon-lad-sakti-hoon-campaign-101642088884747.html
13-01-2022||India||PM Modi extends greetings to the Nation on Lohri||On the occasion of Lohri, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday extended greetings to the nation."Wishing you all a Happy Lohri. I pray for everyone's good health and well-being. May this special day further the spirit of brotherhood in our society," Modi tweeted.Lohri is celebrated every year on January 13. The festival of Lohri marks the harvesting season of crops as the winter season ends and ushers in the spring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-greetings-to-the-nation-on-lohri-101642088408669.html
13-01-2022||India||NIA takes over Ludhiana court blast probe||NEW DELHI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday took over the probe into December 23 Ludhiana court blast, in which the alleged bomber Gagandeep Singh was killed while six people were injured. A senior official said on Thursday they took over the probe from Punjab police after the ministry of home affairs issued the notification. Initial investigations carried out by the Punjab police pointed to the role of Khalistani groups. Till now, the central anti-terror probe agency was informally assisting Punjab police in the probe for the past three weeks. Several inmates in Ludhiana Central Jail are learnt to have been interrogated as Gagandeep Singh, a dismissed police officer, was lodged there last year in a drug-related case.It is suspected that Gagandeep Singh came in touch with several Khalistani members in the prison including Ranjeet Singh Cheeta and Sukhwinder Boxer, who allegedly have links with Pakistani spy agency, ISI.NIA will also investigate the role of groups operating from other countries including Pakistan as it has the mandate to carry out investigations abroad and has a good database on Khalistani networks.Gagandeep Singh was dismissed from service in 2019 in connection with a drugs case and spent two years in jail. He was released in September this year.After the blast, he was identified on the basis of technical evidence including mobile location and later his family too recognized his body. Initial reports also suggested that banned outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) is behind the blast after a key member of the group - Jaswinder Singh Multani was detained by German police on December 28 from Erfurt. However, the central agencies are yet to find any direct evidence about Multani’s involvement in the Ludhiana bomb blast but officials refused to rule anything out.Multani was earlier under investigation for terror-related incidents in Punjab in 2021 apart from allegedly sending consignments of weapons, explosives, drugs, pistols, and hand grenades with the help of Pakistan-based operatives. A close associate of US-based SFJ chief Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, Multani is known as an expert in radicalising Sikh youth to take part in extremist activities.A separate first information report (FIR) filed by NIA against Multani on December 30 stated that he was “in touch with an ISI operative Jibran and Pakistan-based smuggling network members Rana Taseem, Imran and others, and is actively pursuing a conspiracy to carry out attacks in Mumbai and other parts of India, with support of his Punjab-based associates under the instruction of ISI.”Some of Multani’s associates named in the NIA case include - Jagdish Singh Bhura of the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), deputy chief of KZF Gurmeet Singh, who is also associated with SFJ, Ranjeet Singh Pakhoke of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF), Sukhdev Singh Heran and Hardeep Singh Nijjar of Babbar Khalsa International, and KTF members Paramjit Singh Pamma and Ranjeet Singh Neeta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-takes-over-ludhiana-court-blast-probe-101642088580192.html
13-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Delhi logs record daily Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With 28,867 fresh cases, Delhi sees highest ever single-day spike in Covid tallyDelhi on Thursday reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases after as many 28,867 people tested positive for the disease, according to health bulletin data. This was the biggest surge since April 20 last year. Read moreRahul Gandhi jumps on ‘Wordle’ bandwagon to take a veiled dig at BJPCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday became the latest to join the growing chunk of Twitter users to jump onto the popular bandwagon of ‘Wordle’ – an online word game that is gaining popularity with each day – only that, he deployed the trend to take a veiled dig at the Centre. Read moreIND vs SA: Rishabh Pant slams 4th Test century, surpasses MS Dhoni to achieve huge milestone for IndiaRishabh Pant scored his fourth century, waging a lone battle for India on Day 3 of the third Test against South Africa in Cape Town. Pant played beautifully, taking 133 balls to get to his hundred even as wickets continued to tumble at the other end. Read morePriyanka Chopra has a cheeky reply when asked about starting a family: ‘We're not too busy to practise’Actor Priyanka Chopra may have a dozen projects in the pipeline right now but her ideas for the future centre around starting a family. In a new interview, Priyanka has spoken about becoming a mother in the future and how she and husband Nick Jonas are ready to bring changes to their lives whenever it happens. Read moreYoga expert reveals secrets to recover from any mental and physical traumaAccording to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMSHA), trauma is an emotional or physical response to one or more harmful or life-threatening events or circumstances with lasting adverse effects on your mental and physical well-being. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-logs-highest-daily-covid-19-tally-since-april-2020-and-all-the-latest-news-101642086955494.html
13-01-2022||India||Rahul Gandhi jumps on ‘Wordle’ bandwagon to take a veiled dig at BJP||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday became the latest to join the growing chunk of Twitter users to jump onto the popular bandwagon of ‘Wordle’ – an online word game that is gaining popularity with each day – only that, he deployed the trend to take a veiled dig at the Centre.In a tweet, Gandhi shared an image that looked identical to the results of the game that several users are sharing on the microblogging site. However, the image is only manufactured and not real.The Wordle game is very simple. The players have six guesses to find a five-letter word of the day, which is chosen by the website everyday. With each guess, the colour of the tiles that appear in the game changes, indicating if a letter will be present in the word or not.Wordle 056 6/6 pic.twitter.com/T4eaGMEw3fIf a tile turns green, then the letter is in the correct position and if it turns yellow, the letter is still present in the word but only in a different position. A grey tile shows that the letter is not present on the word. After successfully guessing the word, twitter users share the results on the platform along with their score.It is this trend which Gandhi has used in his latest tweet. In the manufactured image which he had shared, words like “JUMLA”, “TAXES”, “HUMDO”, “JHOLA”, “SNOOP” and “PHOTO” could be seen, all of which he had used to criticise the ruling BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The picture also had the words “Guess who?” written at the top of the tiles.The jibe from Gandhi comes ahead of the assembly elections in five states, for which the election commission has announced the schedule. The Congress MP who was abroad on what the Congress called a “personal visit” since late December 2021 had reportedly returned from his trip on Sunday (January 9), news agency ANI reported citing party sources. However, he has been tweeting daily for the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-jumps-on-wordle-bandwagon-to-take-a-veiled-dig-at-bjp-101642087020736.html
13-01-2022||India||Abusive comments against Visva Bharati VC at online event||Abusive comments were made by an unidentified participant against Visva Bharati Vice-chancellor Prof Bidyut Chakraborty during an online event and have drawn criticism from the faculty and students of the central university.Unidentified persons had joined the daily music therapy event and one of them had abused the VC on January 11, the university spokesman said on Thursday. The video clip of the programme had gone viral. The organisers had promptly removed the unknown participant from the online event and university authorities said a full-fledged investigation into the incident is on. The online programme, organised every evening, is a therapy session during Covid time comprising songs, recitals and audio plays, the spokesman said. "We condemn this act of abusing the VC, but we would like to inform that he is the one who had brought in this culture of abusing people even at official meetings in past," Visva Bharati University Faculty Association office bearer Sudipto Bhattacharya said on Thursday. Alleging that VC's action had made the locals furious, he said "We would like to bring this to the attention of those who appointed the VC before something major happens". The SFI controlled students' body too condemned the incident and demanded that the person in question be identified. "Whatever be their grudge against the VC, this is against the spirit of Viva Bharati. One cannot insult his teacher," VBU SFI unit spokesman Somnath Sow said. A spokesman said the university will come up with stricter rules for its online events henceforth to prevent any repeat of the incident. During a purported conversation at the online session some abusive comments were made against the VC from an unknown account and Chakraborty was heard telling senior faculty members to remove and block all unidentified participants from the session. "First remove these unidentified participants. We will then restart the session," he was heard saying. "Please see to it that there is stricter regulation in future," the VC had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abusive-comments-against-visva-bharati-vc-at-online-event-101642082942930.html
13-01-2022||India||‘Will examine & take action’: Civil aviation ministry on alleged water supply disruption at Tirupati airport||The Union civil aviation ministry will examine the complaint about disruption of water supply at Tirupati international airport allegedly by the leaders of the YSR Congress Party in Andhra Pradesh and “will take necessary action,” civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Thursday.The minister’s announcement came after Bharatiya Janata Party’s MP GVL Narasimha Rao wrote to him, claiming that YSRCP leaders caused the disruption as a revenge, after some of their party members were denied entry into the airport earlier on January 10. In his letter, Rao also attached copies of local media reports about the incident.In response, Scindia, in a tweet, said, “We will examine the issue at our end & take necessary action. Passengers & staff at the airport will not face any further inconvenience.”Earlier in the day Rao had shared a copy of his letter to Scindia on Twitter. “In a shocking incident,@YSRCParty leaders have got water supply stopped to Tirupati intrntl Airport, staff qtrs & roads dug up. Highly condemnable. I've written to Civil Aviation Minister Scindia Ji seeking a high level probe into the incident,” he said.In his letter, Rao said that the Tirupati Municipal Corporation had “suddenly” stopped the supply of water at the airport and also dug up the roads leading to the residential quarters.“On Monday i.e January 10, Tirupati Municipal Corporation suddenly stopped water supply to the Airport and the residential quarters hours after Airport entry was denied to some members of the ruling YSRCP party the previous day,” he said.“This highhanded, vengeful and thoughtless action has inconvenienced hundreds of passengers who travel to and from Tirupati airport and has caused serious hardship to the families in residential quarters. Vengeful action did not stop at that. Roads leading to the residential quarters were suddenly dug up which prevented movement of vehicles including the private water tankers,” he added, demanding for an enquiry into the issue.However, he also highlighted that the civic body had said the disruptions were due to repairs but dismissed the explanation as “flimsy” and claimed it was an act of revenge.“Though the senior officials of the Tirupati Municipal Corporation claim that the supply disruption was due to repairs, this explanation is flimsy and everyone knows that this was done as a retaliatory measure by the local leaders of the YSRCP party,” he said.Further, he also said that the water supply to the airport and the residential quarters were restored within a day but the dug-up roads might take at least a week’s time to be repaired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-examine-take-action-civil-aviation-ministry-on-alleged-water-supply-disruption-at-tirupati-airport-101642082435088.html
13-01-2022||India||Mumbai records 13,702 infections in 24 hours; 46,406 new infections in state||Mumbai on Thursday reported 13,702 new Covid-19 infections in a 16% fall from Wednesday's 24-hour tally. The case positivity rate stood at 21.73%. On Wednesday, Mumbai reported over 16,000 fresh cases.  For the last few days, Mumbai's 24-hour tally has been oscillating making it difficult for data scientists to figure out whether the third wave in the city is ebbing. After crossing the 20,000-mark, the city's 24-hour tally decreased to 19,474 and then it sharply fell to 13,648 cases. On Tuesday, it further fell to 11,647 cases.Maharashtra on Thursday reported 46,406 fresh infections and 36 deaths in the last 24 hours. This is a slight decrease from yesterday's 24-hour tally of 46,723. There were no new cases of the Omicron variant reported in Maharashtra. Till date, a total of 1,367 patients infected with Omicron variant have been reported in the state, and of these, 775 patients have been discharged following a negative RT PCR test, according to the state health bulletin.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said there is no decline in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. "In the past two-three days, the reporting of COVID-19 cases might have come down. It may be because of the low testing. On Wednesday, the state has reported around 46,000 new COVID-19 cases. So, there is no indication of flattening of the curve in Maharashtra." The Indian Council of Medical Research has mandated that only symptomatic people will get tested for Covid. While this will naturally bring down the number of tests done in a day, it is likely to increase the test positivity rate as the majority of the people who will get tested will emerge as positive cases. As Mumbai's daily cases fell from 20,000 to 11,000, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Wednesday said the numbers of Covid-19 cases and Omicron cases were slowing down in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-sees-a-dip-in-daily-cases-13-702-infections-in-24-hours-101642082152914.html
13-01-2022||India||‘Deeply aggrieved’: Zomato on delivery man's death, promises job to his wife||Online food delivery app Zomato's founder Deepinder Goyal on Thursday said that the firm is extending “all possible support” to help its deceased delivery partner Salil Tripathi's family. Salil, 38, was killed after being allegedly hit by the vehicle of a constable suspected to be drunk in Delhi's Rohini area on January 8 night.Taking to Twitter earlier in the day, Goyal said that Zomato will offer an insurance grant of ₹10 lakh, provide a job to Salil's wife, Sucheta Tripathi and the firm's employees have collectively contributed ₹12 lakh towards the family's future.“We are deeply aggrieved by the death of our delivery partner Salil Tripathi in an unfortunate road incident. We are extending all possible support to help the family get through this,” Goyal tweeted.
13-01-2022||India||12 coaches of Guwahati-Bikaner Express derail in Bengal. 5 dead, over 20 injured||KOLKATA: Twelve coaches of the Guwahati-bound Bikaner Express derailed in the Maynaguri region of north Bengal on Thursday evening, leaving five passengers dead and many injured.Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said five bodies have been found till 7pm and over 20 passengers with injuries were rushed to the local Moynaguri government hospital. About 15 passengers are reported to be in critical condition. A special train from Jalpaiguri reached the accident site at around 7 pm to take the injured to the hospital.Spoke to Railways Minister Shri @AshwiniVaishnaw and took stock of the situation in the wake of the train accident in West Bengal. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover quickly.The location where the train with 577 passengers met with the accident is part of the Alipuarduar section of the Northeast Frontier Railway.A railways spokesperson said the accident took place at 5pm, nearly seven minutes after the express train passed the New Domohani station.“12 coaches jumped off the tracks of which two capsized,” Guneet Kaur, chief public relation officer of Northeast Frontier Railway said.Most of the passengers were going to Assam. Kaur said passengers who were not hurt in the accident will be taken to Guwahati on a separate train.Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said they were getting generators to light up the area. “All departments have been alerted. Rescue staff are being rushed from all locations,” Basu said.Enhanced amount of ex-gratia compensation to the victims of this unfortunate accident: Rs. 5 Lakh in case of death, Rs. 1 Lakh towards grievous and Rs. 25,000 for minor injuries.In New Delhi, the railways ordered a high-level inquiry into the accident by the railway safety commissioner.Photographs and videos that appeared on local media channels showed two coaches lying on the ground and three more off the tracks. One of the coaches appeared to be badly damaged.“There were not too many passengers in the train because of the Covid pandemic (restrictions),” Dilip Kumar Singh, divisional railway manager of the Alipuarduar section of the Northeast Frontier Railway, told reporters.“Several teams are rushing to the spot. I am on my way. This is a case of derailment. Our men are making efforts to rescue the injured. We have no exact figure on casualties,” said Singh.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted that senior officers of the state government were supervising the rescue and relief operations. “Deeply concerned to hear about the tragic accident of the Bikaner-Guwahati Express in Maynaguri,” she said on Twitter, adding that the injured will receive medical attention, as early as possible.West Bengal government officials said Mamata Banerjee was at the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi via video conference on the covid-19 pandemic when she was informed about the train accident.The chief minister instructed all senior police and health department officials to arrange for rescue and treatment of the passengers,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guwahatibound-bikaner-express-derails-in-north-bengal-3-dead-official-101642079099724.html
13-01-2022||India||‘Be ready for other Covid variants after Omicron': 3 things PM Modi emphasised in meeting with CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said despite Covid-19 cases increasing in the country, there is no need to panic as whatever variant it may be, the way to fight it is vaccination. This was the first meeting of PM Modi with the chief ministers of the states and the UTs in 2022. The meeting comes on a day India recorded over 2.47 lakh fresh infections. "This is the third year of India's fight against the pandemic. India's victory is certain," PM Modi said in his closing remarks at the interaction with the chief ministers.Local containment, extensive vaccination and pro-active steps are the three major points PM Modi laid stress on. People may also try India's age-old wisdom of drinking kadha, PM Modi said. “It is not a medicine, but a tried-and-tested tradition of India,” PM Modi said. Talking about Omicron, the variant which is driving the present surge of the pandemic in India and the world, PM Modi said in the initial days of the Omicron outbreak, there was some doubt regarding Omicron. But now the situation is clear and countries like the United States are reporting 14 lakh cases in a day because of Omicron, PM Modi said."Now we have the experience of fighting the pandemic for two years. We must take into account the question of people's employment before we take any action. So, more focus should be on local containment. We should also ensure that maximum people should get treated in home isolation," PM Modi said. Several states and Union territories have announced night curfew and weekend curfew to contain the spread of the infection. "Our preparation should be ahead of all variants of Covid. After we tide over Omicron, we have to make preparation in place to fight other variants of the virus as well. And in this, states will cooperate with each other," PM Modi said.Calling out fake news regarding vaccination, PM Modi said there are many narratives like why vaccination is not stopping reinfection but people should not pay heed to all these as vaccination is the only sure-shot way to come out of the pandemic. It is India's pride that India's vaccines against Covid-19 have been globally acknowledged and India has achieved landmark vaccination figures even before India's vaccination drive completes a year, PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-prepared-for-other-covid-variants-after-omicron-pm-modi-in-meeting-with-cms-101642077603843.html
13-01-2022||India||Bikaner-Guwahati Express derails: PM Modi speaks to rail minister | Updates||At least five casualties were reported after the Guwahati-Bikaner Express got derailed at Moynaguri in north Bengal, under North East Frontier Railway, on Thursday evening at around 5pm.  As the rescue work is going on, the injured are being taken to Jalpaiguri Sadar Hospital. A high-level investigation has been ordered to probe the accident. Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw will leave tonight to visit the accident site. Railway officials later said at least 12 coaches were affected. Photos from the accident showed at least four to five bogies lying upside down on the track.  The number of casualties may go up, officials said.  The railways ministry has announced ex gratia of ₹5 lakh for deceased, ₹1 lakh for severely injured, and ₹25,000 for those with minor injuries. In an unfortunate accident, 12 Coaches of Bikaner - Guwahati Exp. derailed near New Maynaguri (West Bengal) this evening.Personally monitoring the situation for swift rescue operations.Here are the latest updates on the train accident> PM Modi said he spoke to railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and took stock of the situation. “My thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover quickly.” PM Modi wrote. Spoke to Railways Minister Shri @AshwiniVaishnaw and took stock of the situation in the wake of the train accident in West Bengal. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover quickly.> Giving the details of the passengers who were there on the Guwahati-Bikaner Express, Rajesh Kumar, chief reservation supervisor, Patna junction, said 98 passengers boarded the train from Patna junction. Three people boarded from Mokama and two from Bakhtiarpur, he said. > A passenger told news agency ANI that they felt a huge jolt following which the bogies overturned. According to reports, the train was not overspeeding at the time of the accident; it was moving at the speed of 40kmph.> "Deeply concerned to hear about the tragic accident of the Bikaner-Guwahati Express in Maynaguri. Senior Officers of the State Government, DM/SP/IG North Bengal are supervising rescue and relief operations. Those injured will receive medical attention, as early as possible," Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted.Deeply concerned to hear about the tragic accident of the Bikaner-Guwahati Express in Maynaguri.Senior Officers of the State Government, DM/SP/IG North Bengal are supervising rescue and relief operations. Those injured will receive medical attention, as early as possible.> Dilip Kumar Singh, divisional railway manager of the Alipuarduar section of the North East Frontier Railway, told the media that none of the coaches was filled to full capacity because of the Covid pandemic. "Several teams are rushing to the spot. I am on my way. This is a case of derailment. Our men are making efforts to rescue the injured. We have no exact figure on casualties. There were not too many passengers in the train because of the Covid pandemic," said Singh. #UPDATE | Guwahati-Bikaner derailment: Accident of train no 15633 in Alipurduar Division Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR).Helplines numbers: 1. Patna junction - 93415060162. Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Jn- 73888981003. Danapur 77590700044. Sonpur 9771429999> The train left New Domohani station at 4.53 pm. It got derailed while moving towards the block section between New Domohani and new Maynaguri stations. Jalpaiguri district officials said the injured were being taken to Jalpaiguri Sadar Hospital. Rescue operators were sent from Siliguri and Aipurduar towns as well.> An inquiry has been ordered into the accident. Alipurduar Junction has opened hotline numbers for enquiry regarding the accident: 050 34666, 03564 255190, 0361-2731621,2731622,2731623.  Following helpline numbers are provided by New Delhi railway station: 011-23342954, 011-23341074 (P&t), 1072 (4 nos.)> Railway minister to reach the site tomorrow"I am reaching the site tomorrow morning. Medical teams, senior officers at the spot. PM Modi also took stock of the situation and rescue operation. Our focus is on rescue. Ex-gratia also announced," Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw>  Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma spoke to railway minister and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee regarding derailment of Bikaner-Guwahati Express near Jalpaiguri; Mamata assured assistance on the ground. (With updates from Tanmay Chatterjee, Bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bikanerguwahati-express-gets-derailed-in-bengal-casualty-feared-101642076460572.html
13-01-2022||India||PM Modi interacts with CMs as Covid-19 cases in India soar; 1st meeting of year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday interacted with the chief ministers of all states and Union territories, as decided before, to take stock of the present Covid-19 situation of the country. This is the first meeting of PM Modi with the chief ministers this year. Earlier, PM Modi interacted with the health ministry officials and asked them to strengthen the ongoing vaccination drive.
13-01-2022||India||Assam Police’s new joinee packs a punch - it’s Olympic star Lovlina Borgohain||GUWAHATI: Champion boxer and Tokyo Olympics bronze medallist Lovlina Borgohain was on Wednesday appointed by the Assam government as a deputy superintendent (DSP) in the state police force. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma presented the 24-year-old boxing star with an appointment letter at a ceremony in Guwahati. He assured her of a monthly sum of ₹100,000 - apart from her salary - that is meant to cover requirements for training. Sarma also said a road in Guwahati would soon be named after her. Borgohain is the second sportsperson from the state to be appointed a DSP in Assam Police as per a new sports policy. In February last year, top sprinter Hima Das was given the same honour. “We are very happy to appoint Borgohain in Assam Police. In the coming days, we expect that apart from pursuing her goals in her sport, she would also help boost the sports atmosphere in the state police force,” CM Sarma said. The chief minister said considering her age and abilities, Borgohain, who is now part of the training department of the state police, can steadily climb to a senior position once she completes graduation in the coming years. “This day will remain very memorable for me as I have joined Assam Police. I would like to thank the state government for this honour. In the coming days, I will try to do well in my sports and bring more glory to the state. I seek your blessings for all my future endeavours,” Borgohain said. The boxer from Barpathar in Golaghat district of Assam, who won a bronze medal in the welterweight category in the Tokyo Games in Japan, has publicly made it known that she’s not content with a bronze-medal finish and go all out for gold in the 2024 Olympics in Paris, France. 
13-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Sunderbans losing dense mangrove cover, says FSI report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sunderbans losing dense mangrove cover, reveals key government reportThe Sunderbans, which is the world’s largest mangrove delta and home to the Royal Bengal Tiger, is gradually losing its very dense mangrove cover, data released by the Forest Survey of India (FSI) on Thursday revealed. Read moreUP elections: Congress fields Unnao rape survivor’s mother as candidateAsha Singh, the mother of the 2017 Unnao rape victim, is among the candidates who will contest for Congress in the forthcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Read more  'Ask any top batsman. No one would want to face him': Gambhir's massive praise for 31-year-old 'threatening' India pacerIndian pacers enjoyed a fine outing on Day 2 of the second Test against South Africa in Cape Town. Read moreJuhi Chawla recalls how 6-years-old Imran Khan proposed to her, always had ‘heere ki pehchaan’Juhi Chawla took to Instagram to wish actor Imran Khan on his birthday. She recalled the time he would visit her on film sets and even proposed to her. Read more Diabetes, anxiety, MIS-C: Covid-19's many complications in childrenDiabetes, MIS-C, mental health issues, developmental disorders - the post Covid-19 complications can have a devastating impact on children. Read more Food on electric ride: TVS iQube scooters to power Swiggy's food delivery fleetTVS Motor Company on Thursday has announced that it has joined hands with food delivery aggregator Swiggy for commercial mobility electrification.Read more&amp;nbsp;||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sunderbans-losing-dense-mangrove-cover-says-fsi-report-and-all-the-latest-news-101642070010224.html
13-01-2022||India||Corona infectious for 20 minutes; close proximity: 2 major findings of new study||A new study conducted by the University of Bristol's Aerosol Research Centre has revealed that Coronavirus loses 90% of its ability to infect within 20 minutes of being exposed to the air. To be more specific, within the first five minutes after being exposed to air, the virus loses most of its ability to infect. As reported by the Guardian, the finding once again shows how important it is to maintain distance and mask up.“People have been focused on poorly ventilated spaces and thinking about airborne transmission over metres or across a room. I’m not saying that doesn’t happen, but I think still the greatest risk of exposure is when you are close to someone,” Prof Jonathan Reid, director of the University of Bristol’s Aerosol Research Centre and the study’s lead author, said.Explained: Why you should still try to avoid Omicron infectionThe study, published in medRxiv is yet to be peer-reviewed. To find out what actually happens to the virus after it is breathed out, the researchers, for the first time ever, developed an apparatus that allowed them to generate any number of tiny, virus-containing particles in a simulated environment. Before this, the assumptions about the longevity of the virus were based on studies, but this was the first simulated experiment that showed that the virus becomes ineffective very soon.As the virus leaves the lungs, which provides a relatively moist atmosphere for the virus, the viral particles start drying out. Also, the lower level of carbon dioxide outside the lungs increases the pH. Both these factors - the dryness and the increasing pH level -- make the virus comparatively ineffective.So what does the finding mean? Earlier data suggested that the virus particles remain infectious on surfaces; then it was found that the virus is airborne as well. But the finding of the Bristol study suggests that the spread of the infection occurs in close proximity. If in a group of friends meeting at a cafe, one person is Covid-infected, it is likely that the person will spread the infection to the friends who are in close proximity, rather than to the persons who are sitting on the other side of the cafe, experts explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infectious-for-20-minutes-after-it-s-exhaled-what-new-study-reveals-about-covid-spread-101642069753989.html
13-01-2022||India||Twitter announces initiatives for voters ahead of Assembly elections||Twitter on Thursday announced a series of initiatives to empower citizens with the right knowledge before they cast their votes in the upcoming Assembly elections in five states.Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa will be held between February 10 and March 7 in seven phases with the counting of votes on March 10. In all, elections will be held for 690 assembly seats, and 18.3 crore people, including 8.5 crore women, will be eligible to cast their votes in the five states."Elections are when people come to Twitter to find credible information about voting, to learn about candidates and their manifestos, and to engage in healthy civic debate and conversation. As a service for public conversation, Twitter is committed to enabling people to make informed decisions when exercising their civic rights," Twitter said in a statement.Twitter's initiatives, powered by an Open Internet, are directed towards not just ensuring a high voter turnout but also aiding in ensuring voters are involved, engaged and informed throughout the election cycle, it added.As part of the initiatives, Twitter will launch a customised emoji that will further be supported with a notification and reminder mechanism, which will allow people to voluntarily sign-up for reminders on the day voting starts.Further, a voter education quiz will engage people in Q&As, equipping them with necessary facts about the polls, the statement said.Twitter said it has launched an information search prompt with the Election Commission of India and Chief Electoral Officers to make it easy to find credible and authoritative information for the Assembly elections.These prompts provide credible, authoritative sources of information when people search with related keywords on Twitter's Explore page. The prompt will direct people to resources where they can access reliable information about candidate lists, voting dates, polling booths and more.In addition to English, the Search Prompt will be available in Hindi, Punjabi, and Konkani, and will be supported by several hashtags.Besides, Twitter will be hosting workshops and training sessions for non-profits across the five states, which will be aimed at developing literacy materials and pre-bunks to tackle misinformation around the elections."... and events of political and civic significance always find a place among the conversations on the service. Public discourse is shaped by these conversations, and we recognise the responsibility that it places on us -- to ensure that people are met with reliable and authentic information as they go out to vote," Twitter India Manager Public Policy and Government Payal Kamat said.She added that the company has been working in partnership with official authorities, including the Election Commission of India, and will continue to harness the power of the Open Internet to strengthen civic dialogue and encourage quality participation this election season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-announces-initiatives-for-voters-ahead-of-assembly-elections-101642068095647.html
13-01-2022||India||‘Assam, Meghalaya reach understanding on 6 disputed areas’:Himanta Biswa Sarma||GUWAHATI: Assam has reached an understanding with Meghalaya on resolving six of the 12 areas of dispute along the border between the states and will sign a memorandum of understanding later this month, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said in Guwahati on Wednesday after a meeting with his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma.“Following today’s discussion, we have reached mutual understanding on the government level on resolving the disputes. In principle, both states have agreed to consult opposition parties, student unions and other stakeholders on this issue on January 18,” Sarma said.Last year, the two chief ministers agreed to sort out the differences in a phased manner and decided to first focus on six of the 12 disputed areas along the inter-state border. The six areas that were taken up first for resolution are Tarabari, Gizang, Hahim, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilangkata and Ratacherra. The areas fall in Kamrup, Kamrup (Metropolitan) and Cachar districts of Assam and West Khasi Hills, Ri Bhoi and East Jaintia Hills districts of Meghalaya. Both states set up regional committees comprising senior ministers after this broad agreement to visit the disputed areas and speak to local residents and other stakeholders. Earlier this month, the two state governments exchanged reports of their respective committees at a meeting in Shillong.“Mutual understanding between two governments on the border issue has to be ratified by other stakeholders. The government can’t take a decision on it on its own. We hope to sign a memorandum of understanding with Meghalaya within this month,” said Sarma.Meghalaya deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong who was present at Wednesday’s meeting told reporters that the two chief ministers will meet again in the next 3-4 days, which will be followed by a meeting with union home minister Amit Shah.“Hopefully we would have a final agreement before January 21 (the 50th statehood day of Meghalaya) which will be made public,” he said. 
13-01-2022||India||NCW red flags Mahesh Manjrekar’s Marathi film, says censor trailer and movie||NEW DELHI: National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma on Wednesday asked the ministry of information and broadcasting to censor the trailer and sexually explicit scenes of the upcoming Marathi film ‘Nay Varan Bhat Loncha Kon Nay Koncha’.The commission said the trailer of the movie, which was released on 10 January, shows “obscene” content and depicts women and minors in objectionable ways.“The trailer is being circulated on social media platforms like Facebook, YouTube, Twitter etc without any age restrictions for viewers and hence available even for minors to watch,” the commission said in a statement.“The commission condemns the open circulation of such sexually explicit content involving minors on social media platforms… The commission has also asked to ensure that the sexually explicit scenes are not circulated openly on social media platforms.”A copy of the letter has also been sent to Prasoon Joshi, who is the chairperson of the Central Board of Film Certification.It has asked the ministry to keep the commission posted about the action taken on the communication.The commission said it received a complaint from Maharashtra-based women rights group, Bhartiya Stree Shakti.The film, ‘Nay Varan Bhat Loncha Kon Nay Koncha’ is scheduled to release on January 14 The movie, starring Prem Dharmadhikari, Chhaya Kadam, Shashank Shende and Kashmera Shah, is directed by Mahesh Manjrekar and is based on the story by Marathi playwright and theatre critic Jayant Pawar who died in September 2021.In an interview with Pinkvilla, director Mahesh Manjrekar said Nay Varan Bhat Loncha Kon Nay Koncha completes his trilogy – first Vaastav, followed by the City Of Gold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-red-flags-mahesh-manjrekar-s-marathi-film-says-censor-trailer-and-movie-101642061997430.html
13-01-2022||India||‘Cannot judge man by appearance’: Madras HC upholds death penalty of child rapist||CHENNAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Wednesday confirmed the death sentence awarded by a trial court to a 26-year-old man for raping and murdering a seven-year-old girl in Tamil Nadu’s Pudukottai district. A bench of justices S Vaidyanathan and G Jayachandran contemplated if they should reduce the sentence. “We were little hesitant initially to take away a life of a person by way of a judicial order and thought of converting the punishment into the one of life imprisonment,” the court said. But after carefully examining the case again, the justices drew in on late German dictator Adolf Hitler, religious texts of Quran, Bible, the Mahabharata and Tamil devotional singer Seergazhi S Govindarajan, besides various Supreme Court orders, and concluded that this was one of the rarest of rare cases for death penalty.“It is pertinent to mention here that everyone’s mind contains a liar, a cheat and a sinner and a man cannot be judged by his outer appearance, as Adolf Hitler, who ordered the execution of some eight million people and was responsible for the deaths of many millions more, hated cruelty to animals and was a vegetarian,” the order read. “If a person like the accused herein is allowed to survive in this world, he will definitely pollute the mind of other co-prisoners, who will be at the verge of release from jail in which he is confined. When the attitude of a man turns into the one of a beast having no mercy over other creatures, he should be punished and sent to the eternal world.”The facts of the case are that on 30 June 2020 around 3pm, the accused, Samivel alias Raja took the girl who belonged to a Scheduled Caste to a temple and then an isolated place committing the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual assult. Fearing that the child would reveal the crime, he dashed her head against a tree and also pierced her face and neck and threw her body into a dried pond in the village. He then covered the child’s body with leaves and shrubs to screen the evidence. The child’s father had filed a ‘missing child’ complaint with the local police.The prosecution, in order to substantiate the offence against the accused, had examined 18 witnesses, marked 38 documents and exhibited 8 Material Objects and on the side of the accused, neither any witness was examined nor documents marked. The Trial Court (Mahila Court, Pudukkottai) after analysing the evidence let in by the prosecution, found the accused guilty of the offence and three sentences for death by hanging, two rigorous imprisonment for seven years and a life imprisonment under sections of POCSO, IPC and the SC/ST Act. The accused file an appeal against the conviction. “In all fairness, we find that the judgment of the trial court fulfilled all the touchstone to determine that it is one of the rarest of rare cases for imposition of death sentence, as imposition of any other punishment much less life imprisonment is completely insufficient and inadequate and would not meet the ends of justice,” the court said in its orders. “Taking into consideration the brutality of attack, the barbaric manner in which the deceased child was murdered and the mental agony undergone by the parents, we find that except death sentence, no other sentence will be adequate.”
13-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Sanjay Raut says Sena won't tie up with any party for UP polls, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UP polls: Shiv Sena will not ally with any political party, says Sanjay RautShiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP and senior party leader Sanjay Raut will be in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday to finalize the strategy for the party ahead of the Assembly elections. Read MoreDay after Karnataka govt ban, Congress begins day 5 of Mekedatu padayatraKarnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar on Thursday left for day 5 of the party's 10-day Mekedatu padayatra, a day after the state government, pulled up by the high court, ordered an immediate ban on the opposition party's protest march. Read MoreHow Boris Johnson's ‘bring your own booze’ party in lockdown has created a stormUK PM Boris Johnson apologized for attending a garden party during Britain’s first Covid lockdown. Johnson admitted he attended the party at 10 Downing Street in May 2020 when Covid rules limited social gatherings. Watch NowLauren Sanchez posts heartwarming video to celebrate Jeff Bezos’ birthdayA post by Lauren Sanchez to celebrate the birthday of her boyfriend Jeff Bezos has warmed people’s hearts. Read More IND vs SA: Michael Vaughan, Dale Steyn reserve ultimate praise for ‘best in the world’ Jasprit BumraJasprit Bumrah couldn't have hoped for a better return to the venue where it all started for him in Test cricket. In 2018, Bumrah was first unleased in the red-ball format in the Cape Town opener against South Africa. Read MoreYezdi Roadster, Scrambler and Adventure bikes launched: Price, features, specsYezdi is back and has marked its return with three new motorcycles in India. The motorcycles, which include Yezdi Adventure, Scrambler and Roadster, are aimed to target riders looking for regular commute as well as those willing to take off-beat roads. Read MoreRanjish Hi Sahi review: Amala Paul shines in Mahesh Bhatt’s misty-eyed tribute to Parveen Babi If you can get over questions of grace and taste about Mahesh Bhatt fictionalising his extra-marital affair with Parveen Babi for the fourth time, you might enjoy the new Voot Select series Ranjish Hi Sahi. Read MoreSamantha Ruth Prabhu's fitness routine is too good to be trueSamantha Ruth Prabhu is fitness goals for us. The actor starts each day with a fresh take on fitness and snippets of the same make their way on our Instagram feed through pictures and videos. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sanjay-raut-says-sena-won-t-tie-up-with-any-party-for-up-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101642056806980.html
13-01-2022||India||5 cities in India including Delhi, Mumbai see fresh surge in daily Covid cases||Five cities in India - Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai and Kolkata - are again seeing a surge in their daily cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the country is fighting a fresh wave of infections fueled by the Omicron variant.The total positive cases in Delhi have crossed the 1.6 million mark while in Mumbai, daily cases are surging again but have remained below the 20,000-mark since January 9. In Kolkata too, authorities are seeing more people getting infected with Covid-19. Daily infections in Chennai have crossed the 7,000-mark while the highest number of total Covid-19 cases in Karnataka are from Bengaluru.Delhi:Daily Covid-19 tally in Delhi surged again for a second consecutive day on Wednesday after 27,561 cases were reported, pushing the caseload to over 1.6 million. Wednesday's case count has been the highest since April 20 last year, when 28,395 cases were reported.The national capital is under a weekend and night curfew along with other restrictions including a ban on dining in at restaurants and bars, work from home (WFH) for government employees except those in essential services and private employees apart from those in the exempted category. All schools, colleges, educational institutions, gyms, spas are closed and shops are opening on an odd-even basis.Mumbai:More than 16,000 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai on Wednesday. However, the daily tally has been below the 20,000-mark since January 9. The total cases in the capital city of Maharashtra are inching towards the one million mark.Mumbai is also placed under a night curfew from 11pm to 5am. From January 10, gyms, spas, and beauty salons have been allowed to operate at 50% capacity in the city. Only fully vaccinated people are allowed to enter these establishments.A few days back, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar appealed to all residents to get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19 "considering the severity of Covid goes down with vaccination.”Bengaluru:Being the worst-hit region across Karnataka, Bengaluru has been adding the most number of infections towards the state's daily Covid-19 tally. In a fresh spike on Wednesday, Bengaluru added 15,617 of the 21,390 fresh cases seen in Karnataka. Of the 10 deaths in the state on Wednesday, six alone were from Bengaluru.The city tops the list concerning the total number of positive cases at 1,334,957 and discharges at 1,244,869.Chennai:On Wednesday, daily cases in Chennai surged for a fourth consecutive day and crossed the 7,000-mark, pushing the caseload to 608,619. Nine deaths and 1,853 discharges were reported in the capital city of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday.Chennai also had the highest number of Omicron cases at 115 and all have recovered from the fast-spreading variant.Kolkata:The infection count in Kolkata surged again on Wednesday with 7,060 new ovid-19 cases, as West Bengal's daily tally climbed to 22,155. On Tuesday, the city had recorded 6,565 new cases.According to the Union health ministry, among the above-mentioned cities, Kolkata reported the highest Covid-19 positivity rate at 60.29% between January 5-12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-cities-in-india-including-delhi-mumbai-see-fresh-surge-in-daily-covid-cases-101642044824230.html
13-01-2022||India||Rajya Sabha LoP Mallikarjun Kharge tests Covid +ve; was part of Mekedatu march||Congress leader and the Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Thursday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). His office said in a statement that Kharge is asymptomatic and under home isolation."He is fully vaccinated but was not yet eligible for his precaution dose," the statement said. It added that five staff members in his Delhi office tested positive a few days back.Before getting infected, Mallikarjun Kharge was a part of the inaugural event of the Karnataka Congress's padayatra, which demands the implementation of the Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river.Also Read| Cong’s Mekedatu march banned, orders Karnataka govt after high court rebukeAn FIR was filed against Kharge and other senior Congress leaders, including state party unit president DK Shivakumar, LoP in Karnataka assembly Siddaramaiah and Veerappa Moily, for violating Covid-19 curbs.On Wednesday evening, Moily also tested positive for Covid-19.The padayatra is being seen as a super-spreader event amid the worsening pandemic situation in the country.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Karnataka government has hit out at the yatra and shared a purported video on January 9 which showed state Congress president DK Shivakumar coughing.“Watch Congress President @DKShivakumar coughing in public during his fake protest for Mekedatu dam. It appears that he is having Covid-19 symptoms but is still interacting with Congress workers without a mask,” the state BJP unit tweeted.Also Read| 75% rise in Parliament Covid-19 cases over 3 days; 718 test positiveThe Karnataka government on Wednesday prohibited the yatra with immediate effect. The state, one of the worst-hit from Covid-19, has so far recorded nearly 3.1 million infections.Meanwhile, weeks ahead of the Union Budget in February, over 700 officials of Parliament have been infected with the virus. Both the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha have ordered a third of their staff to work from home till the end of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-lop-mallikarjun-kharge-tests-covid-ve-was-part-of-mekedatu-march-101642053670218.html
13-01-2022||India||Omicron: With highest single-day jump of 620 cases, India's tally above 5,000||India recorded 620 cases of Omicron, its highest single-day spike in the cases of the new variant of coronavirus, according to data released by the Union health ministry. With this, the country’s Omicron tally reached 5,488.The health ministry data also showed that 2,162 Omicron patients recovered in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra continued its top position with 1,367 cases of the Omicron, followed by Rajasthan at 792, Delhi 549, Kerala 486 and Karnataka 479.Also Read | Explained: Why you should still try to avoid Omicron infectionSince being detected in South Africa in November last year, Omicron has spread very fast across the globe. In India, the first case was detected on December 1, and the number crossed the 5,000-mark in little over a month.The variant is heavily mutated, with more than 30 mutations reported in its spike protein. Many experts claim that this is the reason why Omicron is more resistant to existing vaccines.Many studies are being conducted across the world to understand the behaviour of the new variant. From changing the type of masks, to developing new vaccines, researchers are finding way to stamp out an outbreak of the highly infectious virus.A third shot of the vaccine, known as the booster dose, is being advocated to increase the immunity against Omicron. India has also launched a programme to give the additional jab - called precautionary dose - to its eligible population, which includes those above the age of 60 with comorbidities and frontline workers.India, meanwhile, logged 2,47,417 new coronavirus infections, the highest in 236 days, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,63,17,927.The active cases have increased to 11,17,531, the highest in 216 days, while the death toll has climbed to 4,85,035 with 380 fresh fatalities, the health ministry data updated at 8am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-620-omicron-cases-highest-single-day-jump-so-far-101642052065439.html
13-01-2022||India||Northwest India, western Himalayan region expected to witness rainfall||NEW DELHI: Two western disturbances are likely to bring rain across northwest India and the western Himalayan region for a few days starting on January 16, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Also, a wet spell over central and eastern India has started and will last till at least Friday, the IMD said.Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall is likely in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura till Friday. Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation in southwest Bay of Bengal and another one in southern Tamil Nadu, rainfall or thundershowers are likely across Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala during the next 4-5 days.Meanwhile, the western disturbance that caused widespread rain in northwest India last week is currently lying as a cyclonic circulation in northwest Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northwest-india-western-himalayan-region-expected-to-witness-rainfall-101642049456104.html
13-01-2022||India||India Covid-19 cases: Daily infections rise to 247,417; active caseload tops 1 million||In another significant spike, India recorded 247,417 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the cumulative nationwide tally to 36,317,927, the Union health ministry's data, updated at 8am on Thursday, showed. This latest single-day rise is 27 per cent higher than that a day ago, when 194,720 people tested positive.Major contributors included Maharashtra (46,723), Delhi (27,561), West Bengal (22,155), Karnataka (21,390), among others.Also Read | Delhi: Daily tally over 27k as tests ramped up; Covid death toll rises by 40Also, the number of active patients crossed the 1 million-mark once again, rising by a massive 162,212 cases to 1,117,531, the bulletin showed. On the other hand, as many as 84,825 more people were discharged after recovering from the viral illness, taking total recoveries to 34,715,361. Daily fatalities, meanwhile, witnessed a fall, as 380 more patients succumbed due to the infection, taking the cumulative toll to 485,035.Also Read | What early signs of Covid peak in Mumbai, Delhi mean for IndiaRecoveries, active cases and deaths constitute 96 per cent, 2.65 per cent and 1.34 per cent of the overall caseload.With Omicron variant of the coronavirus detected in 620 more people, the number of such infections in the country rose to 5488. Of these, Maharashtra accounted for 86 (including 53 in Pune city alone), while Kerala saw record single-day rise of 76 in its Omicron case count.Also Read | Explained: Why you should still try to avoid Omicron infectionOn the vaccination front, the nation administered 7,632,024 additional doses of Covid-19 vaccines. With this more than 1.54 billion (154 crore) doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered since January 16 last year, when the nationwide inoculation drive kicked off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-19-cases-daily-infections-rise-to-247-417-active-caseload-tops-1-million-101642039619826.html
13-01-2022||India||Makar Sankranti 2022: History and significance of festival||Devoted to Surya Devta or Sun God, the auspicious occasion of Makar Sankranti is celebrated on January 14 each year and, in case of leap year, on January 15 that particular year. Considered as the day on which Sun transitions into Capricorn, Makar Sankranti is celebrated with great pomp and enthusiasm.On this day, farmers across India tribute to Sun God, and wish for a good crop. In different regions of the country, the festivities are known by different name, for e.g., as Magh Bihu (Assam), Maghi (Punjab), Sakraat (Haryana), Pongal (Tamil Nadu), Push Sankranti (West Bengal), Sankranthi (Andhra Pradesh and Telangana) etc.Another customary and popular practice associated with this festival is kite flying. In Gujarat's Ahmedabad, since 1989, the day has been observed as International Kite Festival.Also Read | Makar Sankranti: Here's why kite flying is a major part of the festivalThis year, the ministry of AYUSH will organise a Surya Namaskar demonstration programme for around 7.5 million people globally. The programme, the ministry said in a statement, will underline the importance of Makar Sankranti in ‘our cultural and spiritual heritage.’“The Sun, as the primary source of energy, is critical not only for the continuation of the food-chain but it also energises the mind and body of human beings. Scientifically, the Surya Namaskar has been known to develop immunity and improve vitality, which is significant to our health during pandemic conditions. Exposure to the Sun further provides the human body with Vitamin D, which has been widely recommended in all medical branches around the world,” the AYUSH ministry noted in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/makar-sankranti-2022-history-and-significance-of-festival-101642042663317.html
13-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: US imposes sanctions over N.Korea's weapons programs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.North Korea missile launches: US sanctions Russian national, 7 othersThe Biden administration announced on Wednesday that it was imposing sanctions on seven individuals and an entity over North Korea's weapons programs. The action comes after at least two known North Korean ballistic missile tests. Read moreUnvaccinated tax in Canada's Quebec leads to spike in first-dose appointmentsA day after Canada’s Quebec province announced to penalise individuals unvaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covdi-19), the province's health minister on Wednesday said the appointments for the first dose of announcement spiked in the hours following the announcement. Read moreDelhi: To tackle dengue, MCDs explore an unlikely ally - bacteriaThe key to fighting outbreaks of dengue – an annual public health problem for Delhi – may lie in a bacterium found in large swathes of the world’s insect population. Read moreT-cell responses offer protection against Omicron variant of Covid: StudyA new study has claimed that T-cells present in t he human body offer protection against the fast-spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more'On this pitch, if you're not going to take wickets then…': Gavaskar on how Shastri's 'rocket' triggered Shami's revivalAlthough Jasprit Bumrah was the star of the show for India on Day 2 of the Cape Town Test between India and South Africa, the fact that the Men in Blue were able to enjoy a 13-run first-innings lead also had to do with Mohammed Shami’s devastating spell in the afternoon session. Read moreLara Dutta says her ‘sabbatical’ when daughter Saira was born was ‘a blessing in disguise’. Here’s whyActor Lara Dutta has opened up on her current roles saying that she is finally playing the kind of characters that she has 'always wanted to portray as an actor'. Read moreFarhan Akhtar's fitness journey for Toofan is our workout inspoFarhan Akhtar celebrated his birthday a few days back. The actor was showered with a whole lot of love and wishes on his birthday from his family, friends and colleagues from the film industry. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-us-imposes-sanctions-over-n-korea-s-weapons-programs-101642043166465.html
13-01-2022||NA||Haryana extends Covid-19 curbs to all districts||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Haryana govt extends Covid-19 restrictions to all districts Haryana Govt extends #COVID restrictions imposed under 'Mahamari Alert- Surakshit Haryana' to all districts of the state pic.twitter.com/BDkkdHVU3NThe Haryana government has extended the Covid-19 restrictions under ‘Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana’ to all districts in the state, reports ANI. Delhi govt suspends routine/elective surgeries in 2 hospitals due to Covid-19The Delhi government said that the routine/elective surgeries in the city's Lok Nayak Hospital (LNH) and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital (GTB) hospital, have been suspended till further orders due to the Covid-19 situation, reports ANI. Maharashtra logs 46,406 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deathsWith 46,406 new Covid-19 cases and 36 fatalities, Maharashtra's total caseload reached 7,081,067 and the death toll climbed to 141,737. No new Omicron infections were reported from the state. NEET-UG counseling to commence on January 19NEET-UG counseling to begin from January 19: Union Health Minister Mansukh MandaviyaSchedule as follows: pic.twitter.com/zllKWmXInmThe NEET-UG counseling will begin from January 19, reports ANI citing Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya. Delhi sees 28,867 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate at 29.21%With 28,867 new Covid-19 cases, Delhi's daily positivity rate stood at 29.21%, a bulletin from the health department showed. The city also saw 31 more deaths on the day and the death toll reached 25,271. Mumbai sees dip in daily Covid-19 cases; 13,702 new infections, 6 deaths in 24 hoursMumbai reported 13,702 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths in the last 24 hours, a significant fall from the 16,420 cases and seven deaths on the previous day. The city's active caseload also declined and was recorded at 95,123. India Railways announce ₹5 lakh ex-gratia to those dead after Guwahati-Bikaner Express derailedIndian Railways has announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh for those dead after the Guwahati-Bikaner Express derailed. Also, ₹1 lakh to be given for those severely injured and ₹25,000 for those with minor injuries, reports ANI. Bikaner Express derailed: 2 NDRF teams deployed for rescue operationsThe National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said that two teams have been deployed to aid in the rescue operations after the Guwahati-bound Bikaner Express derailed in West Bengal, reports ANI. The teams are expected to reach shortly, says NDRF DG Atul Karwal.Several steps taken to improve emergency infra: PM Modi tells statesPrime Minister Narendra Modi, in a meeting with chief ministers, said that close to 1.5 lakh oxygen ICU and high dependency unit beds were being prepared and more than 5,000 ambulances and 950 medical oxygen storage tanks have been adde.“Several such steps have been taken to improve such emergency infrastructure and we must continue doing the same,” he said. At least 4 compartments of Guwahati-bound Bikaner Express derailed in BengalAt least four compartments of the Guwahati-bound Bikaner Express has derailed at Maynaguri in West Bengal. The train had departed from Patna. More details regarding deaths or injuries awaited.PM Modi begins review meeting with states on Covid-19 situationPrime Minister Narendra Modi met with the chief ministers of states virtually to  review the Covid-19 situation in their respective states, reports ANI. 2 dead, 8 injured as jeep falls into valley near Boduvalasa Ghat Road in VishakapatnamTwo people were killed and eight others were injured after a jeep fell into a valley near Boduvalasa Ghat Road, Peddavalsa in Visakhapatnam, reports ANI.59 more test Omicron positive in Kerala, state tally reaches 480Kerala reported 59 more cases of the Omicron Covid-19 variant as the state's tally so far reached 480, health minister Veena George said. Of the new cases, 12 were found in Alappuzha, ten in Thrissur, eight in Pathanamthitta, seven in Ernakulam, six cases each in Kollam and Malappuram, five in Kozhikode, two each in Palakkad and Kasargod, and one case in Kannur. NCP to contest UP assembly polls along with SP, talks on for seat sharingThe Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) will contest the upcoming state assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, reports ANI citing NCP leader Nawab Malik.“We have decided to contest elections with Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh. One seat has been announced and talks are on for other seats. We will support the alliance which is forming in UP,” he said. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav welcomes Dharam Singh Saini to party‘सामाजिक न्याय’ के एक और योद्धा डॉ. धर्म सिंह सैनी जी के आने से, सबका मेल-मिलाप-मिलन करानेवाली हमारी ‘सकारात्मक और प्रगतिशील राजनीति’ को और भी उत्साह व बल मिला है। सपा में उनका ससम्मान हार्दिक स्वागत एवं अभिनंदन! बाइस में समावेशी-सौहार्द की जीत निश्चित है! #मेला_होबे pic.twitter.com/2FDkLLNW93Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted a welcome message to Dharam Singh Saini and called him a “warrior of social justice” and said his inclusion has brought more enthusiasm and strength to the party. 3rd minister quits UP government, Dharam Singh Saini submits resignationThe spate of resignations continued for Uttar Pradesh BJP after Dharam Singh Saini, the Ayush minister, has submitted his resignation to the Governor.  The lawmaker from Nakud assembly constituency is the third minister to have quit from his post today. Hope to conclude FTA negotiations with UK in 1 year: GoyalUnion commerce minister Piyush Goyal said that India is committed to conclude the negotiations for a free trade agreement (FTA) with the UK in a year's time, reports ANI. India Open 2022: Saina Nehwal exits in huge upsetIndia Open 2022: Shuttler Saina Nehwal goes down 17-21, 9-21 to Malvika Bansod in 34 minutes for huge upset.Congress postpones Mekedatu padayatra in KarnatakaKarnataka Congress decides to postpone Mekedatu Padayatra in view of rising daily Covid-19 states, and ban ordered by state govt after being pulled up by the high court.Over 30 million vaccinated in 15-18 age group, says health ministerOver 3 crore youngsters between the 15-18 age group have received first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine: Mansukh Mandaviya, Union health minister‘Decide your CM candidate’Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal asks people of Punjab to decide on chief ministerial face, launches phone number for suggestions.Mallikarjun Kharge tests positive for Covid-19Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge tests positive for Covid-19.UP BJP MLA Mukesh Verma quits partyMukesh Verma, a BJP MLA in Uttar Pradesh quits party ahead of next month's assembly polls in state. 7th MLA to quit party in three days.30 BSF personnel test Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand30 BSF personnel, deployed on election duty in Uttarakhand's Kotdwar assembly constituency, have tested positive for Covid-19 and have been quarantined.‘Slight improvement’ in Lata Mangeshkar's healthSinger Lata Mangeshkar, who tested Covid-19 positive, is still in the ICU ward but there has been a slight improvement in her health: Dr Pratit SamdaniIndia records nearly 250,000 new Covid-19 casesAs many as 247,417 more people test Covid-19 positive in India, as positivity rate rises to 13.11%.President greets nation on Lohri, Makar SankrantiGreetings to all on Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Bhogali Bihu, Uttarayan and Paush Parva. Highlighting unity in diversity that defines our country, these festivals underline our organic relationship with nature. May the festivals bring prosperity and happiness: President Ram Nath KovindIndia-China 14th round of talks lasted for 14 hours: SourcesThe 14th round of Corps Commander-level talks between India and China lasted for around 13 hours yesterday at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point, on the Chinese side & ended around 10:30pm: Sources265 deaths in Maharashtra Police due to Covid-19As many as 265 personnel have lost their lives to Covid-19 so far, with the highest number of deaths being in Mumbai Police at 126. Active cases in force at 2145: Maharashtra PolicePM Modi to interact with CMs on Covid-19 situation todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the chief ministers of all states today at 4:30 pm via video conferencing on the Covid-19 situation.Delhi's AQI in ‘moderate’ categoryAir Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi is presently at 142 (overall) in the 'moderate' category: SAFAR-IndiaUS inflation ‘too high’: Fed Reserve vice-chair nominee BrainardInflation in the United States is ‘too high,’ lowering it is a priority: Lael Brainard, member, Federal Reserve Board of Governors||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-13-2022-101642034820854.html
13-01-2022||India||Explained: Why you should still try to avoid Omicron infection||The highly contagious Omicron strain of coronavirus causing milder illness compared to previous variants of concern has fuelled a debate around the risk of catching the virus. Many have asked why to take extreme precautionary measures against the virus since the high transmissibility of the Omicron variant would expose almost everyone to the disease. But experts have cautioned against such views citing various reasons.Here is why experts warned against getting complacent about Omicron:While Omicron may be more likely to cause asymptomatic cases, the rapid spread of the variant means more people, in absolute, numbers will experience severe illness. There is still a large section of the global population that are unvaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), leaving them vulnerable to the latest variant of concern."I agree that sooner or later everyone will be exposed, but later is better," said virus expert Michel Nussenzweig of Rockefeller University. "Why? Because later we will have better and more available medicines and better vaccines."Omicron especially dangerous for the unvaccinated, warns WHOAnother reason to take preventive measures against Omicron is that people with milder symptoms could still infect others who are at risk for severe illness. There is also a lack of data on the long-term effects of Omicron infection, which means underestimating Omicron could put people at risk of a debilitating long-haul Covid syndrome that can linger for months or years. The “silent” effects of Omicron infection are also unknown.The healthcare infrastructure could witness tremendous strain given the high transmissibility of the variant. According to the HT dashboard, 93.6% of hospital beds currently are vacant across 15 states and Union territory, the ongoing Covid wave in the US and Britain overwhelmed the healthcare system with record hospitalisations. Hospitals have had to postpone elective surgeries due to a record surge in infections.More infections also give the virus more opportunities to mutate and the possibility of a more virulent variant in future is something the world can not afford to, given the global health and economic crisis."SARS-CoV-2 has surprised us in many different ways over the past two years, and we have no way of predicting the evolutionary trajectory of this virus," Reuters quoted David Ho, professor of microbiology and immunology at Columbia University, as saying.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-why-you-should-still-try-to-avoid-omicron-infection-101642035109209.html
13-01-2022||India||PM Modi to interact with CMs on India's Covid-19 situation today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers on Thursday over the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country amid a surge in infections due to the Omicron variant, according to people familiar with the matter. He will interact with the chief ministers at 4.30pm via video conferencing, people cited above said.The meeting is scheduled to take place at a time when India is inching closer to 250,000 daily infections in the new Covid wave largely driven by the highly contagious Omicron variant. The rapid surge in Covid-19 cases has prompted the authorities to impose fresh restrictions, including night curfew and ban on large gatherings.The prime minister chaired a high-level meeting last week to assess the Covid-19 situation in the country, ongoing preparedness of the healthcare system, status of the vaccination campaign, and public health implications of the Omicron variant. During the meeting, the health secretary gave a detailed presentation on the global surge in Covid cases, according to the prime minister’s office.Centre asks states to keep 48-hour buffer stock of oxygen in all hospitalsPM Modi asked officials to coordinate with the states regarding the need to ensure adequate health infrastructure at the district level. He directed officials to continue intensive containment and active surveillance in clusters reporting higher cases and provide required technical support be to states which are reporting higher cases.India has expanded the vaccination drive for adolescents aged 15-18 and has started administering ‘precaution doses’ to healthcare, frontline workers, and senior citizens with comorbidities. PM Modi urged officials to further accelerate the vaccine drive for adolescents in “mission mode.” He said that a meeting with the chief ministers should be convened to discuss state-specific scenarios, best practices and the public health response.“PM also spoke about the importance for continuous scientific research in testing , vaccines and pharmacological interventions including genome sequencing given that the virus is evolving continuously,” the prime minister’s office said in a release.On Wednesday, India reported 246,912 new Covid cases, taking the cumulative tally to 36,317,422, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-cms-today-on-india-s-covid-19-situation-101642032309313.html
13-01-2022||India||Two personalities, 2 apps, 1 offensive objective||Neither has a criminal record. Both are in their 20s and tech-savvy. The two are alleged developers of two apps on GitHub that targeted Muslim women, including activists and journalists by “auctioning” them. Now, they are cell mates in a Delhi police station.The similarities end there.Delhi Police officers who have questioned the two men said there is little in common between them. One wanted the world to know he developed the GitHub app Bulli Bai, even daring Mumbai police to arrest him; the other, the alleged creator of Sulli Deals (using an offensive and derogatory term for Muslim women), deleted all digital footprints and social media profiles to ensure he remained anonymous, and managed to stay so for eight months.Neeraj Bishnoi (21) and Aumkareshwar Thakur (26) are locked up together inside a cell at the headquarters of Delhi Police’s Intelligence Fusion Strategic Operations (IFSO) in south west Delhi’s Dwarka. On Sunday night, when police brought Thakur to the IFSO office, after arresting him in Indore, it was the first time the two men met. Police say that for all these months, the two men hid behind anonymous Twitter handles but claim that they were part of the same virtual group where the plan to come up with such an app was discussed last year.“Bishnoi wanted to be famous. Thakur wished to remain anonymous. Bishnoi is loud. He tries to mislead the investigators. He even attempted to hurt himself twice in custody. Thakur is cold; maybe he thinks he has managed to erase the evidence. He doesn’t speak much and blames Bishnoi for framing him,” said a police officer, who questioned the two men. Which is understandable. The first app was launched in July 2021, and if not for Bishnoi’s Bulli Bai, which was launched in December -- and if not for the investigation that followed -- Thakur may have continued to remain anonymous, and safe.Their ideologyInvestigators describe Bishnoi as “cunning” and “emotionless”, and say he has no regrets about what he did. He also talks a lot, they add.”He (Bishnoi) says a lot of things. He says he is a communist. And then he changes his stance and claims that his thoughts lean towards the extreme right. But the evidence we have gathered suggests he has no ideology. He spends hours on the internet, and only wanted to defame women. His laptop showed he is addicted to pornography. We recovered at least 153 tabs on his browser windows that were links to adult websites,” said a police officer who asked not to be named.The officer described Thakur as someone who deliberately chose to target Muslim women. “Thakur seems to be the more rigid between the two. He was the leader of the virtual group on Twitter when the idea to come up with an app was decided. He took the lead and developed the app. He took suggestions from the group members on the people whose photographs were to be used. He seems to have been radicalised on his own after spending hours on social media. He has not spoken to us about any specific incident or anecdote on why he started hating one particular community,” another officer said, referring to Muslims.Thakur is a freelance web designer, who pursued his BCA from IPS Academy in Indore. Bishnoi is a second year B.Tech student (suspended after arrest) from the Vellore Institute of Technology, Bhopal. Bishnoi, originally from Jorhat in Assam, is the son of the grocer.Thakur’s father works with a private company in Bhopal. Police have said that the two were part of Twitter a group, Tradmahasabha, where, in January 2020 , a plan to defame Muslim women was hatched.Thakur joined the group using one of his handles @gangescion. Bishnoi, too, was in the group with one of his handles.“Bishnoi said he knew Thakur from that group. In fact, Bishnoi used the same code from Thakur’s app to build the Bulli Deals app,” said a third police officer who asked not to be named.One dared cops to arrest him, other deleted proof“You have arrested the wrong person. I am the creator of #BulliBaiApp,” a tweet by handle @giyu44 boasted on January 5, a day after Mumbai police arrested three suspects in the case for allegedly sharing a tweet which promoted the second GitHub app.In the 24 hours before he was arrested on January 5, Neeraj Bishnoi claimed repeatedly on Twitter that he was the person behind the offensive app. He even tagged handles such as that of Satej D Patil, Maharashtra’s minister of state for home (urban) and housing, on Twitter, daring the Mumbai police to arrest him.KPS Malhotra, chief of IFSO, confirmed that Bishnoi was the owner of the @giyo44 Twitter account. DCP Malhotra said Bishnoi had in the past, created at least five Twitter handles using different versions of the name Giyo, such as @giyu2002, @giyu007, @giyuu84, @giyu94 and @guyi44 to promote the app or make derogatory comments against women. Police officers said that Bishnoi even asked his interrogators to address him as Giyo , a name from Giyu Tomioka, a fictional character who kills demons in the Japanese comic and animated series Demon Slayer.“He did not want to be arrested so he masked his IP address and showed that he was posting the tweets from Nepal. He even claimed he was from a place near Kathmandu. He wanted people to know that he created the app but did not think we would trace his digital footprint and arrest him from his house in Assam,” the third police officer said.Meanwhile, in Indore’s New York City Township Colony, Thakur was following the news. Delhi Police did register a case against the creators of the first app in July 2021, but the probe went nowhere.“Thakur used his iPad and iPhone to access social media, but after the public outcry (following the first app), he logged out. He even logged out from all Twitter groups he was part of; erased his Facebook account, and accounts he had in his own name; and did not keep in touch with anyone even anonymously. We have seized his electronic devices and sent them for forensic examination,” the third police officer added.According to this officer, Thakur first joined Twitter using his own credentials in 2013. He completed his BCA in 2018 but worked from home, taking on website design assignments. “He started calling himself a Trad around 2019. He said Trad groups on social media are for like-minded people with self-created philosophy of ensuring that the world should not change and stick to traditions.”Two carefully lived livesThe two men spend hours on social media but were different characters in front of their family. Thakur’s father, Akhilesh Thakur, who spoke to reporters after his son’s arrest, has refused to believe the police’s allegations. He said he still believes that Thakur was arrested only because Bishnoi named him in his interrogation. “My son told me over phone that he has not done anything wrong. Some accused took his name and he is being implicated wrongly,” his father told HT. The family said Thakur was not even part of any social media group so the allegations of him developing such as app were false.In Jorhat, Bishnoi’s family, too, is unable to come to terms with the police’s allegations. Police said they weren’t surprised that the family knows nothing about Bishnoi’s criminal side. “Bishnoi, who has an opinion on almost every topic on social media and was vociferous about it through his anonymous accounts, was a completely different person when our officers arrested him. It cannot be explained. He was so connected to his family and appeared to be a man without a single fault. Here was a man who masked his IP address, and dared the police to arrest him,” a fourth officer said.Bishnoi’s father Dashrath has a different take on why he believes his son in innocent. The man said that his son has only one friend. They have studied together right from Class 1. “They have accused my son of hating Muslims and uploading photos. My son cannot do this. His best and only friend is a Muslim. His name is Afzal.”
13-01-2022||India||Telegram case: Sebi bans 6 for manipulating stock prices||Sebi on Wednesday barred six persons from accessing the securities market for indulging in fraudulent and unfair trade practices and ordered impounding wrongful gains of ₹2.84 crore in the case of stock recommendations made using messaging app Telegram.The six persons are Himanshu Mahendrabhai Patel, Raj Mahendrabhai Patel, Jaydev Zala, Mahendrabhai Bechardas Patel, Kokilaben Mahendrabhai Patel and Avaniben Kirankumar Patel.The Telegram channel 'bullrun2017' having a subscriber base of nearly 52,000, prima facie operated by Himanshu, Raj and Jaydev used to primarily give recommendations in small cap scrips, the price and volume of which could be easily impacted, Sebi said in its 37-page interim order.Based on an analysis of trading by Himanshu, Raj and Jaydev and their connected/ related entities, it was prima facie observed that the entities used to take positions in the scrips prior to the same being recommended in the Telegram channel.Subsequently on recommending the scrips in the Telegram channel, they used to offload their positions in the scrips, thereby making significant profits.In order to obtain conclusive evidence against Himanshu, Raj and Jaydev, a search and seizure operation was undertaken on December 1, 2021, against the entities and the digital devices were seized.Based on the analysis of the seized devices, Sebi said it was conclusively established that Himanshu, Raj and Jaydev were the administrators of the Telegram channel 'bullrun2017'.Further, it was also understood that Himanshu, used to post messages on the Telegram channel and used to inform Jaydev about the scrip prior to the same being recommended in the Telegram channel, the regulator noted.The trades were undertaken by Himanshu and Raj in their own accounts as well as the accounts of their family members -- Mahendrabhai Bechardas Patel (father of Himanshu and Raj), Kokilaben Mahendrabhai Patel (mother of Himanshu and Raj) and Avaniben Kirankumar Patel (sister of Himanshu and Raj). Further, Jaydev used to trade using only his own account, as per Sebi order.The watchdog said that Himanshu and Raj along with their family members have made wrongful gains of ₹2.61 crore while Jaydev has made wrongful gains of ₹0.23 crore by taking positions in scrips ahead of their recommendations in the Telegram channel and subsequently offloading the said positions, post the recommendations.By indulging in such acts, they violated the provisions of PFUTP (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices) norms, Sebi said.It has also ordered impounding wrongful gains to the tune of ₹2.84 crore.The regulator has directed the individuals to "refrain from accessing the securities market and prohibiting them from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities for an appropriate period".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telegram-case-sebi-bans-6-for-manipulating-stock-prices-101642025364289.html
13-01-2022||India||Chhattisgarh man accuses wife of converting minor son to Islam. She’s arrested||RAIPUR: A man in Chhattisgarh’s Jashpur district filed a police complaint against his wife and his in-laws for allegedly getting their minor son circumcised and converting the child to Islam without his consent, police said on Wednesday.The man, a Hindu, married a Muslim woman about 10 years ago and have two children, an 8-year-old son and a 6-year-old daughter, said Jashpur superintendent of police, Vijay Agarwal. The case was registered at the Sanna police station.“We have arrested his wife and mother-in-law on Wednesday and further investigation is on,” he said.Agarwal said the accused have been booked under sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and provisions of Chhattisgarh Freedom of Religion Act.According to the complaint filed by the man, he and his wife married about 10 years ago as per Hindu rituals.In November, his wife allegedly took their son to her maternal home in Asta Sardih village and then without informing him, she and some of his in-laws took the child to Ambikapur for circumcision, a police officer said quoting from the FIR filed by the man.The man said they converted the child to Islam and tried to pressurise him to convert too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-man-accuses-wife-of-converting-minor-son-to-islam-she-s-arrested-101642020472844.html
13-01-2022||India||Orissa high court shuts down for 5 days as Covid cases rise, reopens on Jan 18||BHUBANESWAR: The Orissa high court on Wednesday went for a complete shutdown for five days from January 13 after many court staffers were infected with Covid-19.“It is hereby notified for general information that in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases in the State and due to increase in the Covid-19 positive cases amongst the staff of the High Court, the High Court and its offices shall be completely shutdown from 13th January, 2022 to 17th January, 2022, both dates inclusive,” the high court registrar (judicial) SK Mishra said in an order on Wednesday.The offices of the high court shall resume functioning on January 18 but will operate on limited strength till 4 February.The high court order said between January 18 and February 4, two division benches and seven single benches shall function to take up only the exceptionally urgent cases.The high court has a strength of 18 judges including chief justice S Muralidhar.Wednesday’s decision of the high court order came even as Odisha on Wednesday reported 8,778 fresh Covid cases. The single-day highest case count in the third Covid-19 wave has taken the total number of active Covid cases in the state to 35,242. The positivity rate also rose to 11.7%, the highest in 7 months. During the second wave, it took 29 days for Odisha’s daily count to go from 400 to 8,000 while this time it took just 12 days. On January 1, Odisha reported 424 Covid cases.Odisha’s director, public health, Niranjan Mishra said though Covid-19 cases are increasing, an overwhelming majority of the patients are asymptomatic. “The coming days in January, February and early days of March are very crucial. The Test Positivity Rate in the state has considerably increased and is now over 11%,” he said.Dr Bijay Panigrahi, director, family welfare and nodal officer for Covid vaccination, said as the Covid-19 transmission is spreading rapidly, vaccination drive is being expedited with healthcare workers, frontline workers and Auxiliary nurse midwife or village-level female health workers, visiting door-to-door under ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ programme and identifying the people who are yet to receive the vaccine shots.“A total of 5.32 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-high-court-shuts-down-for-5-days-as-covid-cases-rise-reopens-on-jan-18-101642017411355.html
13-01-2022||India||New youth policy on anvil to guide youth: Karnataka CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said a new youth policy is on the anvil that would guide youths to tread on a noble path and the government is ready to provide greater support for them.“The state government is set to bring in a new youth policy that would guide the youth to tread in a noble way,” Bommai said while virtually participating in the 159th birth anniversary celebrations of Swami Vivekananda.He said the government is ready to provide greater support for the youth. A special programme in this regard would be brought in the next budget. Calling Swami Vivekananda as a Yuga Purush, Bommai said the great monk of India is relevant eternally.According to him, Ramakrishna Paramahamsa has aptly renamed Vivekananda -- Where there is Viveka (Prudence), there is Ananda (happiness).Quoting from Swami Vivekanada’s book ‘Life after death’, Bommai said Vivekananda’s imagination about life after death is wonderful.“Death is not an end for an achiever. Achievement lives on even after death. Vivekananda showed it through his life and principles. Vivekananda’s principles and way of life need to be reached to the youth. Government and the society should work towards this,” he explained.Bommai also said that Vivekananda’s was a multifaceted personality. Apart from religion and philosophy, he had shed light on general realistic life too.Vivekananda had immense faith in youth power and strongly believed that one can bring big changes in one’s own life or the lives of others only when young, the Chief Minister said.Ministers C N Ashwath Narayan, K C Narayana Gowda, seers of Ramakrishna Mutt and senior officials were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-youth-policy-on-anvil-to-guide-youth-karnataka-cm-101642016212674.html
13-01-2022||India||Goa elections: Can’t forge alliance with big brother attitude, says TMC||The TMC is not averse to a larger alliance for opposition unity to take on the BJP in the Goa assembly polls but such a coalition cannot be forged with a “big brother” attitude, TMC leader Sushmita Dev said on Wednesday in an apparent swipe at the Congress.Dev, the TMC’s co-incharge for Goa, also hit out at the Congress for stating that her party was fracturing the anti-BJP vote and said that by that logic, the Congress had tried to cut into the anti-BJP vote in West Bengal.The Rajya Sabha member said the Trinamool Congress (TMC) decided to enter the poll fray in Goa at a time the people of the state want to get rid of the BJP and there is a huge sense of “underconfidence” in the Congress for not being able to form the government after the last assembly polls despite being the single largest party.“Till today, the Congress has not been able to explain that to the people of Goa. When we entered the fray there was a vacuum in a sense -- the people did not want the BJP and they were sceptical and pessimistic about the Congress,” Dev told PTI in an interview.Assembly polls for all 40 seats in Goa will be held on February 14. The TMC has been carrying out an aggressive campaign, including on social media platforms such as Koo, to boost its chances in a contest involving several players.Dev said after Mamata Banerjee leading the TMC to a landslide victory in the West Bengal assembly polls over the BJP against all odds, people in Goa now want a strong leader and a party that does not cow down.Asked about TMC’s Goa in-charge Mahua Moitra’s tweet on Opposition unity that set off speculation over a possible grand alliance including the Congress and the TMC, Dev said, “When you talk about Opposition unity, it has a huge merit. But...when you unite with somebody, the nature of that unity depends on the strength of that party.”Citing the TMC’s alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, Dev said her party is giving its alliance partner in Goa its due and respect.”Question is, whether it is the Congress or any other party, if there has to be a larger alliance for opposition unity then any party, whether you are a national or regional, you must realise your strengths and weaknesses. You cannot come with a big brother attitude,” she said.Dev said if parties can sit across the table and come up with a strategy to take on BJP, keeping everyone’s strength and weaknesses at the forefront, without the attitude of being a “big brother”, the TMC is not averse to it.”I would not like to name ‘A’ party or ‘B’ party. But any alliance should be backed by logic, it must be reasonable. We need to have a mindset of not having a big daddy approach,” she added.The Congress has dismissed talk of alliance with the TMC with AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal tweeting on Monday, “The rumour in circulation that a possible alliance with TMC was discussed by Shri @RahulGandhi in today’s meeting is completely baseless & untrue.””Let me assure that the Congress party is confident- we will put Goa back on the path to progress soon,” he had said.Hitting out at those calling TMC a “vote cutter” in Goa, Dev said that the criticism was not fair and meant indirectly telling the party that a leader like Mamata Banerjee should be confined to West Bengal for the rest of her life.”Today, why doesn’t anybody say that to Priyanka Gandhi. Isn’t Priyanka Gandhi cutting votes of the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh. You don’t ask that question to Priyanka Gandhi in UP or to anybody in Odisha just because they have the banner of a national party, but they are zero in so many states,” Dev, who quit the Congress to join the TMC last year, said.”They (the Congress) should also shut shop and stop cutting votes of other regional parties like RJD, SP, Shiv Sena. So, such an argument is a fallacy,” she said.Asked about Congress’ Goa polls in-charge P Chidambaram’s remarks that TMC and AAP are fracturing the anti-BJP vote, Dev said, “Mr Chidambaram is a very astute politician, very senior to me. Mr Chidambaram should first answer the question: Didn’t the Congress try to fracture the anti-BJP vote in Bengal?”She said Chidambaram should ask former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi to shut shop in Bengal.She claimed that Chidambaram had to be sent to Goa because the Congress’ situation in the state was not turning out how it expected it to.Dev said that in line with his argument, Chidambaram should also think of compromising some seats and not fracture the vote of strong leaders like Kiran Kandolkar and Luizinho Faleiro in their respective seats.She also slammed the Congress for alleging that the TMC was poaching its leaders in Goa, saying that going by that argument isn’t Michael Lobo or Revanth Reddy or Nana Parole joining the Congress, poaching.Asked if the TMC’s national aspirations and Mamata Banerjee’s 2024 pitch to take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi depends on Goa results, Dev said in elections there are ups and downs and if TMC wins Goa, it doesn’t mean that the PM candidate for 2024 is decided nor losing the polls would mean Mamata Banerjee or her party is out of the race for 2024.”That is putting things in boxes and that is not how things work. Many sets of elections will happen (before 2024),” she said.”Can we say that if Congress is below 10 in UP then Rahul Gandhi is out of the race for PM. No one is asking that question so why should we be asked that question,” she said.Dev, citing Mamata Banerjee’s remarks in the last Opposition meeting in August 2021, said -- “If you want to defeat BJP, you just can’t depend on Mamata Banerjee in Bengal or RJD in Bihar and Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, you need the likes of Jagan Reddy, KCR and other regional satraps to come in.””Will they sit with Congress, what is their history (with the Congress)? So Mamata Banerjee has many roles to play, a tall leader like Sharad Pawar has many roles to play. Congress will not be able to bring many regional satraps on board for its sheer history. Jagan Reddy is a big example of that,” she said.Dev also explained Mamata Banerjee’s “no UPA” statement, saying it must be seen in context that UPA was an understanding to run a government and today there should be a larger form of UPA with more alliance partners.Dev expressed confidence that the TMC would form the next government in Goa, asserting that a month before pilling was crucial.In the 2017 Goa assembly elections, the Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 out of the total 40 seats. However, the BJP then quickly tied-up with some regional parties and independents to form government in the coastal state.The Congress is now left with just two assembly seats in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-can-t-forge-alliance-with-big-brother-attitude-says-tmc-101642016091328.html
13-01-2022||India||Manipur forms SIT to probe jawan, BJP worker’s murder||A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to probe into the killing of two men in Manipur’s Imphal West district on Sunday, police said on Wednesday. According to Manipur police, Abujam John (56) and Abujam Tomba alias Rishikanta (37) were shot dead by unidentified persons on Sunday night at Samurou Awang Leikai, under Wangoi police station, 16 km south of Imphal. Abujam John is said to be supporter of state’s agriculture minister Oinam Lukhoi, who was elected from Wangoi assembly constituency in 2020 by-elections on a Bharatiya Janata Party ticket while Rishikanta is an Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) personnel. Police said probe is on to ascertain the reason behind the killings and added that the accused remain at large. Additional superintendent of police (Ops) M Amit Singh of the Imphal West district will head the SIT while sub-divisional police officer Kh Farook Ali of Mayang Imphal police station will be the investigation officer in the case, said an order from the Manipur administration. The order also stated that officer in-charge S Nabajiban Ningthouja and sub-inspector Bishorjit Singh, both from Wangoi police station, will assist Ali in the case. “The officer in-charge, Wangoi PS and the I.O of the case are directed to handover the case record to Kh Farook Ali, MPS, SDPO/ Mayang Imphal for further investigation,” the order said, adding the SIT should submit the probe progress to the Imphal West superintendent of police on a daily basis. Meanwhile, police on Wednesday said the post-mortem examinations of the two bodies have been conducted. Chief minister N Biren Singh and Lukhoi visited the victims’ families, who have refused to accept the bodies of the deceased, at Samurou Awang Leikai on Monday and assured that the accused will soon be arrested. “We do not know the reason behind these killings. Elections can be the reason behind these killings. The government will not remain silent until the perpetrators are arrested,” the CM had said on Monday. Demanding justice for the deceased, a Joint Action Committee was formed, which announced complete shutdown of Mayai Lambi road in the state from 6am to 5pm every day starting Wednesday. However, medical services, educational institutions and emergency services will be exempted from the shutdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-forms-sit-to-probe-jawan-bjp-worker-s-murder-101642015791078.html
13-01-2022||India||BJP steps up attack on Channi over Modi’s security breach||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday stepped up its attack against Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security breach on January 5, and demanded an apology from the former in the matter.While Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath slammed Channi’s “lack of responsibility” in the case, Union minister Smriti Irani hit out at the Punjab chief minister for briefing Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on the matter. Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami described the security lapse as “pre-planned and sponsored” while his Assam counterpart, Himanta Biswa Sarma, called it a “murder conspiracy” and sought Channi’s arrest in this regard.Adityanath was addressing reporters in the national capital when he claimed that “a sting operation had proven that there was a conspiracy to disturb the Prime Minister’s security detail”.He was referring to a report by a news channel which claimed that Punjab Police personnel had alerted their seniors and the administration about the presence of protesters along the route that Modi was supposed to take during his visit to Ferozepur last week. Due to the presence of the protesters, Modi’s convoy was stranded on a flyover for 20 minutes before returning back to Bathinda airport. “This has become clear that this (lapse) was pre-decided. The Punjab government did not follow the rules and protocol as per the bluebook (of the Special Protection Group). The chief minister did not even follow the elementary process of receiving the Prime Minister,” he said.Hitting out at Channi for briefing Priyanka on the matter, he said: ““Breach in the security of a person who holds the highest constitutional position is condemnable. That the Punjab chief minister also shared details of the security breach with a person (Priyanka) who is in charge of Uttar Pradesh elections shows his lack of responsibility towards a serious issue.” Speaking on similar lines, Irani told reporters in Delhi: “Why did the Punjab chief minister brief a private citizen (Priyanka Gandhi Vadra) on the Prime Minister’s security protocol and the breach? Why is the private citizen, who is a part of the Gandhi family, an interested party into the matter?”“I reiterate our questions to the Congress high command. Why were security measures deliberately breached with the active connivance of the Congress-led government in Punjab? Who in Congress sought to benefit from the breach?” she added. Continuing her attack on the state government and administration, the BJP leader said: “What is extremely disconcerting is that the Punjab Police officials have highlighted how they continuously engaged with the Congress government and the administration in Punjab to bring to light the threat to the security of Prime Minister and his route.” Dhami also referred to the news channel’s report to attack Channi. “The lapse in the Prime Minister’’s security is a very serious issue. And now in a sting operation done by a private news channel, it has been proved that the lapse was not spontaneous but a deliberate one planned and sponsored by the Congress-led Punjab government. It was a big conspiracy,” he told reporters in Dehradun. Sarma sought Channi’s “arrest over an alleged conspiracy to kill the Prime Minister”. Alleging that Channi was aware of a plot to target the Modi during his Punjab visit, Sarma said even though an international conspiracy was underway involving Khalistani terrorists, Punjab government did not take any steps. “Political difference doesn’t give you the license to conspire or physically eliminate a person like the Prime Minister. How can a democratically elected CM get directly or indirectly involved in such a conspiracy?” he said. “This episode was not a coincidence, but a murderous conspiracy. And it didn’t happen suddenly. It was pre-planned. There was no natural incident, it was organised. It wasn’t spontaneous, but sponsored,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-steps-up-attack-on-channi-over-modi-s-security-breach-101642015491007.html
13-01-2022||India||Arrest warrant against Swami Prasad Maurya in 2014 hate speech case||A local court on Wednesday issued an arrest warrant against former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Swami Prasad Maurya, who quit the Uttar Pradesh Cabinet on Tuesday, in connection with a 2014 hate speech case.Yogesh Yadav, special judge in the MP-MLA court in Sultanpur district, issued the warrant after Maurya failed to appear before it on Wednesday. The judge fixed January 24 as the next date of hearing.The case relates to a speech made by Maurya in Lucknow on September 21, 2014, wherein he allegedly made objectionable remarks against Hindu gods. Back then, he was with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and was the leader of opposition in the state assembly.“Goddesses Gauri or Lord Ganesha should not be worshipped during weddings. It is a conspiracy by the upper caste dominated caste system to mislead Dalits,” Maurya, an influential OBC leader, had allegedly said. Hearing a petition filed by advocate Anil Tewari, the court of additional chief judicial magistrate (Sultanpur) on November 20, 2014, held the then BSP leader prima facie responsible for hurting religious sentiments. On December 1, 2015, an arrest warrant was issued against Maurya which was stayed by the Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court.The former minister is likely to join the Samajwadi Party ahead of the state elections. He said he will make a formal announcement in this regard by January 14. HT tried to reach out to Maurya for a comment but could not get one immediately. 
13-01-2022||India||Make stand clear on K Rail, HC tells Centre||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court on Wednesday directed the Union government to make its position clear on the high- speed rail project, K Rail, and stayed the process of laying boundary stones of the project in violation of the Survey and Boundaries Act ahead of the social impact study. While hearing a bunch of pleas, Justice Devan Ramachandran said though the state government contended that there was an in-principle approval, there was no clarity on the Centre’s position. The court also observed that it was improper for one counsel to appear for both the Union Government and railway ministry. “This is perhaps the biggest project Kerala has undertaken so far. Such a project should not be implemented intimidating and threatening people. All these pleas are being filed because of the haste to implement the project. The law cannot be violated in its attempt to execute the scheme,” the court said. It directed the Centre to explain its position during the next hearing on January 21 and asked the K Rail not to lay boundary stones of the project. Earlier in north Kerala protesting people have uprooted many boundary stones. CPI(M) Kannur district secretary M V Jayarajan had threatened people who uproot survey stones saying “they will have to keep their tooth intact.” Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in an article in ‘Chintha weekly, a party-run publication, claimed that the Centre and railway ministry have given approval for the project and the government will go ahead with it. The government has also decided to print 50 lakh small booklets to be distributed among people to clear all doubts and apprehensions about the project. The government’s ambitious high speed rail project ran into trouble after main opposition parties and green activists opposed it vehemently. The ₹63,940 crore project seeks to develop a high-speed rail corridor connecting Kasaragod in the state’s north to Thiruvananthapuram in the south. The state needs 1,383 hectares of land for the proposed project, of which 1,383 hectares are private. The rail line will bring down the travel time between Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram, covering 529.45 km, from 12 hours to four hours. It will be completed by 2025, said Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (KRDCL), the nodal agency for the project. But the union government is yet to approve the project and no social and environment impact studies were held so far. Besides opposition many green activists also opposed the big budget project saying it will be a disaster for the state. They said government conceived the idea when climate experts and others warned it will face recurring calamities due to climate change, they said. Last week noted social activist Medha Patakar joined the protest against the project. “Never expected a left government will come out with such a project which will threw lakhs of people out of their homes and damage environment. The CM should shed its adamant posture and talk to protestors,” she said Kozhikode on Monday. The Congress and BJP have announced agitational programmes against the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-stand-clear-on-k-rail-hc-tells-centre-101642015070916.html
13-01-2022||India||KCR asks people to revolt against Centre, writes to Modi demanding rollback of fertiliser prices||HyderabadTelangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday demanded that the Centre immediately roll back the increase in fertiliser prices which, he said, has pushed the agriculture sector into deep crisis and broken the backbone of farming in the country.The chief minister wrote a strongly-worded letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, registering his protest against the increase of fertilisers’ prices.In a statement earlier, he called upon the people to “root out the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA government at the Centre,” which is weakening the rural economy by playing havoc with the farm sector and handing it over to the corporates.KCR, as the chief minister is popularly called, asked the people to confront the BJP on the farmers’ crisis at every opportunity. “If the Centre fails to withdraw the increased prices of fertilisers, there will be statewide and countrywide agitations against the Central government,” he warned.He also urged the farming community in the state to expose the BJP’s conspiracy and join the struggle to make the Centre withdraw the fertiliser price hike.In his letter to the Prime Minister, the chief minister said it was sad that the prices of two most consumed fertilisers – NPK 28.28.0 and Muriate of Potash (MoP) had increased by more than 50% and 100% respectively in the last three months.“Instead of bearing the increasing import costs of raw materials and maintaining the prices of fertilizers at an affordable level to the farmers, the Central government has chosen to pass on the burden to the farmers,” he alleged.He pointed out that in February 2016, the NDA government had made a tall promise that it would increase the income of the farmers two-fold by 2022. “Instead of fulfilling the promise, it has now increased the prices of fertilisers at an all-time high,” he said.He said the steep hike in fuel prices due to indiscriminate imposition of cess across the board had caused great distress to farmers, who had taken up farm mechanisation. Now, the increase in fertiliser prices had put enormous burden on the farmers, he said.KCR also pointed out to the Prime Minister that the farmers were denied minimum support prices (MSP) for many farm produces, as a result of which the farmers are compelled to sell their produce at lower prices there by making agriculture non-remunerative.Stating that the BJP government is totally against the farmers, the chief minister said there was deep conspiracy behind the central government policies and actions to make the lives of farmers miserable.“Decisions like to install meters to motors to collect the power charges, not linking MGNREGP with the farm sector, increasing the fertilisers prices to all time high, not purchasing the paddy cultivated by the farmers etc., have made farmers’ life miserable,” he said, adding that the farmers have no option but to take up their ploughs and revolt against the Central government.
13-01-2022||India||Consensus eludes AP, Telangana on division of properties||HyderabadEven seven-and-a-half years after Andhra Pradesh was bifurcated, Telangana and residuary Andhra Pradesh are yet to reach a consensus over the distribution of various organisations common to the two states, including their assets and liabilities.A meeting of the chief secretaries of the Telugu states, convened by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla in virtual mode on Wednesday to resolve the contentious issues, made no headway.The meeting was attended by Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar and Andhra Pradesh chief secretary Sameer Sharma, along with senior officials of various departments.An official note from the Andhra Pradesh government said the meeting focused primarily on 10 contentious issues related to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, such as AP State Financial Corporation, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd and its subsidiary AP Heavy Machinery Engineering Ltd, Andhra Pradesh Bhavan, tax dues and refunds as mentioned in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014.The issues of division of cash balances, bank deposits and power bill arrears due to be paid by Telangana discoms to Andhra Pradesh power generation corporation also came up for discussion.The Union home secretary asked the two state governments to come to a mutual agreement on the contentious issues. “The central government would extend all cooperation to the Telugu states in resolving the issues,” the official note, quoting Bhalla, said.As many as 89 institutions, including corporations and cooperative societies, were listed in Schedule 9 and 107 government organisations in Schedule 10 of the AP Reorganisation Act. Many of these organisations and societies were divided between the two states. But there has been disputes over many other organisations, mostly located in Hyderabad, their assets and liabilities.Among the 107 institutions listed under Schedule 10, more than 90 institutions are located in Hyderabad, which was the capital of undivided Andhra Pradesh for nearly six decades. All these institutions together have assets worth thousands of crores of rupees in the form of buildings, lands and bank deposits, on which both the governments are staking claim.Telangana has been claiming that as per the provisions of the AP State Reorganisation Act, it has absolute control over the institutions located in Hyderabad. Andhra Pradesh has been demanding that the properties of these institutions be divided on the basis of population ratio.The Andhra Pradesh government has also been insisting on the division of AP Bhavan in New Delhi on the population ratio basis. The Telangana government proposed to take over the entire complex and offered a suitable piece of land to Andhra Pradesh for the construction of a new AP Bhavan complex.At the Wednesday’s meeting, the Andhra Pradesh government reiterated its demand for securing payment of power bill dues of ₹6,015 crore to be paid by the Telangana discoms to AP Genco. However, Telangana officials say the total outstanding was only ₹3,442 crore, after deducting the dues to be paid by AP discoms to Telangana Genco.AP chief secretary Sameer Sharma also raised the issue of the Centre extending financial assistance to the state towards resource gap funding for 2014-15, increased funding for Polavaram major irrigation project, setting up of crude oil refinery and petro-chemical complex, development of Ramayampatnam port and Visakhapatnam-Chennai Industrial corridor.
13-01-2022||India||India reports 246k new Covid cases, its highest since May 16||India on Wednesday saw new cases of Covid-19 soar to nearly 250,000, as the country saw the largest single-day increase in infections since May 16, 2021, or in 236 days, as the nationwide surge in cases propelled by the Omicron variant continued to soar.Wednesday’s case count of 246,912 means that daily cases have now grown more than 10-fold in under two weeks (there were just 22,487 new infections on December 31) – a speed of rise in infections previously unseen in the two years of the pandemic in the country.The highest ever single-day surge recorded in the country was on May 6, 2021, when there were 414,431 daily infections, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.With this, the seven-day average of daily infections in the country has now soared to 172,263, a 226-day high, data shows. Just 17 days ago, this number, which denotes a region’s case curve, was at 6,641 cases a day – the lowest level seen in the country since the early days of the pandemic.To be sure, such a sharp rise in daily infections is keeping in line with trends in Covid waves seen across the world due to the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Experts have said that while infections of the new variant, which was first discovered in South Africa in early November, are spreading a lot faster than previous iterations of the coronavirus, they are largely asymptomatic or mild, with only small fraction resulting in deaths across the world.On Tuesday, HT reported that Mumbai and Delhi, the earliest urban hot spots of India’s third wave appear to have started exhibiting early signs that their infections curves may be flattening. While key data indicators in Mumbai suggest that numbers in the city have already started peaking, and appear to be dropping just as fast as they were rising in the previous weeks.With 46,723 new infections reported on Wednesday, Maharashtra was the state with the highest number of daily cases in the country. It was followed by Delhi, which saw 27,561 new cases on Wednesday, and West Bengal, which reported 22,155 new cases.Nearly half of all infections reported across the country in the past week can be traced to just these three states, data shows.To be sure, doctors and health experts said that numbers on the ground in many regions may be higher as a lot of people have resorted to using home test kits due to milder symptoms occurring with the Omicron variant, and do not necessarily follow up with a RT-PCR test if they are positive, thereby staying off the radar. There is, however, no way to map these cases since most mild patients are recovering in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-250-000-new-covid-cases-highest-single-day-spike-since-may-16-last-year-101642014480053.html
13-01-2022||India||Schools in Bengaluru to remain closed for classes 1-9 till January 31: Govt||Schools in Bengaluru will remain closed for students of classes 1 to 9 till January 31, said officials of the primary and secondary education department. Officials, however, clarified that online classes will continue.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday announced all restrictions regarding Covid-19, which were announced till January 19, will be extended till the month. The announcement regarding schools is part of the extension. However, this extension on school closure is only applicable to schools in Bengaluru.On Wednesday, primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh held a meeting through video conference with the deputy commissioners of districts and district deputy directors of public instruction on the precautions to be taken in view of the surge in Covid infection cases.Respective district administrations have been given the powers to announce the closure in the district as per the Covid-19 situation. Officials said the current school closures are implemented in districts with positivity higher than 5%.Meanwhile, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner Gaurav Gupta said despite the new testing advisory from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), testing pattern in the city will not change. ICMR on Monday said contacts of Covid-19 patients do not need to be tested unless identified as high-risk based on age or comorbidities.Talking to the media on Wednesday, Gupta said the government had decided to continue with the current testing patterns, and he said in view of the rising cases, testing will be increased in the state. “We will continue to test contacts of Covid-19 patients and all other categories we have been testing so far. In fact, we will increase testing in the coming days. We will also identify high-risk groups such as delivery boys and other professionals and conduct random testing,” he said.Karnataka on Wednesday registered 21,390 fresh Covid cases and 10 fatalities, taking the tally to 3099,519 and toll to 38,389. The state has been witnessing a steady surge in cases since the last week of December and had reported 14,473 new infections on Tuesday.Of the new cases on Wednesday, 15,617 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 874 people being discharged and 6 deaths. The total number of active cases across the state is now 93,099. There were 1,541 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,68,002, the health department bulletin said.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 10.96 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.04 per cent. Of the ten deaths, six are from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Ballari, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi and Mysuru.Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Tumakuru recorded the second highest of 594 new cases, Mysuru 524, Dakshina Kannada 519, Hassan 409 and Udupi 361. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 13,34,957 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,82,725 and Tumakuru 1,22,845. According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 12,44,869, followed by Mysuru 1,78,018 and Tumakuru 1,20,231.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-bengaluru-to-remain-closed-for-classes-1-9-till-january-31-govt-101642014472451.html
13-01-2022||India||CID serves fresh notice to YSRC rebel MP Raju for questioning in sedition case||HyderabadThe Crime Investigation Department of Andhra Pradesh police on Wednesday served a fresh notice on rebel parliamentarian of YSR Congress party Kanumuru Raghurama Krishnam Raju in connection with a sedition case pending against him since May last year, officials familiar with the matter said.A team of CID officials headed by deputy superintendent of police R G Jayasurya from Vijayawada served the notice to Raju at his residence in Hyderabad when he was about to leave for his native place Bhimavaram for Sankranti festivities. Raju, who represents Narasapuram parliamentary constituency in West Godavari district, came to his Hyderabad residence on Tuesday.The team asked Raju to appear before the CID headquarters in Mangalagiri in Guntur district on Thursday for questioning in connection with the cases pending against him, the officials aware of the developments said.Raju’s lawyers told the police that the MP won’t be able to come to the CID office at such a short notice, as he was going to Bhimavaram for Sankranti festival. They said his health also would not permit him for being questioned by the police.The CID officials, who consulted their superiors, gave him another four days’ time and asked him to come to Mangalagiri on January 17. Raju accepted the notice and agreed to appear before the CID.The rebel YSRC MP, however, said the CID questioning should be transparent and in accordance with the law. “Last time, the authorities removed the CCTV cameras and tortured me physically, at the behest of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy,” he alleged. Raju, who had raised a banner of revolt against the chief minister within a year of getting elected to the Lok Sabha in April 2019, was arrested by the Andhra CID from his residence in Hyderabad on May 14 last year.He was charged under sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), and 505 (conducing public mischief) of IPC. The CID, in a statement after his arrest, said Raju had been indulging in hate speeches against certain communities and promoting disaffection against the government.“It was found that through his speeches on regular basis Mr Raju was indulging in systematic, schematic effort to cause tensions and by attacking various government dignitaries in a way which will cause loss of faith in the government which they represent,” the CID said.On the same night, Raju moved a bail petition in the state high court on health grounds, which directed the government to send him to the Guntur government hospital and later to a private hospital. The high court, however, rejected his bail.Later, Raju moved the Supreme Court for bail. He alleged that he was subject to physical torture by the CID during his stay in the police station. On May 17, the Supreme Court ordered that Raju be admitted to the Military Hospital in Secunderabad for medical examination.On May 21, the Supreme Court bench confirmed that Raju had suffered a fracture in his left foot and there were bruises on his legs. Based on the report, the apex court granted him bail.On May 26, Raju was released from the Military Hospital and flown to New Delhi. Since then, he has been staying put in New Delhi.The YSRC parliamentary party headed by V Vijay Sai Reddy had moved a petition before Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in July 2020, seeking Raju’s disqualification from the Lok Sabha. The petition has been pending before the Speaker.On Saturday last, Raju announced that he would be quitting his Lok Sabha membership soon and contesting the by-election from Narasapuram. “I will take a call after February 5 on my resignation and my future course of action,” he said.
13-01-2022||India||Six minors arrested for gang-raping teen in Karnataka’s Kalburgi: Police||Police in Kalburgi district have arrested six minors for raping a 13-year-old girl suffering from dementia. The crime took place on January 5 and based on a complaint from the girl’s family, the suspects were taken into custody by police on Tuesday, officials said on Wednesday.All five accused, who were not named by police, were neighbours of the girl in Kalburgi city. YS Ravikumar, commissioner of Kalburgi police, said all the suspects are between the ages of 15-16 and they are currently in the custody of the district juvenile justice home.“The girl had dementia. The accused are her neighbours and they were well-known to her. On January 5, they took her to a desolate area behind a college in Sunnada Bhatti area where she was raped,” said the officer said.The parents of the girl filed a complaint in Gulbarga university police station on Monday in this connection. They also revealed that they came to know about the incident late as the girl suffers from dementia.“The girl complained of stomach pain and later parents realised that she was raped. Following the complaint, we have conducted a medical test and rape was confirmed in the test,” Ravikumar said.Based on the complaint, police began the investigation and were able to zero down on the suspects.“Since they were minors, we had to follow some regulations such as not keeping them in custody. We have transferred them to a juvenile justice home. However, they have been booked under the IPC section 376 D (gang rape). We will see through that the accused get maximum punishment,” the officer said.The girl was hospitalised and treated, he said.Around a month ago, a 70-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl under Revoor police station limits in Kalburagi district. According to police, on November 29, the old man lured the girl promising her eatables which he told her was in his field. The girl went with him to his field.The accused is said to have raped the child in his field. When the parents returned from work in the evening, they found their daughter crying inconsolably. After much coercion, the child narrated the horrific incident.
13-01-2022||India||Kerala: Positivity rate at 17% as over 12,000 cases reported in a day||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala on Wednesday reported another surge in Covid-19 cases with 12,742 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 17.1% even as the first cluster of Omicron cases was formed in the state in Pathanamthitta.As cases rose sharply Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Health Minister Veena George called for extreme caution but the ruling party drew flak on Tuesday after it conducted a mega dance fest, Thiruvathira, in Parasala in Thiruvananthapuram district as part of the ongoing party conference. The opposition Congress has petitioned the state police chief. Health minister George said in a statement on Wednesday that 76 new cases of the Omicron variant were reported ina day in the state, taking the total cases to 421. This is the highest single day Omicron tally since the first case was reported on Dec 7. The statement said the state’s first Omicron cluster was found in Pathanamhitta. George said the cases were reported from a nursing college in Pathanamthitta. The source of infections was traced to a person who recently came from abroad, the statement said. “Situation in Pathanamthitta is worrying. We have taken all precautions to contain the spread. We have formed a separate cluster,” she said. Out of 421 Omicrons case, 290 people arrived from low-risk countries, 85 from high-risk nations and 43 contracted the virus through local infection, the minister said. Meanwhile the state reported 12,742 Covid-19 cases after 72,808 samples were tested with a TPR of 17.1 per cent, said the health ministry. TPR crossed 17% after four months. “The spike in Covid-19 cases is due to the spread of the Delta variant. The government has decided to open first-line Covid treatment centres in view of rising cases,” she said. Similarly, the state reported 23 Covid-19 deaths and added 176 backlog deaths taking total fatalities to 50,254. A close look at the statistics shows that there is a huge disparity between current case fatality rate and actual deaths, said health experts. Interestingly 19,341 deaths were added to the official list after the Supreme Court put down strict guidelines for declaring Covid-19 deaths, statistics show. More than 15,000 appeals are still pending before the committee to declare their kin’s death as Covid deaths -- reported between June 2020 and July 2021. Under-counting came to light after the government announced relief for the dead. “The government will have to release details of under-counted deaths which were later added to the official list. Details will make the process more transparent and it will also help medical community,” said public health expert Dr N M Arun. As criticism over the dance programme mounted, CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishan said in Kannur that the event should have been avoided. Reports suggest more than 500 dancers assembled at the ground and none of them wore masks during the event. As per the government directive in all public programmes, numbers should not exceed 50. Party insiders said dancers were rehearsing the programme for more than a week and leaders were aware of the event. “This is a blatant misuse of power. It is strange police are yet to book organisers”, said BJP state president K Surendran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-positivity-rate-at-17-as-over-12-000-cases-reported-in-a-day-101642014290837.html
13-01-2022||India||Centre asks states to keep 48-hour buffer stock of oxygen in all hospitals||The Centre has asked all states and Union territories to keep at least a 48-hour buffer stock of medical oxygen in hospitals to meet any surge in demand due to the current wave of Covid-19 cases.In a letter to states and UTs, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday said, “… all health facilities providing in-patient care and oxygen therapy should have a buffer stock of medical oxygen sufficient for at least 48 hours. The liquid medical oxygen tanks at the health facilities should be sufficiently filled and an uninterrupted supply chain for their refilling should be ensured…”Hospitals across the country have been strengthened with pressure swing adsorption plants, which generate oxygen from ambient air. “It is important to ensure that these PSA plants are kept fully functional. All steps should be taken for the proper upkeep and maintenance of such plants,” said Bhushan. He added that oxygen concentrators supplied by the Centre should remain fully functional at all times.He also directed states to ensure all the health facilities have adequate inventory of oxygen cylinders along with back-up stocks and robust refilling systems. “These cylinders must be filled and kept ready,” Bhushan said.On Wednesday, the Delhi government said the national Capital now has an installed capacity of 900 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) compared to about 730 MT that was available in May 2021, when the second wave hit the city. As mandated by the Centre in its letter, the Delhi government also has created a buffer reserve of 442 MT.During the April-May wave of cases, many parts of the country saw an acute crisis of medical oxygen after a surge of patients in critical condition overwhelmed hospitals and stocks.Besides, a total of 90 PSA plants have been commissioned so far and another eight will be commissioned by the end of this month, the Delhi government informed. Cylinders with a total oxygen capacity of about 227 MT are with different hospitals, nursing homes and Covid Care Centres in the city. As for keeping cylinders in reserve, the administration has 6,000 ‘D type’ cylinders at its disposal and another 9,115 cylinders are with the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC).When asked about the status of the 15 cryogenic tankers that were to be procured by the Delhi government, a senior health official said work orders have been awarded for its procurement. “The delivery of three tankers is expected by January 24. The next will be a batch of six tankers which will be delivered by February 24 and then the next six will be delivered on March 24,” the official said on condition of anonymity.All tertiary care hospitals, or higher-level health facilities, have been asked to have life support equipment, including ventilators, BiPAP, SpO2 systems, and associated consumables, in sufficient numbers to respond to the emerging needs.The health secretary also directed hospitals to adopt all infection prevention protocols while using the oxygen delivery devices and equipment. For that, he said adequately trained people should be deployed at all hospitals. “As advised, training of facility-wise Oxygen Stewards should be completed within the next few days.”The Union ministries of health and skill development and entrepreneurship have already organised 10 hours training for operators of PSA plants for day-to-day operation, 40 hours training of master trainers and 180 hours training of trouble shooting of PSA to a significant number of persons in all states.The states need to co-ordinate with private health facilities that provide oxygen therapy to explore the option of utilisng their services after assessing them, especially when the demand is at its peak.The Centre also asked states to again make functional oxygen control rooms so that any issue related to supplies of the life-saving gas is resolved without wasting time. “…with timely preparations and responsiveness, I am confident that we will be able to meet the challenges ahead of us…,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-keep-48-hour-buffer-stock-of-oxygen-in-all-hospitals-101642014110831.html
13-01-2022||India||Karnataka: Experts link Covid spike to political activities||Heightened political activities in Karnataka are among the main reasons for recurring surges in Covid-19 cases, data shows, as large gatherings without masks, social distancing or other precautions continue to fuel infections in the southern state.While the Congress in the state continues to hide behind the fact that hospitalisations, especially those in intensive care units (ICU), are at a minimum, their 10-day padayatra or march for Mekedatu, experts say, could potentially spread the virus to rural parts of Karnataka where access to healthcare and vaccines is limited.Data shows that there has been a 14-fold increase in daily infections across Karnataka since January 1 -- from 1,033 cases on the last day of 2021 to 14,473 reported in the 24-hour-period on January 11. The impact on Covid cases because of the Congress padyatra would be visible after some days. Experts point to the gestation period of the spread that would show up in about a week’s time after large events, much like fatality rates that increase once the number of new infections starts coming down.During the second wave in Karnataka in March last year, surge in cases happened after heightened political activities like bypoll campaigning, protests and other events that attracted large crowds, among other reasons.“No one takes permission to protest,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition and senior Congress leader, said on Wednesday.But there are restrictions imposed by the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government against large gatherings across Karnataka, which now has over 73,000 active Covid-19 cases.The Congress alone cannot be blamed for the surge but their continued march without masks and through villages across the Old Mysuru region has the potential to spread the virus to villages as people return to their homes. Not wearing masks or maintaining social distance by the public is a big problem, experts said.That the Omicron variant of the coronavirus is ‘mild’ has been rejected as a wrong notion by experts. Infectious disease epidemiologist and Covid-19 Technical Lead at the World Health Organisation (WHO) Maria Van Kerkhove on Tuesday said that Omicron is not a mild disease as “people are still being hospitalized for Omicron,” according to a PTI report.“Omicron has been detected in all countries where we have good sequencing and it’s likely to be in all countries around the world. It is quick, in terms of its circulation, overtaking Delta. And so Omicron is becoming the dominant variant that is being detected,” Kerkhove said during a virtual questions and answers session, PTI reported.But all of the blame cannot be placed squarely on the Congress as the Bommai-led government and his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa, too have taken decisions that are more ‘reactionary’ than ‘preventive’ with restrictions coming only after caseload reaches unmanageable levels.The Bommai government’s decision to go in for night and weekend curfews on December 26 was based on the rise in daily infections that was in the week before averaging at over 2000 cases across the state.Then chief minister BS Yediyurappa had allowed bypolls and other political events to carry on unhindered for at least two months before abruptly announcing a 14-day lockdown on April 21 last year.“The second wave was driven by political activities,” Dr N Ravi, a noted virologist, said.“Whoever does it is being irresponsible. I can be irresponsible and get infected. That is my personal choice. But when I am irresponsible and put others at risk, I think I should be put behind bars,” he said. The Yediyurappa government started to relax restrictions in 2021 when the caseload was 2,955,772 in January and then 1,762,845 in February. However, despite a steep increase in cases in March (caseload 2,614,401), Yediyurappa had decided to look the other way to clear the field for elections and repeatedly denied any chance of a lockdown. But soon enough a lockdown was announced, adding to the financial hardships of the state’s population.Dr Ravi said that restrictions are necessary, backing night and weekend curfews. “These are the times that people normally go out or get together, adding to the spread,” he said.“When it comes to health and disease spread control, politicians cutting across party lines don’t care for it. Their survival and their image are more important than a fellow human being suffering,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-experts-link-covid-spike-to-political-activities-101642014050972.html
13-01-2022||India||75% rise in Parliament Covid-19 cases over 3 days; 718 test positive||At least 700 parliament officials have tested positive for Covid-19 since December 4, a senior Rajya Sabha official said on Wednesday. According to data compiled by HT, this indicates a rise of nearly 75% in cases reported from Parliament house complex since January 9.Till January 9 ( from the first week of December), nearly 400 cases were reported from the complex. While most officials testing positive are asymptomatic, authorities are concerned about the prevalence of the infection ahead of the crucial budget session, scheduled to start on January 31.“718 have tested positive in Parliament house complex since December 4. These include 204 people in the Rajya Sabha secretariat. Rest of the cases were reported from the Lok Sabha secretariat and allied services,” the official cited above added.“RS chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has reviewed the situation with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and the secretary generals of both Houses have been asked to explore options on how the budget session can be conducted amid this third surge in Covid-19 cases,” the official added.Both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have asked a third of their staff to work from home, officials familiar with the matter said. That includes half of the officials and staff below the rank of undersecretary/executive officers. All of them will work from home till the end of January.A Lok Sabha circular also directed officers visiting Parliament to maintain a staggered working schedule to avoid crowding. “The working hours of all employees who attend office may be staggered between 10 am to 10.30 am with corresponding office exit timings to avoid rush in commuting as also in lifts and corridors,” it said. HT has reviewed a copy of the circular.HT reported on Wednesday that authorities are exploring several options including a staggered timetable for Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and a highly dispersed seating arrangement for the MPs for the upcoming session.“We are looking at various options, but the final option would depend on the Covid-19 situation towards the end of this month. The Lok Sabha Speaker and the Rajya Sabha chairman will meet around January 25 or 26 to decide how to run the session,” said a top-ranking functionary.Officials are also not sure if this session will run its normal course. A top functionary said the elections in five states is another key factor that might ultimately lead to a curtailed session..
13-01-2022||India||Covid-19 testing options enhanced in India: ICMR||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has significantly enhanced availability of testing products in the country as part of its purposive strategy for Covid-19 tests, said its director general on Wednesday.“They (testing products) are huge in number; and citizens have been empowered (as part of the strategy) to get tests done easily whether it is home based test, rapid antigen test or RT-PCR. The purpose of the revised testing strategy that was released two days back is early detection of symptomatic cases for quick care, and early detection of the infection for the elderly with co-morbidities for quick care,” said Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR, during the weekly Covid briefing.India has tested about 700 million samples to detect Covid-19 in the past two years, across 3,128 laboratories.In all, 205 RT-PCR kits, 53 rapid antigen test kits, and seven home antigen test kits have been approved and are currently in use in the country. India’s daily capacity of RT-PCR tests at present is roughly two million .
13-01-2022||India||PM: Envision India as world’s go-to affordable healthcare destination||Hitting out at previous governments for not addressing the shortage of doctors in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said his government has taken several steps to address the issue since 2014.Speaking at a virtual event to inaugurate 11 medical colleges in Tamil Nadu as well as a new building Central Institute of Classical Tamil, Prime Minister Modi said the Covid-19 pandemic had reiterated the importance of the medical sector“The once in a lifetime Covid-19 pandemic has re-affirmed the importance of the health sector...The future will belong to societies which invest in healthcare. Learning from the pandemic, we keep working to ensure inclusive and quality healthcare services to all our countrymen,” he said,The Prime Minister said that they are working towards taking Indian practices such as Yoga, Ayurveda and Siddha to the world. “In the coming years I envision India as being the go-to destination for quality and affordable care,” he said. “India has everything needed to be a hub for medical tourism. I say this based on the skills of our doctors.” He urged the medical fraternity to take up at telemedicine as well.“I am told that this would be the first time that 11 medical colleges are being inaugurated at one stroke located in any one state,” Modi said adding that recently, he had inaugurated 9 medical colleges at one go in Uttar Pradesh.With these 11 new colleges -- one each in Virudhunagar, Namakkal, Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Thiruvallur, Nagapattinam, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram and Krishnagiri -- the total number of government medical colleges in the state has increased to 36 with the total number of medical colleges in the state at 70, which is the highest in the country, a state health department official said.The 11 colleges were sanctioned during the regime of NDA ally AIADMK between 2017-2021. A major part of construction was completed before the DMK assumed office in May 2021.The colleges have been constructed at an estimated cost of nearly ₹4,000 crore, of which around ₹2,415 crore has been given by the union government and the remaining amount is met by the state.Talking about his fascination for the Tamil language, Modi also pitched for the Centre’s National Education Policy (NEP) which the DMK-led government has been opposing.Tamil Nadu has been planning to come up with a state education policy. “We have given great emphasis on promotion of Indian languages and Indian Knowledge Systems in our National Education Policy 2020,” Modi said. “Tamil can now be studied as a classical language in school education at the secondary level or middle level. Tamil is one of the languages in the Bhasha-Sangam where school students get familiar with 100 sentences in various Indian languages in audio, videos.”During his address, chief minister M K Stalin asked the Prime Minister to consider the state’s request seeking exemption from NEET favourably. “…the admission policy of Tamil Nadu plays a very important role in our health infrastructure. It is to protect this, we have been continuously demanding NEET exemption for Tamil Nadu,” Stalin told the Prime Minister. “Our moto is to provide opportunities to poor people and those from the hinterland. This policy is the reason for Tamil Nadu’s success in the health sector.”
13-01-2022||India||Northwest regions record 628% excess rain: IMD data||The northwest India has recorded 628% excess rainfall during the past 10 days with all nine subdivisions in the region recording large excess downpour (over 60% above normal), according to data released by India Meteorological Department (IMD).Central India also recorded 293% excess rain in the period from January 1 to 12, leading to cumulative 373% excess rainfall over the country.“Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi recorded 53.3 mm rain against a normal of only 4.2mm, an excess of 1,169%; Punjab recorded 80.3 mm against normal of 5 mm rain (1,502% excess); Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh recorded 128.1 mm against normal of 21.1 mm rain (507% excess),” IMD data suggests.According to data compiled by IMD, Pune, while the northwest India generally records an average of 68.5mm rain in the winter months of January and February, in January so far (till Wednesday), the region has already witnessed 59 mm of rainfall. This was mainly due to the effect of three western disturbances and moisture incursion from Arabian Sea, IMD said, adding two more western disturbances are expected to affect northwest India next week.“In a very few days a lot of rain has been recorded due to consecutive active western disturbances affecting the Western Himalayan region. Normally so much rain is not expected during this season. These western disturbances have also caused large amounts of rain over central India. We had forecast that there would be above average rains in January. Since two more western disturbances are expected to affect the region till January 18, all subdivisions will continue to record excess and large excess rains. The rain will favour winter crops over northwest India,” said DS Pai, head of the climate research and services at IMD, Pune.Farmers maintained that the winter rain has favoured a few crops, but it has also caused largescale damages to certain produce.“So far rain has been favourable for farmers, especially for wheat and mustard, but potato crop has suffered a lot due to excessive rains. The dependence on irrigation has reduced,” said Harinder Lakhowal, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union.The western disturbance, which caused widespread rain over northwest India last week, is lying as a cyclonic circulation over northwest Uttar Pradesh. “A trough (line of low pressure) is running from south interior Karnataka to south Chhattisgarh in lower tropospheric levels. A cyclonic circulation is lying over south Konkan in lower tropospheric levels. Confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal at lower tropospheric levels is likely to continue over east and adjoining central India during next three days,” IMD said in its forecast on Wednesday.This would mean widespread rain over central and east India. Widespread light to moderate rainfall is likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Sikkim, Telangana and Coastal Andhra Pradesh during January 12 to 14 and isolated to scattered light to moderate rainfall over Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh is likely till January 14, IMD said.Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Odisha on Thursday while isolated thunderstorms with lightning and hail is likely to continue over Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Sikkim till then.Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall is very likely over most northeastern states, including Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura on Wednesday and Thursday.“Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over Southwest Bay of Bengal and another over south Tamil Nadu in lower tropospheric levels, rainfall or thundershowers are likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and Mahe during next four-five days,” IMD predicted.Meanwhile, two fresh western disturbances are likely to affect northwest India, the first from January 16 and likely to cause isolated to scattered rainfall on January 16 and 17; the second from January 18 and likely to cause light/moderate scattered to fairly widespread rainfall over the Western Himalayan region and light isolated to scattered rainfall over adjoining plains for subsequent two-three days, IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northwest-regions-record-628-excess-rain-imd-data-101642013215968.html
13-01-2022||India||NIA told to probe illegal Rohingya immigration||The government has asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe what it believes is a well-oiled international illegal immigration racket, in which Rohingyas and Bangladeshi Muslims enter India illegally through porous border passages in Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Meghalaya using fake documents, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Initial information with central agencies reveals the racket is run from Bengaluru but has a presence across India. The people involved not only organize the illegal entry of Rohingyas and Bangladeshi Muslims, but also arrange their transportation to various cities so that they settle there, said an official with a central agency.The person behind the racket has been identified as Kumkum Ahmed Chaudhury of Bengaluru, who supervises illegal migration in association with Sahalam Laskar of Jammu and Raju Ali, a Pakistani national. Chaudhury and Laskar originally hail from Assam but operate from Bengaluru and Jammu , the first official added.While asking the NIA to look into the matter, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said in a communication to the agency that “there is a well-designed larger conspiracy to exploit the illegal migrants and also to destabilize the population ratio and demographic scenario of the country”. HT has seen a copy of the communication dated December 23.It is suspected the gang has been successful in bringing several Rohingyas into the country over the past few years.The central anti-terror probe agency has already formally taken up the investigation in the matter couple of weeks back and a team is trying to gather details about the racket, said another official.The second official added that the network involved in sending Rohingyas to India usually arrange forged documents such as PAN cards, Aadhar numbers, driving licences and ration cardsThe Centre has maintained that illegal immigrants including Rohingyas pose a threat to national security and that there are reports about some Rohingya migrants indulging in illegal activities. The government also claimed in parliament last month it doesn’t maintain data on THE number of Rohingyas currently staying in India.In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court in September 2017, in response to a petition filed by two Rohingya immigrants seeking refugee status, the home ministry said “Continuance of Rohingyas’ illegal immigration into India and their continued stay has serious national security ramifications and threats.”The affidavit estimated that there were then around 40,000 Rohingyas Muslims in the country. It added that intelligence inputs suggested some Rohingyas had links with Pakistan-based terror organizations and that they were indulging in anti-national activities such as mobilization of funds through hawala channels, procuring fake identities and indulging in human trafficking.Through multiple communiqués the MHA has asked states to identify illegal Rohingyas and deport them.India is not a signatory to the UN Refugee Convention and rejects the UN position that deporting Rohingyas violates the principle of refoulment , sending refugees back to face danger.UN Chief Antonio Guterres said in October last year that at least 15,000 people from Myanmar are estimated to have crossed the border into India since the February 1 military coup there.Over 7 lakh Rohingya Muslims , one of the largest minority ethnic groups of Myanmar, fled their country in 2017 following a deadly crackdown. The majority of them are now living in refugee camps in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-told-to-probe-illegal-rohingya-immigration-101642013090605.html
13-01-2022||India||SC notice to Uttarakhand govt in Haridwar hate speech case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Uttarakhand government on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a former Patna high court judge and a journalist, demanding stringent action against those involved in making hate speeches at a religious event held in Haridwar last month where some speakers allegedly called for violence against Muslims and Christians.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, also allowed the petitioners to approach the local administration and police authorities in Uttar Pradesh with their plea to stop a similar religious event in Aligarh on January 23. “For the present, we are issuing notice to the state government...We also permit the petitioners to bring to the notice of the concerned local authorities the relevant laws and orders of this court with respect to the event that is going to take place,” directed the bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli.The bench said that it would take up the PIL after ten days, during which time the court would also ascertain if there is any similar case already pending before it and that the fresh case should be heard along with the old matter. During the hearing, the CJI observed that there are enough provisions under the Indian Penal Code and other laws against hate speeches, besides a judgment of the Supreme Court in 2019 that issued various guidelines for the Centre, states and Union territories to act against such offenders. “The law is already there. There are enough provisions under the IPC etc. There is no difficulty as far as the law is concerned. There are directions of this court too. What do we say when there is already a law?” the bench asked senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the petitioners, former HC judge Anajana Prakash and journalist Qurban Ali.Sibal responded that although the apex court has dealt with the issue of hate speech in the past, problems arising out of religious events called “Dharm Sansad” were being taken to it for the first time. “We are now dealing with Dharm Sansads where calls for genocides are being made. Due to these Dharm Sansads, the atmosphere of entire country will be vitiated. The ethos of this country and the social fabric is under threat,” added Sibal. At this, senior advocate Indira Jaising also intervened on behalf of activist Tushar Gandhi, who was one of the petitioners in the case when the Supreme Court in 2019 issued directives on appointing nodal officers to curb hate speeches and stop mob lynching over suspected cow slaughter.“The direction by this court to appoint nodal officers to prevent such incidents have not been implemented by any state. Had those directions been implemented, these problems would not keep cropping up. While the 2019 direction was on mob lynching over cow slaughter, here is an open call to exterminate one particular community. This issue has not been addressed by any court till date,” argued Jaising. The bench, however, clarified that it would first ascertain if similar matters were already being heard by any other bench in the top court. “This is a matter I want to take up and hear it but if some other bench is already seized of it, we cannot entertain it here,” justice Ramana told the counsel. On a request by Sibal to urgently list the matter in the wake of another Dharm Sansad being organised in Aligarh on January 23, the bench said that the petitioners were permitted to approach concerned authorities in Uttar Pradesh with their plea to stop the event. The court has also issued notices to the Centre and Delhi Police. The petition has made Centre a party over issuance of nationwide guidelines against events like Dharm Sansads. The Delhi Police has been involved by the petitioner in connection to the event organised by representatives of right-wing organisation ‘Hindu Yuva Vahini’ in the Capital last month. On Monday, the bench agreed to urgently list for hearing this petition after Sibal requested it.The event in Haridwar, held from 17-19 December, was organised by Yati Narsinghanand, a religious leader who has been accused in the past of inciting violence with his incendiary speeches. After several controversial videos from the event that were circulated on social media triggered outrage, the Uttarakhand police registered a first information report (FIR) against some leaders present at the event, including Jitendra Narayan Singh Tyagi, formerly known as Waseem Rizvi, for allegedly giving a “provocative speech” against “a particular religion” (Islam) at the Dharm Sansad. No arrests have been made in the case so far.Uttarakhand minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said, “The government will examine the Supreme Court order and follow the directives. As far as the action taken by the government is concerned, an SIT has already been formed which is probing the case as per the law.”Rizvi was the former chairman of the Shia Central Waqf Board who converted to Hinduism on December 6 last year in the presence of Narsinghanand. Former Patna HC judge and senior advocate Prakash, and journalist Qurban Ali, have approached the Supreme Court complaining of inaction against those who made hate speeches at the Haridwar Dharm Sansad and in Delhi. Few days after a case was registered against the accused in the matter another video went viral in which a police official from Haridwar Kotwali police station, where the case was registered, was seen sharing a laugh with some of the accused in the case, including Narsinghanand, Tyagi and Annapuna Maa. Urging the court to set up a special investigation team to probe the incident and bring guilty to book, the petition has said that the speeches made at the Sansad posed a grave threat not just to the unity and integrity of the country but also endangered the lives of millions of Muslim citizens.It also cited some viral videos of the incident, reportedly showing proclamations made by various religious leaders at the event while contending that the Police authorities are hand in glove with the perpetrators of communal hate.Meanwhile, the accused have maintained that they stick to their statements in the Dharm Sansad and there was nothing wrong in it. In addition, several other seers have decided to hold a protest meeting in Haridwar on January 16 protesting the registration of the criminal case against participants in the conclave . 
13-01-2022||India||48-hr internet shutdown in Itanagar over bandh to demand Pema Khandu resignation||GUWAHATI: The district administration in Arunachal Pradesh’s Itanagar on Wednesday ordered internet service providers to shut down “mobile internet including wi-fi services” in the capital region for 48 hours starting 5pm.The shutdown, which started at 5pm on Wednesday and will continue till 5pm on Friday, is in response to a 36-hour state ‘bandh’ from January 13 called by the All Nyishi Youth Association (ANYA), which is demanding chief minister Pema Khandu’s resignation on alleged corruption charges. Stating that the ‘bandh’ call was illegal on the basis of a Supreme Court order, Talo Potom, district magistrate of Itanagar, directed BSNL and all other private internet service providers to suspend mobile internet including wi-fi services in the capital region.In his order, Potom said that the move was necessary “to prevent occurrence of serious law and order problems” during the proposed ‘bandh’ called by ANYA. Last month, ANYA, which is the premier youth association of the Nyishi tribe, had levelled corruption charges against Khandu and asked him to respond within 15 days.On December 30, the association demanded Khandu’s resignation within seven days for failing to respond to the charges. On January 10, ANYA announced a decision to call a 36-hr-long strike demanding his resignation.On Tuesday, the Itanagar district magistrate declared the strike as illegal, and banned the entry of people from outside the capital region unless they have a valid reason or a medical emergency. Potom’s order said there were reports that there will be a huge influx of supporters of bandh call from ditricts to the capital region and such influx may lead to serious law and order problems.
13-01-2022||India||Winter sowing powers on despite third wave||India’s rabi or winter sowing is powering on robustly despite the pandemic as above-normal seasonal rains have set the stage for the rapid planting of key crops, exceeding last year’s levels for this time of the year, official data shows.The farm sector has emerged relatively unscathed from the pandemic due to higher subsidies and fewer Covid-related curbs even as millions of farmers were on protest against three farm laws, which were eventually repealed by the government on November 30. However, oversupply of labour in the hinterland, triggered by migration of millions of workers back to villages due to the closure of several sources of employment due to the pandemic, and the prices of produce, will still weigh on the farm economy, analysts said.As on January 10, the total area sown under rabi crops is 65.2 million hectares, against 64.6 million hectares sown during the corresponding period of last year. The total area shows a marginal increase of nearly 600,000 hectares.“Overall, there has been no impact of the pandemic on farm operations and total acreages are expected to exceed last year’s levels if current sowing trends holds,” said Abhishek Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade.Agriculture has chugged on unharmed by successive waves of coronavirus infections. In 2020-21, when India faced a rare recession due to the pandemic, agriculture was the only sector to post positive growth of about 3.1%. This helped keep farm incomes steady. Higher fertiliser subsidies, raised by ₹14,000 crore during the summer-sown season, kept farm growth up.According to data from the India Meteorological Department, winter rainfall in the country stood at 8.1mm against normal of 2.4mm, which is a departure of (+) 237% during the period from January 1 to January 10.“These rains have been beneficial for early sowing although they have been damaging for some crops in some southern states,” Agrawal said.According to official advance estimates of GDP for 2021-22 released this week, the agriculture sector is estimated to grow at 3.9%, higher than the 3.6% expansion recorded in the previous financial year. The targeted growth rate for the farm sector is 4%. Overall, the country’s GDP is estimated to expand to 9.2%, lower than the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) December 2021 projection of 9.5%.The farm sector is crucial to Asia’s third-largest economy because it employs the most people and spurs overall demand. For example, when farm output is strong, nearly half of all consumer goods, such as television sets, are sold in rural areas.Good harvests help keeping a lid on inflation, but also tend to depress farmers’ incomes in a country where half the population depends on a farm-derived livelihood.Lower inflation is key to the Reserve Bank’s holding of interest rates steady to boost growth, as the economy battles another Covid wave due to the highly transmissible Omicron variant.The country’s retail inflation however rose sharply to 5.59% in December 2021 from 4.91% in November, pushed up by rising prices of manufactured items and food, data released by the government showed on Wednesday. Food inflation rose to 4.05% in December from 1.87% in November.The latest sowing trends show a shift towards oilseeds, a scare commodity, from cereals. Rapeseed and mustard have been sown on 8.9 million hectares compared to 7.2 million hectares sown during the corresponding period last year, up 23%.In recent months, prices of cooking oil, two-thirds of which is imported, had increased to record levels due to higher international prices.The higher acreage in oilseeds has resulted in slightly lower acreage under wheat, whose net-sown area stands at 33.3 million hectare against last year’s 33.9 million hectare for this time of the year.The area under pulses, another key commodity, stood at 15.6 million hectare compared to 15.7 million hectare.“The farm sector has shown remarkable resilience because of two reasons. One, rural supply lines, especially of agricultural inputs, held steady despite the pandemic. Two, rains were plentiful during the 2021 monsoon,” said DK Joshi, chief economist of Crisil Ltd, a ratings agency.
13-01-2022||India||New study shows how coronavirus loses infectivity once exhaled||When exhaled, the Sars-CoV-2 is most potent in causing infection within the first two minutes. It then drops significantly over the next three minutes, and between five and 20 minutes, it consistently loses potency to cause infection, retaining only 10% of its infectivity at the 20th minute.The insights have been drawn from a first-of-its-kind study by scientists at the University of Bristol, who used novel techniques to keep the virus suspended in a controlled environment using electrostatic energy. The researchers exposed the virus to varying levels of humidity and found that the coronavirus survived longer when the air was more moist, but rapidly lost their ability to replicate when it was drier.The authors explain the science behind why it happens: the virus is transmitted as airborne droplets, surrounded by water that includes various chemicals. When the relative humidity is low, the droplets begin to crystallise quickly, robbing the virus of its biological viability.The most rapid loss in infectivity happened when the relative humidity of air was in the 40% range – in this condition, the virus lost half of its infectivity within the first five seconds. But if the relative humidity was at 80-90%, it retained 48% of infectivity for a good five minutes.What does this mean?Fundamentally, it shows what has been understood from real-world observations: the majority of the transmission happens during prolonged, consistent contact with an infectious person. If the person is talking loudly or singing, they are consistently spewing out more viral particles, which increases the chances of someone getting infected. It also suggests that most infection happens when transmission is at a shorter range. This is why outdoor spaces have consistently proven to be safer. The correlation between humidity and infection viability of the virus suggests that the likelihood that someone will catch the virus in summer is lower than in monsoon, if they are exposed to a contagious person for the same duration of time at the same distance. The equation become a little complicated in Indian winters, though. Relative humidity depends on temperature – if it’s cold, the air’s ability to hold is water is reduced, consequently raising the relative humidity levels. Conversely, for instance, if you switch on a heater in your room on a cold day, the relative humidity will reduce and you will feel it becoming drier as the higher temperature expands the air’s ability to hold water.Does it hold true for Omicron too?It almost certainly does, the authors say. While the test did not include the Omicron variant, the scientists found the loss of infectivity was consistent across three variants that they tested. They also detailed the “physiochemical” processes that essentially reduce the virus’s viability. Biological fluids like saliva and the airborne particles we exhale carry chemical buffers – these buffers tend to be stable at a particle level of acidity. But once they come in contact with their air, they become more alkaline. In other words, the vapour which the virus floats after being exhaled becomes less suited for the pathogen’s survival. The reasons for this, the scientists added, will be further investigated by them.Studies published over the last month suggest that Omicron may be spreading more readily because it thrives significantly better in the upper respiratory passage. In any case, the new study that shows how the virus survives or loses infectivity reinforces the need for people to stay masked, avoid prolonged, close contact, and ventilate indoor spaces.
13-01-2022||India||Conflict last resort, but ready for it: Army chief||India will deal with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in a firm and peaceful way, but if it comes to war or conflict, the country will emerge victorious, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Wednesday.While expressing hope that the ongoing dialogue with China will help resolve the lingering border row in eastern Ladakh, where the two armies have been locked in a standoff for more than 20 months, he said the Indian Army was at its highest level of operational preparedness in the sensitive sector, where the situation was under control.“What happens and whether a situation escalates or not is difficult to foretell or predict. But whatever we have done so far (augmenting troops, weapons and infrastructure), we’re in a position to meet whatever is thrown at us in the future. I can assure you that. War or conflict is always an instrument of last resort. But if resorted to, we will come out victorious,” the army chief said at his annual press briefing ahead of Army Day on January 15.
13-01-2022||India||Probe report on Nagaland killings in 1-2 days: Army chief||The army court of inquiry into the killing of 13 civilians in a botched counter-insurgency operation in Nagaland’s Mon district last month is expected to submit its report in a day or two, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Wednesday.Appropriate action will be taken and corrective measures instituted to further refine the army’s standard operating procedures (SOPs) based on the outcome of the investigation, he said.The army inquiry is being conducted under a major general posted in the country’s North-east. A special investigation team (SIT) set up by the Nagaland government is also probing the incident. The civilians were killed in two separate firing incidents on December 4 and 5 last year.In the first incident, army personnel gunned down six coal mine workers after mistaking them for insurgents. Soon, angry villagers reached the spot and set ablaze security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing by the forces to control the situation in which seven villagers and one soldier died.“The regrettable incident is being thoroughly investigated. We remain committed to the security of our countrymen, even in the conduct of operations. We have SOPs that encapsulate our operational experience, which have stood the test of time. Corrective measures will be instituted to further refine our SOPs,” the army chief said at his annual press briefing ahead of Army Day on January 15.The December 4 incident involved a Special Forces unit that had laid an ambush after receiving intelligence inputs on the movement of militants in the area.The gunning down of the civilians renewed the demand for the withdrawal of the Armed Forces Special Power Act (AFSPA) from the state. The Act, which grants special powers to the forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”, has been a contentious issue in the state, with civil society members saying it gives army personnel impunity to carry out excesses and forces saying it helps them maintain order in restive areas.The AFSPA bestows sweeping powers on the forces and prohibits prosecutions from being initiated without the go-ahead from the Centre, if the allegations are linked to the public duty of the accused.The incident came weeks after militants ambushed an Assam Rifles convoy near the porous India-Myanmar border in Manipur’s Churachandpur district, killing five soldiers, including a colonel, his wife and their eight-year-old son.Reacting to the army chief’s statement, Konyak Union, the apex tribal body in Nagaland’s Mon district, demanded that any action taken report should be brought in public domain.“I heard about the army chief’s statement today. We shall see when the investigation report is out. As for his announcement that appropriate action will be taken, our people’s demand right from the start is that any action taken report should be brought out in the public domain,” said Howing Konyak, president of Konyak Union.The union had earlier served a 30-day ultimatum to the government, demanding that all officers and jawans involved in the killings of civilians be booked under applicable civil court, and the action taken report must be brought before the public domain. The ultimatum expired on January 10.Howing Konyak said a crucial all-Konyak Summit convened by the tribe’s civil society organisations is scheduled to be held on January 14 to deliberate on the further course of action.All nine Konyak legislators in the state’s 60-member assembly, along with village council leaders, civil servants, leaders of student unions and women organisations are expected to attend the summit.
13-01-2022||India||Somnath appointed ISRO chief||Senior rocket scientist S Somnath was on Wednesday appointed the next chairperson of the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) and the space secretary, an order issued by the central government said.Somnath, currently the director of the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, will take over from K Sivan, who is set to retire on Friday.Fifty-eight-year-old Somnath, who will become the 10th chairperson of the Indian space agency, has previously held the position of team leader for the Integration of the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV). He is a graduate in mechanical engineering from Kerala University, and completed his postgraduation in aerospace engineering from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru.“His appointment is for a combined tenure of three years from the date of joining of the post, inclusive of an extension in tenure beyond the age of superannuation in public interest,” an order issued by the Centre said.Speaking to the media, Somnath said that the aim during his tenure will be to expand the space programme on a bigger scale.“The primary responsibility is to create a space enterprise in the country where all stakeholders come together to expand the space programme in the country on a bigger scale and aligning the overall space programme with the mission of the government,” he said.Sivan, the outgoing Isro chief, was in January 2018 appointed as the space agency’s chairperson, secretary of the department of space and chairman, space commission. He was in December 2020 given a one-year extension till January 14, 2022. The posts of the ISRO chairman, the space secretary and the space commission chief are usually held by the same person.The announcement came on a day Isro successfully conducted the qualification test of the cryogenic engine for the Gaganyaan programme for a duration of 720 seconds at its propulsion complex in Tamil Nadu’s Mahendragiri.India’s first-of-its-kind human space mission, the Gaganyaan is set to be launched in 2023, the Union ministry of science and technology said last year. This launch will make India the fourth nation in the world to launch a human spaceflight mission after the US, Russia and China.“The performance of the engine met the test objectives and the engine parameters were closely matching with the predictions during the entire duration of the test,” Isro said.“This successful long-duration test is a major milestone for the human space programme – Gaganyaan. It ensures the reliability and robustness of the cryogenic engine for induction into the human-rated launch vehicle for Gaganyaan.”The ISRO said that this engine will undergo four more tests for a cumulative duration of 1,810 seconds and, subsequently, one more engine will undergo two short-duration tests and one long-duration test to complete the cryogenic engine qualification for the Gaganyaan programme.
13-01-2022||India||Centre asks BARC to resume TV ratings for news channels||NEW DELHI: The ministry of information and broadcasting on Wednesday asked the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) to resume the release of television rating points (TRPs) for TV news channels and sought the release of data of the last three months for a “fair and equitable representation of true trends”.“The ministry of information and broadcasting has asked the BARC to release the news ratings with immediate effect and also to release the last three months' data, for the genre in a monthly format, for fair and equitable representation of true trends,” the ministry said.The resumption comes after over a year of TRPs being suspended following allegations of manipulation of ratings that emerged in October 2020. The Mumbai Police arrested at least five people over an alleged TRP scam. The police also questioned executives of Arnab Goswami-led Republic Media Group with regard to the case. Republic Media Group has denied any wrongdoing.As the controversy grew at the time, the BARC, which provides TRP data, announced a three-month-long suspension of weekly ratings of news channels across languages.The council said it would review and augment the current standards of measurement to improve on “statistical robustness”, as the government set up a four-member panel to look into the allegations and submit its report within two months.The joint industry body, which includes broadcasters, advertisers, and advertising and media agencies, said that it has initiated changes in the governance structure in keeping with the “spirit of the TRP Committee Report and Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI’s) recommendation dated 28.04.2020”.“The BARC has undertaken revision in its processes, protocols, oversight mechanism and initiated changes in governance structure etc,” the statement added. It has also initiated a reconstitution of the board and technical committee to allow for the induction of independent member and will be an oversight committee. It has also tightened and revamped the access protocols for data.As per the revised system, the reporting of news and niche genres shall be on a ‘four-week rolling average concept’. “The BARC has indicated that in view of the changes undertaken by it, they are reaching out to related constituencies to explain the new proposals and are in readiness to actually commence the release as per the new protocols,” the statement said.The ministry, meanwhile, has also set up a working group under the chairmanship of the CEO, Prasar Bharati, Shashi Shekhar Vempati for the consideration of leveraging the Return Path Data (RPD) capabilities for the use of TRP services, as also recommended by TRAI and the TRP Committee Report. The Committee has been asked to submit its report in four months’ time. RPD capabilities imply that the set top box which is receiving the signal will be able to convey data on how the subscriber is using the box. The idea is to for the set top box to automatically capture the subscriber behaviour to provide an accurate estimate of viewership.The National Broadcasters Association is slated to hold a meeting to discuss the decision on Thursday, following which the organisation will issue a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-barc-to-resume-tv-ratings-for-news-channels-101642011591965.html
13-01-2022||India||PM’s security lapse: Ex-SC judge to head probe panel||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered the constitution of a five-member independent committee to be headed by a retired judge of the court, justice Indu Malhotra, to investigate and fix responsibility on those responsible for the breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security in Punjab last week.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, was critical of the “blame game” between the Centre and the state government over the issue, and directed that the committee to ascertain the causes of the breach and those accountable for it. It also asked the committee to recommend remedial measures and safeguards necessary for the security of the Prime Minister or others protected by the special protection group (SPG).To be sure, the PM is currently the SPG’s only protectee after a change in the security norms in 2019. All others who fall in the highest Z+ category are protected by the Central Reserve Police Force.“Not only are the officer(s)/authority responsible for the above­-stated lapse liable to be identified, but there is also a greater urgency to evolve new measures that may ensure there is no recurrence of such lapses in the future,” held the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli.The committee will also comprise the registrar general of the Punjab & Haryana high court, director general (DG) of Chandigarh Police, director general or his nominee not below the rank of inspector general of police of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and additional director general of police (security) in the Punjab Police.Asking the committee to submit its report “at the earliest”, the bench directed both the Centre and the Punjab government to put in abeyance their respective inquiry panels till the committee concludes its investigation.It held that the pertinent questions on PM’s security breach cannot be resolved through “one-­sided inquiries” and that a judicially trained independent mind, duly assisted by competent officers, would be best placed to effectively visit all issues and submit a comprehensive report for the consideration of this court.The top court took note of the war of words between Centre and the Punjab government, which have accused each other of lapses that led to the unprecedented breach. “There is, however, a blame game between the state and central government as to who is responsible for such lapses. War of words between them is no solution. It may rather impair the need of a robust mechanism to respond at such a critical juncture,”said the court.The Prime Minister was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on the road from Bathinda to Ferozepur on January 5 due to a blockade by protesters while headed for an election rally. The incident sparked a furious political battle between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress government in Punjab, which goes to the polls next month.In its 11-page order issued on Wednesday, the court underlined the significance of the issue raised by a lawyer-run orgnisation, Lawyer’s Voice, in a public interest litigation (PIL) in so far as ensuring the security of the Prime Minister by the SPG is concerned.“Any lapse in this regard can lead to devastating and serious consequences,” stated the court while pointing out that the legislative intent behind the SPG Act and the Blue Book (a set of instructions under which the SPG holds an advance security liaison with everyone involved in securing a PM’s event) maps out a comprehensive mechanism for ensuring proximate security of the Prime Minister while he is touring a state.The additional object of the provisions and the Blue Book, said the court, is to avoid any human error, negligence or any wilful omission or commission which may hamper or expose the safety and security of the executive head of the nation while he is travelling in a particular state.The court directed the Union and state governments to provide all assistance to the members of the committee for completion of the assigned task while adjourning the petition until a report is received from the panel.The PIL by Lawyer’s Voice, argued through senior advocate Maninder Singh, sought a “professional and effective” investigation into the incident after immediately securing all the relevant materials in safe custody. The plea also demanded the suspension of Punjab’s chief secretary and director general of police (DGP) over the unprecedented lapse.Taking up the petition for the first time on Friday last week, the court directed the DG, Chandigarh, and an NIA officer to assist the high court registrar general in taking custody of all materials related to the PM’s security breach. It also asked the inquiry committees of the Centre and state to not proceed for the time being.On Monday, the bench shot down the Union government’s request to let the Centre’s inquiry panel conclude its probe into the incident, declaring that it would constitute an independent panel, to be headed by a retired SC judge, to probe the episode.The court also pulled up the Centre for insisting on its inquiry panel proceeding against the chief secretary and Punjab DGP over the security lapse even as it simultaneously urged the bench to examine the matter.During the previous hearings of the case, the Centre, represented by solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta, remained emphatic that Punjab’s chief secretary and DGP could not escape the statutorily mandated proceedings against them since they were directly responsible for ensuring a secure route for PM, and had even approved the route where the convoy was halted due to the protesters.The Punjab government’s advocate general DS Patwalia, on his part, objected to the show-cause notices issued to state chief secretary and DGP, complaining that the notices already recorded findings that the officers prima facie violated directions issued under the SPG Act by not ensuring adequate security. “I am sanguine that I won’t get a fair hearing before Centre or any central agency. Please, hang me if I am guilty but don’t condemn me without a hearing,” Patwalia told the court at the time.The breach in the security forced the PM to cancel his first rally in poll-bound Punjab. The Union home ministry sought a report on the incident from the state government.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed regret over the incident but rejected allegations of any complicity. Channi claimed that his government did not have information about the PM going by road instead if in a chopper which was a last-minute decision due to inclement weather.
13-01-2022||India||Have separate wards for transgender inmates, MHA advisory tells prison chiefs||NEW DELHI: The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked prison authorities to make arrangements inside the jails in a way that the identity of transgender inmates is recognised and their rights are not discriminated.In a detailed advisory issued on Monday, the home ministry asked prisons chiefs and state governments to create separate enclosures or wards and earmark separate toilets and shower facilities for trans men and trans women to preserve the right to privacy and dignity of the inmates.“However, which making provision for a separate enclosure/ward for transgender prisoners, due care must be taken by the prison authorities that this may not result in their complete isolation or propagate social stigma among such prisoners,” the home ministry advisory said.The advisory was issued in light of The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, which came into effect from January 2020. The law provides for recognition of the identity of transgender persons, prohibition against discrimination and including them in education, health, social-security facilities as well as other welfare measures of the government.According to a National Crime Records Bureau, there were 70 transgender prisoners in jails across the country in 2020.The home ministry said the self-identity of transgender persons must be respected at all times while conducting admission procedures, medical examination, frisking, clothing, requisitioning of a police escort, treatment and care inside prisons.In this context, the home ministry asked prisons to facilitate the process of acquiring the transgender identity certificate under the transgender persons law if such a request is made.It also stressed that ‘transgender’ should be included as a category in the prison register as well as electronic records. In case a court warrant does not mention the self-identified gender of the inmate, the prison superintendent must make changes in the document with the help of legal services authorities, the advisory said.Also Read: Caring for the vulnerable:Transgender persons | OpinionA senior official at Delhi’s Tihar jail, the country’s largest correctional facility, said transgender inmates are well assimilated with other prisoners. “Currently, we have about 8-10 transgender inmates. The transmen are lodged in male prisons while transwomen are in female prisons according to their choice. The MHA advisory also says any separate enclosure should not result in their complete isolation. We also monitor their security situation”.Chayanika Shah, a Mumbai-based academician and activist, said: “It’s ironic that government comes with such advisory for prisons but on the other hand, the NCERT (National Council for Educational Research and Training) removes the teachers’ training manual on the integration of transgender or gender non-conforming students in schools from its website after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) asks it to (NCERT removed the manual following a controversy in November 2021). First, these changes should be made outside, in society by providing transgender persons jobs, education, health facilities. As far as prisons are concerned, I think the person concerned should have the right to decide where he/she wants to be inside the prison.”Also Read: Sensitise teachers on transgender issues | OpinionThe home ministry advisory also said frisking of a transgender person may be conducted by a person of their preferred gender or by a trained medical professional and the person conducting the search much ensure the safety, dignity and privacy of the inmate.“At the stage, where the search requires stripping, it must be done in a private room or partition. The search should be confined to compliance with security protocols and restriction of contraband, and should not be aimed at determining the gender of the person,” MHA advisory said.Prison authorities have further been asked to provide health care facilities and meetings with family, legal advisers on par with other prisoners.“At the stage, where the search requires stripping, it must be done in a private room or partition. The search should be confined to compliance with security protocols and restriction of contraband and should not be aimed at determining the gender of the person,” MHA advisory warns.The prison authorities have further been asked to provide health care facilities and meeting with family, legal advisers at par with other prisoners.The advisory tells the prison chiefs to train and brief the staff about the protection of rights of transgender persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-separate-wards-for-transgender-inmates-mha-advisory-tells-prison-chiefs-101641903035152.html
13-01-2022||India||Has the peak of 3rd wave arrived? What Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru's Covid numbers say | 5 points||After reporting over 2.47 lakh cases on Thursday, India now stares at another surge on Friday as several states on Thursday evening reported a huge rise in the number of Covid cases -- highest in several months. Delhi on Thursday reported 28,867 fresh infections which is the all-time high for the Capital since the beginning of the pandemic. Bengaluru on Thursday reported 18,374 fresh Covid cases. Kolkata reported 6,768 cases while West Bengal's positivity rate reached 32.13% with 23,467 cases. Chennai on Thursday reported 8,218 cases.Maharashtra and Mumbai, however, maintained the 24-hour tally, with Mumbai seeing a dip in comparison with yesterday, and Maharashtra reporting around 46,000 cases.Where India stands in respect to 3rd wave:1. As hospitalisation has remained low in Delhi, health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the ongoing wave has peaked in Delhi and cases may go down soon. A day after, Delhi reported the highest-ever single-day spike.‘Be ready for other Covid variants after Omicron': 3 things PM Modi emphasised in meeting with CMs2. "Epidemiologically, the peak of a wave is determined with the help of the rate of transmission, the number of infected people and the uninfected susceptible population. It can be plotted on a graph but the ground reality is always different from epidemiological modelling," Director of the National Institute for Implementation Research on Non-Communicable Diseases, Jodhpur, Dr Arun Sharma said. Dr Sharma said the positivity rate is the most important factor to understand a wave as the number of cases may increase or decrease depending upon the tests conducted.3. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said there is no indication of plateauing of the peak and the low number can be attributed to the low number of testing. According to ICMR's latest guideline, only symptomatic patients should get tested.4. Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, vice chairman of the research cell of Kerala's unit of Indian Medical Association, said the number of hospital admissions is the best indicator of the severity of the ongoing wave of the pandemic, but it is difficult to say whether the wave has peaked or not.5. According to scientific projections, the peak of the ongoing wave is likely to come anytime around January 15 and after that. The peak, as data scientists have projected, could be different in states.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday interacted with the chief ministers of the states and Union territories and emphasised local containment and home isolation. India's preparation should be ahead of all variants of Covid and after Omicron, India should be ready for other variants as well, PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-the-peak-of-3rd-wave-arrived-what-delhi-kolkata-bengaluru-s-covid-numbers-say-5-points-101642093500906.html
13-01-2022||India||India-China 14th round military dialogue fails to move forward||The 14th round of India-China military dialogue on Wednesday failed to yield any positive outcomes but both countries decide to work towards mutually acceptable solutions to resolving the Ladakh LAC stand-off. The next round is expected to be held soon to continue the momentum of discussions.While both sides are scheduled to come out with press statements today, the Indian side clearly failed to persuade the PLA towards disengagement from Gogra-Hot Springs near Kongka La as well as resolving patrolling rights issues in Depsang Bulge in Daulet Beg Oldi sector and Charding Nullah Junction in Demchok sector.In pure diplomatic language, the talks were constructive without any positive outcome and reaching mutually acceptable solutions is work in progress. This means both the Indian Army and the PLA commanders will continue to engage in future but there is no guarantee on whether the PLA will restore April 2020 status quo ante in Gogra-Hot Springs or resolve the Depsang Bulge or CNJ issue.The Indian Army apparently raised the issue of PLA building a bridge over Pangong Tso, east of Srijap Complex, for faster troop deployment and rapid militarisation of the occupied Aksai Chin area by the Chinese Army all along the 597-km Ladakh LAC.Fact is that the PLA with new border law and rapid military and technological upgradation on their side of the unresolved LAC is converting the 3,488 km line into Line of Control.Both the Indian and PLA armies are locked in a stand-off all along Ladakh LAC since the Chinese Army under instructions from the Central Military Commission under President Xi Jinping decided to unilaterally change the LAC and impose the rejected 1959 cartographical line on the Ladakh LAC in May 2020. Since then the two sides are fully deployed with more than three divisions of troops on each side with missile, rocket, artillery and tank regiments apart from the Air Force being on standby in the hinterland. The PLA by transgressing in Pangong Tso, Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs area in May 2020 broke the bilateral 1993 and 1996 peace and tranquility agreements signed at the level of heads of states.While for China’s wolf warrior diplomats this is the new normal, the Modi government has rejected these aggressions and decided to bilateral relations in a cold storage till such time Beijing does not resolve the Ladakh LAC.
13-01-2022||India||Not averse to demilitarisation of Siachen if Pak meets pre-condition: Army chief||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Wednesday said that India was not averse to the possible demilitarisation of the Siachen glacier --- the world’s highest battleground and an old sore in India-Pakistan ties ---- provided the neighbour accepted the 110-km Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL) that separates Indian and Pakistani positions.Islamabad has so far not agreed to authenticate troop positions on the glacier.“We are not averse to the demilitarisation of the glacier but the pre-condition for that is to accept AGPL. Pakistan has to accept what are their positions and what are ours, and both of us have to sign on the dotted line before any kind of disengagement takes place. What is happening in eastern Ladakh is quite similar…first disengagement, then de-induction and de-escalation, which is another way of saying demilitarisation,” the army chief said at his customary press briefing ahead of Army Day on January 15.Acceptance of AGPL is the first step towards demilitarisation but the Pakistan side loathes doing that. He said the Siachen situation occurred because of unilateral attempts by Pakistan to change status quo and countermeasures taken by the Indian Army.The Line of Control that divides India and Pakistan ends at a reference point called NJ 9842. The boundary beyond this point was referred to simply as “thence northwards to the glacier,” leading to different interpretations.“The LoC was delineated up to NJ 9842 and thereafter there was an understanding it would remain unoccupied. But since they made an effort to occupy it, we were forced to take countermeasures. And now both sides are face to face all along the glacier,” he said.The 76-km-long glacier acts as a wedge between the Shaksgam valley under Chinese control and Baltistan, which is occupied by Pakistan. Security experts have argued that occupation of the glacier will not allow the Pakistan army to link up with the Chinese and threaten Ladakh.The Indian Army launched Operation Meghdoot in April 1984 to secure the glacier after Pakistan army occupied the heights on Siachen. Several rounds of talks between India and Pakistan on demilitarising the Siachen glacier have failed with Islamabad refusing to authenticate troop positions on the ground.Almost 80% posts on the glacier are located above 16,000 feet, with Bana towering above the rest at 21,753 feet. Experts have cautioned against withdrawing from Siachen until Islamabad authenticates troop positions on the ground as it would be a formidable task to reclaim the glacier.India currently occupies dominating positions on the Saltoro ridge with Pakistani posts located 3,000 feet below.
