14-01-2022||India||Bomb found in abandoned bag at Delhi flower market||An improvised explosive device (IED) was found in an unclaimed bag at one of the entrances of the largest flower market in Delhi on Friday and was neutralised before its timer could trigger a detonation, sending a Capital-wide security alert days before Republic Day celebrations.The IED weighed roughly 3kg and likely consisted of powerful chemicals like RDX or ammonium nitrate, officials aware of the preliminary finding said, while adding that shrapnel were seen in the device, which could have led to significant harm if detonated.One of the people aware of the matter said they are not ruling out a terror motive and a connection to the explosion that took place in Ludhiana last month, even as the police began a search to identify who placed the bag the spot.The market, the largest for flowers in the city, is usually bustling in the morning hours.Additional deputy police commissioner (east) Vinit Kumar said that at 10.16am, their control room received a call regarding an unattended bag outside gate number 1. A police team immediately reached the spot, cordoned off the area, and alerted other agencies about it, he said.NSG director general MA Ganapathy told HT that “prima facie analysis of samples taken from the bomb site (at Ghazipur Flower Market) suggests RDX and ammonium nitrate was used”. He added that primary findings have been shared with the Delhi Police.A police officer, who did not want to be named, added that the bag was spotted on a pavement by the owner of a scooter, who had come from the market and was about to leave the area.The man first informed the security guard, who called the police. By noon, the bomb squad, sniffer dogs, firemen and fire tenders, special cell sleuths, and experts from the National Security Guard (NSG) arrived, and the market was evacuated.“The bomb experts of the NSG first tried to defuse the IED. But since it had a timer device and may have exploded, the officials decided to destroy it through the controlled explosion. Nobody was hurt in that operation,” added the officer.The controlled explosion was carried out in an eight-foot pit hurriedly dug with the help of an earthmover 100m from the spot where the bag was found.Bomb detection and disposal experts of the NSG collected traces of the explosive materials from the site where it was placed, and from the area where it was destroyed, for further examination.According to some police officers who were at the incident site, the IED contained nearly 3kg of explosive substance and some shrapnel. A timer device was also seen, they said.The NSG has a national bomb data centre which collects, analyses and evaluates all terrorist bombing activities in India and foreign countries. RDX is a military grade explosive which is not sold in the open market and in most of the instances when it has been used in India, its origin has been traced to Pakistan, according to an intelligence official, who asked not to be named.The presence of RDX, if confirmed, could be a significant clue as to the motives or suspects. Punjab’s police chief said late on Friday that a cache of RDX was recovered from close to the border with Pakistan. “IED consignment weighing 5kg approximately which includes 2.7kg RDX recovered by STF from Gharinda area in Amritsar just 2.5km from the international border,” said a tweet from the official account of the Punjab’s director general of police, Viresh Kumar Bhawra.A case under the relevant sections of the Explosive Act was registered by the Delhi Police’s anti-terror squad, the Special Cell.Several police teams have been formed to identify the suspect who planted the IED. The police are scanning CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity of the market for clues.Police presence has been intensified across the city and checking of vehicles at border points around the Ghazipur market were intensified after the recovery of the IED. The Ghazipur vegetable market adjacent to the flower market was open throughout the day.
14-01-2022||India||Unexpected change in weather behind CDS chopper crash: IAF||The December 8 Mi-17V5 crash in which India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat was killed along with 13 others took place due to spatial disorientation of the pilot in bad weather, the Indian Air Force (IAF) said on Friday in its first official statement on the accident.The probe ruled out negligence, mechanical failure, or sabotage as possible causes of the accident, the air force added.“The accident was a result of [the chopper’s] entry into clouds due to unexpected change in weather conditions in the valley. This led to spatial disorientation of the pilot resulting in controlled flight into terrain (CFIT),” the statement said, referring to the preliminary findings of a tri-services probe.HT reported on January 5 that the crash was most likely a CFIT accident with cloudy weather a contributory factor.In aviation parlance, CFIT refers to the accidental collision with terrain of an airworthy aircraft under the flight crew’s full control. In such accidents, the pilot or crew is unaware of the looming danger until it is too late. Loss of situational awareness is a major factor leading to CFIT accidents, as previously reported.“The inquiry team analysed the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder besides questioning all available witnesses to determine the most probable cause of the accident,” the statement added. The recommendations made by the court of inquiry to prevent such accidents are being reviewed.On January 5, IAF made a detailed presentation to defence minister Rajnath Singh on the inquiry report into the Mi-17V5 accident.The Russian-origin helicopter, considered extremely safe and reliable, was fully serviceable when it crashed near Coonoor. The low-flying helicopter flew into cloud cover seconds before it went down in a fireball, barely seven minutes before it was scheduled to land in Wellington.The helicopter took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48am and was scheduled to land at the helipad at the Wellington golf course at 12.15pm. The air traffic control at Sulur, however, lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08pm, 20 minutes after it took off.IAF is expected to review protocols governing flights ferrying important people. Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to deliver a talk when the Mi-17V5 crashed.Those killed in the crash included the CDS’s wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, his defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder, Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, the pilot of the Mi-17V5, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, the co-pilot, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja.The sole survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, breathed his last on December 15 after a week-long fight against death.Developed by Russian Helicopters, the Mi-17V5 is designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment. The Mi-17V5 can carry a load of around four tonnes in a full cargo role. It can also insert assault forces behind the enemy lines, a role frequently demonstrated by the IAF during military exercises.The helicopter is equipped with modern avionics, a self-defence system and other advanced features that enhance its survivability. The Mi-17V5, which has an armoured cockpit, can be fitted with rockets, cannons and small arms for carrying out offensive roles. It has a service ceiling of 6,000 metres, top speed of 250 kmph and a maximum range of around 1,180 km with additional fuel tanks.The bottomline is that mountains and clouds are a terrible combination, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “We have had such losses in the North-east before. IAF will take measures after studying the findings of the inquiry into the December 8 crash,” he added.
14-01-2022||India||Why lockdowns won’t work in the current wave||The seven-day rolling average of cases in India has been rising every day since December 27 or for 18 days. From 6,780 on December 27 (the lowest this number has dropped since May 2020), it went to 193,418 on January 13. While average deaths were not rising initially, they have started inching upwards since January 4 in states excluding Kerala (more on this later). Does this mean we are headed for a crisis like the one seen during the second wave caused by the Delta variant? Should lockdowns be imposed to reduce deaths? An HT analysis suggests that such measures may not be necessary and can actually hurt. Here are four charts that show why.Deaths set to be much lower than 2nd wave despite Omicron’s rapid rise in casesThe seven-day average of deaths at the national-level does not seem to be increasing consistently despite the average for cases increasing every day since December 27. This is simply because Kerala, which has accounted for over half the daily deaths in this period, has been reconciling its figures for past deaths (that happened pre-Omicron) on a daily basis. It therefore makes sense to look at numbers excluding Kerala.Taking a daily increase in average cases for 14 days as the marker for a wave’s beginning, the second wave can be said to have begun outside of Kerala on February 12 last year and the current wave on December 22. On the 23rd day of the wave, the seven-day average of the case fatality rate (CFR), or deaths as a proportion of cases, was 0.64% during the Delta wave last year and is nearly a tenth of that (0.07%) in the Omicron wave.
14-01-2022||India||What dip in Delhi, Mumbai daily Covid cases may indicate: 5 points||The daily Covid-19 infections reported from Mumbai have settled after breaching the 20,000-mark. Delhi too on Friday reported a decline as its 24-hour tally fell below 25,000. Earlier in the day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said that the Covid-19 situation seems to be stabilising in the national Capital. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also said that there is no reason to worry, as hospitalisation and death rates remain low. "If corona cases begin to decline, we will relax the restrictions," Kejriwal said.Here are 5 points to know about the present trend in Delhi and Mumbai1. Satyendar Jain said the positivity rate keeps on changing, but the main factor is hospitalisation, which is low in the Capital. Delhi's case positivity rate on Friday rose above 30%. The dip in the 24-hour tally came a day after Delhi reported the highest-ever spike with 28,867 cases.2. An official told PTI that in the last 24 hours, the number of testing has also dropped, which can be attributed to the change in testing guidelines. In an advisory issued earlier this week, the (central) government had said that asymptomatic patients undergoing surgical/non-surgical invasive procedures should not be tested unless warranted or symptoms develop.3. Maharashtra on Friday reported 43,211 fresh infections out of which 11,317 infections were from Mumbai. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said that the fluctuation in the number of daily infections was because of the change in testing protocols.4. Experts are divided on whether hospitalisation or case positivity rate is the right indicator of a peak. "The number of daily cases and the positivity rate should be used to determine the peak. Hospitalisation depends on the criteria adopted for admission (in a particular region). Of course, hospitalisation is an important parameter for public health planning purposes, but not for describing a peak," Dr Chandrakant Lahariya said.Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, vice chairman of the research cell of Kerala's unit of Indian Medical Association, said test positivity rate can not be relied upon as the sole parameter as it depends on the willingness of people to come forward and get tested.5. Experts earlier said that the wave driven by Omicron will peak very soon and will decline very soon. The World Health Organization on Friday said Africa's 4th pandemic wave has started flattening after a six-week surge. The Omicron surge in India started with metro cities but the dip might be because of the fluctuation in testing numbers and not a statement on the wave yet, experts believe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-dip-in-delhi-mumbai-daily-covid-cases-may-indicate-5-points-101642181233542.html
14-01-2022||India||Mistakes of 2021 being repeated; unnecessary medication, tests should be avoided: Doctors write to govt||As many as 32 prominent doctors from India and abroad have written a letter to the Union as well as state governments and warned about "inappropriate" diagnostic methods and medications being used to deal with the current wave of the coronavirus pandemic. "Wanton use of drugs" can be harmful, as seen during the earlier two waves of the pandemic, they warned in the open letter. “Despite the weight of available evidence and the crushing death toll of the delta wave, we find the mistakes of the 2021 response being repeated in 2022 during the clinical management of Covid-19. We urge you to intervene to stop the use of medications and diagnostics that are inappropriate for clinical management of Covid-19,” the letter said. The "vast majority of patients" who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms will require little or no medication, it said. "Most prescriptions we have reviewed in the past two weeks include several Covid-19 “kits” and cocktails. The prescribing of vitamin combinations, azithromycin, doxycycline, hydroxychloroquine, favipiravir and ivermectin for treating Covid-19 is irrational practice,” said the doctors. Outbreaks of fungal infections like mucormycosis in India and aspergillosis in Brazil were attributed to the widespread abuse of inappropriate medications, the letter pointed out. It also said that most Covid-19 patients will need no additional tests after the initial positive rapid antigen or PCR test, except, in some cases, home monitoring of oxygen levels. The Omicron variant can infect even those who had contracted the infection earlier or who are vaccinated, but the "mortality" will be lower among these patients, it said. “However, CT scans and a battery of laboratory tests like d-dimer and IL-6 are routinely being prescribed by practitioners across the country in asymptomatic and mild cases, placing undue financial burden on families,” the letter said. Patients are being admitted to hospitals "without clinical justification," which adds to such burden and also leads to non-Covid patients not getting hospital bed in emergency, it warned. The government as well as medical associations must put an end to such practises, the letter said. The signatories to the letter included Dr Sanjay Nagral of Jaslok Hospital, Mumbai; Dr Cyriac Abby Phillips, the Liver Institute, Rajagiri Hospital, Kerala; Dr Rajani Bhat, Bengaluru; Dr Bharat Gopal, Delhi and Dr Richa Gupta, Christian Medical College, Vellore. The group also included some Indian-origin doctors living in the US and Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mistakes-of-2021-being-repeated-unnecessary-medication-tests-should-be-avoided-doctors-write-to-govt-101642180519822.html
14-01-2022||India||Sino-India trade at record $125 billion amid border tension; deficit widens||BEIJING: Trade between India and China reached a record $125 billion in 2021 despite the worst chill in bilateral ties in decades, Chinese customs data showed on Friday. Two-way trade between India and China in 2021 stood at $125.66 billion, up 43.3 percent from 2020 when bilateral trade was worth $87.6 billion. In 2021, China’s exports to India were $97.52 billion, up 46.2 percent, while China imported $28.14 billion worth of goods from India, up 34.2 percent, according to statistics released by the General Administration of Customs (GAC) and quoted by the tabloid, Global Times, on Friday. Trade deficit between the two countries remained much in favour of China – at $69 billion. The deficit in trade has been a constant source of friction between New Delhi and Beijing with India complaining that China, despite promises, hasn’t given Indian companies access to sectors like pharmaceuticals. India was China’s 15th largest trade partner in 2021, according to GAC. “Analysts attributed the surge in trade to the complementary aspects of the industrial chains of the two countries. For example, about 50-60 percent of chemicals and other materials used by the Indian pharmaceutical industry, which is a pillar industry, are imported from China,” the Global Times report said. India-China trade in 2020 declined by 5.6 percent to $87.6 billion, the lowest since 2017. But China still overtook the US to become India’s largest trading partner last year. Chinese companies saw an increase in demand from India for medical equipment in the first half of the year following a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The widening trade deficit with China, according to an explanatory note published online by the Indian embassy, can be attributed to two factors: narrow basket of commodities, mostly primary, for exporting to China and the lack of market access for most India’s agricultural products and the sectors where India is competitive in, such as pharmaceuticals and IT. The Chinese report said amid bilateral tensions, the trade data “..is just another piece of proof that New Delhi is unable to reduce its dependence on the Chinese market”. Indian and Chinese border troops have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May, 2020, when a violent clash in Pangong lake area led to both the sides gradually deploying tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry along the border. Several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have only resulted in partial disengagement of troops until now. Separately, GAC data showed Friday that trade between China and the US soared by 28.7 percent and amounted to $755.6 billion in 2021 - maintaining a strong growth momentum and contributing 12 percent to China’s record $6 trillion foreign trade for the year. China’s exports to the US increased by 27.5 percent in 2021, while imports grew by 32.7 percent, reaching $179.53 billion. “The US maintained its place as China’s third-largest trade partner following ASEAN and the European Union. China-US trade was twice China’s trade with its fourth-largest trade partner Japan - which was 2.4 trillion yuan,” the Global Times reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sinoindia-trade-at-record-125-billion-amid-border-tension-deficit-widens-101642180809440.html
14-01-2022||India||Agra man buys nomination papers for his 94th election as contestant||A 75-year-old ex-revenue staff is all set to contest his 94th election, as he bought nomination papers on Friday for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.Hasnuram Ambedkari, a former revenue department clerk, has already contested and lost 93 elections since 1985, the year he first entered the electoral fray.Ambedkari told PTI that in 1985 he quit his job as an ‘Amin’ in the district administration after he was promised a ticket from Fatehpur Sikri seat.But when the time came, the party refused to honour its end of the bargain and instead made fun of him, he said.“As I left my job, the party refused to give me the ticket and mocked me saying I would not be able to get a single vote in the election."After that I determined to contest the election independently to send them a message. I contested my first election from Fatehpur Sikri for the state assembly in the year 1985,” he said, adding with pride that he came “third”."And since then I have been contesting every election despite knowing that I would lose. I have contested and lost 93 elections."Asked about his name, he said he is a follower of BR Ambedkar, India’s first law minister and a Dalit icon.He said he was actively associated with the Backward and Minority Communities Employees' Federation (BAMCEF) from 1977 to 1985.Ambedkari said he has contested elections for gram pradhan, state assembly, gram panchayat, MLC, and Lok Sabha, and once went to the extent of applying for the post of President of India, but was rejected.His determination to win despite losing 100 per cent of the times got him the moniker ‘Dhartipakad’ in the area, which locals use to describe one’s adamancy."This year, I bought nomination papers for the Agra Rural and Kheragarh constituencies. I will contest till the 100th election even If I lose."Ambedkari said he meets people personally to appeal to them to vote for him, and even sends postcards to those living in distant areas.The resident of Nagla Dulhe in Kheragarh tehsil said he is a farmer and also works under the MGNREGA scheme of the government to meet ends.“In elections I spend money from my savings for campaigning. My family also supports me. My wife Shiva Devi and five sons are always with me to fulfill my dream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agra-man-buys-nomination-papers-for-his-94th-election-as-contestant-101642179695928.html
14-01-2022||India||Amit Shah worships cow in Gujarat on Makar Sankranti, says ‘got privilege…like every year’||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday worshipped a cow at Ahmedabad's Jagannath temple on the occasion of Makar Sankranti and also offered prayers at the shrine. Shah, who is on a two-day Gujarat visit to celebrate the harvest festival (also called Uttarayan), performed 'aarti' of the animal revered by Hindus. "Cow worship is considered important in Sanatan Dharma. I got privilege of cow worship on this Uttarayan like every year at the Jagannath temple and received blessing of saints," the Lok Sabha MP from Gandhinagar tweeted. Shah also posted photos along with the tweet of his worship of cow and him offering prayers to Lord Jagannath at the temple.सनातन धर्म में गौ माता की सेवा व पूजन का विशिष्ट महत्व है। हर वर्ष की तरह आज भी उत्तरायण के पवित्र अवसर पर अहमदाबाद के श्री जगन्नाथ मंदिर में गौ पूजन करने का सौभाग्य मिला साथ ही पूज्य संतजनों का आशीर्वाद प्राप्त किया और पूजा अर्चना की।जय जगन्नाथ… pic.twitter.com/uBjMnvP9RCThe BJP leader every year flies kites with his family and party workers on the occasion of Uttarayan, but he refrained from doing so this year due to the death of a close relative. On Saturday, Shah will launch an organic farming scheme from Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel's residence in Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-worships-cow-in-gujarat-s-jagannath-temple-on-makar-sankranti-101642178469334.html
14-01-2022||India||From Alpha, Delta to Omicron: How Covid-19 symptoms changed||With experts listing some specific kind of skin rashes as probable symptoms of Omicron, the latest variant of the SARS-CoV-2, which is driving the worldwide surge of Covid cases, the list of Covid symptoms goes on and on. Recently, the American Centre for Disease Control and Prevention warned that people should watch out for pale, grey or blue-coloured skin, lips and nails.Omicron has recorded a departure from the traditional Covid symptoms as loss of smell and taste and breathing troubles are rarely present in Omicron cases. Scratchy throat and some other common cold and flu-like symptoms have been associated with Omicron. The absence of respiratory problems has made Omicron appear less severe but as experts warn against taking Omicron lightly, doctors treating Omicron also said many patients may report high fever in the first few days.Here is all we know about Covid symptoms since the beginning1. Cough, cold and fever are common symptoms of Covid, be it Omicron or Delta.2. Sore throat is a very common symptom of Omicron, not so much of Delta, but it may happen sometimes.3. Headache, tiredness, body pain are apparently more prominent symptoms of Omicron than Delta.4. Breathing problem is a very rare symptom of Omicron, very common of Delta,5. Covid-19 clinical researcher Dr Swapneil Parikh said upper respiratory symptoms (cold, cough, sore throat) plus prominent GI symptoms (nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea) plus fever plus pain in the lower back and lower limbs are common symptoms of Omicron. "Starting to see a clinical picture of a self-limiting viral myositis (muscle pain, weakness) in many patients," Dr Parikh recently tweeted.6. Dr Lancelot Pinto pointed out four prominent symptoms of Omicron: Fever for a couple of days, a lot of body ache, sore throat, occasionally loose motion.According to experts, the symptoms have evolved because of the mutation that the virus has undergone. Also, the symptoms vary from person to person, depending on their immunity, vaccination status. Symptoms only offer clues and are not sure-shot ways to know about the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-alpha-delta-to-omicron-how-covid-19-symptoms-changed-101642177573708.html
14-01-2022||India||Three arrested in Rudrapur communal tension case: Uttarakhand police||RUDRAPUR: The Uttarakhand police have arrested three people in connection with the cow slaughtering incident which caused communal tension in Rudrapur on Monday. Two persons were on the run while one surrendered for previous cases in Rampur court, Uttar Pradesh, to evade arrest. “We had formed 10 teams of police to nab the culprits involved in the cow slaughtering case that took place on Monday in Rudrapur. It had caused communal tension but was pacified by the police with immediate action. A person was arrested on Friday from Mahtosh Mod,” said DS Kunwar, senior superintendent of police (SSP), US Nagar on Friday. He said body parts of a cow and a calf were found in the morning on Monday at an empty plot in front of a banquet hall on Shayam Talkies road in Rudrapur. Communal tension was erupted in Rudrapur and besides police, Seema Sashastra Bal personnel were to be deployed to calm down the tension. Kunwar said, “Ayub alias Hakla of Swar of Rampur was arrested from Jafarpur Mahtosh Mod. He divulged the name of Shaulat Ali of Khidarpur village and Afsar Ali of Ajeemnagar (both in Ramapur district of UP). Arrested persons told the police that they were involved in the beef business for a long time and had to leave the remainder since police were on patrol.” They also divulged that Danish of Khidarpur village of Rampur is the kingpin. He and two more Usman and Nayim of Swar were also involved in the crime. Shaulat and Afsar were also arrested while Usman and Nayim were absconding. Kingpin of the gang Danish surrendered in Rampur court dodging the police party on Thursday. The SSP said Danish, Ayub, Nayim, Shaulat and Usman are habitual offenders and have several cases registered against them in US Nagar and Rampur districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-arrested-in-rudrapur-communal-tension-case-uttarakhand-police-101642176909219.html
14-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Two accused of Bulli Bai case sent to 14-day judicial custody and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bulli Bai accused Shweta Singh, Mayank Rawat sent to 14-day judicial custodyA local court in Mumbai has sent Shweta Singh (18) and her friend Mayank Rawat (20) into 14-day judicial custody till January 28 in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case, news agency ANI reported quoting Mayank's lawyer Sandeep Sherkhane. Read more B Tech course seat vacancy below 40% for first time in six yearsWith admissions to undergraduate (UG) professional courses including engineering (BE/B Tech) and pharmacy (B Pharm) having concluded recently, figures shared by the state common entrance test (CET) cell reveal that seat vacancy across both courses has dipped this year as compared to last year. Read more Delhi, Colombo should build on Trincomalee deal with broader strategy’: Lankan envoy India and Sri Lanka should forge a larger strategic framework that builds on the Indian presence in key projects such as the Trincomalee oil tank farm and Colombo port and benefits both countries, Sri Lankan high commissioner Milinda Moragoda has said. Read more 'I'm not interested in making a controversy of it’: Kohli on DRS row, says 'people outside don't know the exact details'For the first time since expressing his displeasure on the stump microphone, Virat Kohli has spoken about the episode that saw him and some of his India teammates lose their calm. Read moreGovinda turns off comments on new song Mere Naal, nephew Krushna Abhishek reacts to him being trolledGovinda disabled the comments on his new Lohri-special song, Mere Naal, after getting criticised for his recent music video titled Hello. His nephew Krushna Abhishek reacted to the trolling. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-two-accused-of-bulli-bai-case-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-and-all-the-latest-news-101642170769711.html
14-01-2022||India||Philippines confirms move to acquire BrahMos cruise missiles in $375 mn deal||NEW DELHI: The Philippines confirmed on Friday it will acquire three batteries of the BrahMos cruise missile jointly developed by India and Russia in a deal worth almost $375 million, a development expected to boost India’s efforts to become a major exporter of defence hardware. The defence deal is unlikely to go down well with China, whose aggressive behaviour in the disputed South China Sea has taken relations with the Philippines to a fresh low. The Philippine Marines intend to use the BrahMos as a shore-based anti-ship missile. Philippine defence secretary Delfin Lorenzana said he had recently signed the “notice of award” – or the acceptance of India’s proposal for supplying the missile – for the Philippine Navy’s shore-based anti-ship missile acquisition project. “Negotiated with the Government of India, it includes the delivery of three batteries, training for operators and maintainers as well as the necessary Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) package,” Lorenzana said in a brief post on his Facebook page. The deal for the BrahMos was conceptualised as early as 2017, and the office of the Philippines president “approved its inclusion in the Horizon 2 Priority Projects in 2020”, he added. Hindustan Times had first reported in December 2019 that the Philippines was set to become the first country to buy the BrahMos missile system. Both sides were keen on signing the deal during a proposed visit by President Rodrigo Duterte early in 2021, but the plan fell through because of widespread disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The notice of award signed by Lorenzana on December 31 put the value of the BrahMos deal at $374.962 million. Last month, the Philippines government allocated 2.8 billion pesos ($55.5 million) for initial funding for the weapon system. A team from the Philippine Navy visited the production unit of BrahMos Aerospace in Hyderabad in December as part of the acquisition process. “The Coastal Defense Regiment of the Philippine Marines will be the primary employer of this modern strategic defense capability of the Armed Forces of the Philippines,” Lorenzana said. There was no official word from the Indian side, though Sudhir Mishra, who was till recently the CEO of BrahMos Aerospace, said in a tweet: “As then CEO and MD, worked on the Philippines contract for the past five years very hard connecting people, dots, procedures & unseen forces. BrahMos has shown the way for high value defence exports.” According to the government, policy changes have resulted in defence exports increasing by more than 325% over the last five years. India has set an ambitious target of achieving defence exports of $5 billion by 2024. The country exported defence gear worth ₹8,434.84 crore during 2020-21. However, the BrahMos deal is being seen as a game changer as India’s defence exports so far have been items such as avionics, coastal surveillance systems, spares for radars, personal protective items, and offshore patrol vessels. The deal with the Philippines could open the door for further sales of the BrahMos – which has a range of 290 km and can carry a 200-kg warhead – to other Southeast Asian countries such as Vietnam and Indonesia, which have been engaged in negotiations for the weapon system for several years. One of the potential areas for use of the BrahMos by the Philippines is the South China Sea. In 2016, the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Hague ruled that a specific portion of the South China Sea claimed by both China and the Philippines belonged to the Philippines alone. China rejected the ruling and has continued to send its vessels into the disputed waters. The Philippines military is currently implementing a revised modernisation programme and signed a contract for two corvettes with South Korea’s Hyundai Heavy Industries on December 28. The Philippines also plans to sign contracts for 36 Black Hawk helicopters and six offshore patrol vessels in 2022. Former Indian Navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash said about the BrahMos deal in a tweet: “This is a long-delayed decision, which could alter the India-China strategic equation. By arming its Indo-Pacific friends, India not only helps bolster their security, but also gives China a dose of its own medicine! Vietnam & Indonesia, too, are waiting.” 
14-01-2022||India||How fast is Covid's 3rd wave? Karnataka health minister shows data as Bengaluru reports over 20,000 infections||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar who is a physician on Friday claimed that the ongoing third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is much faster than the first two waves. According to Karnataka's pandemic figures, a comparison of which was published by the health ministry, in the first wave the doubling rate of the Covid-19 cases started with 2 days and then reached 33 days. In the second wave, the rate declined from 10 days to 8 days, but in the ongoing third wave which, according to the state figures, started from December 27, the doubling rate remained between 3-5 days. 3rd wave is much faster than the first two waves. How fast is it actually? Here's a look at the doubling rates of all three waves.#COVID19 #Omicron #ThirdWave #doublingrate pic.twitter.com/GmmViAn2aHWhat is the doubling rate? The number of days in which the cases become double in numbers denote the doubling rate of Covid. If the doubling rate is low, it means the virus is spreading faster. In Karnataka, the doubling rate between December 27, 2021, and January 9, 2022, remained 3 days. And the rate is only going down with the fast spread of Omicron, which is driving the present surge. While on January 9, Karnataka reported 12,000 infections, on Friday, Bengaluru alone reported over 20,000 infections. Karnataka accounted for 28,723 cases with a positivity rate of 12.98%.Hospitalisation is much lower during the ongoing wave, the health minister said showing data. But he asserted that this is not a reason for complacency. In the 2nd week of May 2021, there were over 3 lakh active cases in Karnataka and the hospitalisation rate was 22%. In the first 11 days of January, the active cases reached over 62,000 with only 6% hospitalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-fast-is-covid-s-3rd-wave-karnataka-health-minister-shows-data-as-bengaluru-reports-over-20-000-infections-101642172689877.html
14-01-2022||India||Activist Prashant Rahi acquitted in 2007 Maoist case||RUDRAPUR: The Uddam Singh Nagar district session court has acquitted activist Prashant Rahi and three others who were accused on the charges of sedition and waging war against the State. “Four persons including a resident of Maharashtra and a woman have been acquitted by the session court of US Nagar from the sedition and waging a war against the State charges. We are moving to the high court for appeal against the verdict,” said Laxmi Narayan Patwa, additional district government counsel (ADGC)-crime, US Nagar on Friday. According to the police, an FIR was lodged on December 20, 2007 by the then local intelligence unit (LIU) inspector BL Madhwal in Nanakmatta police station of US Nagar against Prashant Rahi of Nasik in Maharashtra, Gopal Datt Bhatt, Khim Singh Bora (both from Haldwani) and Devendra Chamyal of Almora. They were booked under sections of waging war against the State, sedition, provocation for causing riots and conspiracy. Rahi was arrested from Hanspur Khatta forest of Nanakmatta on December 22, 2007. Later, Deepak Chandra Pandey alias Chetan of Kashipur and Chandrakala of Haldwani were also named in the FIR and arrested in 2008 and 2009 respectively. All four had been on bail from the court since 2011. But Rahi was arrested by Maharashtra police in 2013 under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and is still in jail in Maharashtra after conviction for a Gadchiroli case. Police recovered a laptop, pen drive and CDs from Rahi and sent those to the Computer Forensic Science Division in Hyderabad for examinations. Their report verified that whatever data was found in the laptop and CD was related with Naxalites activities, said ADGC Laxmi Narayan Patwa. On January 7, Rahi, Chetan, Bhatt and Chandrakala were acquitted by the court of session judge Prem Singh Khimal from all charges giving them benefit of doubt. Prosecution failed to produce concrete evidence to prove the charges, a government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-prashant-rahi-acquitted-in-2007-maoist-case-101642172228912.html
14-01-2022||India||Pilot’s disorientation in bad weather led to CDS Bipin Rawat chopper crash: IAF||NEW DELHI: The December 8 Mi-17V5 crash in which India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat was killed along with 13 others took place due to spatial disorientation of the pilot in bad weather, the Indian Air Force (IAF) said on Friday in its first official statement on the accident. “The accident was a result of (the chopper’s) entry into clouds due to unexpected change in weather conditions in the valley. This led to spatial disorientation of the pilot resulting in controlled flight into terrain (CFIT),” the statement said, referring to the preliminary findings of a tri-services probe. Hindustan Times reported on January 5 that the crash was most likely a CFIT accident with cloudy weather a contributory factor.In aviation parlance, CFIT refers to the accidental collision with terrain of an airworthy aircraft under the flight crew’s full control. In such accidents, the pilot or crew is unaware of the looming danger until it is too late. Loss of situational awareness is a major factor leading to CFIT accidents, as previously reported. The probe ruled out negligence.The court of inquiry has ruled out mechanical failure, sabotage or negligence as a cause of the accident, the air force said. “The inquiry team analysed the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder besides questioning all available witnesses to determine the most probable cause of the accident,” the statement added. The recommendations made by the court of inquiry to prevent such accidents are being reviewed. IAF on January 5 made a detailed presentation to defence minister Rajnath Singh on the inquiry report into the Mi-17V5 accident. The Russian-origin helicopter, considered extremely safe and reliable, was fully serviceable when it crashed near Coonoor. The low-flying helicopter flew into a cloud cover seconds before it went down in a fireball, barely seven minutes before it was scheduled to land in Wellington.The helicopter took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48am and was scheduled to land at the helipad at the Wellington golf course at 12.15pm. The air traffic control at Sulur, however, lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08pm, 20 minutes after it took off. IAF is expected to review protocols governing flights ferrying important people. Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to deliver a talk when the Mi-17V5 crashed. Those killed in the crash included the CDS’s wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, his defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder, Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, the pilot of the Mi-17V5, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, the co-pilot, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja. The sole survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, breathed his last on December 15 after putting up a week-long fight against death. Developed by Russian Helicopters, the Mi-17V5 is designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment. The Mi-17V5 can carry a load of around four tonnes in a full cargo role. It can also insert assault forces behind the enemy lines, a role frequently demonstrated by the IAF during military exercises. The helicopter is equipped with modern avionics, a self-defence system and other advanced features that enhance its survivability. The Mi-17V5, which has an armoured cockpit, can be fitted with rockets, cannons and small arms for carrying out offensive roles. It has a service ceiling of 6,000 metre, top speed of 250 kmph and a maximum range of around 1,180 km with additional fuel tanks.
14-01-2022||India||Delhi, Colombo should build on Trincomalee deal with broader strategy’: Lankan envoy||NEW DELHI: India and Sri Lanka should forge a larger strategic framework that builds on the Indian presence in key projects such as the Trincomalee oil tank farm and Colombo port and benefits both countries, Sri Lankan high commissioner Milinda Moragoda has said.Moragoda sought to play down Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi’s recent remarks that no “third party” should interfere in China-Sri Lanka ties by citing the comments of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, who said that China is a very close friend of Sri Lanka while India “is our brother and sister”.Sri Lanka inked a deal with a subsidiary of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) last week for the long-gestating project to refurbish and develop the British-era Trincomalee oil farm, an 850-acre storage facility with a capacity of almost one million tonnes.State-owned Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Adani Group finalised a deal last year to develop the west container terminal at Colombo port. Dredging work at the terminal is expected to start later this month. In an “integrated country strategy” document that Moragoda prepared before assuming office in India last year, he suggested that the two sides should evolve from a transactional stage to a strategic, and then a special relationship. He said in an interview on Thursday the time has come for both sides to move on from the transactional phase and look at the bigger picture, including integrating Sri Lanka into India’s overall energy security policy.“The west terminal [at Colombo port] and the tank farm are two very important transactions, As I see it, the two sides should move seamlessly into the strategic area,” he said, adding he perceived the Trincomalee deal as “integrating Sri Lanka with India in the petroleum, oil and gas sector”.The two sides should jointly develop a business plan for the Trincomalee tank farm that accounts for projections that India’s energy needs will grow by 50% by 2030 and the need for refining capacity will go up 30%. The two sides can look into joint oil and gas exploration in the Cauvery basin and developing a refining facility at Trincomalee, Moragoda said.“For us, Trincomalee could potentially be a petroleum hub for India, both for storage and refining. Trincomalee can only service India, it is too far away from sea lanes...We need to think strategically and that’s going to be the next step. Looking at this narrowly as a tank farm transaction would be wrong,” he said.Oil storage and refining facilities at Trincomalee will also boost Sri Lanka’s energy security. “As India is the world’s third-largest energy consumer, it can get much better deals for petroleum than Sri Lanka. We can work with India on our requirements and it will give us energy security,” he said.Asked about Chinese foreign minister Wang’s remarks, during a recent visit to Colombo, that no “third party” should interfere in China-Sri Lanka relations, Moragoda said: “For us, the relationship with India is the relationship with India. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa always has a very pithy way of putting things and when he was asked about this, he always said China is a very close friend, but India is our brother and sister.”He added, “So it’s a different relationship. For us to interpret that comment doesn’t make sense, given the relationship with India.”Wang’s remarks were widely perceived in New Delhi as a reference to India, especially against the backdrop of India’s opposition to projects under the Belt and Road Initiative in the neighbourhood.Cooperation on the Trincomalee tank farm, held up since 1987, has been followed by Indian assistance for Sri Lanka to overcome a severe economic crisis, including depleting foreign currency reserves that experts believe can lead to a default on external debt. Following a meeting with Indian envoy Gopal Baglay in Colombo on Thursday, Sri Lanka’s Central Bank governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal tweeted India will provide a Saarc currency swap and other forms of cooperation.The Saarc currency swap will be for $400 million and India has deferred $500 million due to the Asian Clearing Union for two months. Moragoda said more developments are expected in this regard in the coming weeks.Sri Lanka expects to get a revolving credit line of $500 million from India’s Exim Bank for buying petrol and diesel and another package for emergency purchases of food and medicines. Steps are being taken to operationalise a line of credit offered by India for counter-terrorism efforts and a grant for a naval floating dock, Moragoda said.“Sri Lanka is the largest recipient of Indian defence scholarships, and at any time 600 to 700 of our personnel are training in India. We want to increase this and expand it to the police,” he said.“We’re planning to use the Aadhar card as a template for Sri Lanka’s ID card. Our president is very, very enthusiastic about it. He’s also the minister in-charge of the science and technology sector. Those discussions are ongoing,” he added. 
14-01-2022||India||PM Modi to interact with over 150 startups on January 15||NEW DELHI: As part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’s week-long event, Celebrating Innovation Ecosystem, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be interacting with startups from various fields and will attend presentations made by them on January 15. In the 6th year of the government’s flagship initiative Startup India, startups from different sectors, including agriculture, health, enterprise systems, space, industry 4.0, security, fintech, and environment, will meet and interact with the Prime Minister. “More than 150 startups have been divided into six working groups based on themes including Growing from Roots; Nudging the DNA; From Local to Global; Technology of Future; Building Champions in Manufacturing; and Sustainable Development,” announced the Prime Minister’s Office. Each group will then make a presentation to PM Modi. The interaction between the PM and the startups aims to understand how startups can successfully contribute to the nation’s needs. The PM’s Office added that PM Modi has been a firm believer in the potential that startups hold in contributing to the growth and development of the nation. Reminiscing success of the past years, the PMO added, “This has had a tremendous impact on the startup ecosystem in the country, and has led to a staggering growth of unicorns in the country.” In June 2021, the government announced that under the Startup India flagship, over 50,000 startups have been recognised since the initiative’s creation in 2016, and since then 5.5 lakh jobs have been created. Startup India initiative was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 16, 2016 with an intention to catalyse startup culture and build a strong and inclusive ecosystem for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry acts as the nodal department for the initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-over-150-startups-on-january-15-101642167728564.html
14-01-2022||India||CDS chopper crash: Bipin Rawat's copter entered into clouds because of sudden weather change, says preliminary report||The preliminary finding of the tri-service investigation into the fatal crash of the Mi-17V5, which led to the death of all 14 who were on board, including Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, has ruled out mechanical failure, sabotage or negligence as the cause of the accident. The inquiry team said the accident was a result of the helicopter entering into the clouds due to an unexpected change in the weather conditions in the valley in Tamil Nadu, where it crashed. The change of weather led to spatial disorientation of the pilot resulting in a controlled flight into terrain, a statement issued by the defence ministry said. This is the official finding of the tri-service investigation team headed by Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari and Air Marshal Manvendra Singh. On January 5, they apprised defence minister Rajnath Singh on the findings of the probe.CDS Rawat chopper crash a CFIT accident, say officialsIt was reported that the crash in Coonor was a controlled flight into terrain accident which refers to the accidental collision with terrain of an airworthy aircraft under the flight crew’s full control. In such accidents, the pilot or the crew are unaware of the danger until it is too late, according to the US Federal Aviation Administration.Such CFIT may take place because of human error or a navigation problem as well which, however, have been ruled out in this particular case, in the official findings.On December 8, CDS Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 other Army personnel boarded the copter from Sulur airbase to Wellington airbase. Minutes before the copter was scheduled to reach its destination, the Sulur airbase control room lost contact with the chopper.Visuals of the helicopter captured by locals before the crash had shown that the chopper was flying at a low altitude and it was cloudy.Bipin Rawat's defence advisor Brigadier LS Lidder, staff officer to the Chief of Defence Staff, Lt Col Harjinder Singh and decorated pilot Group Captain Varun Singh were among 13 others killed in the crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-chopper-crash-primary-report-rules-out-mechanical-failure-negligence-101642166924147.html
14-01-2022||India||Kerala nun rape: unusual case that witnessed many twists and turns||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala nun rape case, in which a court in Kottayam on Friday acquitted bishop Franco Mullakal of all charges, was the first case in the country in which a bishop was the accused and the complainant was a nun who once worked under him. Earlier many priests have faced sexual harassment and assault charges from believers, but this is the first time one from the ordained flock turned against the powerful diocese head attracting widespread attention. The unusual case witnessed many twists and turns in three years including some medical tests on the victim (there is a bar on reporting court proceedings) and some witnesses have turned hostile. Though many activists and a miniscule section of the clergy rallied behind agitating nuns the powerful church stood with the Bishop. And some churches in Kottayam held special prayers each time he appeared in the court. And once acquitted, Franco Mullakal did his routine, attending a holy mass in a church in Kallathipadi in Kottayam on Friday. Interestingly, Mullakal was the first to approach the police. In a complaint to Kottayam SP S Harishankar in the first week of May 2018, he said a nun and her relatives were planning to hoist a sexual harassment case on him for removing her from the post of the Mother Superior. Later the police registered a case based on his complaint. At that time the nun was reportedly running around church heads with her alleged rape compliant including Cardinal Mar George Alancherry, the senior-most Catholic priest of the country. She also appealed to the Vatican envoy, her fellow nuns later said, adding she turned to police as a last resort. Almost a month later, she filed a complaint with Kuruvilanghad police station in June 2018 in which she said she was sexually assaulted by the bishop several times between 2014 and 2018. She said he also subjected her to unnatural sex and criminal intimidation and she was scared to open up. In the FIR she said the first assault took place on April 24, 2014 at room no. 20 of the church guest house at Kuruvilanghad, Kottayam. The case attracted national attention after five fellow nuns, who came in support of the victim, started a sit-in protest on September 8 in Kochi seeking the arrest of Mullakal. Their protests continued till his arrest on September 21, 2018. Mullakkal spent 25 days in jail, and later he got the bail. The special investigation team filed the charge-sheet on April 9, 2010 and the trial began in September 2020. Some of the witnesses were high-profile ones. Besides Cardinal Allancherry and Bishops of Bhagalpur and Ujjain, 25 nuns and 11 priests were there among the 83 witnesses. Fourteen witnesses turned hostile. There were many attempts to delay the trial and Mullakal’s discharge pleas were rejected by the Kerala high court and the Supreme Court.The trial was further delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. During the trial in July 2020, Mullakkal reportedly abstained from hearing saying that his area was declared as a containment zone but later prosecution submitted a list of the containment zones in Jalandhar in which the Bishop’s house was not there. Later the court threatened to cancel his bail forcing him to appear before it during the trial. 
14-01-2022||India||Scientists find gene that increases risk of dying from Covid, it's estimated to be present in 27% of Indian population||Polish scientists have discovered a gene that they say more than doubles the risk of falling severely ill with, or even dying from Covid-19.The health ministry in Warsaw, Poland, expects the discovery to help identify people who are most at risk from the disease, which has already killed more than 100,000 people in Poland alone. It also plans to include genetic tests when it screens patients for potential Covid-19 infections as soon as the end of June.The research from the Medical University of Bialystok estimates that the gene could be present in about 14% of the Polish population, compared with around 9% in Europe and 27% in India. It’s the fourth most important factor determining the severity of the illness after age, weight and gender, it said.  A genetic test “may help to better identify people who, in the event of an infection, may be at risk of an acute disease, even before the infection develops,” said Marcin Moniuszko, a professor in charge of the study, which was carried out with the participation of almost 1,500 Poles. The ministry didn’t say if the research had been peer-reviewed.The discovery may explain one of the reasons -- other than vaccination hesitancy -- behind the country’s high Covid-19 death toll. The average excess mortality during the pandemic is above 20%, one of the worst results in the European Union, Eurostat data show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polish-scientists-discover-gene-that-increases-risk-of-dying-from-covid19-101642164100690.html
14-01-2022||India||‘Ill informed & incorrect’: Centre on vaccine shortage in Maharashtra, says adequate doses remain with state||The Union health ministry on Friday denied media reports on Covid-19 vaccine shortage in the state of Maharashtra and called them “ill informed and incorrect”.Further, citing data available with the ministry as of date, it also said that the state had 2.4 million doses of Covaxin and 12.4 million doses of the Covishield vaccine remaining unutilised with it, which would last for 10 days and 30 days respectively.“Maharashtra has over 24 lakh unutilized doses of Covaxin available with it. An additional 6.35 lakh doses have been received today. As per their weekly consumption data available on Co-WIN, the average consumption by Maharashtra for Covaxin to cover the eligible beneficiaries for 15-17 years and for precaution dose is almost 2.94 lakh doses per day. Therefore, the State has adequate vaccine doses for about 10 days to cover the eligible beneficiaries with Covaxin,” the ministry said in its clarification.Also read | Maharashtra seeks 9 million jabs, urges Centre to make vaccination mandatory“Furthermore, for Covishield, the state has 1.24 crore unutilized and balance doses available as on date. With an average consumption of 3.57 lakhs per day, this will sustain for more than 30 days for the beneficiaries to be vaccinated using the vaccine,” it added, saying that the media reports were not “factually correct” and “does not represent the correct picture” regarding the vaccine availability in Maharashtra.The ministry’s statement came a day after state health minister Rajesh Tope, on Thursday, demanded additional vaccine shots from the Centre, saying that there was a shortage due to the administration of precautionary third doses and the inclusion of beneficiaries in the 15 to 17 age group.“Vaccination drive for teenagers and precaution doses are being given to senior citizens, frontline and healthcare workers. Due to this, we are facing the shortage of Covaxin and Covishield. We have demanded additional 50 lakh Covishield doses and 40 lakh Covaxin doses from the Central government,” news agency ANI quoted Tope as saying.As many as 142,460,889 doses of the vaccine have been administered in Maharashtra so far, including 262,409 precautionary doses. Also, 2,427,711 doses have been administered to those in the 15 to 17 group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ill-informed-incorrect-centre-on-vaccine-shortage-in-maharashtra-says-adequate-doses-remain-with-state-101642164564435.html
14-01-2022||India||IED found at Ghazipur market: Proper recce was done before planting bomb, say cops||A proper recce was done before planting the IED outside the gate of East Delhi's Ghazipur flower market, Delhi Police said on Friday after a bomb disposal squad of the National Security Guard defused the IED in the afternoon. The weight of the recovered IED was approximately 3 kg which indicates the extent of damage that it could have caused in the Capital, ahead of Republic Day. The cops are checking CCTV footage to identify the accused. Video footage of the CCTV cameras placed nearby has already been sourced. The NSG has found chemical compounds like RDX and ammonium nitrate in the composition of the IED. There were some sharpnel embedded, NSG director general M A Ganapathy told PTI.Delhi Police received a call in the control room at around 10.30am about an unattended bag in the flower market. According to reports, the call was from a person whose scooter was parked at the gate.The explosive was kept in an iron box and concealed in the black coloured backpack.NSG was alerted by the Delhi Police about the suspicious object around 11am and soon after a team of its bomb detection and disposal experts and a heavy metal container called a total containment vessel tugged to a truck reached the market. The IED was destroyed around 1.30pm by using a controlled explosion technique after it was lowered into a deep pit located in the area."It is suspected that the alleged person did the recce before planting the bomb and we suspect there was a timer placed inside the bomb. The investigation is still underway to ascertain who and how was the bomber placed," a senior police official said.Two teams including senior experts of Rohini's Forensic Science Laboratory at currently at the spot for inspection and collection of exhibits, officials said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ied-found-at-ghazipur-market-proper-recce-was-done-before-planting-bomb-say-cops-101642163098027.html
14-01-2022||India||Bulli Bai accused Shweta Singh, Mayank Rawat sent to 14-day judicial custody||A local court in Mumbai has sent Shweta Singh (18) and her friend Mayank Rawat (20) into 14-day judicial custody till January 28 in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case, news agency ANI reported quoting Mayank's lawyer Sandeep Sherkhane.The lawyer further stated that both the accused have filed a bail plea in the Bandra court, and hearing on the same will take place on Monday (January 17).Shweta and Mayank's police remand ended earlier in the day. Following it, she was produced before the local court, but Mayank could not be due to testing positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).
14-01-2022||India||Taking custody of bride's jewellery for safety not cruelty under Section 498A of IPC, says SC||Taking custody of daughter-in-law's jewellery for safety cannot constitute cruelty under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code, the Supreme Court has said.A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and J K Maheshwari said that failure to control an adult brother, living independently, or giving advice to adjust to sister-in-law to avoid retaliation cannot constitute cruelty to the bride within the meaning of Section 498A of the IPC.Section 498 A refers to husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty. The case was lodged by a woman against her husband and in-laws for subjecting her to cruelty.The apex court's observations came while hearing an appeal against an order passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana dismissing a plea by a man seeking permission to return to the US, where he is employed.The high court had rejected the man's prayer to leave the country as he was arrayed as an accused along with his elder brother and parents under sections Sections 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 34 (common intention), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) 498A and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.“Taking custody of jewellery for safety cannot constitute cruelty within the meaning of Section 498A of the IPC.“Failure to control an adult brother, living independently, or giving advice to the complainant to adjust to avoid vindictive retaliation cannot constitute cruelty on the part of the Appellant within the meaning of Section 498A of the IPC,” the apex court bench said in a recent order.It said the complainant (daughter-in-law) has not given any particulars of the jewellery that had allegedly been taken by her mother-in-law and brother-in- law.There is not a whisper of whether any jewellery is lying with the petitioner, it said.“There is only a general omnibus allegation that all the accused ruined the life of the complainant by misrepresentation, concealment, etc…“The Appellant is not liable for the acts of cruelty, or any other wrongful and/or criminal acts on the part of his parents or brother,” the apex court said.The top court said considering the nature of the allegations, it is not understood how and why the petitioner should have been detained in India.  “In our considered opinion, the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Kurukshetra, erred in directing the appellant not to leave the country without prior permission of the Court.It said the allegations in the complaint against the petitioner prima facie do not disclose any offence under Section 498A of the IPC, which contemplates cruelty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taking-custody-of-bride-s-jewellery-for-safety-not-cruelty-under-section-498a-of-ipc-says-sc-101642161670995.html
14-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 2021 was the fifth warmest year for India, shows IMD data and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.2021 was the fifth warmest year for India since 1901, reveals IMD dataLast year was the fifth warmest for India in the last 121 years - after 2016, 2009, 2017 and 2010 - according to the Annual Climate Statement 2021 released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday. Read MoreMajor collision between two India-bound flights averted in Dubai: ReportUAE's aviation investigations body The Air Accident Investigation Sector has launched a probe into the near-collision situation that was created at Dubai Airport on January 9 as two India-bound flights were scheduled for take-off on one runway, in a gap of five minutes. Read MoreHaridwar Dharam Sansad: Yati Narasinghanand threatens Uttarakhand policeHaridwar Dharam Sansad organiser Yati Narsinghanand who is notorious for his anti-Muslim speeches was caught on camera threatening Uttarakhand police personnel after they arrested his aide Wasim Rizvi alias Jitendra Tyagi in the hate speech case. Watch NowShilpa Shetty enjoys Tilgul, wishes Happy Makar Sankranti and Pongal with adorable video: WatchActor and fitness enthusiast Shilpa Shetty Kundra has a special wish for her fans today, on the occasion of Makar Sankranti and Pongal. Watch Now'You can't act like that': Vaughan wants Kohli to be 'fined' and 'suspended' for DRS outburst, says 'ICC must step in'Virat Kohli doesn't hold back from showing his emotions on the field and the world witnessed another episode of the Indian Test skipper's on-field outburst. Read NowYeh Kaali Kaali Ankhein review: A tepid tale of love and obsession saved by Tahir Raj Bhasin, Anchal SinghIndian cinema is no stranger to the femme fatale. From Madhubala in Howrah Bridge to Aishwarya Rai in Khakee, we have seen a wide range of top actresses play the charming seductress to perfection. Read NowMeghalaya CM Conrad Sangma posts video of ‘most amazing’ runway on hilltopA video shared by Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma has created a chatter on Instagram. The video shows an aircraft taking off from the Pakyong airport in Sikkim. Watch Now||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-2021-was-the-fifth-warmest-year-for-india-shows-imd-data-and-all-the-latest-news-101642157415352.html
14-01-2022||India||‘A massive jerk, followed by two more’: Survivors recount Bengal train tragedy||SILIGURI: It just needed three jerks to finish everything, says Rishab Mishra from Lucknow, one among the lucky passengers whose life got saved miraculously while travelling in the Guwahati-bound Bikaner Express, which got derailed at Jalpaiguri in north Bengal on Thursday evening, leaving nine passengers dead and at least 36 injured. Mishra, who was going from Kanpur to Guwahati in the S6 coach, said: “The train crossed the Jalpaiguri Road station running at full speed. Just half an hour later, I felt sudden jerk and most of the passengers tumbled down from the upper berths. Moments later came a second jerk and by that time all passengers were on the floor. Immediately after came the third jerk and by that time everything was finished.” Twelve coaches of the train got derailed in the accident. Mishra’s description matched exactly with the version of the driver Pradip Kumar, who escaped unscathed and later spoke to media persons. “All the signals including the home signal, starter and advanced were showing green. The train was given a go ahead by the station master of the approaching station and we were moving ahead. But as we approached the advanced signal, I felt a sudden jerk. It was a massive jerk and the engine started swaying,” said Kumar. Out of instinct he applied the emergency brakes and the train came to a grinding halt. As he peeped out of the window he saw a cloud of dust. “I immediately climbed down and went to the rear end. I didn’t have to go too far. There the compartments were lying derailed and crumbled on top of another like some matchboxes,” he added. Another passenger Siddharth from Kerala who was travelling from New Jalpaiguri to Guwahati in coach number S3 said: “All coaches after the one in which I was travelling derailed at around 5 pm and I saw many dying in front of my eyes.” He boarded the special train arranged by the railways and reached Guwahati on Friday morning. Rukia Khatun was travelling from Jaipur to Guwahati with her seven-year-old daughter Sahita. As everything turned haywire, Sahita went missing and Rukia was crying and praying for her daughter’s safety till late Thursday night. Krishna Das a resident of Uttar Maumamari under Mynaguri police station, Jalpaiguri district, where the accident happened had gone to buy potatoes when he heard a big bang. Das said: “I saw the train coaches derailing and the coach S5 riding on S6. I rushed to the accident site and rescued four people. One of them died while I was still holding him.” Gautam Barman a resident of Cooch Behar who was brought with minor injury on his left hand said: “I was to get down at New Cooch Behar station and I was preparing for the same.” Travelling in S6 coach, he was near the bathroom where there was no crowd. “When the first jerk came at 5 pm, passengers started falling over each other. I would have died or injured seriously had I not gone near the bathroom,” he told reporters at Jalpaiguri district hospital where he was admitted and released on Friday morning. 
14-01-2022||India||Major collision between two India-bound flights averted in Dubai, probe ordered: Reports||UAE's aviation investigations body The Air Accident Investigation Sector has launched a probe into the near-collision situation that was created at Dubai Airport on January 9 as two India-bound flights were scheduled for take-off on one runway, in a gap of five minutes. Hundreds of lives were saved after the take-off was immediately rejected, news agency ANI reported."EK-524 from Dubai-Hyderabad was accelerating for take-off from runway 30R, when the crew saw an aircraft coming in the same direction at high speed. Take-off was immediately instructed by ATC to be rejected. The aircraft slowed down safely and cleared the runway via taxiway N4, which crossed the runway. Another emirates flight EK-568, from Dubai to Bangalore, was rolling for departure was to take-off from same runway 30R," a person aware of the incident told ANI.The Bengaluru-bound flight took off and the Hyderabad-bound flight went back to the taxi bay to wait. Confirming that such a safety breach took place on January 9, Emirates AIR said there was no aircraft damage. "On 9 January, flight EK524 was instructed by air traffic control to reject take-off on departure from Dubai and this was completed successfully," the airline said. An internal probe has also been initiated.According to insiders, it was a near-disaster incident. Apparently, the Hyderabad-bound flight was on the runway without getting clearance to take off, Aviation Herald reported. The air traffic control had cleared the Bengaluru-bound flight for take-off. The Hyderabad-bound flight was ordered to abort the take-off. At that time, the plane had travelled 2,600 feet down the runway and reached the speed of 130 knots. The pilots were successful to slow down the plane from its high speed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-collision-between-two-india-bound-flights-averted-in-dubai-probe-ordered-report-101642156725718.html
14-01-2022||India||Why children are getting more infected by Covid during 3rd wave: Experts answer||In the first two waves of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, children were the least affected population, but now they are increasingly getting infected in the third wave, driven by the Omicron variant. Experts said more data is required from India to find out whether there is an increase in the rate of infection in India. In a seminar organised by AIIMS on managing children with Covid-19, Dr Rakesh Lodha, Head, Professor, Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, AIIMS, Delhi, said there are many likely reasons why children are getting frequently affected -- more contagious Omicron being the primary reason.Apart from that, lowering of the guard, complete state of unlocking, mass gatherings, lack of adherence to distancing and mask etc have contributed to the vulnerability.There has been no dramatic increase in the number of children getting infected, Dr Lodha said, adding that the absolute numbers have increased proportionately to the increase in the number of cases.Children were so far somewhat protected from Covid as fewer children have comorbidities. Also, children respond to the virus in a better way. Omicron, however, has become like measles with an R-value of around 10 (global). "The Omicron is clearly more contagious and against the values of R nought, which kind of gives an idea about how contagious it is, how easily it can spread. Various groups have estimated it to be much higher than what was there for delta and for the original virus. It's believed to be more than seven, some groups have estimated even to be close to 10 or more than 10. And in that scenario, it comes close to measles which is a highly contagious disease that we see children," Dr Lodha said."There is also been a lot of concern about the severity of illness in children in this current wave with some reports from hospitals in the US claiming that they are seeing an increased number of children being admitted," AIIMS, New Delhi, Director Dr Randeep Guleria said.Symptoms of Covid-19 in children and treatment according to guidelinesMild symptoms: Fever, sore throat, rhinorrhea, cough.Treatment: Home isolation, paracetamol 10-15mg/kg/dose, may repeat every 4-6 hours. Warm saline gargles in older children, adequate nutrition and hydration.Cough suppressants, antibiotics, steroids, molnupiravir, fluvoxamine, sortrovimab etc., are not indicatedDanger signs: Difficulty in breathing, blue ips or face, chest pain, new confusion, inability to drink or keep down any liquids, not interacting when awakeModerate symptoms: Fast breathing, Oxygen level between 90 to 94%.Treatment: Admit in a dedicated Covid facility.Severe: ARDS, Sepsis, septic shock, MODS, Oxygen level below 90%Treatment: Admit in hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-children-are-getting-infected-by-covid-during-3rd-wave-experts-answer-101642155168321.html
14-01-2022||India||2021 was the fifth warmest year for India since 1901, reveals IMD data||NEW DELHI: Last year was the fifth warmest for India in the last 121 years - after 2016, 2009, 2017 and 2010 - according to the Annual Climate Statement 2021 released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday. The revelation comes in the backdrop of an intensifying global fight against the ongoing climate crisis.The mean air temperature in 2021 was 0.44 degrees Celsius above normal, says the IMD report. In 2016, the mean air temperature was 0.71°C higher than normal; 0.55°C in 2009; 0.54°C in 2017 and 0.53°C in 2010. In the 121 years between 1901 and last year, the mean temperature rose by 0.63°C above normal.IMD scientists said a particularly warm winter and the post-monsoon season in 2021 led to the increase in mean temperature last year.In the winter months of January and February last year, the seasonal mean temperature was 0.78°C above normal and during the post monsoon season, between October and December, the mean temperature was 0.42°C higher than normal.Also Read: John Kerry to visit India soon to take climate dialogue forwardAlso, the country last year witnessed a rise in the annual rainfall, which was 105% of its long-period average (LPA). Rainfall during the southwest monsoon season, from June to September, was normal at 99% of the LPA. Notably, the northeast monsoon period saw rainfall at 171% of the LPA - record highest since 1901.Heavy rainfall and flood-related incidents claimed over 750 lives last year, while thunderstorms and lightning killed at least 780 people in different parts of the country, the IMD data shows.There were five cyclonic storms in 2021 - Tauktae over the Arabian Sea (May 14-19); Yaas over the Bay of Bengal (May 23-28); Shaheen over the Arabian Sea (September 29-October 4); Gulab over the Bay of Bengal (September 24-28) and most recently, Jawad over the Bay of Bengal (December 2-6). The most devastating of them was Tauktae, which slammed the Saurashtra coastline on May 17, eventually claiming at least 144 lives.On Thursday, Nasa and the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) released analyses of global weather station and ocean measurements that showed the last eight years were the hottest in global records that date to 1880, with 2021 ranking as the sixth-hottest year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2021-was-the-fifth-warmest-year-for-india-since-1901-reveals-imd-data-101642152067268.html
14-01-2022||India||Madhya Pradesh govt to bring in law to regulate online gaming: Minister||Taking note of the rising incidents of children getting addicted to online games and taking extreme steps, Madhya Pradesh Minister Narottam Mishra has said that the state government will bring in an act to regulate gaming applications on mobile phones. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Mishra referred to the alleged suicide by an 11-year-old boy here while playing Free Fire game. “The Free Fire game that caused the tragic incident is a very serious issue. We will bring an act in Madhya Pradesh to regulate online gaming. The draft is almost ready for it. We will soon give it a concrete shape,” the state home minister said. According to the police, Suryansh Ojha allegedly committed suicide, while playing Free Fire game with his cousin in a room on the terrace of their house in Bhopal’s Shankracharya Nagar. When his cousin stepped out, Suryansh allegedly hanged himself using a rope used for setting up a punching bag in the room. The boy's family immediately rushed him to a hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival, it was stated. The post-mortem report has confirmed that the boy had died of hanging, an official said on Friday. Prima facie, it appears that the boy took the extreme step because he was too involved in online games, he said. The boy was hyperactive and addicted to online gaming, additional deputy commissioner of police Ankit Jaiswal said. Suryansh had even stolen money from his home to pay for a gaming application and his parents scolded him for that, the official said. “The cause behind the extreme step is being ascertained. However, it looks like it just happened while playing the online game or practising some acts shown in it,” Jaiswal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-to-bring-in-law-to-regulate-online-gaming-minister-101642151420140.html
14-01-2022||India||Ghazipur bomb scare: NSG carries out controlled explosion found at flower market||The National Security Guard carried out a controlled explosion of the IED found at East Delhi's Ghazipur flower market. The unattended bag, suspected to be containing an IED, was found at the Ghazipur flower market on Friday morning, triggering panic, ahead of Republic Day. Police officers said they received information about the bag at around 10.30am. Officials from the Special Cell of the Delhi Police, NSG's bomb detection and disposal team and fire tenders were pressed into action. The NSG team carried out a controlled explosion of the IED found in the bag.Locals said around 1.45pm, an earthmover was used to dig a hole in the ground in which the IED was placed. Then the hole was covered and the IED was defused.Watch video #WATCH | Delhi: National Security Guard (NSG) carries out a controlled explosion of the IED found at East Delhi's Ghazipur Flower Market pic.twitter.com/tV0PMYxSLFThe entire area has been cordoned off. Special cell sleuths are inspecting the pavement outside the gate where the IED bag was reportedly kept. Sniffer dogs have been brought to the place as cops are investigating. Delhi Police have registered a case. Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana said, "Based on the information received, an IED has been recovered."The National Security Guard said it received the information from the Delhi Police at around 11am and the explosive was refused around 1.30pm. The weight of recovered IED recovered was approximately 3 kg. The NSG team will submit a report on the chemical component used to assemble the explosive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghazipur-bomb-scare-nsg-carries-out-controlled-explosion-found-at-flower-marker-101642149628370.html
14-01-2022||India||‘Glitch in locomotive equipment’: Railway minister on Bikaner-Guwahati train mishap||A preliminary inquiry into the Bikaner-Guwahati train mishap showed there was a glitch in locomotive equipment, Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Friday. At least nine died and left dozens injured after 12 coaches of the Assam-bound train derailed and some overturned near Domohani in West Bengal around 5pm on Thursday.“The Commission of Rail Safety is conducting an inquiry to find the root cause behind the accident," the minister said while visiting the mishap site, adding that the disbursement of ex gratia amount to the families of the victims has begun.Indian Railways has announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh for the family members of those who lost their lives in the accident. Passengers who sustained grievous injuries will get ₹1 lakh, and those with nonserious injuries will get ₹25,000.Vaishnaw informed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is monitoring the situation."A statutory inquiry has been initiated. PM Modi is monitoring the situation and I am in constant touch with him. I wish a speedy recovery to the injured," he said.PM Modi earlier said he spoke to the railway minister to take stock of the situation. “My thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover quickly,” he tweeted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glitch-in-locomotive-equipment-railway-minister-on-bikaner-guwahati-train-mishap-101642147418395.html
14-01-2022||India||Budget Session of Parliament to begin on Jan 31; Union budget on Feb 1||NEW DELHI: Parliament’s Budget Session will be held from January 31 to April 8 with a nearly month-long recess after the first half. The Union budget will be presented on February 1 and the President will address a joint sitting of both Houses.The schedule has been announced amid a spike in Covid-19 cases and the session will coincide with the elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and Uttarakhand.The last five Parliament sessions were curtailed due to the pandemic. Officials said they were exploring options such as a staggered timetables for the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and seating arrangements that take care of social distancing during the Budget Session.“We are looking at various options. But the final decision will depend on the Covid situation towards the end of this month. The Lok Sabha Speaker and the Rajya Sabha chairman will meet around January 25 or 26 to decide how to run the session,” said an official, who did not want to be named. The official added it is unclear whether the session will face any curtailment amid the surge in Covid-19 cases as many lawmakers, key leaders, and officials of both Houses have contracted the disease.A second official said elections in five states are another key factor that might result in a curtailed session.
14-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: High Court asks EC to delay Bengal civic polls amid Covid and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.High court asks EC to consider postponing Bengal civic body polls for 4-6 weeks amid CovidThe Calcutta high court on Friday directed the West Bengal Election Commission to consider postponing civic body polls for four to six weeks in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. Read More'Different festivals signify India's vibrant culture’: PM Modi extends greetingsAs various parts of India celebrate a slew of festivities to mark the end of winters and beginning of harvest season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday greeted the nation and said the different festivals signify the country's vibrant cultural diversity. Read MoreVideo shows largest drinking glass pyramid made using 54,740 champagne glassesGuinness World Records (GWR) often takes to Instagram to share various videos that showcase different types of records. This video posted on their page is one such clip. It showcases a record involving 54,740 champagne glasses. Watch Now'Can't be a role model in this manner': Furious Gambhir lambasts 'immature' Kohli for 'exaggerated' stump-mic reactionFormer Indian cricketer Gautam Gambhir was left absolutely furious with India captain Virat Kohli's stump-mic antics during the third Test against South Africa in Cape Town on Thursday. Read MoreHuman review: Shefali Shah gives a vicious performance in series about Big Pharma’s crimesThe Disney+ Hotstar series Human is a bombastic indictment of the pharmaceutical industry and private healthcare’s ravenous appetite for profit at the cost of human lives. Read MoreTiger Shroff's morning cardio workout came with a dance routineTiger Shroff is making us groove to the tunes of Casanova all the while sharing his morning fitness routine. The actor loves to work out and dance – sometimes, he merges the two and makes it a groovy morning cardio routine which will make you get up from the bed and start dancing right away. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-high-court-asks-ec-to-delay-bengal-civic-polls-amid-covid-and-all-the-latest-news-101642143485096.html
14-01-2022||India||High court asks EC to consider postponing Bengal civic body polls for 4-6 weeks amid Covid||The Calcutta high court on Friday directed the West Bengal Election Commission to consider postponing civic body polls for four to six weeks in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. The commission was given 48 hours to clear its stand on the matter.The court was hearing the matter of whether municipal polls should be held in the prevailing pandemic situation. Covid-19 cases have been rising exponentially in the state over the past few days. Bengal is currently among the top contributors in the nationwide of the coronavirus cases.Elections are due in seven municipal corporations of West Bengal, including Asansol Municipal Corporation, Bidhan Nagar Municipal Corporation, Chandernagore Municipal Corporation, Durgapur Municipal Corporation, Howrah Municipal Corporation and Siliguri Municipal Corporation.The state’s polling panel had earlier said that elections in four municipalities - Asansol, Bidhannagar, Siliguri and Chandannagar - would be held as scheduled on January 22 and counting would take place on January 25.However, with Covid-19 cases rising alarmingly, a PIL was filed by an individual Bimal Bhattacharya, who argued that considering the escalating Covid-19 situation, the civic polls should be postponed.On Thursday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the administration was well prepared to tackle the latest Covid surge in the state.She was speaking at a virtual meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, where chief ministers and lieutenant governors of states and Union Territories were present to review the COVID-19 situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-asks-ec-to-consider-postponing-bengal-civic-body-polls-for-4-6-weeks-101642141046118.html
14-01-2022||India||Veteran journalist Kamal Khan, 61, passes away, tributes pour in||Veteran NDTV journalist Kamal Khan passed away at the age of 61 on Friday after suffering a heart attack. Khan is survived by his wife, Ruchi, and their son, Aman.Khan was NDTV’s executive editor. He was a recipient of the Ramnath Goenka Award, and the Ganesh Shanker Vidyarthi Award from the President of India.In an email, the company said, “It is a terrible, terrible day for NDTV. We have lost Kamal Khan; he was 61 and the heart and soul of our Lucknow bureau, an NDTV veteran who had boundless time and kind words for anyone who encountered him.”NDTV further said “Kamal’s reportage over the last decades stood out for its perceptiveness, integrity & the way he delivered hard truths with poetic dexterity. Most of all, he was a wonderful human being, who touched the lives of all those who knew him.”“Sharing this with profound grief , shock and numbness. @kamalkhan_NDTV sir, our long standing Lucknow bureau chief, rock solid journalist, someone we all looked up to for his hard hitting yet poetic report, passed away this morning. Will share more details as and when available,” wrote NDTV’s Alok Pandey on Twitter.Several members of the media fraternity and politicians paid tribute to Khan. Journalist Rajdeep Sardesai said, “Terribly sad news to report this morning. Kamal Khan, NDTV’s fine reporter from Lucknow and a dear dear friend passed away this morning. I will miss you dearly my friend and our long chats. Lots of memories! Devastated. Om shanti”Congress leader and former journalist Supriya Shrinate expressed her grief and offered her condolences. She tweeted, “Shocked to hear about the sudden demise of @kamalkhan_NDTV. Rock solid journalist, a great human being.”Expressing her grief, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati said, "The news of the sudden demise of Kamal Khan, a well-known and eminent TV journalist associated with NDTV, is very sad and irreparable loss to the journalism world. My deepest condolences to his family and all his loved ones. May the nature give everyone the strength to bear this sorrow, wishing from such a nature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-journalist-kamal-khan-61-passes-away-tributes-pour-in-101642139832420.html
14-01-2022||India||Kerala court gives clean chit to Bishop Franco Mullakal in nun rape case||A court in Kottayam on Friday freed bishop Franco Mullakal of all charges in the nun rape case.The verdict absolving the former bishop of Jalandhar Diocese of all charges was pronounced by additional sessions judge G Gopakumar.On his way out of the court, Mulakkal said, "Lord is supreme. Truth prevailed." Initial reports suggested lack of scientific evidence led to his acquittal.Expressing his shock at the verdict, superintendent of police S Harishankar, who supervised the investigation, said the verdict is unbelievable. “We will definitely go for appeal. There are enough corroborative and circumstantial evidence. Wrong to say there are not enough evidences. We are really disappointed. We will go for appeal."Public prosecutor Jithesh G Babu said, “We expected jail for the deposed bishop. The outcome is really shocking.”Sister Anupama, who led the stir, “We will fight it out. We don't know what happened. Trial went on well. We don't know what happened in the end.”“We are ready to die to uphold our cause.  We will fight till we get justice for the rape victim. We will stay at the convent,” the teary-eyed nun said.A heavy police force was seen deployed outside the Kottayam additional sessions court ahead of pronouncement of the verdict. The court had concluded the hearing and reserved its verdict in the case on Monday. Trial in the case had started in November 2019. The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district in 2018.In her police complaint in June 2018, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by Franco, then Bishop of the Jalandhar diocese of Roman Catholic Church, between 2014 and 2016. A Special Investigation team which probed the case, arrested the Bishop and charged him with wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation. The court had restrained the print and electronic media from publishing any matter relating to the trial in the case without its permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-court-gives-clean-chit-to-bishop-franco-mullakal-in-nun-rape-case-101642138625717.html
14-01-2022||India||'Different festivals signify India's vibrant culture’: PM’s message on Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Bhogali Bihu & Uttarayan||As various parts of India celebrate a slew of festivities to mark the end of winters and beginning of harvest season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday greeted the nation and said the different festivals signify the country's vibrant cultural diversity.In separate tweets, Modi extended his greetings to all celebrating communities in the country. "Across India we are marking different festivals which signify India's vibrant cultural diversity. My greetings on these festivals," tweeted the Prime Minister.Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Bhogali Bihu, as well as Uttarayan mark the harvesting season for crops as winter takes a back seat and ushers in the spring. People celebrate the occasion in different ways and forms and enjoy the fruits of a good harvest, with an underline to the need to preserve the environment.Extending the Makar Sankranti greetings, the Prime Minister shared a picture message that read, "Greetings to all of you on the occasion of Makar Sankranti. May this festival associated with the worship of nature bring in good health and happiness in everyone's life."On the occasion of Uttarayan, he tweeted a picture message in Gujarati and said, “Have a wonderful Uttarayan.”Have a wonderful Uttarayan. pic.twitter.com/hHcMBzBJZPThe PM wished people on the occasion of Bhogi in another tweet. He said, "Bhogi greetings to everyone. May this special festival enrich the spirit of happiness in our society. I pray for the good health and well-being of our fellow citizens."On Magh Bihu, the Prime Minister prayed that “this festival enhances happiness and prosperity in everyone's lives”.Extending his greetings on the occasion of Pongal, Modi said Pongal is synonymous with the vibrant culture of Tamil Nadu."On this special occasion, my greetings to everyone and especially the Tamil people spread all over the world. I pray that our bond with nature and the spirit of brotherhood in our society are deepened," he tweeted.Pongal is synonymous with the vibrant culture of Tamil Nadu. On this special occasion, my greetings to everyone and especially the Tamil people spread all over the world. I pray that our bond with nature and the spirit of brotherhood in our society are deepened. pic.twitter.com/FjZqzzsLhrPresident Ram Nath Kovind had on Thursday extended his greetings to people celebrating across India. “Highlighting the unity in diversity that defines our country, these festivals underline our organic relationship with nature. May the festivals bring prosperity and happiness to everyone,” the President had tweeted.Several other prominent faces, including Amit Shah, JP Nadda and Rahul Gandhi, have extended their greetings on the festivals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/different-festivals-signify-india-s-vibrant-culture-pm-s-message-on-makar-sankranti-pongal-bhogali-bihu-uttarayan-101642132619781.html
14-01-2022||India||Maharashtra: Skulls and bones of foetuses found at hospital, doctor & nurse held||An investigation has been launched in Maharashtra’s Wardha district following the recovery of at least 11 skulls and 54 bones of foetuses on the premises of a private hospital. A doctor of the hospital and a nurse have been arrested.The findings came to light when police were investigating a separate case of illegal abortion, an official said. Police searched a biogas plant located on the premises of Kadam Hospital in Arvi tehsil on Wednesday acting on a tip-off and found the skulls and bones of foetuses that have now been sent for laboratory examination.Maharashtra: 11 skulls & 54 bones of fetuses were found in biogas plant of a private hospital in Arvi, Wardha during the investigation of a separate case of illegal abortion. Hospital director Rekha Kadam & one of her associates were arrested: Sub-Inspector Jyotsna Giri (13.01) pic.twitter.com/4JtzeZquu6An investigation has been launched in Maharashtra’s Wardha district following the recovery of at least 11 skulls and 54 bones of foetuses on the premises of a private hospital. A doctor of the hospital and a nurse have been arrested.The findings came to light when police were investigating a separate case of illegal abortion, an official said. Police searched a biogas plant located on the premises of Kadam Hospital in Arvi tehsil on Wednesday acting on a tip-off and found the skulls and bones of foetuses that have now been sent for laboratory examination.|#+|Police are now probing if the recovered bones and skulls were disposed of legally or illegally, the official said. Based on a complaint, one Dr Rekha Kadam and a nurse of the hospital have been taken into custody for allegedly performing an illegal abortion on a 13-year-old girl, police said. Parents of a minor boy who allegedly impregnated the girl with whom he was in a relationship have also been arrested, he said.The boy's parents had threatened the victim's parents that they would defame the girl if she did not undergo an abortion, and they paid for the procedure last week, the official said. A complaint of illegal abortion was lodged, following which the accused were arrested under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. According to the police, the doctor had failed to inform the authorities about performing an abortion on a girl under the age of 18.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-skulls-and-bones-of-foetuses-found-at-hospital-doctor-nurse-held-101642135871013.html
14-01-2022||India||Toll from train accident in Bengal goes up to nine||KOLKATA/SILIGURI: The toll from the derailment of Guwahati-bound Bikaner Express in Bengal’s Moynaguri on Thursday has gone up to nine, an official said on Friday even as the rescue operations have been completed.“At least 36 have been injured of which 10 passengers are serious. The injured passengers have been admitted to three hospitals,” said Anshul Gupta, general manager, North East Frontier Railway. He added the restoration work of the tracks by removing the derailed compartments is going on. “The commissioner of railway safety will conduct an inquiry to find out the cause of the accident.”Moumita Godara Basu, district magistrate, Jalpaiguri, said special trains and buses were arranged for the remaining passengers to reach their destinations.Nidar, a passenger, said he was supposed to travel from New Jalpaiguri to Guwahati. “I was in S3 coach and all the coaches after mine were derailed. Things were very disturbing as I could see people were dead in front of me. I will not be able to forget this scene in my life. Later in the evening on Thursday, I tweeted for help to reach Guwahati and railways reached out to me and helped me reach my destination by a special train that departed at 11 pm and reached Guwahati at 7.35 am. I thank railway officials for helping me and rescuing people.”Another passenger Lakshmi, who was in S10 coach, said when the train derailed, she could not understand anything for some time. “Many passengers were injured, and many appeared to have lost their lives too.”Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw arrived in Howrah late on Thursday night and left for the accident scene on a special train with railway officials.“It is a very unfortunate incident. An investigation has been started. We would get to the root cause, whatever it may be – technical or operational - and ensure that it is solved so that it is not repeated,” Vaishnaw said before leaving for Jalpaiguri.Vaishnaw conducted a trolley inspection to examine the condition of tracks and their fittings. He also inspected the underframe of the locomotive and its braking system.The railway ministry has announced ₹5 lakh compensation each for those killed in the accident, ₹1 lakh for severely injured, and ₹25,000 for those with minor injuries.Officials said railways paid the compensation within hours of the accident including to the 36 injured passengers undergoing treatment at three hospitals.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he spoke to Vaishnaw and took stock of the situation. “My thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover quickly,” Modi tweeted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-from-train-accident-in-bengal-goes-up-to-nine-101642135806364.html
14-01-2022||India||Will BJP’s social engineering work in UP 2022?||New Delhi: The exit of three well-known ministers and a set of legislators, largely belonging to sub-castes within the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) category, from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — citing the “neglect” of their castes on the eve of elections in Uttar Pradesh (UP) — has led to questions about whether the party’s famed social engineering model will withstanding the political churn in the upcoming state assembly polls. This model rests on a matrix of diverse Hindu castes coming together in an electoral alliance.
14-01-2022||India||India's single-day Covid tally at 2,64,202, positivity rate touches 14.78%||India on Friday recorded 2,64,202 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pushing the active caseload to 12,72,073.The latest figures, as available from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, are 6.7 per cent higher than Thursday’s single-day count of 2,47,417. The daily positivity rate now stood at 14.78 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was at 11.83 per cent. The cumulative tally of cases now stood at 3,65,82,129.The number of confirmed cases of the Omicron variant that is driving the latest surge of the pandemic currently stood at 5,753.As many as 1,09,345 patients recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recoveries to 3,48,24,706.Also read | Of 97 who died of Covid-19 from Jan 9-12, only 8 were fully jabbedThe country recorded 315 deaths due to related complications pushing the cumulative toll to 4,85,350.India has so far administered 155.39 crore doses of vaccines against the viral disease under the nationwide programme, the ministry said, adding over 15.17 crore balance doses were available with the states and Union territories to be administeredA total of 69.90 crore samples have so far been tested for the viral, of which 17,87,457 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a virtual meeting with chief ministers wherein he urged them to be alert and careful, but also stressed the need to not panic. The meeting is the first time Modi met the chief ministers to discuss Covid-19 since the third wave began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-single-day-covid-tally-at-2-64-202-positivity-rate-touches-1478-101642132202765.html
14-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: WHO recommends two new Covid-19 treatments, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.WHO recommends two new Covid-19 treatments amid rise in hospital admissionsThe World Health Organization approved two new treatments for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as Omicron cases put a strain on the healthcare system around the world. The WHO experts recommended arthritis drug baricitinib and synthetic antibody treatment Sotrovimab to stave off serious illness and death from Covid-19. Read more…US expresses concern over reports of China's actions against Tibetan BuddhistsThe US state department on Thursday expressed concern over reports of China’s actions against Tibetan Buddhists, including the destruction of Buddha statues as a part of its campaign to obliterate the traditions of the ethnic minority. Read more…Opinion | 2022 elections: It’s back to divisive politicsUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has never hidden his saffron robes in politics. Which is why it isn’t a surprise when he calls the elections in the country’s most populous state an “80:20” battle, a reference to the Hindu-Muslim population ratio in UP. Read more…'Focus on your team as well and not just the opposition': Kohli and Co unleash furious rant as DRS saves Elgar – WATCHIndia captain Virat Kohli was certainly not pleased when a controversial DRS review saved Dean Elgar and offered him a lifeline. On Day 3 of the Cape Town Test between India and South Africa, things got heated in the Indian camp when R Ashwin trapped Elgar LBW but the DRS saved Elgar. The replay showed that even though the impact was well below the knee roll, the ball would have missed the stumps and gone over the top. Read more…Kylie Jenner becomes the first woman to reach 300 million followers on InstagramAmerican social media personality and business mogul Kylie Jenner has become the world's most-followed woman on Instagram. The Kylie Cosmetics founder, who is soon going to become a mom for the second time, set the record recently, beating pop star Ariana Grande, who previously held the record. Read more…Priyanka Chopra on why she slammed journo who questioned her ‘contribution to movies'Actor Priyanka Chopra and her singer husband Nick Jonas announced the Oscars 2021 nominees in London last year. While their fans were excited to see them together on their televisions, a few people were a little less pleased. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-who-recommends-two-new-covid-19-treatments-and-all-the-latest-news-101642128903924.html
14-01-2022||India||Bengal train accident toll touches 9, some critical among 36 hurt||Death toll in the Bikaner-Guwahati Express train mishap in West Bengal Jalpaiguri district rose to nine, while 36 others remained injured with some of them being in critical condition.Twelve coaches of the Assam-bound train derailed and some overturned near Domohani under the Alipurduar division of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) around 5pm on Thursday, a Railway spokesperson said in Guwahati. Union minister John Barla said rescue operation was over and the injured persons were undergoing treatment at different hospitals. “Passengers were sent to Guwahati by a special train,” Barla was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier, Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu four bodies were found at the accident site and three others died at the hospital."Since some of the injured are in a critical condition, the toll may go up. We are now using cranes for removing the damaged compartments," she said on Thursday, adding rescuers thoroughly searched each coach for survivors and bodies through darkness and thick fog. The injured were eundergoing treatment at hospitals in Maynaguri and Jalpaiguri.“We sent generators to light up the accident site. All departments have been alerted,” Basu said.Commissioner, Railway Safety, will conduct an inquiry into the cause of the accident, an official said in New Delhi. The NFR said in a statement in Guwahati that the rescue operations have been completed. There were 1,053 passengers on board the train at the time of the derailment, it said, adding those stranded were provided drinking water and snacks. The ill-fated train was running 2 hours and 41 minutes late during its three -day journey. It started from Bikaner late on Wednesday night and was supposed to reach Guwahati early on Friday morning.A train ferrying the stranded passengers to Guwahati left the accident site at 9.30pm.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the tragedy when they were in the middle of an online meeting to review the Covid situation in the country with other CMs.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-train-accident-death-toll-touches-7-some-critical-among-45-hurt-101642127215562.html
14-01-2022||India||10 million people expected to participate in first-ever global Surya Namaskar programme||About 10 million are expected to participate in the first-ever global Surya Namaskar demonstration programme organised by the ministry of Ayush today on the occasion of Makar Sankranti to commemorate the journey of the sun to the Northern Hemisphere. Sarbananda Sonowal, Minister of Ayush, is expected to address the people and give his message on Surya Namaskar.As many as 13 rounds of Live Surya Namaskar will be conducted on DD National from 7am to 7.30am during which leading Yoga masters and gurus from global institutions will share their messages. In view of rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the Ayush ministry has advised to perform 'Surya Namaskar' from home and upload videos on the links used for registration.“On the auspicious day of Makar Sankranti and during the celebrations of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, the Ministry of AYUSH is hosting the first-ever global Surya Namaskar demonstration programme where about 10 million people will participate,” the ministry said in a statement Thursday.Make these 5 yoga poses your BFF to transform from head to toeAs the primary source of energy, the ministry highlighted that Sun is not only critical for the continuation of the food chain but it also energizes the mind and body of human beings. It stated that exposure to the Sun provides the human body with Vitamin D, which has been widely recommended in all medical branches around the world.“Scientifically, the Surya Namaskar has been known to develop immunity and improve vitality, which is significant to our health during pandemic conditions,” the ministry said.“The mass Surya Namaskar demonstration also intends to carry the message of climate change and global warming. In today’s world where climate consciousness is imperative, the implementation of solar e-energy (green energy) in daily life will greatly reduce carbon emissions that threaten the planet,” it added.Leading yoga institutes, the Indian Yoga Association, National Yoga Sports Federation, Yoga Certification Board, FIT India, and many government and non-government organisations will be participating in this worldwide program.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-million-people-expected-to-participate-in-first-ever-global-surya-namaskar-programme-101642122957812.html
14-01-2022||India||First arrest made in the hate speech case||The Uttarakhand Police on Thursday arrested Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, the former Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board chairman who until last month went by the name Waseem Rizvi, in connection with hate speeches made at a three-day-long Dharam Sansad held in Haridwar on December 17-19.This is the first arrest in the case registered on December 23 after public uproar as videos of the event were widely circulated on social media and comes a day after the Supreme Court sought a response from the state government on what it had done about the alleged hate speeches made at the Dharam Sansad (religious parliament).Station house officer of the Haridwar police station, Rakendra Kathait, said Tyagi was arrested from the Narsain area on the border of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Both states go to the polls next month, and identity is expected to be a key issue in the two elections.“Tyagi was booked under IPC Section 153 A at Haridwar police station last month on the complaint of a Jwalapur resident on charges of promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion during the Dharam Sansad,” he said, adding that three cases have been filed against Tyagi.“He has been making repeated offences so police arrested him. Other accused have been served notices. Requisite legal process is on in the ongoing probe,” said senior superintendent of Haridwar, Yogendra Singh Rawat.IPC Section 153A deals with Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony.Yati Narsinghanand, the organiser of the event, who was with Tyagi at the time of his arrest, condemned the action by the police, and said it would made seers realise a larger “hidden agenda” to weaken the Sanatan Dharma (ancient Hindu faith).Narsinghanand is the Mahamandaleshwar (sect chief) of the influential Juna Akhada, and one of the five accused named in the FIR. He also said that he will sit on a fast at Haridraw’s iconic Har Ki Pauri, from January 14 to protest against Tyagi’s arrest.“Wasim Rizvi converted to Hinduism despite knowing well the consequences from Muslim clerics and fundamentalists. So, it is now our responsibility to save and protect him,” Narsinghanand said.Soon after the event which ended on December 19, videos of objectionable speeches made had gone viral on social media. Participants called for violence against religious minorities whole one of the speakers said he wished to shoot former prime minister Manmohan Singh.On Wednesday, a special investigation team (SIT) formed by the Uttarakhand Police to probe the Dharam Sansad hate speech case recorded the statements of two of the five named accused, including Tyagi, and at least 12 “witnesses”. This development came hours after the Supreme Court issued a notice to the state government seeking an answer on the action taken by it while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that contended not enough was being done to bring the accused to book.“The SIT in its ongoing investigation of the case has so far questioned two of the five named accused -- Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, formerly Waseem Rizvi and Annapurna Maa,” one of the officers in the SIT said on condition of anonymity. “Their statements were recorded on Wednesday. Apart from this, SIT also recorded the statements of 12 more people as witness in the case including the complainants of the case. Police will soon question the other three remaining accused.”Superintendent of police, Dehradun (rural), Kamlesh Upadhyay, who is heading the SIT, said: “Police are taking all necessary actions in its probe as per law. Under that, it has recorded statements of two named accused and some witnesses.”The first information report, filed by the police on December 23, initially listed only one accused, Tyagi.On December 25, names of Pooja Shakun Pandey alias Annapurna Maa, and Dharamdas Maharaj, a general secretary of the Hindu Mahasabha, were added. On January 1, police added the names of event organiser Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj. Another case was registered on the following day against Tyagi over the same incident.A second case was also lodged against Narsinghanand at a Haridwar police station on charges of insulting religious beliefs, and making derogatory remarks about women. The complaint was filed by a third-year law student Ruchika (who goes by her first name), police said.“The case against Swami Yati Narsinghanand has been registered under Section 295 (a) (insulting a religion with deliberate and malicious acts) and 509 (intending to insult the modesty of a woman). We are probing the matter and checking the video footage which the complainant has related to,” said the station house office of the city police station, Rakendra Kathait.Narsinghanand, who is based at Dasna Temple in Ghaziabad, said that he did not say anything that offended or insulted women. “I have no clue to which statement the said complainant has referred to. I don’t say anything derogatory to women, I will check it as I return to Haridwar. I have always been vocal about Sanatan Dharma and making India a Vedic nation,” he said. 
14-01-2022||NA||Breaking News: Maharashtra logs over 43,000 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Bengal BJP wants municipality elections deferred by a month, cites Covid surgeThe BJP's West Bengal unit wrote to the State Election Commissioner (SEC) demanding for the municipality elections to be postponed by a month due to the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, reports ANI. ‘Jallikattu’  in Tamil Nadu: 1 dead, total 80 injured after bull taming competition, reports ANI#UPDATE | As per a health official, total 80 injured, 1 succumbed to injuries in the Jallikattu competition in Avaniyapuram area of Madurai, Tamil Nadu, earlier todayInjured includes 38 bull tamers, 24 bull owners, and 18 spectators https://t.co/nHk7uV5QHUHealth officials in Tamil Nadu said that one person lost his life and in total, 80 people were injured following the ‘Jallikattu’  competition – a popular bull taming sport – in Avaniyapuram area of Madurai district, reports ANI. The injured included 38 bull tamers, 24 bull owners, and 18 spectators.Maharashtra reports 238 new Omicron cases, tally reaches 1,605Maharashtra reported 238 new cases of the Omicron Covid-19 variant, taking the state's tally so far to 1,605. Also 859 people have been discharged so far. Pune City added 197 cases while 32 were from Pimpri-Chinchwad and three each from Pune Rural and Navi Mumbai. Two cases were from Mumbai and one was from Akola.Maharashtra sees over 43,000 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deaths in 24 hrsMaharashtra logged 43,211 new Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths as the state's total caseload reached 7,124,278 and the death toll climbed to 141,756. Indian Railways redesignates ‘Guard’ post as ‘Train Manager’Indian Railways has decided to redesignate the post of "Guard" as "Train Manager" with immediate effect. The revised designation is more in consonance with their existing duties & responsibilities and will improve the motivation level of Guards now Train Managers. pic.twitter.com/dNSsnYormdIndian Railways redesignated the post of "Guard" as "Train Manager" with immediate effect.Uttarakhand polls: ‘Almost all names finalised’ says Cong's Harish RawatCongress leader Harish Rawat said that discussion was held on 70 seats and almost all names were finalised for the state assembly elections, reports ANI. “Tomorrow we'll present the names before Central Election Committee (CEC),” he said. NATO to sign enhanced cyber cooperation with UkraineNATO to sign deal on enhanced cyber cooperation with Ukraine after cyberattack, reports AFP. Karnataka sees 28,723 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths; over 20,121 cases in Bengaluru UrbanKarnataka logged 28,723 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths in the last 24 hours and of the new cases 20,121 were reported from Bengaluru Urban district.The daily positivity rate in the state stood at 12.98% and the active caseload reached 141,337.Daily Covid-19 tally, active caseload drop in Mumbai: 11,317 new cases, 9 deaths in last 24 hrsCOVID19 | Mumbai reports 11,317 fresh cases & 9 deaths today; Active cases at 84,352 pic.twitter.com/CHrsvSiYJjThe daily Covid-19 tally in Mumbai saw a slight dip after 11,317 people tested positive on the day. Also nine more people succumbed to the illness. The active caseload also declined and was recorded at 84,352.IAF Chopper crash: ‘Unexpected change in weather’ likely cause of accident, initial probe findsThe preliminary findings from the Tri-Services Court of Inquiry into the Mi-17 V5 accident on 08 Dec 21, in which CDS General Bipin Rawat and few others were killed, has ruled out mechanical failure, sabotage or negligence as a cause of the accident. Further, the probe also found, the crash was a result of entry into clouds due to unexpected change in weather conditions in the valley. This led to spatial disorientation of the pilot resulting in Controlled Flight into Terrain.‘Ensure free, fair, transparent, safe elections’: ECI to poll observersThe Election Commission of India (ECI) briefed the observers deployed for the upcoming state assembly elections in Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, reports ANI.“Officers drawn from IAS, IPS, IRS and other account services are deployed as General, Police & Expenditure Observers. CEC Sushil Chandra directed all 3 Observers to work in coordination with Enforcement Agencies and ensure the conduct of free, fair, transparent and safe elections,” the ECI said. Delhi reports 24,383 new Covid-19 cases, 34 deaths in last 24 hoursWith 24,383 new Covid-19 cases and 34 deaths in the last 24 hours, the total caseload in Delhi reached 1,670,966 and the death toll climbed to 25,305. The active caseload jumps to 92,273. Mild, asymptomatic Covid patients eligible for home isolation: Health ministryHome isolation will be over after 7 days pass from testing positive without getting a fever for 3 successive days, after which no re-testing is required; asymptomatic contacts need not take a Covid test: Ministry of HealthThe Union health ministry said that Covid-19 with mild symptoms or asymptomatic are eligible for home isolation while those above 60 years of age and those with comorbidities will be allowed home isolation after medical evaluation.  Kerala suspends offline teaching for up to class 9 due to Covid surgeFollowing the surge in Covid-19 cases in Kerala , the state government suspended offline classes for up to class 9, reports ANI citing the Chief Minister's Office (CMO). Nitin Gadkari approves draft notification to mandate 6 airbags in vehicles carrying upto 8 passengersIn order to enhance the safety of the occupants in motor vehicles carrying upto 8 passengers, I have now approved a Draft GSR Notification to make a minimum of 6 Airbags compulsory. #RoadSafety #SadakSurakshaJeevanRaksha“In order to enhance the safety of the occupants in motor vehicles carrying upto 8 passengers, I have now approved a Draft GSR Notification to make a minimum of 6 Airbags compulsory,” Union minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted. Australia agrees to delay Djokovic's deportation, reports AFPAustralia agreed to delay Novak Djokovic's deportation, reports news agency AFP citing his lawyer. ‘Bulli Bai’ app case: Court sentences 2 accused to 14-day judicial custodyShweta Singh and Mayank, accused in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case, have been sent to a 14-day judicial custody by court, reports ANI citing Mayank's lawyer Sandeep Sherkhane.‘Bulli Bai’ app case: Mumbai police say accused Shweta Singh produced before court'Bulli Bai' app case accused Shweta Singh's and Mayank's Police custody ends. Shweta was produced before the court while Mayank could not be due to testing positive for Covid-19, the Mumbai Police said, reports ANI. PM Modi to meet with startups on Jan 15Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet with startups virtually on January 15 (Saturday) at 10.30am, reports ANI citing the PMO. The startup will make presentations before the PM on six themes including Growing from Roots; Nudging the DNA; From Local to Global.5 identified of 9 dead, ₹5 lakh ex-gratia given to families: Indian Railways The Indian Railways said that five out of the nine people dead in the Bikaner-Guwahati train mishap have been identified and their families were given ₹5 lakh each, reports ANI. “We have also given ₹1 lakh each to the 10 grievously injured persons and ₹25,000 each given to 26 minor injured,” said Rajiv Jain, ADG PR, Indian Railways.Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia says BJP using NCPCR to stop AAP's ‘Desh ka Mentor’ program Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia said that the BJP does not want Aam Aadmi Party's 'Desh ka Mentor' program to continue, reports ANI."So they used NCPCR to stop this program on a complaint by a BJP worker from Chhattisgarh, who said it is a "threat" to a child's safety," he said.Delhi alert: IED recovered from unattended bag in Ghazipur Flower MarketAn IED was found in the bag, NSG experts will verify and tell what kind of explosive materials are there in it, confirms Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Sagar Preet Hooda.Swami Prasad Maurya, Dharm Singh Saini, other rebel BJP MLAs join SP in presence of Akhilesh YadavUP minister Swami Prasad Maurya, rebel BJP MLAs Dharm Singh Saini and others join Samajwadi Party in presence of Akhilesh Yadav.All schools in Madhya Pradesh to remain closed for students till Jan 31, announces CM ChouhanAll government and private schools will remain closed for students of classes 1-12 between Jan 15 and Jan 31. All political and religious gatherings and fairs will be banned. No ban on Makar Sankranti 'snan', announced Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan.Ukraine claims massive cyber attack on govt websites, reports AFPUkraine reports massive cyber attack on government websites.High alert in Delhi: Bomb disposal squad rushed to Ghazipur flower marketDelhi Police rushes bomb disposal squad to Ghazipur Flower Market in East Delhi after the recovery of an unattended bag. Fire engines also sent to the site, police said.Australia revokes Novak Djokovic's visa againAustralia has cancelled Djokovic visa for second time, announced country's immigration minister.Budget session for FY22 to be held from January 31 to April 8Hong Kong airport bans transit flights from over 150 countries, reports AFPHong Kong airport bans transit flights from over 150 countries.‘Big let down,’ says Sister Lucy as Kerala court acquits Bishop Franco in nun rape case“Big let down,” said Sister Lucy Kalapura who was expelled from the congregation for supporting the victim.North Korea fires ‘unidentified projectile’, says S Korea militaryNorth Korea fired an unidentified projectile into the sea off its east coast on Friday, South Korea's military said, as reported by news agency AFP.Deposed bishop Franco Mullakal gets clean chit in nun rape case“Lord is supreme. Truth prevailed,” says Mullakal after coming out of the court. The verdict was announced by Additional Sessions judge G Gopakumar. Jalandhar Diocese released a statement thanking all those who stood with the bishop. Initial reports suggest lack of scientific evidence led to his acquittal. Read moreAdditional police outside Kottayam sessions court ahead of nun rape case verdictKerala: Police force deployed outside Kottayam Additional Sessions Court ahead of pronouncement of the verdict in the nun rape case involving former Bishop of Jalandhar Diocese, Franco Mulakkal pic.twitter.com/CjkL26YExIDCGI's SEC to review Covishield, Covaxin full market approval todayDCGI's Subject Expert Committee to review applications of Bharat Biotech and SII for full market approval to Covaxin and Covishield today, news agency ANI reported quoting sources.11 skulls, 54 bones of fetuses found in biogas plant in Maharashtra hospitalEleven skulls and 54 bones of fetuses were found in biogas plant of a private hospital in Arvi, Wardha during the investigation of a separate case of illegal abortion. Hospital director Rekha Kadam and one of her associates were arrested, said sub-Inspector Jyotsna Giri in Wardha, Maharahstra.'Congress-ruled states don't pay attention to law & order,' says Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar“The reason why such incidents keep happening in Congress-ruled states is that they don't pay much attention to law and order. If parties will think about their personal benefits, they'll always fail to keep the public safe,” says Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Alwar rape.At least 9 dead in Bengal train accident, reports ANIDeath toll in Bikaner-Guwahati Express mishap has risen to 9. Rescue operation is over. 36 injured were admitted to different hospitals. Passengers were sent to Guwahati by special train, said Union Minister John Barla, as quoted by ANI.Dense fog engulfs national capitalDelhi: A thick layer of fog engulfs the national capital this morning. Visuals from near Terminal 3, IGI Airport pic.twitter.com/dbj9ZSmpWd6 killed as Bikaner-Guwahati train derails in West Bengal, says railways divisionSix people lost their lives after 12 coaches of the Bikaner-Guwahati Express (15633) derailed in West Bengal's Jalpaiguri district on Thursday, stated Chief Public Relations Officer, Northeast Frontier Railway.Kejriwal to flag off 100 low-floor CNG buses in Delhi todayDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will flag off 100 modern and environment friendly AC low-floor CNG buses on Friday from Rajghat cluster bus depot, Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said.These will be state-of-the-art buses equipped with modern facilities like panic button, GPS among others. The minister said that these low-floor buses will have features of bus kneeling with ramp for differently abled people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-14-2022-101642118698217.html
14-01-2022||India||Bring back state troopers deployed in other states, Manik Sarkar to Biplab K Deb||AGARTALA: Former Tripura chief minister and leader of opposition Manik Sarkar has asked sought chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb to bring back state troopers who were deployed to other states, alleging that they are not getting the required facilities there.He also requested Deb not to deploy them on a long-term basis outside the state in future.In a letter to Biplab Kumar Deb, Manik Sarkar said that though there are provisions to deploy India Reserve (IR) Battalion of Tripura State Rifles (TSR) to other states for a short term, some TSR personnel are still deployed for a long period that has left them frustrated and affects their morale.“It is found that the essential facilities including food and lodging for the TSR personnel are not properly done in the states where they are deployed. As a result, they are facing challenges and thus affects their morale and also creates frustration among them,” Sarkar said in the letter. Tripura has 12 battalions of TSR; the first battalion was formed in 1984.Besides duties in poll-bound states, the trooper companies are deployed in Delhi on internal security duties and in Chhatisgarh, for security in mining operations of a company under Coal India Limited.The chief minister’s office hasn’t reacted on Manik Sarkar’s letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-back-state-troopers-deployed-in-other-states-manik-sarkar-to-biplab-k-deb-101642105323975.html
14-01-2022||India||Congress suspends Mekedatu Padayatra amid Covid surge in Bengaluru||The Karnataka Congress on Thursday temporarily called off its Mekedatu march, terming it a “sacrifice” in the interest of the state and its people, a day after the state government prohibited inter-district and intra-district (within Ramanagara) movement of vehicles and persons for participating in the padyatra.“Today, we are sacrificing this protest,” DK Shivakumar, president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), said on Thursday in Ramanagara, about 50 km from Bengaluru.Shivakumar said this was just a temporary break, emphasising the ‘Nama Neeru Namma Hakku’ padayatra will resume soon, without specifying the date.“We are ending the #MekedatuPadayatre as of now due to increasing #Covid19 cases in Bengaluru. Our main priority is the well-being of our people. We will restart the Padayatre as soon as the #Covid19 cases are reduced & restrictions are removed,” senior Congress leader and the leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said in a Twitter post.The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government on Wednesday evening banned participation in the padayatra in the backdrop of a steep rise in Covid-19 cases across the state. The government’s decision came hours after the Karnataka high court came down on the government for its inaction and the Congress for its defiance of restrictions.Senior Congress leaders held a meeting in Ramanagara district on Thursday after the government’s order, in which several leaders expressed their concerns over continuing the padayatra.The several hundreds who had gathered in Ramanagara remained in the district for a few hours before Congress leaders addressed them and asked them to return to their districts.The suspension of the march, meanwhile, triggered a war of words between the Congress and the ruling BJP with both accusing each other of aiding the spread of Covid-19 cases.“@BJP4Karnataka govt was always interested in covering up their failure in #Covid19 mgmt by pointing fingers at the opposition. It has failed both politically & administratively to ensure justice to the victims of #Covid19,” Siddaramaiah said.Several BJP leaders had been holding events with large gatherings up until the first week of January.“The government constantly tried to persuade Congress to stop (the) padayatra. The government handled this situation in a very mature manner without use of force like lathicharge or arrest. Padayatra has indeed led to (a) surge in cases and Congress is responsible for this,” Dr K Sudhakar, state’s health minister said on Thursday.The Congress’ 10-day long padayatra demanding implementation of the Mekedatu project, to which neighbouring Tamil Nadu is opposed, continued for the fourth day on Wednesday for a distance of about 15 km from Chikkenahalli to Ramanagara, with participation of hundreds of party workers and supporters. The padayatra that began on 9 January, spanning a distance of nearly 139 km, was scheduled to conclude at Basavanagudi in Bengaluru on January 19. Police have already filed three FIRs against Congress leaders, including Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah, for taking out the march defying Covid-19 curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-suspends-mekedatu-padayatra-amid-covid-surge-in-bengaluru-101642104242618.html
14-01-2022||India||West Bengal’s daily Covid-19 cases cross second wave peak as surge continues||West Bengal became the first region in the country where the Covid-19 wave, or average daily cases, has surpassed the peak of the brutal second wave, data shows, as nearly 265,000 new cases were detected in India on Thursday, the most in a day across the country since May 19, 2021.With 23,467 new cases reported across West Bengal on Thursday, the seven-day average of daily infections – a number that is commonly referred to as the case curve of a region – in the state has now touched 21,044. This means that it has become the first state in the country where the recent Omicron surge has sent numbers past last year’s surge when the average daily cases peaked at 20,085. A second region, Chandigarh, is perilously close to surpassing its second wave peak, data shows.
14-01-2022||India||Madras HC awards ₹10 lakh compensation||ChennaiThe aimless shooting by a Narikurava, engaged by a local panchayat in Perambalur district to eliminate stray dogs, has cost the State exchequer and the local body, ₹5 lakh each.A direction to this effect was given by Justice S M Subramaniam of the Madras High Court, while allowing a writ petition from one G Babu, recently.The case of the petitioner was that the local panchayat had engaged the services of Vijayakumar, a Narikurava (member belonging to an indigenous community), to shoot down the stray dogs in the village. The indiscriminate and aimless shooting by Vijayakumar had resulted in one bullet hitting leg of Vijaya, petitioner’s mother, in February, 2015. She was admitted to the government hospital, but died later. He moved the High Court for a direction to the authorities concerned to compensate him for causing the death of his mother due to the “negligent, lethargic and irresponsible act” of the Eraiyur panchayat office-bearers and to take action against them.Allowing the petition, the judge observed that the petitioner could establish a prima facie case and the death of his mother occurred due to the illegal operation conducted by the panchayat people. Shooting the stray dogs itself was an illegal act. The Panchayat office-bearers thereby, committed the act of illegality and an offence. The prosecution has been initiated and it was for them to defend their case before the competent Court of law. However, the petitioner was entitled for compensation as the 5th respondent is the president and the remaining two were the Councilors. It is an unusual incident where the responsible Panchayat president and Councilors had engaged Vijayakumar for shooting the stray dogs in the Village. The very operation itself was illegal and further the bullet removed from the mother of the petitioner during post-mortem confirms that the death occurred due to the bullet injuries.“Under these circumstances, this Court is inclined to consider the case of the petitioner for grant of compensation. Unfortunately, the official respondents 1 to 4 -- Collector and police higher ups in the district -- have not shown any sensitiveness in this matter nor initiated appropriate immediate action, contrarily they had slowed down the actions and thereby colluded in a passive manner.” “ Even the passive collusion of the public authorities can never be tolerated. The illegal operations made by the respondents 5 to 8 were not seriously taken nor immediate actions were initiated,” the judge said.This being the factum established, the panchayat people are directed to jointly pay ₹5 lakh to the petitioner towards compensation. Further, the Collector shall pay ₹5 lakh to the petitioner. Thus, the petitioner is entitled for a total compensation of ₹10 lakh and the four respondents shall settle their respective portion of the compensation in favour of the petitioner within eight weeks, the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-awards-10-lakh-compensation-101642102862028.html
14-01-2022||India||Senior CPI(M) leader’s ‘China praise’ courts row||Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member S Ramachandran Pillai courted a controversy on Thursday after he said the Indian’s government’s anti-China policy is aimed at destabilising Communist movement in the country.Addressing the inaugural session of the party district committee meeting in Kottayam, the senior leader said the government was provoking the public over China to attack the Communist movement, especially the CPI(M). “We will have to face this deliberate attempt from our political rivals,” he said showering enough praises on the neighbouring country.“China’s growth shows power of socialism. They played a key role in eliminating poverty in the world. But there is a conspiracy against it to undermine its progress and socialism. America is teaming up with other countries against China. We have also surrendered our foreign policy to the United States of America,” he said. Congress general secretary K C Venugopal has slammed the senior leader, saying his utterances were against the country. “They expose ideological bankruptcy of the party. Many Communists still believe China is their mother country. China is arming some of our neighbours to act against India and make armed incursions frequently in northern borders. How can the party justify such a country? His utterances are anti-national,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-cpi-m-leader-s-china-praise-courts-row-101642102741876.html
14-01-2022||India||Defence Ministry rejects Kerala’s Republic Day tableau again||ThiruvananthpuramA row has erupted in Kerala after the Defence Ministry rejected the state’s Republic Day parade float theme for the third time in recent years, said police.Though the state submitted a proposal for the tableau of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and Jatayu Park monument the ministry insisted to change it to Adi Shankara, but the ministry rejected it.“It is sad. I don’t know why Sree Narayana Guru’s tableau was rejected. We have no idea why the Centre is against the social reformer and we want to know the state BJP also sharing this bias. The float was avoided at the eleventh hour and concerned people owe an explanation to the state,” said state education minister V Sivankutty.He said initially selection board members lauded the idea but later dropped it reasons best known to them. He said the state’s tableaus were rejected twice earlier in 2019 and 2020 and the Centre is taking on the state for opposing some of its anti-people policies.CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan also criticised the Centre’s decision. He said the centre’s move was an insult to the social reformer. When asked about this a senior leader of the BJP said he was not aware of the issue and will respond after checking facts. When the state’s tableau was rejected in 2020 then culture minister A K Balan said “it was a politically motivated move and the centre can’t dictate terms to the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-rejects-kerala-s-republic-day-tableau-again-101642102562061.html
14-01-2022||India||TN govt-governor relationship comes under strain||Chennai: The growing frustration of the ruling DMK government against Governor R N Ravi is reaching a crescendo with the party’s parliamentary leader in Delhi demanding his resignation, the education minister informing the assembly that the state is considering taking over his powers to appoint university vice chancellors. Chief minister M K Stalin has though taken a milder stand urging Ravi to forward the NEET exemption Bill to the President which he hasn’t for more than three months now. The developments come amidst criticism that the DMK has softened its stance with respect to the office of the governor since it came to power in May as the party when in opposition had admonished the previous AIADMK regime of being acquiescent over burning issues of the state. Most governments in Tamil Nadu have had an uneasy relationship with governors especially when the parties leading in the union and the state governments are not in a coalition and are at loggerheads over legislation. “We wanted a Governor who will work for the welfare of the people and not someone who will create a stalemate,” says senior advocate and DMK MP P Wilson. “This is not good for the functioning of the state,” he said in context of the issue of NEET.After Tamil Nadu passed the Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021 in September seeking exemption from NEET and restoring the state’s process of medical admissions by considering only Class 12 marks, the DMK government has been sending reminders to the governor to forward it to the President. Last week, DMK parliamentary leader T R Baalu in less than tactful language said the governor can leave Tamil Nadu. “What happens if he sits on every piece of legislation like this?” asks Wilson. “This Bill is a reflection of the will of the people. He shouldn’t be reeling under pressure, if there is any. Under article 200 the Governor has to act as soon as possible.” Wilson adds that the urgency in the matter is due to the end of the academic year approaching and medical aspirants are unclear. “Every day is important for students, teachers and parents and the state.”Another issue brewing is that the state is planning to clip the powers of the governor to appoint vice chancellors to universities by bringing in a resolution. “During the assembly session for presenting the Budget in March, we will certainly adopt a resolution unanimously,” said CM Stalin in the House last Thursday. Stalin’s statement came following higher education minister K Ponmudi’s response in the assembly during the question hour. Ponmudi had said that the chief minister is consulting legal experts to bring an amendment on this. “In many places, state governments hold the power to appoint vice-chancellors,” Ponmudi had said, citing examples from other Indian states. He pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he was Gujarat chief minister also held the powers to appoint the vice chancellors. A government official said steps are being taken on the matter though this amendment too would be sent to the governor. “The state is within its powers to bring in this amendment and steps are being taken towards that,” the official said not wishing to be quoted. During the previous regime led by NDA ally the AIADMK, political observers say that the BJP used the prerogatives of governor as chancellor to choose vice chancellors in at least five state universities including the prestigious University of Madras and the Anna University (for Engineering and Technical Education). The row over Anna University’s ex-vice chancellor M K Surappa is pending in the Madras high court. The previous AIADMK regime initiated an inquiry into corruption allegations against Surappa–the only time it went against its ally the BJP as the national party backed him. During a hearing last year, the court was informed that the then Governor Banwarilal Purohit was “deeply anguished” and didn’t agree with the state on questioning Surappa. A day ago, the court refused to accept the state government’s argument that it is up to the Governor to decide on taking action against Surappa based on the inquiry report. The current procedure followed in Tamil Nadu is that the Governor as the Chancellor of state universities appoints vice-chancellors from a shortlist of three names submitted by a committee.Following Purohit’s transfer to Punjab, former Nagaland interlocutor Ravi was appointed to Tamil Nadu in September. Experts say the BJP-led Centre wanted a “tactician” such as R N Ravi as Governor for Tamil Nadu as a political attache to control the state like they did in the neighbouring UT of Puducherry. They say that from the time late chief minister J Jayalalithaa was hospitalised and died in office, the governors of Tamil Nadu have interfered in the state’s political affairs. “The AIADMK seemed like an extended office of the Governor for years,” says political commentator Ramu Manivannan. “The DMK is taking a strong exception to the new Governor. Ravi looks different from his predecessors because he’s a bureaucrat so he will do things like a civil servant. But he will follow the dictum of the BJP and the central leadership.”HT reached out to the office of the Governor for a comment but they did not respond.
14-01-2022||India||Hamlet in Kerala becomes country’s first napkin-free village||Thiruvananthapuram:Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Thursday declared a small village, Kumbalangi, in Ernakulam district as the first napkin-free village in the country. More than 5,000 menstrual cups have been distributed among girls and women and they have been given training by volunteers for three months about their use and advantages, said organisers of a campaign, “Avalkayi” (for her). “Beautiful village Kumbalangi will be a role model for others. Schemes like this will empower women. If villages prosper, our country will prosper,” said the governor in his inaugural address.Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden initiated the “Avalkayi” campaign under the Pradan Mantri Sansad Adarsh Gram Yogana.“We have been working on it for many months. The Indian Oil Corporation and Hindustan Lifecare Limited Management Academy are partners in it,” said the MP. He said the campaign aims at making women aware of advantages of menstrual cups and dispelling their fears. Eden said the latest initiative will help reduce pollution caused by synthetic napkins and ensure personal hygiene to working women and students. He said many people, including actor Parvathi, have helped him to carry out the project. “We have installed napkin-vending machines in many schools but often they created problems. Then this idea came up and we studied it in detail and sought expert advice. Experts said cup can be re-used for many years and it is more hygienic,” said the young parliamentarian.Experts said menstrual cups are a safe option compared with other forms of menstrual hygiene. They said a cup, made of medical grade silicon and latex, can last up to 10 years and it is cost-effective and environment-friendly compared to different menstrual products. “We have to change with the times. After Kumbalangi, we will distribute them in coastal areas of Kochi and give training,” said the MP. Kumbalangi, an island village on the outskirts of Kochi surrounded by backwaters, is the first eco-tourism village of the country and known for its traditional Chinese nets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hamlet-in-kerala-becomes-country-s-first-napkin-free-village-101642102261894.html
14-01-2022||India||Ex-minister Rajenthra Balaji’s saga of controversy, corruption charges, police chase and brief relief by SC||Chennai: Former AIADMK minister K T Rajenthra Balaji, who turned a fugitive, is briefly free after six police teams chased him for over a fortnight in connection with two cases related to a job scam, raided his lawyer and finally arrested him in Karnataka and brought him back to Tamil Nadu to send him to jail.But the Supreme Court on Wednesday questioned the Tamil Nadu police for arresting him during the pendency of his bail plea and granted Balaji interim bail for four weeks. After the Madras high court on December 17 last year had dismissed his anticipatory bail application, Balaji went into hiding and police have been on the hunt since. He challenged the dismissals with two special leave petitions in the top court. The charge against Balaji is that during his tenure as dairy minister, he promised some youngsters government jobs at the state-owned dairy organisation, Aavin, after collecting ₹ 3 crore. Though the ruling DMK has been closing the walls on former AIADMK ministers on corruption charges with raids undertaken by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), Balaji, unlike his peers, doesn’t enjoy the support of the AIADMK high command.In public, the AIADMK called the police action against Balaji a political vengeance – a standard cry that the main opposition has adopted after the DMK formed the government in May. “Senthil Balaji faced a similar case, will the DMK government arrest him too?” asked an AIADMK leader not wishing to be identified. Senthil Balaji moved from the AIADMK to the breakaway faction of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhgam led by TTV Dhinakaran and finally joined the DMK in 2018 and was rewarded the portfolio of minister for the electricity and excise duty which he currently occupies. He faced a case of promising jobs and swindling money during his tenure as AIADMK’s transport minister (2011-2015). However, the top AIADMK leadership has not spoken in support of Rajenthra Balaji during the search for him, his arrest and not after the top court granted him bail.Balaji, who was inducted into the cabinet by late J Jayalalithaa, is known to embarrass the AIADMK with his actions. In the run-up to the 2019 parliamentary elections, Balaji called Prime Minister Narendra Modi their daddy. “Modi is our (AIADMK’s) daddy. India’s daddy,” he had said, which subjected the then ruling AIADMK to much ridicule amidst growing discontent that the state government was being subservient to the BJP-led union government. His pro-Hindutva leanings are not secret either. Balaji called for cutting off actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s tongue after the latter described Nathuram Godse as India’s first Hindu extremist. In August last year, amidst reports that Balaji would join the BJP in Delhi, former chief minister and joint coordinator of the AIADMK had to clarify publicly that the information is “100% fake.”Amidst this background, questions have been raised if the BJP was helping Balaji stay out of the radar. BJP’s Tamil Nadu president K Annamalai dismissed this, saying the BJP has no necessity to do this. “The basics of criminal jurisprudence is that everyone is innocent until proven guilty by the court. That is our standard and we are not defending any individual,” Annamalai had told reporters earlier this month. The saga around Balaji has however put the state police in an embarrassing situation – first for not being able to find him and now a rap from the Supreme Court. Police arrested Balaji on January 5 from Hassan in Karnataka just a day before the appeal was listed in the Supreme Court. Balaji’s counsel Dushyant Dave submitted that the events surrounding the petitioner’s arrest were extremely suspicious. The counsel also submitted that, after his arrest, the petitioner was taken 300 kms away to a jail in Trichy district from the jurisdiction of the place from where he was arrested. “Learned senior counsel further submitted that no summon was ever served on the petitioner to join the investigation and even the premises of the petitioner’s local advocate were raided by the police,” the Supreme Court bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli said in their orders. Based on this, the bench granted him bail with four conditions including that he cooperates with the investigation. The matter has been posted after three weeks. “The manner in which the police handled this case smacks of vendetta,” says political commentator Maalan Narayanan. “But Balaji is a patriarch of a small area and isn’t in the inner circle of Palaniswami so he may not get much support from them and he has been inclined towards the BJP. The AIADMK used Balaji in the south region to thwart Dhinakaran’s influence. If he is absolved of charges, I won’t be surprised if the BJP takes him in to build their base in the south.”
14-01-2022||India||Why Michael Lobo’s switch is a shot in the arm for Goa Congress||PANAJI: When Goa Minister Michael Lobo finally announced that he was quitting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and joining the Congress, the ruling party attempted to project that his departure will not have a bearing on the party’s prospects for the upcoming polls and if anything, Lobo was digging his own grave with his political move. The Congress, on the other hand, welcomed Lobo with open arms not only with jubilation but also relief -- relief that the aggressive Trinamool Congress wasn’t able to steal him from their grasp.Lobo, along with his wife Delilah, joined the Congress on Tuesday evening promising to help the party win a majority in the state.In many ways, Lobo’s departure from the BJP and into the Congress is against the tide in Goa’s choppy pre-election waters. Over the last few weeks, the BJP has brought over four sitting MLAs -- Rohan Khaunte (independent), Jayesh Salgaocar (Goa Forward), Ravi Naik (Congress) and Govind Gaude (independent), and also lost four -- Alina Saldanha (AAP), Pravin Zantye (Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party), Carlos Almeida (Congress) and now Michael Lobo (Congress).“Those who are leaving know that they are not going to be given the BJP ticket and are aware of the party’s internal survey which indicated that they are facing anti-incumbency. Those who are joining us, they know that the party is going to win the elections and we have the information that with our party’s strength combined with their popularity they will get elected so we take them in,” BJP in-charge Devendra Fadnavis said at a Press conference in Goa on Wednesday.That may be true for all who left the BJP, except for one - Michael Lobo. Of all the MLAs who have left, the BJP has reacted sharply only to Lobo’s exit.“Michael Lobo took full advantage of the party for as long as he could. Now he wanted a ticket for his wife as well, which he couldn’t get in the BJP while the Congress will give a ticket to his wife also so he has gone to the Congress,” Fadnavis said.A winnable candidate who has decided that his interests would be best served if he joined the Congress - a party that until a few months ago was being written off and taunted for the stunning decline in its seats in the Goa Legislative Assembly from 17 to just 2.“Lobo was facing pressure from his constituents over continuing in the BJP - pressure over the party’s lackadaisical performance on various fronts including the economy, the state leadership and he felt his chances would be better in the Congress. He gauged the sentiments of the people and made his move,” lawyer Jatin Naik, a political observer, said.“Lobo also sensed that he would be given a larger role in the Congress and will now promptly occupy a significant role as an important second-rung leader (after Digambar Kamat) in the Congress and could even become the deputy chief minister if the Congress comes to power,” Naik said.Others suggest that it is Lobo’s desire to one day become the chief minister of Goa -- something that may not be possible in the BJP -- as evidenced by the fact that the Goa BJP’s earliest Christian face Francisco D’Souza who was Manohar Parrikar’s deputy when he was asked take charge as the country’s defence minister, was overlooked for the post in favour of Laxmikant Parsekar owing to Parsekar’s RSS roots. Something similar happened in 2019 after Parrikar’s death when several senior BJP leaders were overlooked in favour of Pramod Sawant, an RSS-honed leader largely.“Seeing what was done to Francisco D’Souza, Lobo saw the possibility of becoming chief minister one day only in the Congress,” Clive de Souza, a political commentator said.In remarks to the media after joining Congress, Lobo hinted that there were “some leaders within the BJP who didn’t want to see him grow” as one of the reasons why he felt “unwanted” in the BJP that led him to switch sides.The move has come as a shot in the arm for the ‘principal’ opposition party, who needed Lobo more than Lobo needed them.Having lost nearly all of its second-rung leadership to the BJP with the departure of 10 of its 15 remaining MLAs back in 2015, the Congress was staring at a void that was further accentuated by the departure of leaders like former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro and Reginaldo Lourenço to Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress. Lobo will promptly occupy that space and bring with him leaders with considerable heft.Lobo could be overestimating his popularity and political heft, but he brings with him candidates who have a fighting chance of winning four of the seven seats in Bardez, a coastal taluka in North Goa. Lobo plans to field his wife Delilah in neighbouring Siolim constituency as well as his aides Kedar Naik and Sudhir Kandolkar in Saligao and Mapusa constituencies respectively where he claims he has influence. Without Lobo, the Congress would be significantly weaker in the taluka that is the second-largest chunk of seats in the 40-member Goa legislative assembly.To be sure, Lobo was being wooed by the Trinamool Congress as well but he rejected their overtures, pointing that they were a party from Bengal and wouldn’t find acceptability in Goa.His entry into the Congress has prompted some Congress leaders to put in their papers and they are expected to join the Trinamool Congress while the BJP has brought in Gurudas Shirodkar, an old-timer in an effort to fill the void left behind by Lobo’s exit.But it won’t be smooth sailing for Lobo in the Congress.“His decision to try and expand his influence beyond the taluka he represents and his unabashed ambition will not be well received by all and Lobo may yet realise he may have bitten off more than he can chew,” a journalist with a local newspaper who declined to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-assembly-elections-why-michael-lobo-s-switch-is-a-shot-in-the-arm-for-goa-congress-101642102143896.html
14-01-2022||India||Video of Mangaluru cop’s chase of mobile snatcher goes viral on social media||In what seemed like a scene straight out of a movie, a policeman in Mangaluru chased and caught a cell phone snatcher on Wednesday. The incident came to light after videos of the chase went viral on the social media on Friday.The videos show assistant reserve sub-inspector Varun Alva, jumping out of his car after seeing a commotion at a distance and running towards a man escaping from the scene. The chase through small alleys ends in the police officer arresting a man in a blue shirt.The man was later identified as 32-year-old Harish Poojary, who along with his accomplices, was accused of stealing the mobile phone of a migrant worker from Bihar. The man whose phone was stolen reportedly worked at a granite factory and he was sleeping at Nehru Grounds when the incident occurred.Police commissioner N Shashi Kumar told reporters that even he was at the junction when the incident took place. He saw a man chasing another man, whom the police officer tracked down. The man identified as 20-year-old Samanth confessed to stealing mobiles and said that his associates had the other phones.The police asked Shamanth to call his accomplices and tell them to come to Mangaluru Central Railway Station. As police were following Shamanth near Hampankatte, Poojari ran to escape police and ASI Alva chased down the suspect.“He tried to enter an auto rickshaw but they gave chase to the auto rickshaw and pulled Poojari out. The suspect got of the vehicle only to flee from the spot. Varun chased and pinned him down,” said a senior official.Mangaluru South Police have registered a case of robbery and are on the lookout for another accused, Rajesh, a resident of Ullal, who is said to be part of the gang.Complimenting police personnel led by Varun, commissioner Shashi Kumar announced a cash reward of ₹10,000 for them on Thursday. He said the arrest of the gang members will help police crack cases of robbery in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-mangaluru-cop-s-chase-of-mobile-snatcher-goes-viral-on-social-media-101642101486784.html
14-01-2022||India||Covid impact: Karnataka’s Renuka temple records dip in revenue||Amid the surge in Covid cases, the Renuka temple at Savadatti taluk of Belagavi district, about 500km from Bengaluru, in Karnataka, which has been shut again, is witnessing a sharp decline in revenue.“We were expecting a revenue of around ₹5-6 crore in January and February as two major fairs occur during this time. But unfortunately, we had to shut down the temple due to the pandemic again,” said temple administrator Ravi Kotargasti.The temple dedicated to deity Renuka Yallamma is among the top ten highest revenue earning temples in Karnataka.The temple was constructed in 16th century following the Chalukyan and Rashtrakuta styles of architecture by renowned sculptor Jakanacharya.The temple had generated a revenue of around ₹2 crore in the 20 days it remained open after the first Covid wave, from February 1 to 20, 2021. According to temple management authorities, the revenue generated from September 28, 2021, to January 6, 2022, was almost ₹4 crore.The annual revenue of the last four years before the pandemic was around ₹16-17 crore.Owing to frequent restrictions due to the pandemic, several religious establishments have seen a dip in revenue in the last two years. Belagavi was among the most impacted regions of the state in the second Covid wave.During the first Covid-19 wave, the temple was closed on March 18, 2020. It was again opened for devotees on February 1, 2021. However, owing to the second wave, the temple doors were shut again till September 28, 2021. It was again closed from January 6 this year, due to the onset of the third wave of infections. “Renuka Yallamma temple is probably one of the most impacted temples and has been shut for the longest durations compared to others across the country,” claimed temple administrator Kotargasti.According to the state government, maximum pandemic cases in bordering Maharashtra state is also one of the reasons behind the closing the temple. Around 50% of devotees visiting the temple are from Maharashtra while 40% are from the North Karnataka district. The remaining 10% come from other parts of Karnataka and neighbouring states. “Closure of the temple was necessary because majority of the devotees are from rural areas; many among them are uneducated and not aware. Apprising them of the government’s guidelines regarding Covid is not easy. So, it was better to shut the temple instead of taking any risk,” said Kotargasti. “This is not like other pilgrimages. The culture and way of worshipping the deity is unique. Devotees who come from long distances stay in surrounding areas for a day or two. They prepare five different dishes to offer to the Jogappas community. They bring along the wooden logs, utensils and ingredients required to prepare the food. This religious service is called Padalige Seve,” he said.Earlier, the temple witnessed huge rush every Tuesday and Friday but in recent years, Sundays have also become a favourite among the visitors. Over 15 lakh devotees visit the temple during three major occasions: Hostila Hunnime in December, Banada Hunnima in January, and Bharat Hunnime in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-impact-karnataka-s-renuka-temple-records-dip-in-revenue-101642101483725.html
14-01-2022||India||Karnataka seeks Centre’s help to fight Covid surge||The state government on Thursday sought the assistance of the central government to increase number of hospital beds and oxygen plants to treat critical patients after a rapid surge of Covid-19 cases in the state.“I sought the central assistance to raise the oxygenated beds and oxygen plants,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said after a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday.In a statement, the chief minister’s office (CMO) on Thursday said that the prime minister had instructed the state governments to make preparations based on the experience of the first and second wave and deploy them in the ongoing third wave of infections that is expected to peak in February.The statements come even as the number of Covid-19 infections in Karnataka sees a rapid surge and record daily cases, adding to apprehensions that the situation was rapidly spiralling out of control in the state.“After second wave, at a total cost of ₹243 crore, we have established an additional 6,386 oxygen beds and 2,928 ICU beds in 147 taluk hospitals. 665 oxygen beds and 263 ICU beds have been added in 19 district hospitals at a cost of ₹25 crores. 217 out of 266 PSA oxygen plants allotted to Karnataka are operational. 3,460 ventilators and 8,100 oxygen concentrators are available,” Dr K Sudhakar, minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Thursday.Karnataka is witnessing an exponential increase in new infections.Karnataka recorded 25,005 new infections in a 24-hour-period, taking the active caseload to 115733, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Thursday. Positivity rate was at 12.39% and eight more people succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 38397, data shows. Bengaluru, which accounts for over 75% of all active cases in the state, recorded 18374 in a 24-hour period, taking the active case count to 90893, data shows.“On December 28, there were 356 cases in the state including 269 in Bengaluru. On January 5 we had 3,605 cases in Bengaluru and 641 in the rest of the state. On January 11, we had 10,800 cases in Bengaluru alone and 3,673 in rest of the state. So between December 28 and January 11, in 15 days, the cases have increased by 32.64% in Bengaluru Urban district, 32.65% in BBMP and 36.44% in the state,” Sudhakar said.He said the doubling rate in the ongoing third wave is 2-2.5 days against 8 days in the second wave and 10-12 days in the first wave.“It is therefore important for everyone to get both the doses of vaccine. Between January 1-11, there were 62, 641 active cases and about 6% of them were in hospital, 1% in Covid care centres and the rest 93% were in home isolation,” the minister added. The state government has set an ambitious target to test around 2 lakh people per day in the state and at least 1.25 in Bengaluru. “30% of the beds in district and talk hospitals have been reserved for treatment of children. Indira Gandhi Children’s Hospital has been notified as a designated hospital for paediatric care. Tests are being conducted in schools once every 15 days,” he added.Around 4.89 crore people in the state have received the first dose and 3.98 crore people have received the second dose, which is about 81.5% who are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-seeks-centre-s-help-to-fight-covid-surge-101642101481750.html
14-01-2022||India||Bengaluru: Apartments with over three cases to be declared as containment zones||Administrative body Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Thursday announced that an entire apartment complex will be declared a containment zone if more than three Covid-19 cases are detected for at least seven days. “If more than three cases are reported within the apartment complex, or around 100m-perimeter or the floor above and below or the complete block or in case of smaller apartments, the entire complex will be declared as a containment zone for a minimum of seven days,” read an advisory issued by the BBMP. According to the advisory, within the apartments, individual houses on a floor will be considered a containment zone if one case is reported from each floor, the complete floor will be considered a containment zone if three cases were reported across the floor and a complete block or a tower will be marked as a containment zone if it has 10 Covid cases, either across floors or in a single floor. It further added that the entire apartment complex will also be declared a containment zone if 50 cases are reported in apartments with 50 to 100 households or if 100 cases are reported in those with more than 100 houses. “Testing of all population within the containment zone is advisable, mandatory if symptomatic,” the BBMP said. “Testing of all primary and secondary contacts is advisable and mandatory if symptomatic. All contacts will remain under quarantine till test results are declared. All contacts within the containment zone willl remain quarantined for the period of the notification,” it added. Meanwhile, BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta said, despite the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s new advisory, testing patterns in the city won’t change. ICMR on Monday had stated that the contacts of Covid-19 patients do not need to be tested unless identified as high-risk, based on age or comorbidities. The government will continue with the current testing patterns, he said. “We will continue to test contacts of Covid-19 patients and other categories we have been testing so far,” he said. Further, the civic body said that the resident welfare associations or the housing societies should ensure that those advised home quarantine should adhere to it. The administrative bodies have been asked to ensure all the residents and visitors are fully vaccinated. “Ensure all the residents, house helps and visitors are checked for temperature and masks. Provision for hand sanitisation/hand wash should be there. Common areas such as doors, railings, surfaces, etc. likely to be touched by multiple people, to be cleaned using sodium hypochlorite, bleaching power, or any effective disinfectant to maintain the highest level of sanitation and hygiene,” read the advisory. Karnataka on Thursday witnessed 25,005 new Covid-19 cases and eight fatalities in 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 31,24,524 and the death toll to 38,397. The positivity rate for the day stood at 12.39%. Of the new cases reported today, 18,374 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The total number of active cases across the state is now 1,15,733. 
14-01-2022||India||Bengaluru waste collectors demand dry medical waste segregation||As Bengaluru is witnessing another wave of Covid-19 at an unprecedented rate, the waste collectors live under constant fear of getting infected as residents in the city dispose of medical wastes without segregating them from regular household waste. Waste collectors, employed with multiple dry waste management centres of the civic body, claim they find at least 1,000-2,000 used masks every day. Besides demanding better protective gear, these frontline workers in Bengaluru also appealed to residents to segregate waste at home and dispose of medical waste separately. On Thursday morning, segregation work was in full swing at the waste segregation centre in Bengaluru’s JP Nagar. “Our job is to go through the waste and find items that can be recycled.While segregating waste, we come across a lot of used face masks,” said Srinivas, a waste segregator. Geetha, another segregator at the centre, said that even though they wear gloves and masks, but given the spike in Covid-19 cases across the city, they fear for their health. “We hear a lot of things. The virus in the second wave is spreading faster. We also hear that wearing one mask is not enough,” she said. Centre supervisor Mansoor said, “Compared to the first wave, the number of discarded masks we have collected has not increased. Maybe people are using more reusable masks now. But people are still not segregating the waste.” “Ever since the pandemic started, we have been appealing to people to put medical waste in a separate cover,” he said. Mansoor added that with more people getting treatment at home, the medical waste coming from the house poses a bigger threat to those working at the segregation centres. “It (medical waste) should be wrapped in paper. People should now segregate three kinds of waste: wet waste, dry waste, and sanitary waste; and masks should be thrown in sanitary waste,” Mansoor said. RWA president in Kammanahalli, Shankar Rao, said, “Apartments and gated communities should put in proper standard operating procedures (SOP) to maintain waste, especially given the rise in cases.” “We are spreading awareness within our building regarding the waste segregation. We have a process in place which was created after consulting the waste collectors in our area. Such a process will go a long way considering how many masks are discarded every day,” he said. BBMP on Thursday issued a fresh guideline for the apartments on waste segregation. “The housing societies should follow segregated waste disposal with one fixed place identified and used for dumping waste in separate bins. Common groups (WhatsApp, Telegram etc) of resident welfare associations (RWAs) could be used to encourage for spreading awareness,” read the advisory. 
14-01-2022||India||5 killed, 45 injured as Assam-bound train derails in West Bengal||Five people were killed and at least 50 were injured after 12 coaches of the Guwahati-Bikaner Express derailed on Thursday evening, the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) said in a statement. The train was bound for Guwahati and the accident took place in the Maynaguri region around 5 pm, the statement said, adding that 1,053 passengers on board at the time. According to officials, the injured passengers were taken to hospitals in Jalpaiguri and Maynaguri town. The condition of 20 passengers is critical.Railway officials who were part of rescue and relief operations said the coaches derailed in the Alipurduar section of the NFR between New Domohani and new Maynaguri stations. The rescue operations ended on Thursday night.The ill-fated train was running 2 hours 41 minutes late during its three -day journey. It started from Bikaner late on Wednesday night and was supposed to reach Guwahati early on Friday morning.Dilip Kumar Singh, divisional railway manager of the Alipuarduar section of the NFR said, “Several teams have rushed to the spot.” A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was deployed to assist the local police.Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said five bodies were recovered in the operation till late evening. “We sent generators to light up the accident site. All departments have been alerted,” Basu said.A Jalpaiguri district official said at least 50 ambulances were deployed to the spot. A special train from Jalpaiguri reached the accident site at around 7 pm to take the injured to hospital.President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee were among senior leaders who expressed their condolences to the families of the deceased. “The derailment of coaches of the Bikaner-Guhawati Express near New Maynaguri, West Bengal is distressing. My thoughts and prayers are with the affected passengers and their families. I wish speedy recovery to the injured,” President Kovind tweeted.“Spoke to Railways Minister Shri @AshwiniVaishnaw and took stock of the situation in the wake of the train accident in West Bengal. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover quickly,” tweeted the Prime Minister.“Deeply concerned to hear about the tragic accident of the Bikaner-Guwahati Express in Maynaguri. Senior Officers of the State Government, DM/SP/IG North Bengal are supervising rescue and relief operations. Those injured will receive medical attention, as early as possible,” Banerjee said.
14-01-2022||India||Six women migrant workers rescued from Karnataka after Jharkhand CM’s intervention||Six women migrant workers hailing from Jharkhand were rescued from Karnataka where they were held captive in an apparel unit, the state government said on Thursday. The migrant workers from East Singhbhum district were forced by a contractor to work for 18 hours a day and abused and beaten up on occasions for refusing to work long hours without proper food.“After undergoing training at Skill Development Centre, Dimna, the women had gone to work at an apparel unit in Bengaluru where they were forced to work under inhuman conditions...They were not allowed to return and were held hostage,” a statement issued by the state government said.When the matter was brought to the knowledge of Chief Minister Hemant Soren, he directed officials to ensure the safe return of the migrant workers, the statement said.The development comes close on the heels of the state government rescuing five workers of Gumla held hostage in Karnataka’s Hospet this month and 16 migrant workers from the eastern state who were allegedly held captive at an island in Andhra Pradesh for fish farming last month.Earlier, the Jharkhand government had rescued 32 migrant workers and their five children, residents of the Santhal Parganas region, from Kerala where they were forced to work at a tea garden under adverse conditions. In another instance, tribal migrant workers and their children who were made to live like bonded labourers at a brick kiln in Uttar Pradesh were brought back by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-women-migrant-workers-rescued-from-karnataka-after-jharkhand-cm-s-intervention-101642101123284.html
14-01-2022||India||China terms General Naravane’s remark on ‘threat’ in Ladakh unconstructive||China on Thursday criticised Indian Army chief General MM Naravane’s comments about the Chinese threat in the Ladakh region, saying it hopes Indian officials would “refrain” from making “unconstructive” comments.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said at a press briefing on Thursday: “China and India are working through diplomatic and military channels to advance the easing of the border tension. We hope that certain individual on the Indian side would refrain from making unconstructive remarks.”Speaking to reporters on Wednesday ahead of Army Day, General Naravane had said that the Chinese threat in the region had not reduced in any way despite partial disengagement at multiple friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.On Tuesday, confirming the date for the 14th round of talks between the militaries for both countries, Wang had said: “Currently, the situation on the border areas is stable on the whole and the two sides are in dialogue and communication through diplomatic and military channels.“We hope India will work to help the situation to move from emergency handling to a regular daily based management phase,” Wang had added.The last round of talks in October had concluded amid major differences between the two sides.Indian and Chinese border troops have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May, 2020, when a violent clash in Pangong lake area led to both sides gradually deploying tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry along the border.Several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have only resulted in partial disengagement of troops until now.Ahead of the Wednesday talks, an editorial in state-run China Daily newspaper warned India not be led “astray” by the US.The editorial quoted White House press secretary Jen Psaki describing China as a threat to regional security with its “attempt to intimidate its neighbors” and that the US will “…continue to stand with our partners on that”.“India must not be led astray by such remarks. It should engage in the talks with sincerity and strive to meet China half-way so that they can work together to solve their border disputes,” the editorial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-terms-general-naravane-s-remark-on-threat-in-ladakh-unconstructive-101642101061592.html
14-01-2022||India||Over 25,000 new Covid cases in Karnataka; 18,374 from Bengaluru alone||Continuing to report a spike in numbers, Karnataka on Thursday reported 25,005 new cases of COVID-19, and 8 fatalities, taking the tally to 31,24,524 and the death toll to 38,397.The state, which has been witnessing a steady surge in cases since the last week of December, recorded 21,390 fresh infections on Wednesday.Of the new cases on Thursday, 18,374 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 1,132 people being discharged and 3 deaths.The total number of active cases across the state is now 1,15,733.There were 2,363 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,70,365, a health department bulletin said.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 12.39 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.03 per cent.Of the 8 deaths, 3 are from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Tumakuru and Vijayapura.Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru recorded the second highest of 695 new cases, Dakshina Kannada 625, Tumakuru 547, Hassan 490, Mandya 406, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 13,53,331 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,83,420 and Tumakuru 1,23,392.According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 12,46,001, followed by Mysuru 1,78,168 and Tumakuru 1,20,259.Cumulatively, a total of 5,83,71,357 samples have been tested, of which 2,01,704 were on Thursday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-25-000-new-covid-cases-in-karnataka-18-374-from-bengaluru-alone-101642100941631.html
14-01-2022||India||Jharkhand woman set on fire over witchcraft suspicion||Close on heels of a lynching incident in Jharkhand’s Simdega district, a 60-year-old tribal woman was thrashed and set on fire by a few villagers on suspicion of practicing witchcraft on Wednesday night, police said on Thursday.Six people have been arrested, they added. The incident took place in Kurpaani village, under Tethaitangar police station limits, when Jhario Devi and her husband visited the house of one Florence Dungung to attend the funeral service of the latter’s wife, police said.“Florence reportedly accused the woman of practicing witchcraft and held her responsible for his wife’s death. He, and few others present there, thrashed her and then set her on fire after pouring kerosene on her. On hearing her scream, other villagers present in the neighbourhood rushed to the house and rescued her,” an official at Tethaitangar police station said. The woman sustained around 30 per cent burn injuries and was referred from Simdega district hospital to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. “The incident took place between 9 pm and 10 pm on Wednesday. On getting information, police rushed to the spot but by then, her relatives and other villagers had already taken her to Simdega sadar hospital. Doctors said the woman suffered around 30 percent burns. She has been referred to RIMS for better treatment,” Simdega superintendent of police (SP) Shams Tabrez said. Based on a complaint by the woman and her son, six people were arrested in this regard, the SP added. The incident came days after a Dalit man was beaten to death and set on fire by villagers, under Kolebira police station limits, for allegedly felling trees. Nine of the 13 named accused in the case have been arrested so far. In view of rising cases of mob attacks in the state, the Jharkhand government on December 21 cleared the Prevention of Mob Violence and Mob Lynching Bill, 2021 that provides for jail terms ranging from three years to life imprisonment and fines of up to ₹25 lakh against those involved in mob lynching leading to “injury or death” of an individual. The law, however, is yet to be notified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-woman-set-on-fire-over-witchcraft-suspicion-101642100763059.html
14-01-2022||India||Rahul Gandhi’s new tweet attack on PM Modi is inspired by Wordle||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday chose the newest craze on social media, Wordle, to take a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government.Wordle is an online word game and gives a player six chances to guess the day’s secret word, which has five letters. The aim is to figure out the secret word with the fewest guesses. If a player successfully guesses the word, he is prompted to post his/her score on social media along with the number of tries.On Twitter, Gandhi used the format of the game but changed the letters to reflect Congress’s allegations against the prime minister. The photograph shared by the leader contained words like ‘Jhumla’ (scam), ‘Taxes’, ‘snoop’, ‘photo op’, in an obvious attack on the ruling party.Wordle 056 6/6 pic.twitter.com/T4eaGMEw3fHe also wrote ‘056’, a reference to a comment made by PM Modi in the run up to the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, where he referred to his 56-inch chest -- to reiterate his strongman image.With Covid-19 cases raging across the world and several countries imposing lockdowns, many have got hooked to this online, free game that requires one to guess a five-letter word, every day. Players in India say they are also glued to it, and some have even started competing with their friends and colleagues while comparing the daily score.The game was created by former Reddit software engineer Josh Wardle, originally for his partner Palak Shah, as reported by NPR. The game can only be played on its official website and does not have an official mobile app. However, several developers have created identical app versions to cash in on surging demand for the game, with unsuspecting users driving up downloads of the clone apps.The puzzle’s rise has been meteoric: according to The New York Times, 90 people played on November 1. Two months later, on January 2, more than 300,000 tackled the challenge. The Guardian put the daily player count last weekend at two million, and rising, according to news agency AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-new-tweet-attack-on-pm-modi-is-inspired-by-wordle-101642099861434.html
14-01-2022||India||240mn Covid-19 vaccine doses in rich nations to expire by March||Approximately 240 million Covid-19 vaccine doses are set to expire in G7 and European Union countries by March, independent analysts said on Thursday, shedding new light on surplus stocks with rich nations that could have been used in poorer countries where millions are yet to receive their first doses.The report, released by science analytics company Airfinity, came on a day when Unicef officials told Reuters that 100 million doses were rejected last month by poorer countries because they were nearing their expiry date. The Airfinity analysis now estimates another 241 million will expire in G7 and EU nations by March. “These numbers show that vaccinating the world is now largely a distribution problem and no longer a supply issue. Even after successful booster rollouts, there are surplus doses available that risk going to waste if not shared very soon. The emergence of Omicron and the likelihood of future variants shows there is no time to waste,” said co-founder and CEO of Airfinity, Rasmus Bech Hansen. The Airfinity forecast takes into account doses administered, boosters for everyone over 12 years-old, vaccine hesitancy and donations in G7 nations and EU.“Countries need these vaccines to have a minimum shelf life of two months, otherwise there isn’t enough time to get them to the people who need them. Once this two month requirement is factored into our analysis the number of potentially wasted doses could rise to 500 million by March,” said Matt Linley, lead analyst at Airfinity,
14-01-2022||India||Sunderbans losing its dense mangrove cover: Govt report||The Sunderbans, the world’s largest mangrove forest, and home to the Royal Bengal Tiger, is gradually losing its very dense tree cover, data released by the Forest Survey of India on Thursday has revealed.Experts say rising salinity levels are taking a toll on the mangroves. This is worrying because the mangrove forests acts a green buffer against cyclones, protecting Kolkata from bearing the direct brunt of storms that originate in the Bay of Bengal.The India State of Forest Report 2021 released Thursday revealed that the very dense mangrove cover in the Sunderbans has shrunk by two square kilometres – from 996 sq km to 994 sq km - between 2019 and 2021. The delta had a mangrove cover of 999 sq km in 2017 which had declined by three square kilometres in 2019. And it was 1038 sq km in 2011. A 4.23% decrease over a decade is worrying.“We have to check exactly where the very dense forest cover has gone down. Progressive salinization is one of the reasons behind decline in density of mangrove. Very severe cyclone Amphan which hit the delta in May 2020 has definitely taken a toll” said Debal Roy, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal.The delta was hit by two very severe cyclones – Amphan in May 2020 and Yaas in May 2021 – which took a toll on the vegetation. Nearly one-third of the delta was severely damaged by Amphan. The cyclones also push sea water inland, increasing salinity levels in the delta.The report claims that total mangrove cover, which includes very dense mangrove, moderately dense mangrove and open mangrove cover, has increased from 2112 sq km to 2114 sq km in 2021. But this increase is because of a rise in open mangrove cover, primarily on account of plantations. Moderately dense mangrove cover has remained unchanged during these two years.The report mentions three kind of mangrove forest cover -- very dense, moderately dense and open. While very dense mangrove is defined as those which have canopy density more than 70%, those with canopy density 40-70% are defined as moderately dense, while those in the 10-40% range are considered as open mangroves (these are generally plantations done during afforestation programmes and not natural forests).“Rising salinity level in the delta is taking a toll on several mangrove species such as Sonneratia apetala, Nypa fruticans and Bruguiera gymnorhiza. Their growth is becoming stunted as they can’t withstand salinity above 20 psu (practical salinity unit). The average salinity of sea water in Bay of Bengal is 33 psu (which is equal to 33 gram of salt in one litre of water). Because of reduced sweet water flow and intrusion of salt water from the sea these trees are either dying or suffering from stunted growth,” said Abhijit Mitra, former head of the marine science department of Calcutta University.The Sunderbans forest sprawls over 10,000 sq km across India and Bangladesh, with 40%of it in India, and is home to many rare and globally threatened wildlife species such as the Royal Bengal Tiger and the estuarine crocodile. In India it is confined to the southern tip of West Bengal and spans two districts , South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas.Experts pointed out that the Sunderbans has been shrinking over the past few years and warned that if the trend continues it could have a disastrous effect on both Kolkata and the livelihood of local villagers.“The Sunderbans’ thick mangrove acts as a bio-shield and saves Kolkata from the direct onslaught of cyclones that originate over the Bay of Bengal. The mangrove also acts as a spawning ground for several fish and other aquatic animals such as crabs and prawns on which the locals depend for their livelihood,” Tuhin Ghosh, director of School of Oceanographic Studies in Jadavpur University, had said in an earlier interview.While very severe cyclone Amphan hit the Sunderban on May 20, 2020 with wind speeds up to 185 kmph, by the time it crossed the mangrove forest and reached Kolkata its wind speed had come down to around 130 kmph.The state government planted around 50 million mangrove saplings after cyclone Amphan. Again in May 2021 after cyclone Yaas hit the area, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said another 150 million mangrove saplings would be planted in the three coastal districts of West Bengal.Among all states West Bengal has the largest mangrove cover in the country followed by Gujarat and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.
14-01-2022||India||India-China military talks fail to yield positive results||The 14th round of India-China military dialogue on Wednesday, like the 13th on October 10, failed to yield any positive outcomes, although both countries said they would work towards mutually acceptable solutions to resolving the 20-month long stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.The next round is expected to be held soon to continue the momentum of discussions.On Thursday, a joint statement from the two armies issued in New Delhi and Beijing talked about a consensus on consolidating previous outcomes and taking steps for security and stability on the ground.“The two sides had a frank and in-depth exchange of views for the resolution of the relevant issues along LAC in the western sector. They agreed that they should follow the guidance provided by the state leaders and work for the resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest,” the joint statement said, stressing that this would help restore peace along LAC and improve bilateral ties.The statement was issued a day after Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said India will deal with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in a firm and peaceful way, but if it comes to war or conflict, the country will emerge victorious.The two sides agreed to stay in close contact and carry on with the military and diplomatic dialogue to swiftly work out a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues, the statement said. Both armies said the 15th round of corps commander-level talks should be held at the earliest.Every single round of talks is not likely to lead to tangible outcomes, said former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd).“Talking with and to PLA is a laborious process and patience pays. The positive is that both sides are talking and have mutually agreed to carry the dialogue forward and hold it at an early date,” Bhatia added.Although the January 12 talks lasted around 13 hours, the Indian side clearly failed to persuade PLA to disengage from Hot Springs near Kongka La and resolve patrolling rights issues in Depsang Bulge in Daulet Beg Oldi sector and Charding Nullah Junction (CNJ) in Demchok sector.The statements clearly indicate that any mutually acceptable solution remains work in progress. This means both the Indian Army and PLA commanders will continue to engage in the future but there is no guarantee on whether PLA will restore April 2020 status in Gogra-Hot Springs or resolve the Depsang Bulge or CNJ issue.The Indian Army is believed to have raised the issue of PLA building a bridge over Pangong Tso, east of Srijap Complex, for faster troop deployment and rapid militarisation of the occupied Aksai Chin area by the Chinese, all along the 597-km Ladakh LAC.Analysts say that PLA, with a new border law and rapid military and technological upgradation on the Chinese side of the unresolved LAC is converting the 3,488 km LAC into a Line of Control (LOC). While the new border law passed by China in October 2021 isn’t directed at India, the country will be impacted by it. Among the provisions of the law are the placement of boundary markers to clearly mark China’s border and development of border areas, including a not-so-thinly veiled decision to settle civilians in these. The new law came into effect from January 1.On Wednesday, General Naravane said the country is prepared to deal with any military ramifications of China’s new border law.Both the Indian Army and PLA are locked in a stand-off all along Ladakh LAC after the Chinese Army under instructions from the Central Military Commission under President Xi Jinping decided to unilaterally change the LAC and impose the rejected 1959 cartographical line on the Ladakh LAC in May 2020. Since then, the two sides are fully deployed with more than three divisions of troops on each side with missile, rocket, artillery and tank regiments apart from their air forces being on standby in the hinterland.PLA, by transgressing in Pangong Tso, Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs area in May 2020, broke the bilateral 1993 and 1996 peace and tranquility agreements signed between the two countries at the level of heads of states.While Beijing has sought to delink the border issue from other aspects of the relationship, the Modi government has decided that bilateral relations will remain in cold storage till such time Beijing does not resolve the Ladakh LAC issue.The joint statement issued on Thursday appeared to strike a conciliatory note in contrast to separate statements issued by the two sides after the 13th round of talks --- while the Indian Army said PLA did not agree to suggestions made by it, China accused India of “unreasonable and unrealistic demands” in an unusually aggressive statement.The focus of the current round of talks is on resolving outstanding problems at Hot Springs or Patrolling Point-15.At his customary annual press briefing ahead of Army Day on January 15, Naravane was optimistic about the ongoing dialogue resulting in a breakthrough in resolving the LAC standoff though he said it was unreasonable to expect every single round of talks to end with an outcome.“We have to keep talking to each other to understand each other’s viewpoints and perceptions and the differences, and every time we talk, the differences keep getting narrowed down. In this series of talks that is going on, we are hopeful that we will be able to resolve the issues at PP-15 and once that is done, we will go on to the other issues (Depsang) that predate the current standoff,” Naravane said.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs and PLA’s forward presence in Depsang has also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to PP-10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13.Despite three rounds of disengagement at friction points on LAC, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry deployed in the Ladakh theatre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-military-talks-fail-to-yield-positive-results-101642099562551.html
14-01-2022||India||SC asks UIDAI review need for residence proof for issuing Aadhaar to sex workers||New Delhi: The Supreme Court has directed the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to consider waiving off the requirement of proof of residence for issuing Aadhaar cards to sex workers. A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai passed a direction on Monday, saying the UIDAI may consider the list of sex workers available with the National AIDS Control Authority (NACO) for issuance of Aadhaar documents, instead of insisting on residential proof. The UIDAI has sought time till February 11 to consider the suggestion and file a response. If the UIDAI agrees, the decision will benefit over 868,000 women sex workers in the country registered with NACO, a body under the ministry of health and family welfare. Many sex workers do not possess identity documents due to the stigma attached to their profession or the fear of being harassed if their place of residence is disclosed. The Supreme Court’s order came while hearing a criminal appeal filed in 2010 by Budhadev Karmaskar, who was accused of murdering a sex worker in Kolkata. Taking suo motu cognizance of the living conditions of sex workers, the court expanded the scope of consideration and examined steps for rehabilitation of sex workers to provide them a life of dignity, a facet of which includes issuance of identity documents. In this regard, the court had formed a committee of experts in July 2011. The committee submitted its final report in 2016, which suggested making amendments to the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 and giving a legal status to sex workers by providing them official documents such as voter I-card, ration cards, PAN card and Aadhaar card. The court had accepted this report. While states and Union territories from time to time have been directed by the court to issue ration cards and voter I-cards to sex workers, the UIDAI had filed an affidavit in the matter on January 6 after the court passed an order on December 14, 2021. “Right to dignity is a fundamental right that is guaranteed to every citizen of this country irrespective of his/her vocation….A status report relating to the issuance of ration cards and voters identity cards and Aadhaar Card shall be filed by all states and union territories within a period of four weeks,” said the court’s order last month. Advocate Zoheb Hossain, representing UIDAI, informed the court that from the Aadhaar’s database, it cannot be ascertained how many sex workers have enrolled for Aadhaar number as identifiable data about profession is not collected. Further, he stated that the system under UIDAI is the most liberal and uncomplicated where the document is issued on furnishing basic information of name, age, place of residence and mobile number. The court-appointed amici curiae (friends of the court) – senior advocate Jayant Bhushan and advocate Pijush Kanti Roy – pointed out that the UIDAI insists on residence proof, which is a hindrance for sex workers to come forward. Broadly, a large number of sex workers have ration cards but many of them are still not coming forward to get ration cards and voter cards made. Bhushan suggested to the court that UIDAI could consider the NACO list as the basis for residence proof. The order passed by the bench said, “The documents filed along with the UIDAI affidavit show that the proof of residence has to be submitted by the applicant for issuance of Aadhaar Card. UIDAI will take instructions on the suggestion made by the learned amicus curiae regarding the issuance of Aadhaar card to the sex workers on the basis of the list prepared by NACO, as a proof of residence.” It also directed states and UTs to complete the process of providing ration cards and voter cards to sex workers within two weeks and submit status report on February 11, the next date of hearing. The court, meanwhile, directed the states/UTs to continue providing free ration to sex workers during the Covid-19 pandemic, without insisting on identity documents. This process has been on since September 2020 after the plight faced by sex workers, left with no income during the lockdown, was brought to the court’s notice by West Bengal-based NGO, Darbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee. The Delhi government has informed the court that the fair price shops have been instructed not to insist on residence proof for providing ration while Chandigarh is transferring money directly into the bank accounts of sex workers identified by NACO. Senior advocate Anand Grover, appearing for the NGO, however, pointed out that there are flaws in the NACO list as it “does not identify sex workers’ community having less than 1,000 members”. The amicus curiae suggested involving community-based organisations for identifying sex workers and issuing identity documents. The bench directed, “The community-based organisations shall submit a list of members which shall be verified by the concerned district legal service authority/state AIDS control society. On such verification, the list shall be forwarded to the competent authorities in the state governments/Union territories for issuance of ration cards/voter cards.” The court also directed the authorities to maintain strict confidentiality in undertaking this process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-uidai-review-need-for-residence-proof-for-issuing-aadhaar-to-sex-workers-101642099561442.html
14-01-2022||India||Be proactive but don’t panic, Modi tells CMs||India’s readiness to combat the Covid-19 pandemic must be a step ahead of all variants, even those that may arise in the future, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said during a meeting with chief ministers on Thursday, where he also said that while being alert and careful is crucial, it is also important to avoid panic.The meeting is the first time Modi met the chief ministers to discuss Covid-19 since the third wave began. Across the country, there were 264,922 new cases on Thursday, according to HT’s tally from data released by states – representing a 253% week-on-week jump propelled by the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2.“The doubts that were earlier there regarding the Omicron variant are gradually now being cleared. Compared to earlier variants, Omicron is infecting masses at a much higher rate. In a country like America, nearly 14 lakh (1.4 million) new cases have been reported in a single day. In India, our scientists are reviewing the situation and numbers. It’s quite clear that we have to be vigilant and cautious, but at the same time we have to also ensure that we don’t panic,” the PM said during the meeting.Modi said authorities and the citizens need to ensure Covid-19 precautions do not slacken during the upcoming festive period.The way central and state governments have adopted pre-emptive, proactive and collective approach in the past will be key going forward, he said.“India’s fight against the biggest pandemic in over 100 years has now entered its third year. Hard work is our only path and victory is our only option. With our efforts, we, close to 1.3 billion people, will emerge victorious against Corona.”The PM outlined some important steps that he said were necessary to be adequately prepared. “We will have to keep scaling up our medical infrastructure and manpower along with strengthening our scientific understanding of the disease.”“Most experts globally have to say that irrespective of the variant, the most potent weapons to fight the coronavirus are vaccines. India-made vaccines are known to be of quality globally, which is a matter of pride for every Indian,” he added.
14-01-2022||India||Haryana private job quota law takes effect from tomorrow||Chandigarh: The Haryana government’s law, which provides 75% reservation for local youth in private sector jobs that offer a salary of less than ₹30,000 a month, will come into force from January 15. As per the notification issued by the state government on January 10, the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020 requires local residents to carry the family identity card — the Parivar Pehchan Patra — for being eligible to register for employment on a designated portal of the Haryana Labour Department (https://local.hrylabour.gov.in/). The Haryana assembly passed the legislation titled the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill on November 5, 2020, and the governor gave his assent to the bill on March 2 last year. The law will be applicable for a period of 10 years. The state government also relaxed the residency (domicile) requirement from 15 to five years for a person to get a bona fide resident certificate in the state to provide some flexibility to the private companies in hiring.“Private sector hiring comes to a halt from January 15, the date of commencement of this Act. Now every employer in the state will first have to register employees receiving gross monthly salary or wages not more than ₹30,000 on the designated portal within three months of coming into force of this Act. No person shall be employed or engaged by any employer till the registration of all such employees is completed on the designated portal,’’ said an official, quoting the law. Deputy chief minister, Dushyant Chautala, had said that startups and new Information Technology (IT) companies will be exempted from the provisions of the Act for two years. Officials said that this primarily meant that start-ups, companies, firms and establishments which come into being or are set up after January 15 will be exempted for two years from hiring 75% local candidates by the state government. Also, any internal hiring (from within a company or an establishment) is likely to be exempted from the law. In November last year, the state government reduced the upper limit of gross monthly salary for jobs which will come under the ambit of the private sector job quota law. As per the official notification, jobs with a gross monthly salary of not more than ₹30,000 will be up for hiring from among local candidates. The bill passed by the assembly last year capped the gross monthly wages for jobs available for hiring at ₹50,000. However, following feedback from industrial houses and entrepreneurs, the state government decided to reduce the salary cap, people aware of the matter said.The India Inc had earlier called for a re-look at the legislation, saying that it could lead to multinational firms moving out of the state.The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said: “At a time when it is important to attract investments at the state level, governments should not impose restrictions on the industry. Reservation affects productivity and industry competitiveness.” “We hope the government re-looks the legislation or at least ensures the rules are fair. As one country, there should be no imposition or restriction,” it added.Legal experts said the new law is in contravention of the Constitution and will not withstand judicial scrutiny. Former Haryana advocate general Ashok Aggarwal had said domicile can never form the basis of employment. Aggarwal said if public employment cannot be given on the basis of domicile how can private jobs be. The government is not the employer in private sector jobs, he said. He added that only a small percentage of low-end jobs can be reserved and that too for special reasons. While tabling Bill in assembly, the government had modified its Section 23 to provide the law an overriding effect on any other state law. The same provision provided an overriding effect to the law over any other law when an ordinance was approved by the cabinet. Since the provision had the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament its wording was changed in the Bill. However, issues raised by the law and legislative secretary during vetting of the proposed law still holds good, legal experts said. The clause providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana, experts said, was in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before the law and Article 19 (1)(g) which provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. 
14-01-2022||India||Developer to compensate homebuyer for delay in occupation certificate: SC||A real estate developer is liable to compensate homebuyers for higher taxes and other charges that the latter are compelled to pay in absence of an occupation certificate (OC), the Supreme Court has held in a ruling that furthers the latter’s interest under the consumer protection law. A bench, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, said that a homebuyer shall come under the definition of “consumer” under the consumer protection law since failure of a builder to obtain occupation certificate is to be held as a “deficiency in service” under the legislation. The bench, which also included justices A S Bopanna, rejected the argument that no obligation can be fastened on a developer since it does not receive municipal taxes or electricity charges as a service provider, and underlined that the higher charges are direct consequences of the builder’s lapses. The bench was hearing a case filed by Samruddhi Co-operative Housing Society Ltd of Mumbai, which moved the national consumer commission in 2016 for refund of excess taxes and charges to the tune of ₹2.6 crore paid to municipal authorities due to the failure of the developer, Mumbai Mahalaxmi Construction Pvt Ltd, to obtain an occupation certificate for the flats.Members of the society booked units in 1993 and were given possession of their units in 1997 but the builder failed to obtain an occupation certificate from the municipal authorities, forcing homebuyers pay a 25% higher amount on account of the property tax and an additional 50% towards the water charges to the authorities for want of the document.The national consumer commission, however, did not appreciate the homebuyers’ plea, holding that the complaint was not maintainable since it was filed belatedly and that the housing society could not be considered as a “consumer” under the Consumer Protection Act because they wanted recovery of charges paid to the municipal authorities from the developer. Aggrieved, the homebuyers moved the Supreme Court in 2019. Representing the society, advocate Sunil Fernandes contended that the complaint cannot be thrown out on the grounds of limitation because it was in instance of a continuing wrong where the developer’s failure compelled the homebuyers to keep paying higher charges. Fernandes further pointed out that the builder has not obtained the occupation certificate even 24 years after giving possession and was also in breach of a 2014 order of the state consumer commission that gave the developer four months to obtain the certificate and also pay ₹1 lakh for settling water charges. The developer, on its part, sought dismissal of the homebuyers’ claims, arguing that the cause of action arose in 1997 but the complaint was filed 18 years later. It further cited provisions of the Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act (MOFA) that states it is the liability of the flat purchasers to pay municipal taxes and water and electricity charges. But the bench underscored that owing to the failure of the developer to obtain the certificate, there has been a direct impact on the members of the society in terms of the payment of higher taxes and water charges to the municipal authority. “This continuous failure to obtain an occupancy certificate is a breach of the obligations imposed on the respondent under the MOFA and amounts to a continuing wrong. The appellants (homebuyers) therefore, are entitled to damages arising out of this continuing wrong and their complaint is not barred by limitation,” it held.Setting aside the national consumer commission’s order, the top court held that the builder was responsible for transferring the title to the flats to the society along with the occupancy certificate. “The failure of the respondent to obtain the occupation certificate is a deficiency in service for which the respondent (builder) is liable. Thus, the members of the appellant society are well within their rights as ‘consumers’ to pray for compensation as a recompense for the consequent liability (such as payment of higher taxes and water charges by the owners) arising from the lack of an occupancy certificate,” said the bench.The court held that the homebuyers’ complaint is maintainable under the Act, asking the commission to hear the case on merit and decide it within three months.The decision is unlikely to affect the buyers in Haryana because, as per the rules stipulated by town and country planning department, a developer can’t make offer of possession of property to buyers without obtaining an occupation certificate. DTCP officials said that payment of taxes to the municipality or other civic agencies does not arise because the conveyance deed can’t be registered till the Occupation Certificate is issued. They also said that urban development rules were different in different states so this Supreme Court ruling had to be seen and interpreted in that context. A developer is liable to pay penalty to buyers in case of delay in completion of projects. In November last year, the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA) had directed developer of a residential group housing project in Sector 102 to pay compensation to 38 homebuyers for delay in offering possession of apartments. Officials familiar with the matter in Noida said there are at least 30,000 housing units in around 30 different projects, which are occupied by homebuyers without the developer obtaining the occupancy certificate. The developers need to clear financial dues before becoming eligible for OC.“The developers are not clearing dues and not obtaining OC because they are not bothered if the apartment owners get adequate facilities or not. Homebuyers are made to suffer in these buildings, which are without OC and common facilities such as lift, fire safety, park, parking and other such services are affected,” said Abhishek Kumar president of Noida Extension flat owners’ welfare association.The Western UP president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India, Prashant Kumar Tiwari, said: “The Mumbai case is a unique case of its kind and it has no relation or impact on Noida buildings or buyers since Noida is an Industrial township.”Developers said that the OC for some buildings in Noida is delayed due to policy decisions at the level of the state government. We demanded waiver of unjustified interest on group housing land. But the government did not take a decision to settle dues. Then the issue went to Supreme Court that is yet to give final verdict on interest issue and without settlement of interest issue obtaining OC is not possible.
14-01-2022||India||Fake currency: NIA registers fresh case; fourth probe on foreign soil||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered a fresh case to investigate use of Bangladeshi soil by Pakistan to smuggle high quality fake Indian currency notes (FICN) into India with an aim to fund terror activities, officials familiar with the case said on Thursday.This is NIA’s fourth investigation on foreign soil and its second in Dhaka, since the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008, was amended in August 2019, empowering it to probe terrorist activities outside India if citizens or the country’s interests are targeted.Officials familiar with the probe said Dhaka metropolitan police had arrested smuggler Fatema Akhar Api (35) and her associate Abu Taleb on November 26, 2021, and had recovered FICN with a face value of ₹7.34 crore in the denomination of ₹500 notes from them.Initial investigation by Dhaka police has revealed that high quality FICN is being printed in Pakistan and shipped to Bangladesh for further smuggling into India. Two international smugglers working for the ISI – Sultan and Safi, both Pakistani citizens -- have been identified as the key players in the syndicate, which has been tasked to pump huge amount of fake currency into Indian cities for carrying out terror activities, said an official familiar with developments.One of the routes being used by Sultan and Safi is suspected to be Sri Lanka.The NIA registered an FIR on December 30 in the matter under criminal conspiracy and sections related to smuggling of counterfeit currency and officials are in touch with authorities in Dhaka to gather more details.Earlier, the agency took up the investigation into the March 25, 2020 attack on a gurudwara in Kabul, in which 27 Sikh devotees including an Indian national were killed. Its second case for conducting a probe on foreign soil was registered in December 2020 against the Gurpatwant Singh Pannun-led Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) for organising protests at Indian missions in various countries including the US, the UK, Germany, Canada, etc.The third case, registered in September last year, related to a fake currency smuggling racket running out of Dhaka in which two Pakistani nationals were arrested with FICN worth ₹46 lakh.According to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, FICN worth ₹92 crore was detected and seized across India in 2020.Over the last two years, NIA has investigated about two dozen cases related to fake currency , of which, 12 cases pertain to seizure of high-quality Indian counterfeit currency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-currency-nia-registers-fresh-case-fourth-probe-on-foreign-soil-101642097761160.html
14-01-2022||India||NIA to probe Ludhiana court blast case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday took over the probe into December 23 Ludhiana court blast, in which the alleged bomber Gagandeep Singh was killed and six people were injured. A senior official privy to the development said they took over the probe from Punjab Police after ministry of home affairs issued a notification. Initial investigations carried out by the Punjab Police have pointed towards the role of Khalistani groups. For past three weeks, the central anti-terror agency was assisting Punjab Police informally in the probe. During the investigation, several Ludhiana Central Jail inmates are learnt to have been interrogated as Gagandeep Singh, a dismissed police officer, lodged there in 2019 in a drug-related case. He was released in September last year after spending two years in jail.While in prison, accused Gagandeep Singh is suspected to have been introduced to several Khalistani members, including Ranjeet Singh Cheeta and Sukhwinder Boxer, who allegedly had links with Pakistani spy agency– ISI.The NIA will now investigate the role of groups operating from other countries, including Pakistan as it has a mandate for carrying out investigations abroad and has a good database on Khalistani networks. Accused Gagandeep was identified on the basis of technical evidence, including mobile location and later his family also recognized his body.Initial reports had also suggested that banned outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) is behind the blast after a key member of the group, Jaswinder Singh Multani, was detained by German police on December 28 from Erfurt. However, the central agencies are yet to find any direct evidence pertaining to Multani’s involvement in the blast. Multani was earlier under investigation for terror-related incidents in Punjab in 2021 apart from allegedly sending consignments of weapons, explosives and drugs with the help of Pakistan-based operatives. A close associate of US-based SFJ chief Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, Multani is known as an expert in radicalising Sikh youth to take part in extremist activities. A separate first information report (FIR) filed by NIA against Multani on December 30 stated that he was “in touch with an ISI operative Jibran and Pakistan-based smuggling network members Rana Taseem, Imran and others, and is actively pursuing a conspiracy to carry out attacks in Mumbai and other parts of India, with support from his Punjab-based associates under the instruction of ISI.” Some of Multani’s associates named in the NIA case include Jagdish Singh Bhura of the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF); deputy chief of KZF Gurmeet Singh, who is also associated with SFJ; Ranjeet Singh Pakhoke of Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF); Sukhdev Singh Heran and Hardeep Singh Nijjar of Babbar Khalsa International, and KTF members Paramjit Singh Pamma and Ranjeet Singh Neeta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-to-probe-ludhiana-court-blast-case-101642097401147.html
14-01-2022||India||Bishop Franco acquitted in Kerala nun rape case||A Kerala court on Friday acquitted former Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal, who is accused of raping a nun 13 times over three years in a convent, citing lack of evidence in a case that shone a spotlight on violence against women in religious institutions.The unexpected verdict sparked a wave of condemnation, with supporters of the victim saying they will move the high court.Kottayam additional district and sessions judge G Gopakumar said the prosecution failed to produce adequate evidence against the accused during the three-year-long trial.“It is difficult to separate chaff and grain. Prosecution also failed to back its contentions with evidences,” the judge said in the 287-page verdict.Mulakkal, 57, was accused of raping the woman 13 times between 2014 and 2016 during his visits to a convent in Kuruvilanghad in Kottayam, when he was the bishop of the Jalandhar diocese of the Roman Catholic Church. The woman, 44, is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus, a congregation under the Jalandhar Diocese.Soon after the verdict was announced, a visibly relieved Mulakkal hugged his followers and lawyers.”Praise the Lord,” he said. “Lord is supreme, truth prevailed,” he told reporters. His supporters, who were present outside the court, also distributed sweets amid loud chants of “praise the lord”. Later, he conducted a holy mass at a church in Kottayam.In a brief statement in Malayalam, the Jalandhar diocese thanked those who believed in Mulakkal’s innocence.B Raman Pillai, who led Mulakkal’s legal team, said the prosecution case was very weak and the investigation poor.A group of nuns of the Kuravilangad Convent in Kerala, who helped the victim, said they couldn’t believe the verdict. “We will fight it out till the end. We are ready to die to uphold our cause. Till the end, everything was fine and we have no idea what happened later. We will stay at the convent as we are not scared of our death,” said a teary-eyed Sister Anupama, who was the public face of the years-long battle. She alleged that the trial court refused to hear hapless wails of a victim who can’t even speak loud.“The verdict is unbelievable. It is wrong to say there are not enough evidences and we conducted the investigation most scientifically. We are really disappointed and we will go in for an appeal immediately,” said former police superintendent of Kottayam, S Harishankar, who supervised the investigation.“The outcome is really shocking and we never expected this,” said public prosecutor Jithesh Babu. But defence lawyers said most of the charges were trumped up without any evidence and they fell flat in the end.Extending support to the nun, National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma tweeted: “Shocked at the judgment of Kerala Addl. dist and session court. The victim nun must go to high court. NCW is with her in this fight for justice”.The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district on June 29, 2018.In her complaint to the police, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by Franco between 2014 and 2016. The case attracted national attention after five fellow nuns staged a two-week sit-in protest in Kochi, seeking action against the bishop.In September 2018,the Special Investigation Team which probed the case arrested the Bishop and charged  him under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 376 (2) (indulging in sex by exhorting authority), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and unnatural sex (section 377). During the course of the trial, Mulakkal approached the high court and Supreme Court with discharge petitions, but both were turned down. Later, he was removed from the post of bishop by Vatican.Trial in the case, which started in November 2019, concluded on January 10.
14-01-2022||India||PM Modi to interact with more than 150 startups on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with more than 150 startups from various sectors, including agriculture and health, on Saturday via video conferencing.Startups from various sectors such as enterprise systems, space, industry 4.0, security, fintech, environment besides agriculture and health will be part of this interaction, the PMO said on Friday.More than 150 startups have been divided into six working groups based on themes including growing from roots, nudging the DNA, from local to global, technology of future, building champions in manufacturing, and sustainable development, it said in a release.Each group will make a presentation before Modi on the allotted theme in the interaction. The aim of the interaction is to understand how startups can contribute to national needs by driving innovation in the country, the release said. As part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, a week-long event, "Celebrating Innovation Ecosystem", is being hosted by DPIIT, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, during January 10-16.The event marks the sixth anniversary of the launch of the 'Startup India' initiative."Prime Minister has been a firm believer in the potential of Startups to contribute significantly to the growth of the nation. This was reflected in the launch of the flagship initiative Startup India in 2016. The government has worked on providing an enabling atmosphere for boosting the growth and development of Startups, " it said. This has had a tremendous impact on the startup ecosystem in the country, and has led to a staggering growth of unicorns in the country, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-more-than-150-startups-on-saturday-101642161189307.html
14-01-2022||India||Kerala HC likely to deliver verdict in nun rape case today||Thiruvananthapuram: A special court in Kottayam is set to deliver its verdict in the 2018 rape case against former Bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal, officials familiar with developments said on Thursday. In June 2018, a nun had accused Mulakkal of sexually abusing her several times between 2014 and 2016. Though the victim filed a complaint on June 29, 2018, it took three months for the police to arrest Mulakkal on Sept 19, 2018. The case attracted national attention after five fellow nuns had staged a 2-week sit-in protest in Kochi seeking action against the bishop.Mullakkal has denied the rape charges saying he was framed after he took action against the nun for financial irregularities in the convent.The victim is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab, which also runs three convents in Kerala. Later, Mulakkal was charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code including 376 (2) (indulging in sex by exhorting authority), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation). During the course of the trial, he had approached the High Court and Supreme Court with discharge petitions, but both were turned down. Later he was removed from the post of bishop. The case was also marred after many witnesses turned hostile. A key witness, Father Kattuthara was found dead near Jalandhar in 2019. Cardinal Mar George Alancherry, the senior-most priest of the Catholics in the state, 24 nuns, 11 priests were among 83 witnesses deposed in the case. Church watchers said this is the first time a senior Catholic religious leader is facing rape charges. “I hope the victim will get justice,” said Sister Lucy Kalapura, a former member of the congregation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-likely-to-deliver-verdict-in-nun-rape-case-today-101642102441798.html
