15-01-2022||India||Odisha government moves to raise wages of prisoners by four fold||BHUBANESWAR: Six months after the Odisha government marginally hiked the daily wages of the convicts and undertrial prisoners in 87 jails of the state, the prisons directorate has proposed to raise the daily wages by at least four times after deduction of maintenance cost of each convict. The directorate of prisons in a letter to the state home secretary proposed that the daily wages be hiked as per the orders of the Orissa high court passed in December last year which advised the state government to adopt the best practices of Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Telangana and Chhattisgarh in the matter of prisoners’ wages and issue a circular within a period of two months. In its letter, the prisons directorate also referred to the minimum wages for unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled labourers notified by the Odisha labour commissioner in November last year, fixing the daily wages of unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled labourers to Rs. 315, Rs. 355 and ₹405 respectively. The prisons directorate said the convicts and under-trial prisoners can be given ₹234, ₹274 and ₹324 for unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled convicts respectively after deductions of cost of upkeep/ maintenance of Rs. 81.49 per day. In its December judgement, the Orissa high court asked the state government to revise wages to all inmates referring to the best practices in Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Telangana and Chhatisgarh in regard to wages of prisoners. “The practice in jails in Odisha is that while convicts are engaged in activities of carpentry, farming, etc., it is voluntary when it comes to undertrials. The Court finds that the rate of wages offered to prisoners, when compared to the best practices elsewhere in the country, is abysmally low,” the HC said in its order while referring to a 1998 judgement which said “it is not only the legal right of a workman to have wages for the work, but also a social imperative and an ethical compulsion”. Quoting the SC judgement, the high court had said “extracting somebody’s work without giving him anything in return is only reminiscent of the period of slavery and the system of beggar”. In June last year, the Odisha government marginally hiked the daily wages of convicts from ₹40 to ₹50 for unskilled prisoners, ₹50 to ₹60 for semi-skilled ones and ₹60 to ₹70 for and skilled convicts. While welcoming the move of the prisons directorate to raise the daily wages, human rights activists said the state government should immediately implement it instead of subjecting it to routine examination. “The HC has clearly given a timeline and so the government should not delay its implementation as it would amount to contempt of court. But what is surprising is the government move to deduct ₹81.5 a day towards upkeep and maintenance cost from their due wage. It’s the duty of the state to maintain the convicts and they should not be charged anything. Besides, the jails also earn a handsome amount from what the convicts make while serving their sentence,” said Omkar Devdas, a human rights lawyer. The Orissa High Court judgement came in response to two writ petitions filed by one Krushna Prasad Sahoo, a convict in Balasore district jail in 2006 and 2014 highlighting various issues in Odisha jails such as violation of human rights in custody, treatment of prisoners and maintenance of good sanitation inside jails, payment of compensation to prisoners who die in custody due to medical negligence and whether first time offenders, under trials, life convicts, other convicts, women and children need to be completely segregated from each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-government-moves-to-raise-wages-of-prisoners-by-four-fold-101642270214814.html
15-01-2022||India||Won’t allow any change in status quo at border, says Army Chief||The army will thwart an attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along India’s border, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday. His remarks come at a time when the country is locked in a border row with China, and negotiations are ongoing to cool tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. In his address at the Army Day parade, the army chief referred to the developments along the northern border with China and described last year as “challenging.”India and China held the 14th round of military talks between corps commanders to keep the border situation under control, he said. The 14th round of India-China military dialogue on January 12 — like the previous round held on October 10 — failed to yield any positive outcomes, although both countries said they would work towards mutually acceptable solutions to resolve the 20-month standoff along the LAC. The next round is expected to be held soon. “Our patience is a symbol of our self-confidence,” Naravane said. “No one should make the mistake of testing our patience.” On Thursday, a joint statement was released from the two armies talking about a consensus on consolidating previous outcomes and taking steps for security and stability on the ground. At his customary annual press conference on January 12, Naravane had said India will deal with the People’s Liberation Army in a firm and peaceful way, but if it comes to war or conflict, India will emerge victorious. Despite three rounds of disengagement at friction points on the LAC, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry deployed in the Ladakh theatre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-allow-any-change-in-status-quo-at-border-says-army-chief-101642269918648.html
15-01-2022||India||HT This Day: Jan 16, 1934 – Devastating Earthquake In Northern India||DELHI- An earthquake of such great velocity as the one felt to-day, has never occurred within living memory in this country. Untold havoc was caused in the whole of Upper India, from Lahore right upto the Eastern extremity in Assam, on Monday afternoon. People were 'caught napping' everywhere, and panic reigned supreme for several hours in the great towns of Calcutta, Benares, Cawnpore and Patna where huge buildings tumbled down like a pack of cards, burying many persons alive.The High Court buildings of Calcutta and Patna and the Western Hostel of New Delhi which was constructed only a few years back at an enormous cost and the Government House at Darjeeling suffered damages.Reports from Calcutta, Cawnpore and other places indicate that many people died and many mere were injured.Judges Flee From CourtsAll the High Court judges, members of the Bar and the clerical staff attached to the Calcutta High Court offices rushed out into the street as a sequel to a stampede that followed the successive shocks. Several persons were killed as a result of the collapse of the E. I. Railway building including wives and children of Railway officers.Western Hostel CracksThe Western Hostel in New Delhi cracked at several places owing to the earthquake shock this afternoon.Many Injured in BenaresA terrible earthquake shock was felt here to-day at 2-10 in the afternoon, throughout the city, and it lasted for over four minutes. Many houses in the city cracked and some actually collapsed. Many persons were injured but no death report has been received so far.House CollapsesLatest reports indicate that nearly seven thousand houses cracked and portions if about three hundred fell down. Several persons were injured.At PatnaEarthquake shock of immense intensity, the like of which was never experienced before in the history of Patna, was felt at 2-30 P. M. lasting nearly three minutes.There was a regular panic, the inmates of various official and private buildings emerging. The exact loss has not yet been estimated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-16-1934-devastating-earthquake-in-northern-india-101642269478168.html
15-01-2022||India||Kerala warns of Covid spike in 3 weeks; Delhi, Mumbai situation stabilises||The Covid-19 situation of the country provides a mixed picture with the surge stabilising in metro cities, while the districts continue to see a spike in the number of infections. Delhi, Mumbai daily cases further dipped on Saturday. Kolkata too recorded a slight decrease in the number of daily cases.Here are the top 4 developments to understand India's Covid-19 situation1. Delhi on Saturday reported 20,718 fresh infections though the positivity rate stood ad 30.64%. The number of tests being conducted in 24 hours has been decreasing in the past few days. Health minister Satyendar Jain said cases are going to be fewer in the coming days. A report studying the Omicron spread in Delhi said Omicron has been spreading in the community, starting from December.2. Maharashtra on Saturday reported 42,462 fresh infections and 23 deaths. Mumbai reported 10.662 fresh infections. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that as of now no new restrictions will be brought in but a decision will be taken next week depending upon the scenario. He said the cases have been rising because of the irresponsible behaviour of people.3. The declining trend of Delhi, Mumbai has been found in Bengaluru too. Though Bengaluru reported around 22,000 fresh infections, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said the caseload of Bengaluru, which accounted for about 75% of the caseload of the State for the last two weeks, has fallen below 68% as cases in districts rise.4. Kerala was heavily hit in the first two waves of the pandemic. This time, Kerala's surge has not been astounding. But health minister Veena George on Saturday said that the spike may come in the next three weeks. The number of Covid clusters in the state is increasing, the minister warned. "There are chances that within the next three weeks, the COVID-19 cases in the state will witness a major spike. There is a chance of rapid spread of the virus in the state. Every day, the COVID-19 cases are increasing in the state. There are Delta, Omicron variants on top of that," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-warns-of-covid-spike-in-3-weeks-delhi-mumbai-situation-stabilises-101642265495980.html
15-01-2022||India||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crosses 156 crore||India's COVID-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 156 crores with more than 57 lakh vaccine doses administered on Saturday, the Union health ministry said.The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night.Cumulatively, 52,40,53,061 first doses have been administered to individuals in the 18-44 age group across states and union territories and 36,73,83,765 second doses have been given since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive, according to health ministry data.In the 15-18 age group, 3,36,09,191 vaccine doses have been administered, the ministry said.Cumulatively, 90,68,44,414 first doses and 65,51,95,703 second doses have been administered, it said.India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 156 crore (1,56,63,10,110) on Saturday. More than 57 lakh (57,29,760) vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm, it added.More than 42,69,993 'precaution' doses for the identified categories of beneficiaries for Covid-19 vaccination have been administered so far.The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-crosses-156-crore-101642264587010.html
15-01-2022||India||‘If he wants to...’: Kejriwal responds to reports Utpal Parrikar is joining AAP||PANAJI: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said he will be open to welcoming Utpal Parrikar, the son of former union defence minister Manohar Parrikar into the Aam Aadmi Party, should the latter express his desire to switch from the BJP. Speaking to reporters during a round of door-to-door visits that the Delhi Chief Minister has embarked upon in Goa, Kejriwal, however, sounded skeptical that the elder son of the former defence minister will switch from the BJP. “Does he want to come (with us)? First you ask him if he wants to come. If he wants to come then we will definitely take him,” Kejriwal said. Utpal Parrikar has lashed out at the ruling BJP leadership for indicating that the party ticket for the Panaji constituency will be given to Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate, who Utpal said was tainted by his criminal antecedents and that the “kind of politics” he is presently seeing in Goa is “not acceptable” to him. While indicating that he was inclined to contest, Utpal said he will announce his decision at the right time. The Delhi chief minister began his door-to-door campaigning by visiting homes in the Pale village falling in the San André constituency seeking votes in the name of his party that is making a second attempt at contesting Goa elections. “There is a lot of support. People are excited to try a new party. They want change. For many years Congress and BJP have been alternating in power in Goa, but they failed to deliver. Give us one chance and if we fail, we won’t ask for your votes again,” Kejriwal said. Kejriwal also rubbished the prospects of other parties in the fray saying that a party like the TMC has failed to win the ‘faith’ of the people. “I am happy to see the expectation of the people for an honest alternative. People are tired of corruption,” Kejriwal said. Goa goes to the polls on February 14 in a single phase of voting along with Punjab and Uttarakhand. Counting of votes will be held on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-he-wants-to-kejriwal-responds-to-reports-utpal-parrikar-is-joining-aap-101642263134590.html
15-01-2022||India||‘Ominous signs’, says union minister as rift in Bengal BJP comes out in open||KOLKATA: The rift in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) unit in West Bengal came out in the open on Saturday with a section of state leaders led by Union minister Shantanu Thakur demanding the removal of a “particular” leader in the state committee. “But looking at the present state committee in West Bengal I don’t think it has any noble intention. The committee was set up after sending wrong messages to the party’s national leaders. I can see an ominous sign. We want to fight this together,” Thakur told media persons. Thakur held a meeting in Kolkata on Saturday with a section of the party’s senior leaders including former state vice-president Jaiprakash Majumdar, former general secretary Sayantan Basu and party legislators Ashok Kirtania and Subrata Thakur. “A particular leader, in a bid to take control of the whole party (state unit), formed the committee by excluding veteran and experienced leaders of the party. I believe that leader and his associates have connection with some other political parties. We would foil all their plans and that’s why we met today,” he said without naming the leader. The West Bengal unit of the BJP announced its new state committee in December 2021 replacing several veterans and triggering rumblings in the organisation by retaining many who came from the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Earlier, Thakur and at least nine MLAs quit the party’s WhatsApp groups after the party overhauled its district committees. “Almost 90% of the leaders, who helped to increase the BJP’s vote share from around 2% to 40% in the state, were excluded from all committees at the state, district, block and booth levels. It could be a conspiracy of a rival party. We want removal of that leader. We have already informed our national level leaders and we would take this protest forward in the future,” he said. The BJP’s state leadership, however, tried to downplay the incident saying that it was not a party meeting and there were no rebel leaders. “There is no rebellion protest within the BJP. We don’t have any information about any such meetings as it was not a party meeting. There is a protocol when a party meeting is convened. Some party leaders may get together but that is not a party meeting. We can’t tag them as rebels. Thakur is a MP and a union minister. It won’t be right to tag him as a rebel. The MLAs who were with him are all party’s legislators. If there is any grievance there is a protocol in the party,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP’s state spokesperson. This comes two days after the party’s state president Sukanta Majumdar dissolved the new cells and departments which were announced on December 22. “This is their internal matter. I don’t want to comment on it. I really don’t know when a leader comes in and goes out of the party. They had roped in leaders to form an organisation which is now falling apart,” said Partha Chatterjee, TMC general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ominous-signs-says-union-minister-as-rift-in-bengal-bjp-comes-out-in-open-101642261994278.html
15-01-2022||India||Koi raja, maharaja aaraha hain kya?: Himanta Biswa Sarma to Nagaon DC for halting traffic during his visit||Assam chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Himanta Biswa Sarma found himself struggling to maintain his cool on Saturday when long traffic was seen in Nagaon during his visit in the area. He reprimanded the deputy commissioner (DC) of the region for the situation and later said that “VIP culture” is unacceptable in “today's Assam.”In a video shared by news agency ANI, Sarma could be seen infuriated with the traffic as he calls for the DC of the Nagaon region."Arrey DC sahab yeh kya natak hain. Kyun gadi ruka hain? Koi raja, maharaja aaraha hain kya? (What is this drama? Why are the cars stuck in traffic? Is a king or emperor coming for a visit?)," he asked the deputy commissioner.Sarma further told the government official that this should not be repeated in the future.
15-01-2022||India||AIIMS Bhubaneswar stops OPD as 17 staff including doctors test Covid positive||BHUBANESWAR: The AIIMS Bhubaneswar authorities have stopped walk-in OPD services at all specialities and super-specialities departments in the hospital from January 17 after 136 staff of the institute including doctors and students were infected with Covid-19. “Recently, there has been a considerable resurgence of Covid-19 positive cases in Bhubaneswar area. The pandemic has affected many residents, faculty, staff and students of the institution within a week. The number is gradually increasing day by day. Because of this, AIIMS Bhubaneswar is compelled to stop the walk-in-OPD services of all the specialities and super specialities departments temporarily with effect from 17th of this month (Monday) till further orders. But the patients who have made registration online can attend in their respective department by showing their online booking number at the entry gate,” the notification issued by AIIMS Bhubaneswar said. In the absence of OPD consultation, patients can get advice from doctors through AIIMS Bhubaneswar ‘Swasthya’ app and telemedicine (WhatsApp call) services from 9 am to 5 pm from Monday to Friday and 9 am to 1 pm on Saturday on all working days. However, emergency services like day-care, radiotherapy, dialysis, trauma and emergency, emergency and life-saving surgery, telemedicine and teleconsultation service, IPD service, Covid vaccination service, immunization for old registered patients will continue as before. RT-PCR negative reports for patients and the attendant have been mandatory at the time of IPD admission. Only one attendant is allowed with the IPD patients. The Health and Family Welfare department has asked medical colleges and hospitals, district headquarters hospitals, capital hospital and Rourkela General Hospital in the state to decongest the health facilities and ensure healthcare personnel and non-Covid patient did not get infected. “Non-essential admission to hospitals should be avoided and all elective surgeries are to be stopped and emergency surgeries need to be taken up with universal precautions. In OPD the medical officer should avoid advising frequent revisit of the patient if not required and in indoor one attendant is to be allowed for serious patient and no attendant to be allowed inside the ward for ambulatory patient,” the directive said. In view of the rising cases, the MBBS examination scheduled to be held at Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in Burla on Saturday was postponed. Five doctors, two medical students and 10 patients of the healthcare facility have tested positive for Covid so far. In Fakirmohan Medical College and Hospital of Balasore district, 43 MBBS students have tested positive for Covid. The state reported over 10000 cases on Saturday for third successive day. On Saturday, Odisha reported 10856 cases with a TPR of 14.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-bhubaneswar-stops-opd-as-17-staff-including-doctors-test-covid-positive-101642261034473.html
15-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Normal train movement resumes at Bengal train accident site and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Normal train operations resume at West Bengal train accident site after two daysTrain movement has regained normalcy at the site in West Bengal's Alipurduar district where the Bikaner-Guwahati Express derailed two days before, Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) chief public relations officer Guneet Kaur said on Saturday. Read more.Olympian Mirabai Chanu joins Manipur Police, takes charge as additional SPOlympic silver medalist Saikhom Mirabai Chanu has formally taken charge as additional superintendent of police (sports) in the Manipur police department in the presence of chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh at the latter’s official residence in Imphal on Saturday. Read more.Four dies, two fall critically sick in a suspected hooch tragedy in NalandaIn yet another incident of suspected hooch tragedy, four persons died and two left critically ailing allegedly due to consumption of illicit liquor late on Friday evening in chief minister Nitish Kumar’s home district of Nalanda. Read more.Virat Kohli steps down as India's Test captainLess than three months after he decided to step down as skipper of India's T20I and ODI teams, Virat Kohli has relinquished the captaincy of the Test side. Read more.When a fed up Amitabh Bachchan gave sassy reply to journo’s lengthy monologue. WatchAn old video of Amitabh Bachchan, which has been turned into a meme by fans, shows the actor responding to a lengthy question by a journalist in just a few words. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-normal-train-ops-resume-at-bengal-train-accident-site-101642258620043.html
15-01-2022||India||Olympian Mirabai Chanu joins Manipur Police, takes charge as additional SP||IMPHAL: Olympic silver medalist Saikhom Mirabai Chanu has formally taken charge as additional superintendent of police (sports) in the Manipur police department in the presence of chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh at the latter’s official residence in Imphal on Saturday. Sharing a few photographs of the event in a tweet on Saturday, weightlifter Saikhom Mirabai Chanu wrote, “It is an honour to have joined the Manipur Police as the Additional Superintendent of Police (Sports). I would like to thank the state of Manipur and our Hon’ble Chief Minister @NBirenSingh sir, for giving me this opportunity to serve the country and its citizens.” In another tweet, she wrote, “Proud moment for me and my parents who have supported me in every step of my journey as I join office with the Manipur Police as the Additional Superintendent of Police (Sports). Thank you mom and dad for your sacrifices, I feel happy to make you both proud.” Mirabai, a weightlifter from Manipur won the country’s first silver medal in women’s 49 kg weightlifting with a total lift of 202 kg (87 kg in snatch and 115 kg in clean and jerk) on the first day of Tokyo Olympics 2020. Later the 27-year-old weightlifter was accorded a hero’s welcome when she returned home located at Nongpok Kakching village in Manipur’s Imphal East district on July 24 last year. Chief minister N Biren Singh in the presence of the family members of Mirabai and other well-wishers, received the star weightlifter and handed over a cheque of ₹1 Crore as cash reward and appointed her as Additional Superintendent of Police (Sports) during a state level facilitation function in Imphal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/olympian-mirabai-chanu-joins-manipur-police-takes-charge-as-additional-sp-101642257194163.html
15-01-2022||India||Blackbuck skin found in house of doctor accused of performing illegal abortion||The police have recovered the skin of a blackbuck from house of the doctor arrested in an illegal abortion case in Maharashtra's Wardha district, an official said on Saturday. Earlier this week, the police had found 11 skulls and 54 bones of foetuses in the premises of a private hospital where the accused doctor worked in Arvi taluka of the district. The police have arrested five persons, including Dr Rekha Kadam and two nurses, for performing an abortion on a 13-year-old girl. During a search, the police recovered the skin of a blackbuck from Dr Kadam's house and the same has been handed over to the forest department, the official said, adding that a separate offence has been registered in this regard. Earlier on Wednesday, 11 skulls and 54 bones of foetuses were found in a biogas plant located in the premises of Kadam Hospital. The police had arrested Dr Kadam, two nurses of the hospital for allegedly performing an illegal abortion on an underage girl and also nabbed the parents of a minor boy who allegedly impregnated the girl with whom he was in a relationship. According to the police, the doctor had failed to inform the authorities about performing an abortion on a girl under the age of 18. A probe is underway to ascertain if the bones and skulls recovered from the biogas plant were disposed of legally or illegally, it was stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blackbuck-skin-found-in-house-of-doctor-accused-of-performing-illegal-abortion-101642254453609.html
15-01-2022||India||Four die, two fall critically sick in a suspected hooch tragedy in Nalanda||PATNA: In yet another incident of suspected hooch tragedy, four persons died and two left critically ailing allegedly due to consumption of illicit liquor late on Friday evening in chief minister Nitish Kumar’s home district of Nalanda. The deceased are Bhago Mistri (55), Manna Mistri (55), Dharmendra alias Nageshwar Mistri (50) and Kalichanra Mistri (48), all of them of the twin tola of Chhoti Palari and Pahar Talli under Sohsarai police station area. Shivaji Chauhan and Ram Swarup, both of them in the same age group and of the same locality, are being treated at Bihar Sharif sadar hospital. The condition of both the persons is stated to be precarious. Family members alleged that the victims, who worked as construction labourers, consumed alcohol together and fell sick once they reached home. “While two of them died at home, one died at Sohsarai primary health centre during the treatment and another declared brought dead,” said a police officer. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Sadar, Sibli Nomani, under whose jurisdiction the incident occurred, said that the reasons for the death was not clear as yet. “Statement of the bereaved families are being recorded. Postmortem reports of the deceased are being awaited to know the exact cause of the deaths,” said Nomani. State DGP SK Singhal could not be contacted for his comments. The police personnel, who picked his official phone, said the DGP could be contacted on this number during the office time. “Other than the office hours, DGP saheb hands over his mobile to the control room,” said the staff. Additional chief secretary, home, Chaitanya Prasad said the DGP was the most suited person to comment on it. This is the seventh incident of hooch in Bihar in which more than 40 persons have died allegedly due to the intake of spurious liquor in the last six months, even as the state has been under total prohibition regime since April, 2016. Most of the hooch tragedies were reported from East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur districts in the recent times. State BJP chief and West Champaran MP Sanjay Jaiswal on Friday once again batted for the review of prohibition law, saying that the legislation may be well intentioned but its implementation has brought shame to the state. His reaction was to a social media post of the JD(U) spokesman Abhishek Jha, who questioned Jaiswal’s visit to the houses of the victims of hooch tragedy in the latter’s home constituency. In a post, Jaiswal also claimed to have personal knowledge of many instances in which people from other states had to suffer for carrying liquor though they were merely passing through Bihar. JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan said that it was a shocking incident and those responsible for it would be penalized. “Such type of incidents is abated by those unsocial elements, who are utterly disappointed by the liquor law. So far as the state BJP chief’s assertion is concerned, I hope that leaders of the alliance partners must abide by the coalition dharma and help the government enforce the law with full firmness. After all, they too have taken pledge to make Bihar liquor free,” added Ranjan. Congress leader and former MLC Ajay Kumar Singh said that recurring hooch tragedies exposed the failure of the state government and it was high time the liquor law should be reviewed to save the poor and the downtrodden, who generally fall prey to spurious liquor. “Leaders of the ruling parties have openly said that alcohols of good brands are easily available to affordable lots. But the poor mostly resort to the illegally produced country liquor as they are available cheap. The government shall better focus on social awareness to dissuade people from alcohol consumption than using stringent legal route,” said Singh. 
15-01-2022||India||Mumbai Covid cases dip, 10,661 fresh infections in last 24 hours||Mumbai on Saturday reported 10,662 fresh infections continuing the downward trend. About 84% of the infected people are asymptomatic, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation data revealed. 11 deaths have been recorded in the last 24 hours. 54,558 tests have been conducted. On Friday, the 24-hour tally of Mumbai was 11,317; on Thursday, the number was 13,702. In the ongoing surge, Mumbai's daily cases peaked at 20,00 per day. But the fall in the daily cases has also been fast, though it is not yet known whether the fall indicates flattening of the curve in Mumbai or a result of the decreased number of tests.Maharashtra on Saturday reported 42,462 fresh infections and 23 deaths. While the number of fresh cases came down from Friday, the fatalities increased. On Friday, the state reported 43,211 fresh cases and 19 deaths.Maharashtra additional chief secretary of the health department, Dr Pradeep Vyas, on Saturday said that though the surge is driven by Omicron, Delta strain still accounts for the maximum number of infections in the state. Delta variant was found in 68 per cent of samples, out of the over 4,200 analysed, while the remaining 32 per cent of patients were found infected with the Omicron strain, he claimed."Since November 1 last year, the samples of 4,265 COVID-19 patients were sent for genome sequencing. The results of 4,201 cases have been issued, which indicate that Omicron variant was detected in 1,367 cases or in 32 per cent, while the prevalence of Delta variant was found in the remaining 68 per cent cases," Dr Vyas said. According to the BMC data released on Saturday, 722 patients were hospitalised in teh last 24 hours and out of them, 111 are on oxygen. The recovery rate of Mumbai stands at 91% and the doubling rate is 43 days. A total of 58 buildings are sealed in the city and at present, there is no actively contained slums and chawls in the municipality area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-covid-cases-dip-10-661-fresh-infections-in-last-24-hours-101642253530485.html
15-01-2022||India||‘No. 1 in development’: Union minister says Yogi Adityanath made UP riot-free state||Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday released the list of candidates for the first and second phase of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls and said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has made UP a riot-free state.Expressing confidence in retaining power with a big majority, Pradhan released the list of candidates and said "The UP which was once known as BIMARU state, today the same UP has emerged as number-1 in the form of development in the country."The names are for 107 which will go to the polls in the first two phases on February 10 and 14: 83 are current MLAs of the party and 21 individuals are new candidates.The list was released during a press conference by Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and BJP national general secretary Arun Singh at party headquarters in New Delhi.Lauding the Uttar Pradesh government, the Union minister said, "Today medical colleges are opening in UP, expressways are being built. Yogi ji's government has worked to crack down on goondaraj, corrupt, mafia in the last 5 years. Daughters can roam fearlessly even at night. I can confidently say that Yogi ji has made UP a riot-free state."He said that under the double engine government many colleges and highways were established, development works have taken place under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be contesting from Gorakhpur in the upcoming assembly polls, the BJP said.While addressing the press conference, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said, “We are releasing a list of candidates for 57 out of 58 seats in the first phase and for 48 out of 55 in the second phase.”Keeping the caste arithmetic balance and gaining voters' appeal, Bharatiya Janata Party has fielded women on 10 seats, OBC candidates on 44 seats, and scheduled castes (SC) candidates from 19 seats, accounting for 60 per cent of the total.“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath to contest from Gorakhpur seat. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to contest from Sirathu assembly segment,” he said.Former Uttarakhand governor, Baby Rani Maurya will be contesting from the Agra Rural seat.Elections for the 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases starting February 10, the Election Commission said.The polling in Uttar Pradesh will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, and March 3 and 7 in seven phases. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.In the 2017 Assembly elections, the BJP won a landslide victory winning 312 Assembly seats. The party secured a 39.67 per cent vote share in the elections for 403-member Assembly. Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, BSP won 19 while Congress could manage to win only seven seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-1-in-development-union-minister-says-yogi-adityanath-made-up-riot-free-state-101642251889745.html
15-01-2022||India||India, Sri Lanka review progress in extending loans worth $1.5 bn||NEW DELHI: India and Sri Lanka on Saturday reviewed the progress in extending loans worth a total of $1.5 billion to the island nation for emergency purchases of food, medicines and fuel to tide over an economic crisis. The matter figured in a virtual meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Sri Lankan finance minister Basil Rajapaksa, who visited New Delhi last month to discuss a four-point financial assistance package. Sri Lanka has been grappling with a severe debt and foreign exchange crisis, which has been exacerbated by a downturn in tourist arrivals because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Analysts believe the rapidly depleting foreign exchange reserves could result in a default on external debt. Following a meeting between Indian envoy Gopal Baglay and Sri Lanka’s Central Bank governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal in Colombo on Thursday, India extended a Saarc currency swap facility of $400 million and deferred the payment of $515.2 million to the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) by two months to assist Sri Lanka. At their meeting, Jaishankar and Rajapaksa “reviewed the progress in extending Indian credit facility of $1 billion for importing food, essential items and medicine and $500 million for importing fuel from India”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. Jaishankar tweeted the two sides discussed the “early realisation” of these loans. The ministers “positively noted” the extension of $400 million under the Saarc currency swap arrangement and deferral of the ACU settlement of $515.2 million, the statement said. Jaishankar also tweeted that India will be a “steadfast and reliable partner of Sri Lanka”. He said he assured Rajapaksa that India will take up initiatives to support Sri Lanka at this important juncture with other international partners. The statement said India “has always stood with Sri Lanka, and will continue to support Sri Lanka in all possible ways for overcoming the economic and other challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic”. It added, “As close friends and maritime neighbours, both India and Sri Lanka stand to gain from closer economic inter-linkages.” Both ministers noted that recent steps taken by the Sri Lankan government for jointly modernising the Trincomalee oil tank farm will boost the confidence of investors and enhance Sri Lanka’s energy security. They agreed to remain in touch for guiding mutually beneficial economic cooperation. Rajapaksa recalled India’s longstanding cooperation with Sri Lanka and “deeply appreciated the gestures of support”, the statement said. He welcomed Indian investments in several important spheres, including ports, infrastructure, energy, renewable energy, power and manufacturing, and assured Jaishankar that an environment conducive to investments will be provided by Sri Lanka. Last week, Sri Lanka signed a deal with a subsidiary of Indian Oil Corporation for the long-gestating project to refurbish the British era Trincomalee oil farm, an 850-acre storage facility with a capacity of almost one million tonnes. State-owned Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Adani Group finalised a deal last year to develop the west container terminal at Colombo port. Jaishankar also took up the issue of Indian fishermen detained in Sri Lanka, and urged Colombo to ensure their early release as a humanitarian gesture. India’s moves to extend financial aid to Sri Lanka come close on the heels of a visit to Sri Lanka last week by Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, who said in Colombo that no “third party” should interfere in the China-Sri Lanka relationship. A large part of Sri Lanka’s outstanding debt is held by China, which has extended soft loans worth billions of dollars that some experts say have put the island nation in a debt trap. During a meeting with Wang, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa called on China to restructure debt repayments as a solution to the economic crisis. He also sought a concessional trade credit scheme for imports from China.
15-01-2022||India||PM to share victory mantra with BJP workers in virtual interaction on Jan 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold the first virtual political interaction with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers of Varanasi on January 18 after the announcement of upcoming Assembly polls in five states.He will give a victory mantra to the party workers for the upcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and will direct them to tell people about the welfare schemes implemented by the party here, sources said."With the Godlike workers of BJP, a dialogue of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will be held on January 18th at 11:00 am. Share your thoughts and suggestions. To download the NAMO App, dial 1800 2090 920. #BJP4UP," the Official Twitter account of Bharatiya Janata Party, Uttar Pradesh tweeted today.Further, sources also informed that the top leadership has started the preparations at the district level so that the maximum number of people can get connected.This political programme will be held virtually as the Election Commission of India suspended all the physical rallies till January 15 after witnessing an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases across the country.Elections for the 403 Assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases starting February 10. The polls in the State will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27 and March 3 and 7 in seven phases. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-share-victory-mantra-with-bjp-workers-in-virtual-interaction-on-jan-18-101642247014818.html
15-01-2022||India||Community transmission of Omicron in Delhi: What this new study claims||A study into Delhi Covid samples between November 25 and December 23 last year has indicated that there was an eventual community spread of the Omicron in the Capital. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain already claimed that Omicron was spreading in the community as people without any travel history were getting positive for Omicron, the variant which has caused the surge in Covid-19 cases in India. However, the report by the department of clinical virology, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi, is the first report confirming community transmission of Omicron in Delhi, news agency ANI said."The respiratory specimen of all RT-PCR confirmed positive cases between November 25 -December 23, 2021, collected from five districts of Delhi were subjected to whole-genome sequencing. Complete demographic and clinical details were also recorded. Hence, we analysed the formation of local and familial clusters and eventual community transmission," the study noted. It found that around 60.9% of the Covid-infected people whose samples were tested showed a community spread."Out of the 264 cases during this study period, 68.9 per cent (n=182) were identified as Delta variant and its sub-lineages while 31.06 per cent (n=82) were Omicron variant with BA.1 as the predominant sub-lineage (73.1 per cent)," the study said.What is community transmission?SARS-CoV-2 is a virus that spreads from one person to another. The source of the infection thus can be tracked by retracing the people an infected person met in the last few days. This is the standard way of contact tracing as being practised by the administrations. Community transmission is not a new concept. It implied a massive spread of the infection where the source can't be tracked as the virus is widespread in the community. It is a situation when it is not possible to track who gave the infection to whom as everybody, more or less, has the infection.During the peak of the second wave of the pandemic too, experts claimed that without community transmission the massive second wave was not possible.With Omicron, the issue of community transmission became evident as people without travel history tested positive of this variant. Omicron was first found in South Africa in November 2021. The first cases were reported in India in December. The first few cases were reported in people coming from abroad. The period in which the samples in Delhi have been studied was the time when Omicron's spread was accelerating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-transmission-of-omicron-in-delhi-what-this-new-study-claims-101642246662051.html
15-01-2022||India||Assam: For the unvaccinated, no entry to public places from tomorrow||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday that those who are not fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) shall not be allowed into public places, such as hotels, courts, and markets, from tomorrow i.e. Sunday, January 16. Speaking to reporters on the prevailing pandemic situation, Sarma said that while there is no need for a Covid-19-necessitated lockdown in the state as of yet, following all requisite protocols – including the wearing of masks – is mandatory.“Those not fully vaccinated will not be allowed to enter public places like district courts, hotels, markets, etc. from tomorrow,” the Assam chief minister was quoted as saying by the ANI news agency. “There is no situation of a lockdown in Assam yet, but wearing a mask is a must.”Those not fully vaccinated will not be allowed to enter public places like district courts, hotels, markets etc. from tomorrow. There is no situation of a lockdown in Assam yet, but wearing a mask is a must: Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma pic.twitter.com/cO0NySz8R8Assam has administered as many as 3,97,36,753 doses of Covid-19 vaccines so far, according to statistics provided by the National Health Mission (NHM). The state logged 2,348 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, 890 fewer than the previous day, taking the overall caseload to 6,40,636.The new infections on Friday were detected from 30,109 tests. The day’s positivity rate on Friday was 7.80 per cent, lower from 7.87 per cent on Thursday. Kamrup Metropolitan, which primarily comprises Guwahati city, continued to log the highest number of new infections in the state.Five people died during the day, an increase by two compared to the fatalities on Thursday. Of the five deaths caused by the virus in the last 24 hours, three fatalities were reported from Kamrup Metropolitan and one each from Bongaigaon and Darrang.The death toll in the state has reached 6,197 with the death rate at 0.97 per cent, while the number of Covid-19 positive patients dying due to other reasons remained at 1,347.The number of patients who recuperated from the infection on Friday was 861, lower by 381 compared to 1,242 recoveries on the previous day.The total number of cured Covid-19 patients in the state has reached 6,17,825 with the recovery rate at 96.44 per cent.The active Covid-19 caseload in the state has increased to 15,267 from the 13,785 on January 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-for-the-unvaccinated-no-entry-to-public-places-from-tomorrow-101642245722925.html
15-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: S Jaishankar holds virtual meet with Sri Lankan finance minister, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jaishankar discusses host of issues during virtual meet with Sri Lankan FMThe two Ministers also reviewed the progress in extending the Indian credit facility of USD 1 billion for importing food, essential items and medicine and USD 500 mn for importing fuel from India. Read more'Jansen didn't think about IPL': Ex-SA batter lauds pacer for his 'battle' with Bumrah; 'sport not about bank balances'India faced a heavy defeat in the series-deciding Test against South Africa in Cape Town on Friday, as the side conceded a 2-1 loss in the three-Test rubber. Read moreNaga Chaitanya says his best onscreen chemistry is with Samantha Ruth Prabhu, is huge fan of Deepika Padukone-Alia BhattNaga Chaitanya spoke about Samantha Ruth Prabhu, Aamir Khan, Deepika Padukone and Alia Bhatt in an interview. Here's what he has said about these actors. Read moreAnusha Dandekar is 'breathing, climbing mountains, laughing' - A page from her trip diariesAnusha, since she took off her for birthday weekend vacation, has been sharing a slew of pictures and videos of her ventures in the hills. Read moreMan walking down the road stops for an impromptu dance. Watch wholesome videoThis video shows a man breaking into an impromptu dance performance. The clip is so sweet that it may inspire you to do the same. Read moreMaruti Suzuki cars get costlier, input costs blamed. Check detailsMaruti Suzuki on Saturday announced that it has increased the prices of its vehicles by up to 4.3 per cent with immediate effect. &lt;strong&gt;Read more&lt;/strong&gt;||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-s-jaishankar-holds-virtual-meet-with-sri-lankan-finance-minister-and-all-the-latest-news-101642241979804.html
15-01-2022||India||Three lakh take holy dip in Ganga in Prayagraj amid rising coronavirus cases||Around three lakh devotees took a dip in the Ganga here on Saturday in connection with Makar Sankranti despite the coronavirus threat.The Magh Mela area has been witnessing the arrival of devotees since morning and around three lakh people, including children and the elderly, had taken bath in the river by 2 pm, an official of the annual religious event said.On Friday, around 6.5 lakh people took a holy dip in the river in Prayagraj on the occasion of Makar Sankranti.Around 1,25,000 masks were distributed in the Mela area till 12 noon on Saturday, the official said, adding that awareness about compliance of the coronavirus protocol is being spread through 25 Covid help desks.Holding the event amid rising number of coronavirus cases has emerged as a major challenge before the fair administration. In fact, many on-duty police personnel were found infected with Covid-19 even before the start of the fair.The Prayagraj district administration has already announced that it will be mandatory for visitors to the fair area to come with a negative RT-PCR report, not older than 48 hours. They are also expected to mandatorily carry certificates of both doses of vaccination and maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour.The mela administration has divided the fair area into five sectors. Five pontoon bridges have been erected so that devotees staying in more than 3,200 institutions and camps in all these sectors can have an easy access to 12 bathing ghats in the Mela area.Two 50-bed hospitals, named Ganga and Triveni, 12 health camps and 10 treatment centres have also been set up in the Mela area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-lakh-take-holy-dip-in-ganga-in-prayagraj-amid-rising-coronavirus-cases-101642244785727.html
15-01-2022||India||Nagaland civilian killings: Tribal body extends ultimatum to govt till Jan 25||KOHIMA: Civil society organisations of the Konyak Naga, the dominant tribe in Nagaland’s Mon district where 14 civilians were killed last month in a botched military operation, have decided to extend their ultimatum, served on the government demanding justice, by 10 days with effect from January 15. The decision was taken at an “All Konyak Summit” held in Mon town where leaders of Konyak organisations, Konyak legislators, officers, village chiefs etc. were present. The organisations on December 10 gave a month’s time to the government demanding that all officers and personnel involved in the killings of 14 civilians on December 4 and 5 be prosecuted in the appropriate civil court and the action taken report be brought in the public domain. However, the government’s probe team is yet to submit its final report. The Konyak organisations while extending the deadline warned that in the event of failure to fulfill their demands, the tribe will abstain from all national events within its customary jurisdiction as endorsed by the Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO), the apex body of six Naga tribes in five districts- Mon, Tuensang, Longleng, Kiphire, and Noklak. The ENPO in December declared non-cooperation with the armed forces until justice delivered to Oting victims and AFSPA repealed from Nagaland. The Konyak organisations said they have also resolved that all designated Army camps in Mon district, located within civilian areas, should be relocated. They further demanded that the state government’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) and the Army’s Court of Inquiry share their reports with the Konyak Union for perusal. The state’s SIT has announced that results from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Guwahati and Hyderabad were awaited to complete its final report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-civilian-killings-tribal-body-extends-ultimatum-to-govt-till-jan-25-101642243813700.html
15-01-2022||India||Alwar rape case: Priyanka Gandhi speaks to family of the victim, promises help||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday spoke to the family of the Alwar rape victim over the phone to know about their well being and assured them of full help.According to sources, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that the Alwar incident is condemnable and after talking to the Rajasthan government, she will ensure that the culprits will get the strictest punishment and justice is served to the victim's family.It is worth mentioning that the Chief Minister of Rajasthan, Ashok Gehlot took cognizance of the incident a few days ago and had sought a response from all the officials. Further, Gehlot promised that justice is served in the incident.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has held the Gehlot Government accountable for the incident and had strongly demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation's (CBI) probe into the case. BJP delegation had also gone to reach out to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Rajasthan where she was on a personal visit.While Responding to the BJP's attack and politicisation of the issue, Congress national spokesperson Supriya Shrinate wrote on Twitter, "BJP people had 'snatched' a daughter's body from her parents and burned it in Hathras. After the death of the rape victim, they point fingers at her character and defame her. Who are they to talk about serving justice to women?""Priyanka Ji is sensitive on this issue and has always stood by the voice of people. The people of BJP should look in their own pockets before spreading false news about them," she said.A specially-abled minor girl was found abandoned on the Tijara flyover in Alwar on January 12, Superintendent of Police Tejaswani Gautam told ANI."A specially-abled minor girl was found in an abandoned condition on the Tijara flyover in Alwar, Rajasthan. The girl was admitted to the hospital where it was found that there has been a lot of bleeding from her private part. Police are probing the matter," SP Gautam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alwar-rape-case-priyanka-gandhi-speaks-to-family-of-the-victim-promises-help-101642242723004.html
15-01-2022||India||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, polls to 4 municipal corporations in Bengal deferred to Feb 12||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has rescheduled the polls to four municipal corporations in West Bengal in view of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. As per the new schedule, the civic body polls in Bidhannagar, Asansol, Siliguri, and Chandannagar municipal corporations will now be held on February 12 instead of January 22.The decision to defer the civic body polls by three weeks was taken after the West Bengal government confirmed that it was okay with the elections getting postponed in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases across the state. The state election commission said in an official release today that the decision was taken with respect to the Calcutta high court's impetus asking the commission to reconsider the date of the polls.However, no new decisions have been taken regarding electioneering rules. Political parties in the fray are still allowed to conduct their campaignings, albeit under the ambit of the requisite Covid-19 norms and protocols. According to the election commission, campaigning will, however, have to end 72 hours before the civic body polls.Notably, the civic body polls in Bidhannagar, Asansol, Siliguri, and Chandannagar were originally scheduled to be held on January 22. However, in view of the worsening Covid-19 situation in the state, a number of petitions were submitted before the Calcutta high court, urging it to take necessary steps and reconsider the date of the elections. In turn, the high court notified the election commission on Friday and asked it to review the situation; however, it also directed the commission to take an “independent decision” in this regard.In view of this, the election commission, in a letter to the West Bengal government on Friday itself, wanted to know its stance regarding a potential reschedule of the civic body polls. This was especially important to know since the state government had several times in the past opposed a move to postpone dates of elections. However, this time, the state secretariat wrote back to the poll body with a green signal to defer the elections, adding that authorities have been ramping up measures to cut the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rising-covid-19-cases-polls-to-4-municipal-corporations-in-bengal-deferred-to-feb-12-101642239239488.html
15-01-2022||India||Jaishankar discusses host of issues during virtual meet with Sri Lankan FM||External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar held a virtual meeting with Finance Minister of Sri Lanka Basil Rajapaksa on January 15, 2022, where both sides exchanged New Year greetings and conveyed wishes on the festival of Pongal celebrated both in India and Sri Lanka.Furthermore, to help Sri Lanka overcome its economic challenges, India under the SAARC currency swap arrangement has made an extension of USD 400 million to Sri Lanka and provided a deferral of ACU (Asian Clearing Union) settlement of USD 515.2 million by two months, said the Ministry of External Affairs in a statement.The two Ministers also reviewed the progress in extending the Indian credit facility of USD 1 billion for importing food, essential items and medicine and USD 500 mn for importing fuel from India.The EAM also brought up the issue of Indian fishermen detained in Sri Lanka. He urged the Government of Sri Lanka to ensure the early release of the detained fishermen on humanitarian considerations.Jaishankar, during the meet, said, that India will continue to extend a helping hand to Sri Lanka amid these tough times of the COVID-19 pandemic."Dr Jaishankar conveyed that India has always stood with Sri Lanka, and will continue to support Sri Lanka in all possible ways for overcoming the economic and other challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemic. As close friends and maritime neighbours, both India and Sri Lanka stand to gain from closer economic interlinkages.", said the statement.Notably, this meet is followed by Rajapaksa's visit to India last month.The Ministry in the statement also said, "Mr Rajapaksa recalled India's longstanding cooperation with Sri Lanka and deeply appreciated the gestures of support. He welcomed Indian investments in Sri Lanka in a number of important spheres including ports, infrastructure, energy, renewable energy, power and manufacturing and assured that a conducive environment will be provided to encourage such investments. In this context, both Ministers noted that the recent steps taken by the Government of Sri Lanka for jointly modernizing Trincomalee Oil Tank Farms will boost the confidence of investors, apart from enhancing Sri Lanka's energy security."As per the statement by MEA, the two Ministers agreed to remain in close touch for guiding mutually beneficial bilateral economic cooperation towards long-term economic partnership for shared progress and prosperity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-discusses-host-of-issues-during-virtual-meet-with-sri-lankan-fm-101642241332726.html
15-01-2022||India||Salman Khan approaches court against 'neighbour' on charges of defamation; next hearing on Jan 21||Bollywood actor Salman Khan has sued his ‘neighbour’ Ketan Kakkad for alleged defamation in regards to which the Mumbai City Civil Court on Friday refused to pass any interim restraining order in favour of the actor. According to news agency PTI, Ketan Kakkad apparently owns a plot near Salman Khan's farmhouse in Panvel. The actor approached the court alleging that in an interview with a YouTube channel, Ketan has defamed Salman Khan. Judge Anil H Laddhad directed Kakkad to file his reply and posted the matter for further hearing on January 21, the news agency reported.Lawyers from DSK Legal which represents Khan sought an interim injunction (order) restraining Kakkad from making any further defamatory statements during the pendency of the suit. But Kakkad's lawyers Abha Singh and Aditya Pratap opposed the prayer, saying they received case papers only on Thursday evening and could not go through the entire suit.Kakkad's lawyers also said that if Salman Khan had waited for a month to file the suit, then their client Kakkad should also get some time to file the reply.According to Salman Khan's complaint, apart from Kakkad, two other people participated in the show. They have also been named as respondents. Social media platforms like YouTube, Facebook, Twitter and search engine Google have been made parties to the suit as Salman wants the defamatory content to be removed from the internet. The actor also wants a permanent order restraining Kakkad from positing or publishing any defamatory content about the actor or the farmhouse.According to a Bar and Bench report, Salman Khan's plea pointed out that Kakkad had attempted to purchase a plot of land beside Khan's Panvel farmhouse but the transaction was cancelled by the authorities as they deemed it illegal. Since then, Kakkad had been raising false and baseless accusations that the transaction got cancelled because of Salman Khan. The "false, disparaging and defamatory" allegations in videos, posts and tweets are causing harm and loss to the actor, his family members and also to his business ventures, Salman's lawyers said.“Comments made by Defendants travel well beyond the scope of fair comment” the suit stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salman-khan-approaches-court-against-neighbour-on-charges-of-defamation-next-hearing-on-jan-21-101642239196565.html
15-01-2022||India||Catch your own waves at Mulki||As the swells come in from deeper waters, surfers keep a lookout to catch waves while laying on their belly on a surfboard, and as they spot one, they paddle to catch the centre of the rising wave and as it breaks towards the shore, the surfers jump from their bellies to their feet and right into the breaking wave. This is the perfect scenario for a surfing experience. And Indians are lapping up the idea of this water sport. Surfing is a lifetime experience and is all about a surfboard, the waves and your penchant for adventure. The long, gently sloped yet powerful waves of Mulki, a quaint town in Karnataka suits everyone from those relatively new to surfing, and experienced riders. Possessing blue skies and clear waters, the sport of surfing is fast catching up with adventure seekers ready to ride waves and learn surfing.Dikshit Suvarna, popularly known as Druva, started the Indica Surf School in 2014. Nestled amid lush green evergreen and deciduous forests of Karnataka, it is a traveller’s paradise. The ocean is a little over from the Mulki base allowing you to enjoy a calming stroll on the way to the surfing retreat. The Surf House is not far from the central town, thus, inviting you to experience plenty of activities, from shopping to visiting magnificent museums. “My love for surfing which I learnt as an adolescent has culminated into this surf school.”He adds, “We help people learn the basics of surfing, improve their ocean knowledge and experience a new perspective when it comes to aquatic sports.”Sukriti Chaturvedi, content creator and blogger, says, “To be honest, I’m a lil scared of adventure sports... but surfing seemed something extra fun and adventurous! So I thought to give it a try. The place is extraordinary and the instructors at Indica surf school make you feel very very comfortable. On the first day, I learnt the basics and balancing. With the waves crashing on the shore, it was a tad bit difficult to handle the surf board and myself. I fell in the water multiple times but it was all fun! Though I could only do a 2-day course, it was an experience of a lifetime! Wait... Am I a surfer now?”Standing up on a board, spotting the waves, understanding currents and being in the right spot when the wave approaches is learnt with experience and a lot of practice. The conditions are always changing and after getting caught in the wrong spot multiple times and experiencing a nosedive once in a while, you will be able to catch your own waves without a push. Staying at the schoolStaying at the school is an excellent opportunity to enjoy the real experience with a caring family to look after you. It is a special place, as Deepika Suvarna and Pushpalata Suvarna make a traveller feel at home. Home-cooked piping hot meals are served in the kitchen of their home. After a gruelling session, the meals transport you to a food heaven. It features farm views, air-conditioned or fan cooled rooms, fast internet, a wardrobe, and a bathroom with hot and cold shower facilities.“I had never even thought of going surfing when my friend called me up while she was waiting for her Mangalore flight at Mumbai and convinced me to go to Mulki to surf! The sudden plan was too much to decipher but everything was worth it because the moment I entered Indica Surfing school I knew I was in for a treat! The very next morning we went surfing and it turns out I wasn’t as good at it as my friends but I had so much fun! The place is beautiful. What I personally loved most was the family who runs this place! Deepika, Dhruva and their Mummy were so wonderful and OH MY GOD the food!! Delicious food every single time. Deepika also helped us navigate to the right sunsets and also the best saree shop where we picked a load of beautiful Sarees. Indica surf school is much more than just a surf school. They are an overall experience,” says Tia Rohin Sebastian, actor.“Indica Surf School was very peaceful, especially Deepika who was very sweet. Local authentic food was the icing on the cake. My husband and I ensured we ate every meal,” says Sanjana Palai.Indica Surf School is a complete package and an experience of a lifetime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/catch-your-own-waves-at-mulki-101642239253312.html
15-01-2022||India||In BJP first list for UP elections, 60% of 107 candidates are OBC, Dalits||NEW DELHI: The Bharatiya Janata Party’s outreach to the other backward class (OBC) was evident from the list of names that was announced by the party for the first two phases of elections in Uttar Pradesh.Of the 107 candidates whose names were announced 44 are from OBC and 19 from Scheduled Caste or Dalit community, said a BJP functionary. The list of names includes 63 sitting MLAs and 21 fresh names. About 20% of the sitting MLAs have been dropped. There are also 10 women in the list of 107. The party has also fielded OBC and SC candidates from seats that are not reserved for these communities.After the exit of three OBC ministers and a dozen legislators, the party has had to defend itself against allegations that it has been unable to secure empowerment of the socially and economically marginalised communities. The ministers, Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan and Saini had quit citing the oppression of OBCs and SCs. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will contest from the Gorakhpur Shaher assembly constituency while deputy chief Minister KP Marya will contest from Sirathu in Prayagraj.
15-01-2022||India||India continuously strengthening its image as world's largest millennial market: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India is continuously strengthening its image as the world's largest millennial market."India is continuously strengthening its image as the world's largest millennial market. Our needs and potential, right from a rural economy to Industry 4.0, are unlimited," the Prime Minister said during his interaction with startups of various sectors across the country via video conferencing.The Prime Minister also said that India's startup ecosystem is continuously discovering and improving itself. "It is in a constant state of learning and changing," he added.PM Modi also said, "India's startups are now working in 55 different industries. Five years ago, India didn't have even 500 startups! Today, that number has crossed 60,000."The Prime Minister also urged the youth to follow the mantra 'let's Innovate for India, innovate from India'."Don't just keep your dreams local, but make them global," the Prime Minister said.He further stressed that startups are going to be the backbone of new India.India is going to celebrate January 16 as 'National Startup Day, the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-continuously-strengthening-its-image-as-world-s-largest-millennial-market-pm-modi-101642236714451.html
15-01-2022||India||'Techade of India’: PM Modi says Jan 16 to be celebrated as National Start-up Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced that January 16 will be celebrated as National Start-up Day to ensure that this culture of start-ups reaches far and wide in the country. Interacting with youngsters from the world of start-ups, the prime minister said this decade is being as the ‘techade of India’. PM Modi underlined that the government is making massive transformations on three important aspects to strengthen the innovation, entrepreneurship and start-up ecosystems in this decade.“First, to free Entrepreneurship from the web of government processes, from bureaucratic silos innovation. Secondly, to build institutional mechanism to promote innovation. And third, handholding young innovators, young enterprise," he said.Start-ups from various sectors including agriculture, health, enterprise systems, space, industry 4.0, security, fintech, environment, were part of the interaction.Prime Minister Modi said the central government is making effort to create attraction towards innovation in the students from childhood. He added that more than 9,000 Atal Tinkering Labs are giving children a chance to innovate in schools and work on new ideas. Highlighting India's 46th rank in the Global Innovation Index, the prime minister said that the government's campaign on innovation has improved the country's ranking.“Start-ups are going to be the backbone of new India...When India completes 100 years of independence, start-ups will have an important role...Country's innovators are making the country proud globally," he said during the virtual address.With over 61,000 recognised startups by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade, the government acknowledges India as the world's 3rd largest startup ecosystem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/techade-of-india-pm-modi-says-jan-16-to-be-celebrated-as-national-start-up-day-101642233015562.html
15-01-2022||India||Netaji birth anniversary on Jan 23 to be part of Republic Day celebrations: Official||NEW DELHI: The Republic Day celebrations from this year will start from January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in line with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government’s “focus to commemorate important aspects of our history and culture,” a government official said on Saturday.The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, however, did not clarify what the decision will translate into. One possibility is that the government will count events to commemorate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary held every year to be part of the R-Day celebrations.Last year, the Centre announced that January 23 will be celebrated as Parakram Diwas or the day of valour.Other such days, observance of which has become a yearly affair, are August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, October 31 as National Unity Day (birth anniversary of Sardar Patel), November 15 as Janjatiya Gaurav Divas (Birsa Munda’s birth anniversary), November 26 as Constitution Day and December 26 as Veer Baal Divas (a tribute to the four sons of Guru Gobind Singh), the official cited above added.Reacting to the decision, Chandra Bose, kin of Subhas Chandra Bose, said even though it is a good decision but to really honour the freedom fighter, the government needs to understand and implement his ideology.“Subhas Chandra Bose is extremely relevant in 21st century India. We see all across the country, I don’t suggest any specific political party, all parties are engaged in divisive politics. This must stop, Netaji envisioned a united India. If Netaji had returned to India, there would not have been a Partition of India or Partition of Bengal. India will again get divided, unless you bring Netaji’s ideology into the national mainstream of politics,” he added.Ahead of the 125th birth anniversary this year, Chandra Bose, who is also a member of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to have the freedom fighter’s image on currency notes. He also suggested declaring January 23 as a national holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netaji-birth-anniversary-on-jan-23-to-be-part-of-republic-day-celebrationsofficial-101642235173262.html
15-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Gen Naravane says army will foil attempts to alter status quo at borders, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Message is clear: Army chief General Naravane on bid to change status quo along borderArmy Chief General MM Naravane on Saturday said the Indian Army will not let any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the country’s borders to succeed. Read moreJharkhand Congress MLA vows to make roads smoother than Kangana Ranaut's cheeksIn a self-made video, Jamtara MLA Irfan Ansari says such smooth roads would be used by children from the tribal community and the state’s youth. Read more'Not my job. Speak to the selectors about what they have in mind': Kohli weighs in on Rahane, Pujara's Test futureQuestions were raised on the places of senior players Ajinkya Rahane and Cheteshwar Pujara in the XI, courtesy of their prolonged struggles in the longest format of the game. Read moreSushmita Sen’s ex-boyfriend Rohman Shawl shares recent life lesson he learnt: ‘It hurts, it pains and it remains’In response to questions from fans, he revealed his strength, a life lesson he learnt during his recent recovery from Covid-19 and hinted at his acting debut. Read moreMakar Sankranti 2022: Inside Milind Soman, Ankita Konwar's celebrations at home"Ankita Konwar, wishing you happiness and laughter and love always," this is how Milind wishes Makar Sankranti and Magh Bihu to Ankita Konwar. Read moreAfter Harrier, Nexon and Altroz, Tata Motors to launch Dark Edition of SafariTata Motors is gearing up to launch yet another Dark Edition of one of its flagship models. The carmaker has teased the Safari top variant on its social media handles. &lt;strong&gt;Read more&lt;/strong&gt;||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-army-will-foil-attempts-to-alter-status-quo-at-borders-says-general-naravane-and-all-the-latest-news-101642228203703.html
15-01-2022||India||Elephant demolishes boundary wall of Khurda’s EVM warehouse in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: A wild elephant separated from its herd went on a rampage in Odisha’s Khurda town late on Friday, and broke down part of a boundary wall of a warehouse where voting machines for stored. The warehouse is located next to the district collector’s office.Odisha government officials said only the boundary wall was damaged in the incident which led to panic in the area. The elephant went to a nearby park before it was driven by forest department officials to the Barunei forest.“Luckily the elephant did not do any other damage. We thought that the elephant would stray towards our houses,” a resident of Khurda.In November last year, a herd from Chandaka elephant sanctuary bulldozed their way into the hospital compound of Khurda district hospital by breaking the boundary wall.With paddy crops ready for harvest, elephants in the state are now roaming human habitations in search of food; sometimes demolishing houses or killing villagers.On Saturday, a tribal man in Balasore district was trampled to death when he was relieving himself. Fagu Hansdah of Bajarsul village under Jaleswar block of Balasore district died in the elephant attack when he had gone outside to relieve himself.In another incident, a lone elephant separated from its herd destroyed acres of standing vegetable and paddy crops in villages under Bonai forest range of Sundargarh district. The tusker entered Jangala village in search of food and destroyed standing crops.On Sunday, a tusker in Mayurbhanj district chased a passenger bus in Rasagovindpur area of the district for some metres till the bus driver managed to get away.96 people have died in human-elephant conflict in 2021-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-demolishes-boundary-wall-of-khurda-s-evm-warehouse-in-odisha-101642230912827.html
15-01-2022||India||Republic Day celebrations to begin early from January 23 on Netaji's birth anniversary: Report||The birth anniversary of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose will now be included in Republic Day celebrations that will now begin every year from January 23 instead of January 24.Multiple reports, quoting government sources, said on Saturday the move is in line with the Narendra Modi-led NDA government's focus on commemorating important aspects of India's history and culture.The government has already started celebrating Bose's birth anniversary as "Parakram Divas". The day is marked as a state holiday in West Bengal.Some other such days that are being observed annually in the recent past are August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, October 31 as National Unity Day (birth anniversary of Sardar Patel), November 15 as Janjatiya Gaurav Divas (Birsa Munda's birth anniversary), November 26 as Constitution Day and December 26 as Veer Baal Divas (a tribute to the four sons of Guru Gobind Singh), the sources added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-celebrations-to-begin-early-from-january-23-on-netaji-s-birth-anniv-101642229695882.html
15-01-2022||India||Army displays new combat uniform for first time||On its 74th foundation day, the Indian Army on Saturday unveiled for the first time in public its new combat uniform, as commandos of the Parachute regiment, clothed in the new uniform, marched at the parade ground in Delhi Cantt on Army Day. First look: Paratroopers flaunt the army's new combat uniform at the #ArmyDay2022 parade in Delhi Cantt. pic.twitter.com/lmc73NgIXONews agency ANI shared a clip of the commandos marching in the army's new combat fatigues. #WATCH | Delhi: Indian Army’s Parachute Regiment commandos marching during the Army Day Parade in the new digital combat uniform of the Indian Army. This is the first time that the uniform has been unveiled in public. pic.twitter.com/j9D18kNP8BIt was reported in December last year that the army will showcase its new battle fatigues at the 2022 Army Day parade. The new uniform, which replaces the force's decades-old combat fatigues, features a digital camouflage pattern, similar to the one used by the British Army. It is likely to be introduced in the Indian Army by August this year.Also Read | Message is clear: Army chief on bid to change status quo along borderThe new uniform has been created in association with the National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) and, according to officials, will provide soldiers with more comfort, as well as uniformity in design. It has been designed keeping in mind the army's working requirements and the need for uniformity in soldiers' battle fatigues.Also Read | Army Day 2022: World's largest Khadi national flag to be displayed in Jaisalmer todayWithin the force, battle fatigues are worn by troops in operational areas, while officers, posted at the Army headquarters in New Delhi, put on these clothes every Friday to show solidarity with soldiers posted in forward areas. Also, the new uniform, unlike the existing one, will not need the shirt to be tucked inside the trouser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-displays-new-combat-uniform-for-first-time-101642227771529.html
15-01-2022||India||Covid-19: These states in India remain top contributors as cases peak||The Covid-19 curve appears to be on a downward slope in worst-hit Delhi and Mumbai which still maintain India's top spots among cities recording the highest number of coronavirus infections. With the Omicron cases still spreading fast across the country, Delhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka are currently leading the Covid hierarchy in the third wave.Maharashtra maintained the top spot on India's Covid-19 graph with 43,211 new cases and 19 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the latest available data. Of these, Mumbai logged 11,317 cases, while Pune overtook the state capital with 11,421 infections.Karnataka took the second spot, overtaking the national capital, with 28,723 cases and 14 deaths. Of the total, Bengaluru alone accounted for 20,121 new cases and 7 deaths.Delhi registered a slight drop in new infections, signalling a plateauing of cases. The city-state recorded 24,383 fresh cases on Friday. However, at 34 fatalities, Delhi’s death toll remained the highest among all states.Tamil Nadu registered 23,459 cases and 26 deaths, while West Bengal logged as many as 22,645 cases, along with 28 fatalities.In Bengal, 77.2 per cent of the samples, that is, 1,200 out of 1,499 samples sent for genome sequencing, have come out positive for the Omicron variant.Although the state reported a slight dip in cases, Kolkata took a U-turn from its declining trend and logged a marginal spike in the single-day case count with 6,867 Covid-19 infections.In other parts of the country, the new Omicron variant continues to cause a surge in infections. There were a total of 6,041 Covid-19 cases linked to the Omicron strain, the Union health ministry said in its bulletin on Saturday.Other states that recorded more than 10,000 daily Covid-19 cases are Kerala (16,338), Uttar Pradesh (15,975), Rajasthan (10,307) and Odisha (10,273).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-these-states-in-india-remain-top-contributors-as-cases-peak-101642224524055.html
15-01-2022||India||Message is clear: Army chief General Naravane on bid to change status quo along border||Army Chief General MM Naravane on Saturday said the Indian Army will not let any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the country’s borders to succeed.Speaking at the Army Day parade, General Naravane said, “Our message is clear. The Indian Army won't let any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the country's borders to succeed.Speaking about the standoff with China on eastern Ladakh, he said, “Last year was extremely challenging for the Army. Joint efforts at various levels led to disengagement in many areas which is a constructive step. The 14th round of military-level talks was held between India and China recently to keep the situation under control.”Regarding the Line of Control on the western border, the Army chief said the situation is better than previous year, but Pakistan is still harbouring terrorists.On the role of women in the armed forces, General Naravane said, the Army has taken major steps to give equal opportunity to women. “Now they can be in a high position and take bigger responsibilities. This year in NDA (National Defence Academy), women cadets will be included and women will also join as Army pilots,” he said.Also read | Army Day 2022: World's largest Khadi flag to be displayed in Jaisalmer todayEarlier in the day, the three service chiefs – General Naravane, Air Force Chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari and Navy Chief Admiral R Hari Kumar – paid their obeisance at the National War Memorial in Delhi to mark the day.The armed forces chiefs also laid a wreath at the war memorial.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind also extended their greetings on Army day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/message-is-clear-army-chief-on-bid-to-change-status-quo-along-border-101642227752928.html
15-01-2022||India||Jharkhand Congress MLA vows to make roads smoother than Kangana Ranaut's cheeks||A Congress legislator from Jharkhand has now promised to construct roads in his constituency that would be smoother than the cheeks of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut.In a video that seemed to have been recorded by Jamtara MLA Irfan Ansari himself, the Congress leader is heard saying that such smooth roads would be used by children from the tribal community and the state’s youth. “Construction of 14 world-class roads will begin soon,” he added.#WATCH | Jharkhand: I assure you that roads of Jamtara "will be smoother than cheeks of film actress Kangana Ranaut"; construction of 14 world-class roads will begin soon..: Dr Irfan Ansari, Congress MLA, Jamtara(Source: Self-made video dated January 14) pic.twitter.com/MRpMYF5inWThe MLA, who is also a doctor, is not new to controversial remarks. He recently said masks "should not be used for long"."Masks should not be worn for long. I am saying as an MBBS doctor that there should not be prolonged mask usage. One should wear a mask in crowds. There is no need to panic during this third wave of Covid-19. The symptoms will get cured in five-six days," he said when asked about his not wearing a mask in a programme.Drawing an analogy of roads with film actors’ skin and cheeks seems to be a favourite with politicians of all hues and times.Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Gulabrao Patil had recently sparked a row after comparing the smoothness of roads in his Assembly constituency Jalgaon district to actor-turned-politician Hema Malini's cheeks. The minister later apologised for the remark.Later, Sena MP said such comparisons were meant to accord respect to the veteran actor and had happened earlier too. He said former Bihar chief minister Lalu Yadav had come up with a similar example.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-congress-mla-vows-to-make-roads-smoother-than-kangana-ranaut-s-cheeks-101642226208789.html
15-01-2022||India||Rajdhani Express hits pillar in Gujarat, none hurt; cops suspect derailment bid||A Delhi-bound Rajdhani Express train hit a cement pillar near Valsad in south Gujarat, police said, adding no one was injured in the incident. However, they suspect some miscreants had placed the pillar on the railway track in an attempt to derail the premium train from Mumbai on Friday evening.On being alerted, senior police and railway officials rushed to the spot. A case has been registered in connection with the incident that happened around 7.10 pm on Friday, a PTI report said."The Mumbai-Hazrat Nizamuddin August Kranti Rajdhani Express train hit the cement pillar placed on the railway track close to Atul station near Valsad. After being hit by the train, the pillar got pushed off the track. The incident did not affect the train as it moved on and no passenger was hurt. The loco pilot immediately informed the Atul railway station personnel about it," an official of Valsad rural police station said."Some miscreants had placed the cement pillar on the track. The train hit the pillar, after which the train manager immediately informed the local station master," Rajkumar Pandian, Range, IG of Surat, told reporters.It appeared to be a case of an attempt to derail the train, he said, adding that police are conducting an investigation into the matter.An FIR was lodged against unidentified miscreants at Valsad rural police station, and efforts are on to nab the culprit using technical surveillance and human intelligence, the Valsad rural police official said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajdhani-express-hits-pillar-in-gujarat-none-hurt-cops-suspect-derailment-bid-101642224274766.html
15-01-2022||India||Happy to partner with Tesla, tweets KT Rama Tao as Elon Musk talks of challenges with govt||Days after Tesla CEO Elon Musk spoke about challenges with the government when asked about the electric car’s entry into the Indian market, Telangana urban development minister KT Rama Rao reached out to him and extended an invitation to partner with his company.Rao, who is also the son of Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, said their state is a champion in sustainability initiatives and his government would be happy to partner with Tesla in working through the challenges to set up business in the country.“Hey Elon, I am the Industry & Commerce Minister of Telangana state in India. Will be happy to partner Tesla in working through the challenges to set shop in India/Telangana. Our state is a champion in sustainability initiatives & a top notch business destination in India."Two days ago, Musk, while responding to a Twitter user asking when Tesla will launch in India, said, “Still working through a lot of challenges with the government.”The leading entrepreneur has been pushing to lower import duties on his Tesla cars in India to make the electric cars widely available.India is the world's second-most populous country and one of the fastest-growing economies.However, major Indian automotive producers Maruti Suzuki, Tata Motors and Mahindra are opposed to the idea of slashing import duties on automobiles, a LiveMint report stated.Government sources said that Tesla was free to use the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) window to produce electric vehicles in India.The reason given by government sources, according to LiveMint, for the delay in Tesla's launch was that Musk wanted to slash import duties without offering any commitment to produce in India.Earlier on Friday, Musk had announced that Tesla Inc merchandise can be bought using digital currency Dogecoin. The meme coin surged by nearly 20 per cent immediately after the tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/happy-to-partner-with-tesla-tweets-kt-rama-tao-as-elon-musk-talks-of-challenges-with-govt-101642217601520.html
15-01-2022||India||Army Day 2022: World's largest Khadi flag displayed in Jaisalmer||‘Monumental National Flag,’ the world's largest national flag made from Khadi, was on Saturday displayed along the India-Pakistan border in Rajasthan's Longewala, on the occasion of 74th Army Day.Also Read | ‘Words cannot do justice’: PM Modi wishes soldiers, their families on Army DayLongewala, in the western part of the desert state's Jaisalmer district. was the site of the iconic Battle of Longewala in 1971, which was fought during that year's war between the two neighbours. Rajasthan | The World’s largest national flag made of 'khadi' was displayed along the India- Pakistan border in Jaisalmer to celebrate Indian Army Day. The flag was 225 feet long and 150 feet wide. pic.twitter.com/24EbzPdVKcThis public display in Longewala is the fifth such show of the flag, which was inaugurated in Leh last year on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. “Its second public display was on 8th October 2021 at the Hindon airbase on Air Force Day. The third was at the Red Fort on October 21, when the nation completed 100 crore Covid-19 vaccinations. On December 4, it was displayed near the Gateway of India on Navy Day,” the Ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises noted in a statement on Friday. On the flag's dimensions, the statement said it is 225 feet long, 150 feet wide and weighs around 1400 kilogram, while the Ashoka Chakra in the centre has a diameter of 30 feet.Giving further information, it added that the ‘Monumental National Flag’ is a creation of the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) to mark the ongoing ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations to commemorate India's 75 years of independence from the British rule.“70 Khadi artisans took 49 days to prepare the flag, the making of which created nearly 3500 man hours of extra work for Khadi artisans and allied workers. A whopping 4500 meters of hand-spun, hand-woven Khadi cotton bunting has been used in making the flag which covers the total area of 33, 750 square feet,” the MSME ministry detailed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-day-2022-world-s-largest-khadi-national-flag-to-be-displayed-in-jaisalmer-today-101642222216130.html
15-01-2022||India||India records over 2.60 lakh new Covid cases, positivity rate past 16%||India on Saturday reported 2,68,833 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the active caseload to over 14 lakh (14,17,820 to be exact). The daily positivity rate now stood at 16.66 per cent. Active cases now comprised 3.85 per cent of the total number of cases registered so far.According to the latest bulletin of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, there are 6,041 confirmed cases of the Omicron variant that is said to be driving the latest surge in pandemic.The country recorded 402 related fatalities in the last that took the cumulative toll to 4,85,752. As many as 1,22,684 patients recovered from the viral disease during the day and put the total number of recoveries to 3,49,47,390.Also read | Amid Covid surge, EC to decide on extending ban on election ralliesThe ministry further said 156.02 crore doses of vaccines against the virus have been administered so far under nationwide inoculation drive launched around this time last year. More than 58 lakh beneficiaries ((58,02,976 to be eaxct) were jabbed during the day.About 70.07 crore samples have so far been tested for the virus of which 16,13,740 tests conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-2-60-lakh-new-covid-cases-positivity-rate-past-16-101642220364572.html
15-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi wishes soldiers, their families on Army Day, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Words cannot do justice’: PM Modi wishes soldiers, their families on Army DayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday wished soldiers, veterans, and their families on the occasion of Army Day. Acknowledging the bravery and professionalism displayed by the Indian Army, PM Modi said that words cannot do justice to their invaluable contribution towards national safety. Read more…Delhi's air quality deteriorates to 'very poor', fog predicted for next 4 daysThe air quality in Delhi deteriorated to the ‘very poor’ category as the national capital recorded an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 339 on Saturday morning amid foggy conditions, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). Read more…Samantha Ruth Prabhu deadlifts 75kg, 78kg and 80kg at gym in new workout videos: Boss woman, we sayActor Samantha Ruth Prabhu has always been one of those celebrities who makes fitness the top priority in their lives. And, if you have any doubts, the star's latest Instagram posts will prove the same to you. The Family Man 2 actor has been sharing videos of her working out at the gym with her trainer. Read more…'That's enough. Can't take it anymore': AUS legends Warne, Gilchrist react to Kohli venting 'frustration' on stump micVirat Kohli letting it rip on the stump mic following the DRS episode that gave Dean Elgar a lifeline continues to receive a plethora of reactions. While Michael Vaughan said Kohli needs to be fined or suspended for his outburst, former South Africa batsman Daryll Cullinan feels that the India captain has been getting away for his actions for far too long and wants him 'severely punished'. Read more…Priyanka Chopra says ‘someone from the northeast’ should have played Mary Kom: ‘I look nothing like her’Priyanka Chopra reflected on her casting in Mary Kom and said that the role should have gone to someone from the northeast. She added that while she was hesitant to take up the film, she did so because she was ‘greedy as an actor’. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-wishes-soldiers-their-families-on-army-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101642215069639.html
15-01-2022||India||‘Words cannot do justice’: PM Modi wishes soldiers, their families on Army Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday wished soldiers, veterans, and their families on the occasion of Army Day. Acknowledging the bravery and professionalism displayed by the Indian Army, PM Modi said that words cannot do justice to their invaluable contribution towards national safety.“Best wishes on the occasion of Army Day, especially to our courageous soldiers, respected veterans and their families. The Indian Army is known for its bravery and professionalism. Words cannot do justice to the invaluable contribution of the Indian Army towards national safety,” PM Modi tweeted.India celebrates Army Day on January 15 every year to acknowledge the importance of the Indian Army and honour the sacrifices of soldiers. On this day in 1949, Field Marshal Kodandera M. Cariappa's took over as the Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army from General Francis Bucher, the last British Commander-in-Chief of India.“Indian Army personnel serve in hostile terrains and are at the forefront of helping fellow citizens during humanitarian crisis, including natural disasters. India is proud of the stellar contribution of the Army in Peacekeeping Missions overseas as well,” the prime minister wrote on Twitter.China terms General Naravane’s remark on ‘threat’ in Ladakh unconstructiveOn Friday, Army Chief General MM Naravane asserted that the Indian Army stands firm to counter any attempt to change the status quo along the country’s border, saying India's desire for peace is born out of strength and should not be mistaken otherwise. Naravane’s remark came amid a months-long border standoff with China following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area in May 2020. India and China have conducted 14 rounds of military-level talks to resolve the standoff."We stand firm to counter any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along our borders. Our response to such attempts has been swift, calibrated and decisive as was seen when the situation so demanded," Naravane said during his speech on Army Day eve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/words-cannot-do-justice-pm-modi-wishes-soldiers-their-families-on-army-day-101642216406829.html
15-01-2022||India||‘Can’t make marital rape an offence until talks end’: Centre to Delhi HC||The Union government has informed the Delhi high court that marital rape cannot be made into a criminal offence until the Centre’s consultation with all stakeholders is complete, paving the way for comprehensive amendments in criminal law instead of “piecemeal” changes.Submitting a fresh affidavit in response to a clutch of petitions to criminalise marital rape, the Centre maintained that it is examining the issue of broad changes in criminal law of the country and that the petitioner could also give their suggestions to the competent authorities.The affidavit, filed on Thursday, stated that the exception to Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code, which exempts forceful sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife from the offence of rape, cannot be struck down at the instance of the petitioner alone. “Principles of natural justice require larger hearing of all stakeholders,” emphasised the government.The government’s petition indicates no change in its position -- and comes amid a rising chorus seeking the criminalisation of marital rape.Underlining that amendment of criminal law is “a continuous process”, it added that suggestions have been invited from chief ministers of all the state governments and from Union territories, the Chief Justice of India, chief justices of all high courts, judicial academies, national law universities, Bar Council of India, Bar Council of all high courts and members of both Houses of Parliament. The affidavit, filed through the Union ministry of home affairs, however, does not mention the date when views were solicited.“The government has already undertaken a comprehensive exercise to make amendments in the criminal laws and thus, the government is already seized of the matter. The petitioners are also at liberty to give their submissions/suggestions to the Ministry,” stated the affidavit, which has been reviewed by HT.It relied upon parliamentary standing committee reports in 2008 and 2010 to argue that the need is to overhaul the criminal laws instead of making any piecemeal changes in any specific legislation.The government further cited the 172nd report of the Law Commission of India on “Review of Rape Laws” in March 2000 that said it would not recommend deletion of the exception clause in Section 375 “since that may amount to excessive interference with the marital relationship”.Further, a 2017 Supreme Court judgment, said the government, read down an exception to Section 375 only to the extent of criminalising rape with a minor wife but clarified at the same time that it has not expressed any view on the issue of marital rape.“We make it clear that we have refrained from making any observation with regard to the marital rape of a woman, who is 18 years of age and above, since that issue is not before us at all. Therefore, we should not be understood to advert to that issue even collaterally,” said the 2017 judgment, as quoted by the affidavit.Even as the Centre’s affidavit makes references to the reports of the Law Commission and parliamentary panels, it has refrained from mentioning the recommendation made by Justice JS Verma’s committee in 2013.The Justice Verma committee was set up to propose amendments in criminal laws in the wake of gang- rape of a paramedical student in December 2012. This committee received around 80,000 suggestions and finalised its 644-page report in 2013, proposing that “the exception for marital rape be removed” and the law must “specify that a marital or other relationship between the perpetrator or victim is not a valid defence against the crimes of rape or sexual violation”. The committee recommended the criminalization of marital rape, since the state of being married does not generate automatic consent to sexual acts.The fresh affidavit has been filed by the Union government in addition to the one filed in August 2017 which said that it has to be ensured that marital rape does not become a phenomenon that destabilises the institution of marriage and “an easy tool for harassing the husbands”. The petitions have been pending before the court since 2015.The 2017 affidavit added: “What may appear to be marital rape to an individual wife, it may not appear so to others...if all sexual acts by a man with his own wife will qualify to be marital rape, then the judgment as to whether it is a marital rape or not will singularly rest with the wife. The question is what evidences the Courts will rely upon in such circumstances as there can be no lasting evidence in case of sexual acts between a man and his own wife.”A bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar is currently hearing final arguments in the bunch of PILs filed by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association, and two individuals, who have sought removal of the exception to Section 375, saying that it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands.The Delhi government has submitted before the bench that a court does not have the power to create a new offence even as it argued that marital rape is treated as a “crime of cruelty” in India which can be prosecutable under charges of domestic violence, assault or cruelty under the IPC.On his part, senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao, who has been appointed as amicus curiae to assist the court, has argued in favour of doing away with the exception in Section 375 to make marital rape an offence.Referring to the fresh affidavit on behalf of the Union government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta made a brief statement on Thursday, saying the government is considering a “constructive approach” in the matter.
15-01-2022||India||Railways ‘guard’ redesignated as 'train manager'. Will it affect pay scale?||Indian Railways on Friday announced its decision to re-designate the post of ‘guard’ as ‘train manager’, fulfilling a long-pending demand. The ministry of railways said that the issue of designation had been under deliberation in Railway Board in consultation with recognised federations. The ministry added that the new designation of ‘train manager’ is “more in consonance with their existing duties and responsibilities” and will improve the motivation level of the employees.In an order dated January 13, the ministry of railways said that ‘assistant guard’ and ‘goods guard’ will now be known as ‘assistant passenger train manager’ and ‘goods train manager’, respectively. The ‘mail/express guard’ will be known as ‘mail/express train manager’. Similarly, ‘senior goods guard’ and ‘senior passenger guard’ have been re-designated as ‘senior goods train manager’ and ‘senior passenger train manager’, respectively.Will the redesignation affect the pay scale?The ministry clarified that the pay levels will remain unchanged after redesignation. The method of recruitment, seniority and avenues of promotion will also remain unaffected by the decision.“The revised designations will not entail any change in their pay levels, method of recruitment, existing duties and responsibilities, seniority and avenues of promotion,” the order stated.Indian Railways has decided to redesignate the post of "Guard" as "Train Manager" with immediate effect. The revised designation is more in consonance with their existing duties & responsibilities and will improve the motivation level of Guards now Train Managers. pic.twitter.com/dNSsnYormdA senior official in the railway ministry told HT that a train guard is virtually in-charge of the respective train and demands were raised that the existing designation has become outdated. Another senior railway official said 'train manager' would be a dignified designation for them “so that they can also lead a respectful life in society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-guard-redesignated-as-train-manager-will-it-affect-pay-scale-101642209227198.html
15-01-2022||NA||Tsunami reaches Japan; 3-meter waves possible, says meteorological agency||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Tsunami reaches Japan; 3-meter waves possible: Meteorological agencyTsunami reaches Japan; 3-meter waves possible, says meteorological agency.Religious leader Yati Narsinghanand held in hate speech caseUttarakhand | Yati Narsinghanand has been arrested today, in connection with a case pertaining to derogatory remarks against women. He has 2-3 cases registered against him: CO City, Haridwar pic.twitter.com/mMs1YI6R9xReligious leader Yati Narsinghanand has become the second person to be held for the Haridwar 'Dharma Sansad' hate speeches. Earlier, Waseem Rizvi was arrested.Jharkhand extends Covid-related restrictions till Jan 31Under the existing restrictions, which are in place since January 3, educational institutions will remain closed, and bars and restaurants and other business establishments shall down their shutters after 8pm, while a maximum of 100 people will be allowed to attend events such as weddings and funerals. Read more here.Farmer leaders contesting polls won't be part of SKM: Organisation leadersSamyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders said on Saturday that farmer leaders contesting the upcoming Punjab assembly elections won't be part of the organisation.Tsunami alert issued for Hawaii, Alaska, US Pacific Coast after large volcanic eruption near TongaA Tsunami alert has been issued for Hawaii, Alaska and the US Pacific Coast after large volcanic eruption near Tonga, AFP reported.Pune records 5,705 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on FridayMaharashtra | 5,705 new cases and 2 deaths reported in the Pune Municipal Corporation area today. The total number of active cases has reached 31,907. pic.twitter.com/uUgCBbFAwCPune records 5,705 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Friday. The active case count reaches 31,907.Tamil Nadu logs 23,989 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths todayTamil Nadu on Friday reported as many as 23,989 new cases and 11 fresh deaths due to Covid-19. The active caseload of the southern state stands at 1,31,007.Mumbai records 10,661 new cases and 11 deaths in 24 hoursMumbai on Saturday reported yet another decline in its single-day Covid-19 tally with as many as 10,661 new cases. A total of 11 deaths due to the disease were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin data by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Virat Kohli steps down as India's test captainVirat Kohli has stepped down as Indian cricket team's test captain.Normal trains operations resumed at Bengal train accident siteNormal train operations resumed at Bengal accident site on Saturday, CPRO of Northern Railway Frontier Gurmeet Kaur said. One goods train and one passenger train - an Assam-bound Rajdhani Express have already passed the affected section, she added.Delhi reports 20,718 new Covid-19 cases, 30 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi logs 20,718 new Covid-19 cases, 30 deaths in last 24 hours, according to health bulletin data.EC bans political rallies and roadshows in poll-bound states till Jan 22In a fresh order, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has further banned physical rallies and roadshows for political purposes in all poll-bound states till January 22. Read more here.Assam to ban unvaccinated from entry to public places starting tomorrowAssam chief minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said that unvaccinated people will not be allowed to enter public places such as hotels and markets, among others, starting tomorrow (January 16). “There is no situation of a lockdown in Assam yet, but wearing a mask is a must,” he was quoted as saying by ANI. Read more here.U'khand CM to contest polls from Khatima constituencyUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said on Saturday that he will contest the upcoming assembly elections from the Khatima constituency. “We all are together and ready to contest polls. This time, we have given a slogan 'Abki Baar 60 Paar'. The candidates' list will be announced soon,” he told ANI.West Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till January 31West Bengal has extended Covid-19 restrictions till January 31 but has permitted fairs on open grounds in a 'very restricted manner'. Read more here.R-Day parade meaningless if we don't have Netaji tableau: Netaji's grandnephewNetaji's grandnephew Chandra Kumar Bose said on Saturday that in order to "really honour" Subhash Chandra Bose, "one should understand his ideology and implement it." "Today divisive politics is tearing the nation apart. The Republic Day parade will be meaningless if we don't have a Netaji tableau in it," he told ANI.Bengal civic body polls deferred over Covid concernsThe Civic body polls in West Bengal have been deferred owing to the current Covid-19 scenario, elections will now take place on February 12 instead of January 22. The counting of the voters will take place on February 15.Cong releases first list of 86 candidates for Punjab Assembly elections.Congress releases first list of 86 candidates for Punjab Assembly elections. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will contest from Chamkaur Sahib SC while party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu will contest from Amritsar East.Two, including SBI official, held from Maharashtra in bribery caseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested two accused including a State bank of India (SBI) official from Maharashtra in link with a bribery case where the accused had demanded a bribe of ₹20,000 for processing and sanctioning of a top-up loan, ANI reported.Yogi can stay back in Gorakhpur: Akhilesh Yadav takes dig at UP CM's nominationAkhilesh Yadav, starting his press conference in Lucknow, takes a swipe at the chief minister Yogi Adityanath and says, "Now that he is contesting Gorakhpur City seat, he can stay back in Gorakhpur"."SP will go to people with progressive politics, progressive manifesto," he adds.Lucknow Police pastes notice outside SP office for violation of Model Code of ConductAhead of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav's press briefing today, Lucknow Police put up a notice outside SP office stating violation of Model Code of Conduct, Section 144, COVID protocols by the party yesterday, January 14.“I appeal to the leaders party workers to abide by EC guidelines, Covid protocols whenever they come to the office...I have also heard that a notice was also put up at our office today,” SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to contest from Gorakhpur, Dy CM Keshav Maurya from SirathuGorakhpur is a familiar political turf for chief minister Yogi Adityanath from where he was elected unopposed for 5 consecutive terms and from where he draws his other identity as head priest of Gorakhnath Mutt.Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to contest from Sirathu assembly segment. Read moreUnion minister announces BJP's candidate list for UP polls, CM Yogi to contest from Gorakhpur“We are releasing list of candidates on 57/58 seats in first phase and 38/55 in second phase,” announces BJP leader & Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath to contest from Gorakhpur seat. Study shows evidence of early community transmission of Omicron in Delhi, reports ANIDepartment of Clinical Virology at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), New Delhi has found evidence of early community transmission of Omicron (B1.1.529) in the national capital.Start-ups will be backbone of new India: PM ModiStart-ups are going to be the backbone of new India. When India completes 100 years of independence, start-ups will have an important role. Country's innovators are making the country proud globally, PM Modi said.January 16 to be celebrated as 'National Start-up Day', says PM ModiJanuary 16 to be celebrated as 'National Start-up Day', says Prime Minister Modi at interaction with start-ups, today.Republic Day celebrations to begin from January 23 every year, reports ANIRepublic Day Celebrations will now begin every year from 23rd January instead of 24th January to include the birth anniversary of Subash Chandra Bose, news agency ANI reported, citing government sources.BSP chief Mayawati releases first list of candidates for UP assembly electionsBSP supremo Mayavati released the first list of candidates for UP assembly election. She also released 17th edition of parties blue book on her 66th birthday at BSP party office in Lucknow Uttar Pradesh India on Saturday.Akhilesh Yadav doesn't want Dalits, just the vote bank: Bhim Army chiefAfter all the discussions, in the end, I felt that Akhilesh Yadav does not want Dalits in this alliance, he just wants Dalit vote bank. He humiliated the people of Bahujan Samaj, I tried for 1 month 3 days but the alliance could not happen, said Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad.India reports 268,833 new Covid cases, 402 deaths in last 24 hours; active caseload over 14 lakhIndia on Saturday reported 268,833 fresh Covid-19 cases and 402 deaths in last 24 hours, taking the active caseload to 14,17,820. The cumulative total for infections stand at 36,850,962, the Union health ministry stated.There are a total of 6,041 confirmed cases of Omicron. J&K admin extends Covid-19 restrictions, weekend curfewRestrictions imposed in Jammu & Kashmir shall continue to remain in force till further orders. There shall be complete restriction on non-essential movement during weekends; night curfew to remain in force from 9 pm-6 am with complete restriction on non-essential movement, it said.Watch: Jallikattu competition underway in Tamil Nadu#WATCH | Tamil Nadu: Jallikattu competition underway in Palamedu area of Madurai. pic.twitter.com/f5MGyMb0GdPM Modi to interact with startups todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with startups today at 10:30 am via video conferencing; startups to make presentations before PM on six themes including Growing from Roots; Nudging the DNA; From Local to Global etc.Chief of Army Staff Gen Naravane extends greetings on Army DayGeneral MM Naravane #COAS conveys felicitations and warm wishes to All Ranks of the #IndianArmy, Veterans and their Families on the occasion of 74th #ArmyDay. #IndianArmy#AmritMahotsav#InStrideWithTheFuture pic.twitter.com/y1b4NdXjt4Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane conveys felicitations and warm wishes to All Ranks of the Indian Army, veterans and their Families on the occasion of 74th Army Day.People visit Sabarimala temple for Makaravilakku festivalKerala | People gathered at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple on Friday to witness the 'Makaravilakku' festival pic.twitter.com/MTXWgXhitoIntel agencies suspect Russia's ground invasion of Ukraine in next 30 days: White HouseIntelligence agencies monitoring Russian cyber operations against Ukraine believe Russia’s pattern of activity could signal a ground invasion of Ukraine within the next 30 days, the White House said on Friday.Media reports on  ‘significant undercount’ of Covid-19 deaths ‘baseless, misleading’, says CentreThe central government on Friday refuted media reports alleging a "significant undercount" of COVID-19 deaths in the first two waves in India, saying that these are baseless, misleading and ill-informed."It is clarified that such media reports are fallacious and ill-informed. They are not based on facts and are mischievous in nature. India has a very robust system of birth and death reporting which is based on a Statute and is carried out regularly from the Gram Panchayat level to the District-level and State level. The whole exercise is carried out under the overall oversight of the Registrar General of India (RGI)," the ministry of health and family welfare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-15-2022-101642205954431.html
15-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu: 1 dead, 80 injured in Jallikattu competition||One person succumbed to injuries and 80 others were injured in the Jallikattu competition in the Avaniyapuram area of Madurai, Tamil Nadu, the Health Official informed on Friday.According to the official, the injured includes 38 bull tamers, 24 bull owners, and 18 spectators.Amid loud whistles, applause and cheers at Avaniyapuram village in Madurai district, as many as 300 bulls were let out into the arena of bull tamers.The Tamil Nadu government had allowed Jallikattu with 300 bulls and 150 spectators. However, hundreds of villagers gathered on roofs and outside the barricades at Avaniyapuram to watch the events.Every year during Pongal, the Jallikattu competition is conducted in the villages of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-1-dead-80-injured-in-jallikattu-competition-101642199963941.html
15-01-2022||India||Consider postponing civic elections amid Covid surge: Calcutta HC to SEC||The Calcutta high court on Friday directed the West Bengal election commission to consider postponing the January 22 civic elections by four to six weeks in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases across the state.In an order dated January 13, 2022, the division bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee also directed the state poll body to clear its stand within 48 hours.The bench was hearing a public interest litigation filed by one Bimal Bhattacharya, seeking postponement of the polls.The court also observed that the SEC should also consider whether it is possible to hold free and fair polls in a peaceful manner in such a situation.“Hence, we dispose of the present petition with a direction to the state election commission to consider the galloping speed with which the Covid-19 cases are increasing and also to take into account the issue if holding of elections in such a situation will be in the public interest and if free and fair elections will be possible on the dates notified, and take a decision in respect of the postponement of the date of elections of four municipal corporations for a short period of four to six weeks,” the court said.Earlier, the state election commission had announced that elections to the Bidhannagar, Chandannagar, Siliguri and Asansol municipal corporations will be held on January 22. Bidhannagar falls in North 24 Parganas district.Bengal on Friday reported 22,645 new Covid-19 cases -- 822 less than the previous day -- which pushed the tally to 1,863,697, the health department said in its bulletin on Friday.On January 14, HT had reported that the state became the first region in the country where the Covid-19 wave, or average daily cases, has surpassed the peak of the brutal second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-postponing-civic-elections-amid-covid-surge-calcutta-hc-to-sec-101642188490327.html
15-01-2022||India||Kerala govt, Mutt protest against rejection of tableau depicting social reformer on R-Day||The Kerala government on Friday protested against the Central government’s decision denying permission to the State’s Republic Day parade tableau depicting social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and asked the State unit of the BJP whether it would agree to the decision of the Centre.Following reports that the Defence Ministry, which manages the R-Day parade, has denied permission to Kerala’s proposal, the Sivagiri Mutt, founded by Guru, also expressed strong protest and concern.“The Central government’s decision to deny permission to the Kerala’s Republic Day tableau, which contained anti-caste crusader Narayana Guru’s figure, is extremely condemnable. @BJP4Keralam must state whether they agree with this insulting attitude towards Kerala’s Guru,” V Sivankutty, State Education Minister, said in a tweet.The Mutt said it respects Adi Shankara as a master of Advaita but Guru was revered worldwide and across all sections of society.The reactions came after news reports said the Defence Ministry had rejected Kerala’s proposal to depict Guru and Jadayu Rock, a monument in south Kerala, together in a float. The Central government had reportedly suggested the statue of Adi Shankara instead, which was not accepted by the southern State.“Sree Narayana Gurudevan is universally accepted and respected by all sections of society, including political parties like the Congress, the BJP and the Communist Party. Although Adi Shankara was a great man, he was accepted only by a section of people in Kerala. Gurudev, on the other hand, is revered by people all across the world, regardless of caste or religion,” Mutt said in a statement.CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had also criticised the Centre’s move.Meanwhile, the BJP said for the past few years, the proposal of Kerala for the R-Day parade was getting rejected due to mediocre floats.“Opportunity was denied for Kerala due to its lack of homework. Kerala’s presentation was being rejected for the few years due to mediocre floats,” BJP state chief K Surendran said in a statement.The State’s proposal for 2020 parade, intending to showcase Kerala’s art and architecture, was rejected by the Centre. The BJP-led government had rejected Kerala’s float depicting Vaikom Satyagraha, a historic renaissance movement, for the Republic Day parade in 2019.However, in 2021, Kerala’s tableau showed the State’s relationship with coir in the Republic Day parade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-mutt-protest-against-rejection-of-tableau-depicting-social-reformer-on-rday-101642188370283.html
15-01-2022||India||Chennai reports record high fresh Covid cases||Chennai: Driven by the rapid spread of the Omicron variant, Chennai recorded an all-time high of 8,963 Covid-19 cases on Friday since the pandemic began, health department data shows. Chennai reported 7,564 cases on a single day during the second wave on May 12 last year, which the city surpassed on Thursday with 8,218 cases. Tamil Nadu reported 23,459 Covid cases on Friday against 20,911 on Thursday. Active Covid cases have also mounted. On January 1, the state had 8,340 active cases and the number of people carrying the virus spiked to 118,017 on Friday, according to the health department bulletin. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan, referring to estimates by epidemiologists, said the cases will begin to decline in the state in another two weeks. “We had 5,907 cases on December 27. Despite us taking several precautionary measures, the cases have spread rapidly. Tamil Nadu crossed 20,000 new cases yesterday,” said Radhakrishnan. “It is likely to increase especially after the Pongal festival and the opinion of experts is that it will come down in another two weeks.”However, out of over 100,000 active cases, only 7,629 patients are under hospital treatment, including 608 in the ICUs of government hospitals, according to the health department data. This is vastly different from the scenario compared to the second wave when hospitalisations were high and patients were being treated outside hospitals in parking lots due to shortage of beds. On May 12 last year, 12,624 people were in hospitals, including 1,935 in ICUs. As of Thursday, 64% of the eligible people in Tamil Nadu have been fully vaccinated lessening the complications brought by SARS-CoV-2 and reducing deaths, say experts. Dr K Kolandaswamy, retired director of Tamil Nadu’s public health who is in a committee formed during the second wave to advise the state government on preparing for the third wave, said that a majority of those infected currently can be managed at home. “So we will not see a problem in government hospitals this time,” he said. “Government facilities are especially better placed this time. Most of our recommendations following the second have to strengthen labs, increase oxygen beds and add ambulances have been accomplished.” Experts say that the Omicron variant of concern detected in November is the cause of the exponential rise in cases. Out of the 241 Omicron cases in Tamil Nadu, 144 are from Chennai – all of them have been discharged. Chennai with the most number of cases is showing double the positivity rate compared to that of overall Tami Nadu. The city’s test positivity rate has surged from 3.3% on January 1 to 21.9%, which is twice the state average of 11.5%. Closer to Chennai, infections are rising in its adjoining district Chengalpattu, which also has a high positivity rate of 21.1% with 2,504 new cases on Friday. The wide difference in the number of daily cases between Chennai and Chengalpattu shows that health authorities are carrying out targeted testing. On January 12, Chennai tested 33,673 samples out of which 7,372 returned positive while Chengalpattu tested 8,725 samples out of which 1,840 people were found to have been infected. “We know Omicron spreads faster than the previous variants so the pattern in Chennai is not surprising but expected. The rate of growth of cases is already slowing down in Chennai though that’s not the case with whole numbers,” said Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology. “But I do see cases declining in Chennai in another 7 to 10 days and after that our focus has to be on the districts. Especially when several people have gone back home to the districts for Pongal.”
15-01-2022||India||NCW chief Rekha Sharma shocked at Mullakal’s acquittal||National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday said she was shocked to hear acquittal of Kerala nun rape case accused Franco Mullakal and promised to support the victim and fellow nuns. “Shocked at the judgment of the district sessions court. The victim must go to the high court. The NCW is with her in her fight for justice,” she tweeted after the verdict. Kerala women commission chairperson P Sathi Devi also expressed concern over the verdict. “We are with suffering nuns. We will help them,” she said. While political parties are guarded in their reaction, activists and others expressed their shock. “The verdict is really painful. But it is not over. In Sister Abhaya murder case it took 28 years for long arms of the law to punish offenders,” said Sister Lucy Kalapura who was expelled from Franciscan Clarist Congregation for openly supporting nuns who staged a sit-in in 2018 in Kochi seeking the arrest of Mullakal. She said the verdict will give a wrong message to those who want to come out against such atrocities. Former SP of Kottayam S Hari Shankar, who supervised the investigation, said the verdict will be unprecedented in Indian judiciary. “We can look at the verdict only with shock. There have been a lot of corroborate evidences and enough witnesses. There were medical evidences as well. We have to check what kind of message this verdict is giving to the society as a whole,” he said. Activist Joemon Puhtanpurakkal, who fought more than 25 years to ensure justice for Sister Abhaya, who was found murdered in a well of the convent, said it was only a temporary setback and nuns should continue their fight for justice. State fisheries minister Saji Cherian, also hailing from Kottayam, said the government will take a decision after taking legal opinion. But a senior lawyer with defence team, CS Ajayan, said the verdict was a natural outcome. “You can raise charges easily but you will have to corroborate these with evidences. The prosecution failed to come up with proofs to substantiate its charges.” Catholic Youth Forum leader Kennedy K said truth prevailed with the verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-chief-rekha-sharma-shocked-at-mullakal-s-acquittal-101642188131348.html
15-01-2022||India||Assam commission seeks CBI inquiry into illegal coal mining worth ₹4872 cr||GUWAHATI: A commission of inquiry set up by Assam government has recommended an independent investigation by an agency like Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into illegal coal mining worth ₹4782 cr by Coal India Limited (CIL) and North Eastern Coalfields (a subsidiary of CIL) in the state. “Because of the involvement of several departments/agencies, the commission is of the view that unless an inquiry is conducted by an independent agency, like CBI, over which the government of Assam has no control, the truth may not come out and in the process the guilty officers, will go unpunished,” it said. The one-man commission of inquiry was set up by Assam government in September 2020 to inquire into allegations of illegal coal mining in Saleki proposed reserve forest (PRF) and in Tikok open cast project (OCP) as well as other reserve forests in Digboi forest division of Tinsukia district by individuals and organisations. The commission headed by retired Gauhati High Court judge BP Katakey submitted its report in the winter session of the Assam assembly last month. The commission found that Coal India Limited (of which North Eastern Coalfields (NEC) is a unit) was granted a 30-year lease in 1973 to carry out mining in nine mines in three coalfields in the Digboi forest division in Tinsukia district in a total area spread over 6174 hectares from May 1, 1973 to April 30, 2003. It was revealed that while leases of five of the coal mines were renewed after their expiry in 2003, “there was no renewal of the other leases, after expiry of the thirty years lease”. The commission however noted that while the leases of the five mines were extended, they were not registered as required by rules. It was also found that the leases of four mines were extended by mines and minerals department of Assam government in 2019 (16 years after expiry of lease) and the lease of the fifth mine extended in 2008 (5 years after expiry of the earlier lease). “Such retrospective renewal of lease is not permissible,” the commission noted while adding that since the extensions were not registered, NEC and CIL “didn’t have any lease in respect of the aforesaid mines with effect from the date of expiry of the thirty year lease, i.e. from 1973 till date”. It observed that in absence of lease from competent authority, NEC, CIL “could not have carried out any mining operation in the aforesaid mines”, which includes Tikok OCP and Saleki PRF—“such mining activities on the part of NEC, CIL are, therefore, illegal”. During inquiry, the commission also found the NEC, CIL had violated provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 by breaking portions of the Tikok OCP for coal mining activities and other non-forest purposes without prior permission from central government. Field visit by the commission at Tikok OCP revealed that dumping of overburdens (waste or spoil from mining) caused damage to vegetation and the surrounding environment. The commission noticed rat-hole mining in the area done by other individuals and organisations apart from NEC, CIL, but couldn’t identity those responsible for it. The commission held the mines and minerals department of Assam and its officers responsible for failing to protect reserve forest land from illegal mining activities by NEC, CIL and other individuals and organisations. A report based on satellite imagery of the area submitted by the Assam chief conservator of forest to the commission revealed that from 2003 to 2020 (after expiry of the existing lease) area under mining in Saleki PRF increased from 192 hectares to 1458.8 hectares. Of this 1043 hectare was within the PRF, the rest outside (479 hectare open cast mining and 979 hectare rat-hole mining). Another report prepared by a local official estimated that apart from NEC, CIL nearly 400-40,000 persons illegally extracted 30-40 kg of coal per day (approximately 12,000 to 1200,000 kg of coal daily) from the area causing huge loss of revenue to the state exchequer. Other recommendations of the commission included steps to end all illegal mining activities in the area and urged the Centre and state to see if all mining can be stopped. It suggested setting up of a committee headed by the state DGP to take action against those involved in illegal mining, storage and transportation of coal. 
15-01-2022||India||Philippines to acquire 3 batteries of BrahMos||The Philippines confirmed on Friday it will acquire three batteries of the BrahMos cruise missile jointly developed by India and Russia in a deal worth almost $375 million, a development expected to boost India’s efforts to become a major exporter of defence hardware. The defence deal is unlikely to go down well with China, whose aggressive behaviour in the disputed South China Sea has taken relations with the Philippines to a fresh low. The Philippine Marines intend to use the BrahMos as a shore-based anti-ship missile. Philippine defence secretary Delfin Lorenzana said he had recently signed the “notice of award” – or the acceptance of India’s proposal for supplying the missile – for the Philippine Navy’s shore-based anti-ship missile acquisition project. “Negotiated with the Government of India, it includes the delivery of three batteries, training for operators and maintainers as well as the necessary Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) package,” Lorenzana said in a brief post on his Facebook page. The deal for the BrahMos was conceptualised as early as 2017, and the office of the Philippines president “approved its inclusion in the Horizon 2 Priority Projects in 2020”, he added. Hindustan Times had first reported in December 2019 that the Philippines was set to become the first country to buy the BrahMos missile system. Both sides were keen on signing the deal during a proposed visit by President Rodrigo Duterte early in 2021, but the plan fell through because of widespread disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The notice of award signed by Lorenzana on December 31 last year put the value of the BrahMos deal at $374.962 million. Last month, the Philippines government allocated 2.8 billion pesos ($55.5 million) for initial funding for the weapon system. A team from the Philippine Navy visited the production unit of BrahMos Aerospace in Hyderabad in December as part of the acquisition process. “The Coastal Defense Regiment of the Philippine Marines will be the primary employer of this modern strategic defense capability of the Armed Forces of the Philippines,” Lorenzana said. There was no official word from the Indian side, though Sudhir Mishra, who was till recently the CEO of BrahMos Aerospace, said in a tweet: “As then CEO and MD, worked on the Philippines contract for the past five years very hard connecting people, dots, procedures & unseen forces. BrahMos has shown the way for high value defence exports.” According to the government, policy changes have resulted in defence exports increasing by more than 325% over the last five years. India has set an ambitious target of achieving defence exports of $5 billion by 2024. The country exported defence gear worth ₹8,434.84 crore during 2020-21. However, the BrahMos deal is being seen as a game changer as India’s defence exports so far have been items such as avionics, coastal surveillance systems, spares for radars, personal protective items, and offshore patrol vessels. The deal with the Philippines could open the door for further sales of the BrahMos – which has a range of 290 km and can carry a 200-kg warhead – to other Southeast Asian countries such as Vietnam and Indonesia, which have been engaged in negotiations for the weapon system for several years. One of the potential areas for use of the BrahMos by the Philippines is the South China Sea. In 2016, the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Hague ruled that a specific portion of the South China Sea claimed by both China and the Philippines belonged to the Philippines alone. China rejected the ruling and has continued to send its vessels into the disputed waters. The Philippines military is currently implementing a revised modernisation programme and signed a contract for two corvettes with South Korea’s Hyundai Heavy Industries on December 28 last year. The Philippines also plans to sign contracts for 36 Black Hawk helicopters and six offshore patrol vessels in 2022. Former Indian Navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash said about the BrahMos deal in a tweet: “This is a long-delayed decision, which could alter the India-China strategic equation. By arming its Indo-Pacific friends, India not only helps bolster their security, but also gives China a dose of its own medicine! Vietnam & Indonesia, too, are waiting.” 
15-01-2022||India||HC calls for ban on rallies, strict adherence to Covid guidelines||The Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the state government to ensure that the guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the state on January 4 are strictly adhered to in all the districts and added that no rallies, dharnas or any other political gathering to be permitted in the entire state, till the SOP is in operation.The development came as the high court took cognizance of the public interest litigations (PILs) seeking directions for the state government to restrain Mekedatu padayatra organised by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) and not allow rallies and dharnas. A division bench of chief justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and justice Suraj Govindaraj gave the order while hearing the PIL filed by activist Nagendra Prasad AV. The Karnataka high court on Wednesday had pulled up the state government for allowing the Mekedatu padayatra by the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee and questioned whether it was “helpless” to stop the party from doing so amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. While the court sought an explanation from the state government on how it allowed such activity during the pandemic, it also asked the party to submit an explanation by January 14 whether they had taken any permission to hold the rally. Appearing for the Congress, senior advocate Uday Holla said that the party has suspended the padayatra taking into consideration the high court’s observations made during the last hearing. However, Holla claimed that the state government banned only KPCC’s padayatra in its latest order but other political parties were being allowed to hold the rallies. The additional advocate general (AAG) appearing for the state said that the general notification issued on January 4 had prohibited all the rallies, dharna and protests. The bench took note of the AAG’s submission that it had passed an order following the court’s orders on January 12. “All inter-district movement of vehicles to attend the padayatra are prohibited and all superintendent of police and divisional commissioners are directed to enforce the order strictly. The transport commissioner is directed to take adequate measures regarding the same. It is submitted that adequate measures have been taken by the state government to implement the government order,” said the bench. “In view of the government order prohibiting the padayatra, and the suspension of the said padayatra by respondent themselves we feel that the purpose for which the writ petition was filed no more exists. As such we do not find it necessary to keep the petition pending,” the bench stated while disposing of the petition. The court also told the government that it should strictly implement the Covid guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-calls-for-ban-on-rallies-strict-adherence-to-covid-guidelines-101642188010060.html
15-01-2022||India||UP elections: Denied ticket, Gulabi Gang founder quits Congress||Sampat Pal Devi, founder of Uttar Pradesh-based women’s organisation Gulabi Gang, on Friday quit the Congress after she was denied a ticket for the upcoming assembly elections. On Thursday, the party released its first list of candidates comprising 125 names, including 50 women, for the assembly polls. The party had promised to give 40% of its tickets to women. The mother of the Unnao rape victim and a block official who was assaulted during panchayat elections in Lakhimpur Kheri were among the many names on the list.Upset over not being given a ticket, Devi told HT over phone: “I am resigning from all posts of Congress as my candidature for Manikpur seat in Banda has not been considered. Women who secured lesser votes than me have been fielded from the same seat though I have worked harder over the years to strengthen the Congress. My Gulabi Gang members have supported the Congress not only in Uttar Pradesh but also in other states.” The gang is known for seeking justice against those accused of “committing atrocities against women”.Besides Devi, several other leaders also questioned the ticket distribution to women.Party leader Priyanka Maurya, whose picture has been used on the Congress’ ‘Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon’ (I am a girl, I can fight) campaign posters, accused a party functionary of asking her to pay money for a ticket and even called the Congress “anti-women and anti-OBC.” Another party leader, Sheela Mishra, staged a dharna at the party headquarters after she was denied a ticket from an assembly seat in Lucknow.State party chief Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’ was not reachable for comments.
15-01-2022||India||Increasing cases of home-grown drugs keeps state police on toes||On September 17, 2021, the central crime branch of the Bengaluru police had raided a drug manufacturing unit in Bengaluru and seized 4kg MDMA, a psychoactive drug. The gang used to hide ‘home manufactured drugs’ by storing them in a hidden compartment in custom-made shoes. They accused to sell these drugs across the city and in New Zealand as well.Days later, on September 26, 20211, in another major drug haul, police arrested two Iranian drug peddlers, who used to grow hydro cannabis inside a rented house, and seized drugs worth ₹1 crore from them. During the interrogation, the accused confessed that they brought the cannabis seeds via a darknet and were growing it in a villa near Bidadi on the outskirts of the Bengaluru city. The latest case in the series of home-grown drugs was reported on January 10, when a Nigerian national was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) for manufacturing and peddling synthetic drug MDMA from his rented accommodation at Tarabanahalli village on Hesaraghatta Road, North Bengaluru. The accused had learnt to make the synthetic drugs using the information available on the internet. “They had modified a pressure cooker using an iron pipe to manufacture the drugs. They used to buy raw materials like sodium hydroxide and acid from Mumbai,” said the officer. For Bengaluru police, who have been launching a crackdown on the drug trade in the city, these homemade drugs are posing a new challenge. Police officials, who had until recently changed their focus on catching the kingpins of the trade and targeting the source of the supply from outside the state, now have to keep a tab on drugs being manufactured within the city. A senior CCB official said that the recent arrests are only the tip of the icebergs. “Now, drug manufacturing has become an accessible trade. We have been witnessing this trend of accused taking rented houses on the city outskirts and cooking drugs. We have to focus on these activities more,” the officer added. He, however, added that Bengaluru police’s track record in the past two years in nabbing drugs peddlers has given the department enough confidence to deal with the new challenge as well. In 2021, the Bengaluru police arrested 5,644 drug peddlers in 4,275 cases and seized drugs worth around ₹59 crores. In comparison, 2,766 cases were registered with 3,673 arrests in 2020. The figure was at 768 cases and 1,260 arrests in 2019. According to official data, of the 4,475 cases registered in 2021, 4,275 cases were related to the seizure of marijuana, followed by 103 cases of MDMA, 39 cases of synthetic drugs and other narcotic substances ecstasy, hashish and LSD. Total 3,641.756kg drugs worth ₹592,775,690 were seized in 2021 against 3,912.826kg drugs worth ₹213,856,550 in 2020, and 1053.188kg drugs worth ₹34,686,700 in 2019. In 2021, 173 foreign nationals were arrested and 137 cases were registered, of which 105 accused were Nigerian nationals. In 2019, 38 foreign nationals were arrested and 33 cases were registered; and in 2020, 84 foreigners were arrested with 66 cases being registered against them. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), in 2020, Bengaluru had reported the highest number of cases related to narcotics in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increasing-cases-of-home-grown-drugs-keeps-state-police-on-toes-101642187410074.html
15-01-2022||India||Mount Victoria Babax bird species spotted in India after 25 years||In a very rare find, two birders have come across and photographed a Mount Victoria Babax, a bird species not seen in India since 1997, in Mizoram on Wednesday. The bird was sighted at Phawngpui (Blue Mountain) National Park, one of the two national parks in Mizoram, close to Myanmar. Located in Lawngtlai district, the park is named after Phawngpui, the highest peak in Mizoram with an altitude of 2157 metres above sea level. Though the bird has been sighted in Myanmar, usually at or around Nat Ma Taung, (also known as Mount Victoria-after which the bird is named) the highest peak in Chin state of the country, it’s the first time it has been seen in India in 25 years. “It was known from only one specimen collected by Walter Norman Koelz, an American zoologist, in March 1953 at Phawngpui,” said Delhi-based birder Puja Sharma who along with Andrew Spencer, a digital media manager at Cornell Lab of Ornithology of Cornell University in US, saw and photographed it. In 1997, Dipankar Ghose (now with WWF India) saw and photographed the bird at Phawngpui, although his sighting went almost unnoticed. Back then, it was the Chinese Babax. The species was split in 2005. Both Sharma and Spencer are bird-sound recordists and had been hiking and birding in the area for the past four days, when they first heard the bird’s song at 6:30 am on Wednesday before seeing it. “We heard the bird singing first as we were getting ready to descend and trek back to the nearest village, Thaltlang at the periphery of the park and the road head for the trek to Phawngpui peak ,” said Sharma. “We managed to get closer to the source of the sound and were able to track the source of the sound to this gorgeous bird, singing from within an oak tree after which we got a visual confirmation and managed to photograph and videograph it for further documentation,” she addedMount Victoria Babax (Pterorhinus woodi) belongs to the laughingthrush family Leiothrichidae and is found in a limited geographical range in Mizoram and the Chin state of Myanmar. In an article published in November last year, Bird Count India, an informal partnership of organizations and individuals interested in bird distribution and populations, listed Mount Victoria Babax in 8th rank among 20 rare bird species seen in India. “This is quite significant . Though it is slightly widespread in Myanmar, in India it is limited to a very small area in Mizoram. This is the first photographic record of species in India and shows its continuous occurrence in the area,” said Anwaruddin Choudhury, retired bureaucrat, conservationist and an expert on birds of northeast India. The species was first described by Frank Finn, an English ornithologist, in 1902 from a specimen collected in Kanpetlet near Nat Ma Taung. It was considered a sub-species of the Chinese Babax till 2005 when two American ornithologists, Pamela Rasmussen and John Anderton, argued that it should be considered a separate species based on its plumage and song. A streaky brown babbler with a slightly down-curved dark bill and thick black moustache stripe, the Mount Victoria Babax is found in open forest, forest edges and tangles at elevations of 1200-2800 m. It can be recognized from persistent inflected bubbling whistles that goes-‘puh-pooo-yih’. “Confirmation on the presence of the bird species in the area shows the need to protect the area around Phawngpui National Park from development and other activities. It is only when the area is preserved well that the bird species can thrive,” said Sharma. 
15-01-2022||India||Political gains overshadowing Mekedatu’s ecological impact||The padayatra for the proposed Mekedatu reservoir-cum-drinking water project may have been suspended but the issue brings all major political parties on the same platform as it promises rich electoral dividends.Meanwhile, most political parties are willing to overlook the environmental cost of the Mekedatu Balancing Reservoir and Drinking Water Project, which is adding to the steady erosion and rapid degradation of the ecology.According to the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited’s draft terms of reference (as in July 2019), the Mekedatu project is aimed at generating 400 MW of renewable energy annually and can supply up to 4.75 tmcft of drinking water for Bengaluru, Karnataka’s most populous city.“Large-scale developmental activities such as constructing a series of reservoirs and dams, creating special economic zones, townships, and land conversion for built-up areas have led to the loss of large tracts of forests,” said Dr TV Ramachandra from the Centre for Ecological Sciences (CES), Indian Institute of Science (IISc).“The forest cover now is confined to major conservation reserves such as protected areas, national parks and wildlife sanctuaries. Natural forests show a decline of evergreen forests from 7.5% (1985) to 5.7% (by 2019), moist deciduous forests from 5.7% (1985) to 4.1% (by 2019), and dry deciduous forests from 4.0% (1985) to 2.2% (2019),” he said.A report released on Thursday by India State of Forests Report (ISFR) 2021 shows that Karnataka has lost 64sq km of moderately dense forest compared to its 2019 findings. Karnataka’s forest cover is 20.2% of the total geographical area which is lower than the national average of 21.7% and terribly short of the globally prescribed 33%, the report adds.As per the report on Mekedatu, there will be a submergence of 4,996 hectares of wildlife, forest and revenue land and its total requirement is 5,252.40 ha. This includes 3,181.90 ha of Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary and 1869.5 ha of reserve forest land which is home to elephant migratory routes, honey badgers, grizzled giant squirrels, Deccan Mahseer fish and the smooth-coated otters among hundreds of other exotic — and potentially endangered — species of animals.While the tourism department milks its rich biodiversity to attract more tourists, over- exploitation of these resources have added to the growing environmental challenges for the southern state.Meanwhile, experts believe that the actual situation is far more dire.“At a time when we should be augmenting our forest ecosystem, we are depleting and plundering it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to protect and preserve biodiversity, but on the contrary, we are destroying it. Ideally, 33% of the Indian landscape should be reserved for forest. But we barely have 20%,” wildlife activist Joseph Hoover said.Karnataka has also refused to declare the Western Ghats as an eco-sensitive zone, prioritising economic interests over environmental concerns.The Mekedatu reservoir project, proposed to be constructed at a height of nearly 100ft, can store up to 65 tmcft of water but lead to loss of green cover and livelihood of thousands living in the region.Questioning the equitability of the project, noted rights activist Medha Patkar said, “The project’s equitability and sustainability needs to be proved before it gets a go ahead of any kind. That is not yet happening in case of Mekedatu,” Patkar said on Thursday in Bengaluru.Bengaluru receives around 1400 million litres per day (mld) of Cauvery water and of this nearly 40% is lost in leakages due to old and dilapidated pipelines, wastage by consumers among other reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-gains-overshadowing-mekedatu-s-ecological-impact-101642186932899.html
15-01-2022||India||‘Seek better relations with India, Kashmir at core of ties’: New Pak security policy||NEW DELHI: Pakistan desires to improve its relationship with India, though a “just and peaceful resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir” issue will remain the core of bilateral relations, according to Islamabad’s new National Security Policy released on Friday. Past governments had focused solely on military security and never planned beyond this, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said while addressing a ceremony at which he released the public version of the policy. “We’ve never had the concept of a coordinated national security policy,” he said. National security adviser Moeed Yusuf said the NSP was centred round economic security, and geo-strategic imperatives were included to bolster Pakistan’s security. He said the document was finalised with “full civil-military consensus”. The 62-page public version of the National Security Policy has separate sections on India and Jammu and Kashmir in the part dealing with Pakistan’s foreign relations. It also contains several other references to India in sections dealing with defence policy and the neighbourhood. “Pakistan, under its policy of peace at home and abroad, wishes to improve its relationship with India. A just and peaceful resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute remains at the core of our bilateral relationship,” the section on India said. “Growing Indian arms build-up, facilitated by access to advanced technologies and exceptions in the non-proliferation rules, is a matter of concern for Pakistan. Besides impacting regional stability, such policies of exceptionalism also undermine the global non-proliferation regime,” it added. The section on India expressed concern at what it said was the “rise of Hindutva-driven politics in India” and said this “impacts Pakistan’s immediate security”. The “political exploitation of a policy of belligerence towards Pakistan by India’s leadership has led to the threat of military adventurism”, it said. The section also accused India of pursuing “unilateral policy actions on outstanding issues...to impose one-sided solutions”. It added, “Pakistan continues to believe in resolving all outstanding issues through dialogue; however, recent Indian actions remain significant hurdles in this direction.” The section on Jammu and Kashmir said a “just and peaceful resolution” of this issue remains a vital national security interest for Pakistan. It reiterated Pakistan’s position that India’s decision to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019 was “illegal and unilateral”, and alleged that Indian security forces were behind human rights abuses and oppression in Kashmir. “Pakistan remains steadfast in its moral, diplomatic, political, and legal support to the people of Kashmir until they achieve their right to self-determination guaranteed by the international community as per United Nations Security Council (UNSC) resolutions,” the section on Kashmir said. The document stated Pakistan will seek to deter war “through full-spectrum deterrence within the precincts of credible minimum nuclear deterrence in concert with our conventional military capabilities and all elements of national power”. “The expansion of India’s nuclear triad, open-ended statements on nuclear policy, and investments in and introduction of destabilising technologies disturb the strategic balance in the region,” it added. The document contended that special attention is required to manage “lingering border disputes which continue to pose security threats, particularly along the Line of Control and Working Boundary where ceasefire violations by India threaten civilian lives and property while endangering regional stability”. Referring to the Indian Ocean region and India’s role as a net security provider, the policy claimed this will “affect the region’s security and economic interests negatively”. India and Pakistan have not held any substantial and structured talks since the 2008 Mumbai attacks, carried out by the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), disrupted bilateral ties. Several attempts in the following years to revive talks ran aground after a series of terror attacks, mainly targeting Indian security forces, that were mostly blamed on the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). After a series of back-channel contacts between security officials of the two countries, the Indian and Pakistani armies agreed in February 2021 to restore the 2003 ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC). However, the ending of exchanges of fire on the LoC did not lead to further breakthroughs between the two sides. 
15-01-2022||India||Chikkaballapura recoded five mild earthquakes in less than a month||In a span of over one month Chikkaballapura – located around 65 km from state capital Bengaluru – has reported five mild earthquakes. The mines and geology department officials Thursday visited the Kamabalahalli and Bullsandra villages, a day after tremors were reported from the said areas. Government officials had to camp on site to assure the villagers of safety as five such incidents have been reported in the district so far. The tremors on Wednesday were the latest in a series of mild earthquakes. Chikkaballapura was hit by two 3.0 magnitude earthquakes on December 22. The first earthquake had a magnitude of 3.1 and occurred at 7.09 am. The second earthquake, at a magnitude of 3.4, hit the area five minutes later at 7.14 am. Another earthquake was reported at 2.16 pm on December 23 with a magnitude of 3.6 on the Richter scale. On January 5 an earthquake, measuring 2.7 on the Richter Scale, hit the district again. While no casualties or major damages have been reported, cracks were found on the walls of some houses. Following the frequency of the quakes, the state government directed the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) and the mines and geology department to look into the matter. KSNDMC director Manoj Rajan said, “All the incidents reported in the district were of mild scale and tremors were felt up to a radius of 20-30km from the epicentre. No one was injured during these incidents, however, slight shaking of the buildings have been reported.” “This falls under hard rock granitoid and gneissic terrain of seismic zone II. Scientists are studying Chikkaballapur and they have also recommended the National Geophysical Research Institute to carry out studies in the region,” he said. A senior officer of the KSNDMC, on the condition of anonymity said that the recent earthquakes were caused due to the heavy floods that the district experienced. “The district is drought prone and the rain in this region has been limited. But, last year the district witnessed heavy floods. When such unexpected amount of water comes to traditionally drought-prone areas, water enters fractured zones, which could be as deep as 10km, resulting in the movement of loose rock and eventually in these tremors,” the official explained. Voicing the same opinion, an official from the mines and geology department, who was overseeing the survey in the district, said due to heavy rains reported last year, defunct borewells and other water bodies were filled quickly. “The water entering crust of the earth, which is called hydro-seismicity, causes these incidents in the district,” said the official. Refuting the government claims, the local residents however alleged that rampant illegal mining in the district is the reason behind the numerous tremors in the district. Meanwhile, satellite images sourced from the National Remote Sensing Centre, the department of mines and geology (DMG) and the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) had identified 532 illegal quarries in the Chikkaballapur district in 2019. The findings were mentioned in the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) report as well, in which DMG was asked to take action against these illegal quarries. According to the report, at least 11.12 crore metric tonnes of specified and unspecified minerals were illegally extracted, causing a loss of ₹223.25 crore to the state. A DMG official meanwhile said, “Around 450 licences have been issued for decorative stone quarries and 300 for stone quarries. But there are way more quarries. As per our estimate, there could be more than 2,000 illegal quarries across Karnataka.” Minister-in-charge of the district, Dr K Sudhakar, said even though the tremors are caused by the underground water, strict action will be taken against the miscreants involved in illegal mining and those violating rules . “We have had few incidents in the past where the tremors have been felt in some villages in the district. As per the experts, the sudden rain in recent times has resulted in these incidents… now those who are involved in mining should employ controlled blasting. I have told the police to take action against the people who are violating these norms and using such explosives which go against than the regulations,” said Sudhakar. 
15-01-2022||India||Medical report suggests girl with mental illness was not raped, Rajasthan police||Jaipur: A medical report has allayed apprehensions of rape of the mentally-challenged girl, who was found in a distressed state with injuries on her private parts in Alwar district, police said on Friday. Fresh findings have also revealed that the 14-year-old girl had travelled from her village to the city on her own, they said. She was found bleeding and lying on a bridge near Tijara Fatak on Tuesday night. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had directed the police department to conduct a thorough investigation, following which a Special Investigation Team was constituted by the Alwar Superintendent of Police (SP). According to doctors, the girl’s rectum was displaced and she underwent a two-and-a-half-hour surgery.“Today (Friday), a team of experts have submitted a report to the police, in which they have said that injuries are not suggestive of any penetrative assault to the girl. So far, facts and technical information of medical experts suggest that there is no possibility of rape in the case,” Alwar SP Tejaswani Gautam told reporters.The SP said the police are yet to ascertain how the girl sustained such grievous injuries.Gautam told reporters that the girl travelled around 25 km from her village and reached Alwar city in an auto-rickshaw. She then walked towards the Tijara Fatak bridge “on her own”.“We have been able to track the girl’s movements and traced the auto-rickshaw in which she travelled with 8-10 other passengers. A team of forensic experts have not found anything suspicious in the auto-rickshaw. The driver was interrogated and her co-passengers will be questioned,” the SP said.CCTV footage collected from various locations showed her walking in many areas of the city and on the bridge, but no camera found her in a distressed condition on the bridge, police said. Official sources said that the chief minister was constantly monitoring the case. “Jaipur Inspector General of Police visited Alwar on Wednesday and issued necessary directions to the district police. Required forensic and technical assistance was provided,” a source said.Meanwhile, a child psychologist and experts also interacted with the girl. Police said they were preparing a questionnaire for the experts so they could seek answers from the girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-report-suggests-girl-with-mental-illness-was-not-raped-rajasthan-police-101642186509980.html
15-01-2022||India||India’s desire for peace is born out of strength, should not mistaken otherwise: Army chief||New Delhi: The Indian Army stands firm to counter any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the country’s borders and India’s desire for peace is born out of strength and should not be mistaken otherwise, Army Chief General MM Naravane said on Friday.The army chief also said that differences in perceptions and disputes are best resolved through established norms based on the principle of equal and mutual security.The armies of India and China are locked in a military standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 5, 2020, after a violent clash erupted in the Pangong lake area.Both the countries have conducted 14 rounds of military-level talks to resolve the standoff.“We stand firm to counter any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along our borders. Our response to such attempts has been swift, calibrated and decisive as was seen when the situation so demanded,” Naravane said in his speech on the eve of Army Day.Naravane said the Army has instituted additional safeguards to prevent any further attempts at military brinkmanship.”We believe that the differences in perceptions and disputes are best resolved through established norms based on the principle of equal and mutual security,” he mentioned.“Our desire for peace and tranquillity is born out of our inherent strength. It should not be mistaken otherwise,” he added.Institutional mechanisms and safeguards to counter state-sponsored terrorism have been strengthened both along the borders and the hinterland, Naravane mentioned.These mechanisms and safeguards have proven effective in lowering the levels of violence, he said.”Our actions have demonstrated our capability and willingness to strike at the source of terrorism,” the Army chief mentioned.In the year gone by, the Indian Army has resolutely executed its responsibilities and was steadfast in safeguarding the security and territorial integrity of the nation, he said.India’s active borders were guarded with resolve and resilience, he mentioned.“Our brave officers, JCOs (junior commissioned officers), and soldiers, have faced adversaries and adversity with courage and fortitude even to the extent to laying down their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” Naravane said.The Indian Army remains at a high state of operational readiness to face ongoing and future challenges, he said.After the violent clash on May 5, 2020, both -- Indian and Chinese militaries -- gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process last year in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake and in the Gogra area.Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-desire-for-peace-is-born-out-of-strength-should-not-mistaken-otherwise-army-chief-101642186269911.html
15-01-2022||India||Indian railways decides to redesignate post of ‘guard’ as ‘train manager’||The Indian Railways on Friday announced to re-designate the post of ‘guard’ as ‘train manager’. Senior officials in the railway ministry said the issue was being demanded for quite some time.“Indian Railways has decided to redesignate the post of “Guard” as “Train Manager” with immediate effect. The revised designation is more in consonance with their existing duties & responsibilities and will improve the motivation level of Guards now Train Manager,” the railways ministry tweeted on Friday.“The demand was that the existing designation train guard has become outdated. It was also said that in today’s society, common man thought that he/she may be a guard in some private firm,” said one of the officials cited above.“In this connection, it would not be out of context to mention that, in the general and subsidiary rules (GSR), a train guard is virtually a train in-charge of the respective train,” the official added.“It would be quite appropriate that the existing designation of train guard be changed to train manager, which would be a dignified designation for them without any financial implication, so that they can also lead a respectful life in the society,” said another senior railway official.Some experts, however, said this was one of the ways towards corporatisation. “A passenger is not going to be affected by this designation change in anyway. It is not difficult to understand that the railways is inching towards corporatisation,” said an industry expert, who did not wish to be named.According to the revised designation document, dated January 13, assistant guard will now be ‘assistant passenger train manager’, goods guard will be ‘goods train manager’, a senior passengers’ guard will be ‘senior passenger train manager’ and mail or express train guard will be mail/express train manager.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-decides-to-redesignate-post-of-guard-as-train-manager-101642186091235.html
15-01-2022||India||HC rejects CBI’s ‘snatching bid’ theory in Dhanbad judge’s death case||The Jharkhand high court on Friday dismissed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)’s theory that Dhanbad additional district judge Uttam Anand was possibly knocked down by an auto-rickshaw during a bid to snatch his mobile phone, and sought a report of all technical investigation, including the narco test on the accused, carried out in the matter till date. A bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Surjeet Narayan Prasad was holding a virtual hearing on the weekly investigation progress report when it expressed dissatisfaction over the central agency’s claim that the two accused reportedly admitted that they were trying to snatch the judge’s mobile phone when the incident took place.Judge Uttam Anand was on a morning jog when he was mowed down by the autorickshaw on July 28 last year, an incident which sparked off security concerns in the entire judiciary. The vehicle, which was stolen from Dhanbad, was recovered from neighbouring Giridih district that night. Auto driver Lakhan Verma, 22, and his accomplice Rahul Verma, 21, were arrested two days later. In October, the central probe agency filed its chargesheet against the duo under sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.“Citing what was captured on the CCTV, the court observed that in no way it was established that there was any attempt to snatch the phone by the occupants of the auto rickshaw at the time of the incident. The court said it could be possible that the accused were trying to derail the murder investigation by making such claims,” a lawyer who attended the virtual hearing said, wishing not to be named.The court also sought to know from the probe agency the need to conduct the narco test and brain mapping of the accused twice. To this, the CBI said the two procedures were carried out twice to establish different sets of information that emerged during the course of the probe, they lawyer cited above said. Fixing January 21 as the next date of hearing, the court directed the probe agency to submit all test reports by then. The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court took suo motu cognisance of the hit-and-run incident after CCTV footage showed the three-wheeler swerving on an empty road to knock him down.The CBI took over the probe on July 31 after the top court said the incident had larger ramifications for the independence of the judiciary. The state government had also recommended an investigation by the central agency into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-rejects-cbi-s-snatching-bid-theory-in-dhanbad-judge-s-death-case-101642186089825.html
15-01-2022||India||Centre brings all higher education institutions on ABC platform||The Centre has brought all recognised higher education institutions, irrespective of their accreditation or rankings, under the ambit of the Academic Bank of Credit (ABC) , enabling students to switch between institutions and multiple entries and exits to and from the programme.The ABC framework is part of National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, and will allow higher education institutions to maintain a digital repository of credits earned by students; under ABC, students can choose to study one course in a year in one institution and switch to another one the next year. The framework also allows students to pursue courses online and earn credits. While mandatory under NEP 2020, institutions have the flexibility of adopting it at a time of their choice.The University Grants Commission (UGC) on July 28, 2021, notified ABC and issued the UGC (Establishment and Operation of Academic Bank of Credits in Higher Education) Regulations, 2021.On Wednesday, the commission wrote to all universities and colleges informing them about the amendment made in the regulations. “It was felt that the universities and autonomous colleges satisfying sub-regulation 2 of regulation 1 and the institutions of national importance as declared by the government of India and specifically empowered by an Act of Parliament to confer or grant degrees, irrespective of their NAAC or NIRF ranking should be able to participate and register in the academic bank of credits. In this regard, the amendments have been notified in the Gazette of India on 28 December, 2021.”The July 28, 2021, regulations, made it compulsory for higher education institutions that received ‘A’ grade from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) or fall in the top 100 National Institutions Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings, to register for ABC.However, under the UGC (Establishment and Operation of Academic Bank of Credits in Higher Education) (First Amendment) Regulations, 2021, now any university or college, irrespective of ranking, can participate and register to come under the ABC framework. This will include both central and state universities, deemed-to-be universities and autonomous institutions.“All higher education institutions are once again requested to take appropriate steps for joining ABC Platform at the earliest. Further, you are requested to kindly make the students of your University/institution aware of the ABC facility and encourage theln for opening Academic Bank Account,” the UGC letter added.Officials at the UGC said that as many as 40 central universities have already decided to adopt ABC. “ ABC gives liberty to students to choose the pace of their studies, tailor their degrees, and enable multiple entry-multiple exit for students to complete their degrees as per their time preferences. It was important that all higher education institutions be allowed to opt for it,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Abha Dev Habib, member of the Delhi University Teachers Association, said that ABC will reduce the role of universities and teachers. “It will damage students’ education and growth. Universities are known for their course curriculum and syllabi. No good university should allow deviation from their prescribed structure and syllabi. ABC Regulations are aimed at reducing grants to public universities by cutting costs on teacher hiring and pushing students to online education in the name of “choice”.”
15-01-2022||India||Sent proposal two weeks ago: Mahua Moitra on possible Cong-TMC alliance for Goa||PANAJI: The Trinamool Congress has made a formal offer to the Congress for an alliance ahead of the Goa Assembly elections nearly two weeks ago but hasn’t heard back from them, the party’s MP and Goa in-charge Mahua Moitra said. Reacting to the statements made by Congress senior election observer for Goa P Chidambaram, who in an interview with a local TV channel said that the Congress was yet to receive a formal offer of an alliance, Moitra suggested that Chidambaram should get in touch with the Congress leadership. The AITC (All India Trinamool Congress) already made [a] formal & definitive offer to INC (Indian National Congress) on Goa to defeat [the] BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party ]. [The] INC leadership asked for time to revert. This was almost two weeks ago,” Moitra tweeted. In the interview, Chidambaram said that the Congress was open to receiving support from other parties wishing to defeat the BJP provided they recognise the Congress is best placed to lead any such anti-BJP alliance in Goa. The former union minister of finance and home however said that time was running out and admitted that there was “bitterness” between the Congress and the TMC over the latter poaching its leaders and now seeking an alliance. State Congress leaders have repeatedly denied that there are ongoing talks between the leaderships of the Congress and the TMC ahead of the upcoming elections. Goa goes to the polls on February 14 along with Punjab and Uttarakhand in a single phase while the election results will be declared on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sent-proposal-two-weeks-ago-mahua-moitra-on-possible-cong-tmc-alliance-for-goa-101642185672950.html
15-01-2022||India||2021 was fifth warmest year in India, impact of global warming: IMD||The year 2021 was the fifth warmest reported in India over the past 121 years, according to the annual climate statement 2021, released by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday. The four warmest years are 2016, 2009, 2017 and 2010, the report said.According to the report, the annual mean air temperature was 0.44°C above normal in 2021 while in 2016 it was 0.71°C above normal; 0.55°C in 2009; 0.54°C in 2017, and 0.53°C in 2010.“This is certainly an impact of global warming. The fact that the most recent years after 2000 are recorded to be the warmest years is not just true for India, but globally also. That is why we are preparing better forecast strategies in view of global warming,” said M Mohapatra, director general of IMD.The global mean temperature in 2021 (January to September) was around 1.08°C above the 1850-1900 pre-industrial average and the year is likely to be between the fifth and seventh warmest year on record, according to the World Meteorological Organisation. 2021 is cooler than recent years owing to La Niña conditions.IMD scientists said a very warm winter and post-monsoon season in 2021 led to an increase in mean temperature last year. In winter (Jan and Feb) last year, the seasonal mean temperature was 0.78°C above normal and during the post monsoon season (October to December) mean temperature was 0.42°C above normal.During the 1901 to 2021 period, there was a 0.63°C rise in mean temperature for 100 years.Annual rainfall over the country last year was 105% of its long period average (LPA); rainfall during southwest monsoon season (June to September) was normal at 99% of LPA; but the northeast monsoon rainfall was 171% of LPA—record highest since 1901, the report stated.Heavy rainfall and flood-related incidents claimed over 750 lives last year while thunderstorms and lightning claimed more than 780 lives in different parts of the country, the report stated. Of the 750 deaths due to heavy rainfall events, 215 deaths were reported in Maharashtra, 143 in Uttarakhand, 55 in Himachal Pradesh, 53 in Kerala and 46 in Andhra Pradesh.Among 780 deaths due to thunderstorms, 213 were in Odisha, 156 in Madhya Pradesh, 89 in Bihar, 76 in Maharashtra, 58 in West Bengal, 54 in Jharkhand, 49 in Uttar Pradesh and 48 in Rajasthan.According to the report, Maharashtra was the most adversely affected state during 2021 -- the state reported more than 340 deaths, mainly due to extremely heavy rainfall, floods, landslide, lightning, cyclonic storms and cold-wave events.There were 5 cyclonic storms in 2021—Tauktae over Arabian Sea (May 14 to 19); Yaas over Bay of Bengal (May 23 to 28); Shaheen over Arabian Sea (September 29 to October 4); Gulab over Bay of Bengal (September 24 to 28) and Jawad over Bay of Bengal (December 2 to 6).The most devastating was Tauktae which crossed Saurashtra coast on May 17 claimed 144 lives due to its impact on the west coast.Many states reported extremely wet to severely wet conditions due to excess rainfall last year.The Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) is an index used for monitoring drought conditions based on precipitation. Negative values indicate dry conditions while positive values indicate wet conditions.SPI values of the past twelve months indicate extremely wet-severely wet conditions over parts of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar, East Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Punjab, East Rajasthan, West Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat Region, Konkan & Goa, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, North Interior Karnataka, south Karnataka and Kerala. Extremely dry-severely dry conditions were observed over parts of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura, Sub Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim, East Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.Climate Vulnerability AtlasOn the occasion of IMD’s 147th foundation day, IMD launched four doppler weather radars — in Leh (highest altitude in India); Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi. The radar for Ayanagar in Delhi will cover an 100 km area and will provide information for the entire National Capital Region. It will provide improved rainfall monitoring; information for nowcasting and disaster mitigation, officials said.IMD also launched a Climate Hazards and Vulnerability Index Atlas of India on the occasion. The Atlas has mapped district wise climate hazards and climate vulnerability. The climate hazards are mapped for wind hazard, extreme rainfall, lightning, dust storm, hail storm, fog, drought, cyclone and thunderstorm.The data for heavy, very heavy and extremely heavy rain (over 64.5 mm/ day) during 2011 to 2020 was concentrated along the west coast districts the atlas showed including Satara, Ratnagiri, Uttara Kannada, Shimoga, Kozhikode etc. Lightning incidents (201 to 508 lightning days) were largely concentrated in Odisha, West Bengal and Maharashtra between 1969 to 2019. Highest number of heat wave days ( 400 to 1113) were concentrated in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan.“The atlas will have two uses. One, it will be a reference for impact-based warning that we issue for various regions. People can also see the atlas to understand what is the impact of certain extreme weather events in their region. Secondly, it can be used to plan climate-resilient infrastructure. For example, if construction is coming up in a coastal area, the atlas can give crucial information on what kind of disasters are probable,” added Mohapatra.M Ravichandran Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences said IMD plans to install at least 90 weather radars to be able to effectively forecast severe weather events. “Our aim is to populate the radars in the country so that no area are without the eye of radar. There are about 33 radars in IMD network and our objective is to at least have 90 radars to map the entire country. Though we are successful in providing accurate forecasts at various timescales, people always talk about where we have failed. It’s natural. We need to accept the criticism and try to rise to the occasion. We have improved our cyclone forecast significantly both intensity and track and last week’s winter rain was forecasted accurately but no one noticed it. At the same time, we failed some localised forecasts in Chennai, especially heavy rain but everyone noticed it. Our model resolution is about 12 km. Its difficult to forecast rainfall and weather with that resolution. We need to improve the model resolution with better input,” he said adding that “in the global warming scenario heavy and extremely heavy rainfall is going to increase and we need to augment resources to predict accurately. Awareness among people is very important, especially the complexity involved in forecasting weather.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2021-was-fifth-warmest-year-in-india-impact-of-global-warming-imd-101642185609896.html
15-01-2022||India||Govt seeks more data for full market clearance to Covishield, Covaxin||Approval for full market authorisation for both Covid-19 vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, could take longer, with the subject expert committee of the national drugs regulator seeking more data from the manufacturers in its meeting on Friday.Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech International Ltd, manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin respectively, separately applied to the central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO) to seek full market authorisation stating that more than a billion vaccine doses have been administered to beneficiaries under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme.“The volume of doses administered is large enough, no doubt, but there were some specific queries that the panel had, and has sought additional data in a particular format for that purpose. Like in case of emergency use authorisation, for complete market authorisation also, the review needs to be thorough,” said an official familiar with the development, on condition of anonymity.Full market authorisation is granted when there is enough data to demonstrate that the vaccine is safe and effective for most people who receive it.SII locally manufactures the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield.On December 31, last year, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla announced through a tweet that it applied to India’s drugs regulator for full market authorisation to Covishield, citing adequate availability of the required data.“Supplies of the COVISHIELD vaccine in India, have exceeded 1.25 billion doses. The government of India now has enough data for full market authorisation, and therefore @SerumInstIndia has applied to the @CDSCO_INDIA_INF (DCGI) and @MoHFW_INDIA for this permission,” tweeted Poonawalla.According to people familiar with the development, Bharat Biotech also moved its application for complete market authorisation for Covaxin last week.Both the vaccines were granted approval for restricted use in emergency situation by the drugs controller general of India, VG Somani, on January 3, last year, and both the vaccines have been the mainstay of India’s covid immunisation programme.
15-01-2022||India||Budget session to start Jan 31 in backdrop of third Covid wave||Parliament will meet from January 31 to April 8 for its crucial and the longest annual session — the budget session — in the backdrop of the third surge of the Covid-19 infections.There will, however, be a long recess in between, from February 11 to March 14, according to a note from the Union parliamentary affairs ministry circulated on Friday. This recess period roughly coincides with elections in five states that will run in seven phases starting on February 10, with the results to be announced on March 10.The general budget will be presented on February 1 after the President’s address to the joint sitting of both Houses on the inaugural day. The Economic Survey will also be presented on January 31.Top officials of the two Houses have started exploring options, including a staggered timetable for the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha, and a highly dispersed seating arrangement for the MPs for the upcoming budget session. A final decision on the arrangements will be taken around January 25 or 26, when Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla meet over the issue, the officials said.But the length of the session, like the previous five since March 2020, will depend entirely on the Covid situation.India reported 270,460 cases and 399 deaths on Friday.“The priority will be to first clear the budget, the finance bill and the appropriation bills — the mandatory requirements under the Constitution. We can think about the other legislation if the time permits,” a senior government functionary said.The treasury benches will be looking to clear important legislation and the Opposition to discussing crucial issues after the 2021 winter session was heavily disrupted. Twelve Opposition members were suspended from the Rajya Sabha right at the start of the session over indiscipline in the monsoon session, leading to opposition parties stalling proceedings in protest. Disruptions were also triggered by the Opposition’s demands for a law on minimum support prices (MSPs) for certain crops in the backdrop of the repeal of three controversial farm bills.Lok Sabha, which had utilized 100% time in nearly all sessions, saw 82% productivity while the Rajya Sabha had 47% productivity in the winter session. “We definitely want this session to run. We have key issues to discuss,” said a senior Opposition leader who is a member of the Rajya Sabha.The Covid situation, however, may delay the review of some crucial bills as several parliamentary panels have been unable to meet for the last several weeks due to a surge in infections triggered by the Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus.“The panel on environment cancelled its meeting on January 10. It was scheduled to discuss the amendments to the wildlife act. “Some other committee meetings too were cancelled. But the joint committee on Biological diversity bill met once on January 4, the next meeting is scheduled on January 21,” said an official, citing instances of how the pandemic’s latest wave has slowed down the functioning of these panels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-to-start-jan-31-in-backdrop-of-third-covid-wave-101642183810023.html
15-01-2022||India||Around 1% active Covid cases in ICUs: India data||Just around 1% of those who have tested positive for Covid-19 across India are in intensive care units (ICUs) of government hospitals, with only around a tenth of them (those in ICUs) being on ventilators, people familiar with the matter in the health ministry said -- proportions that are in keeping with trends seen around the world in regions where infections are being driven by the Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus.“Around 1% are in intensive care units (ICUs), 0.12% on ventilators, and 1.55% , being treated on oxygen beds in several government health facilities,” said a senior health ministry official on condition of anonymity, quoting the current public hospitalisation data. The numbers do not include those being treated in private hospitals although most experts believe the proportions are likely to be roughly the same.The hospitalisation rate seen so far in the current Covid-19 wave has been between 5% and 10% of the active cases, according to the Union health ministry.“The hospitalisations have increased over the past few days even though the situation isn’t as bad as we saw last year driven by the Delta variant. However, even a small percentage for a country like India could result in significant overall increase because in absolute numbers it will be higher,” said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant, department of internal medicine, Apollo Hospitals.Disaggregated data is hard to come by, but In Delhi, for instance, according to the daily update provided by the state government, on January 14, only 2.7% of the 92,223 active cases are currently in hospital, with a mere 0.73% in ICUs. Active cases were last at this level on May 2 last year, and at that time, nearly 22% of them were in hospital.According to the government data shared by Union health ministry on Friday morning, India’s active caseload currently stands at over a million (1,272,073). The last time the number was at this level was on June 9, 2021, when India’s active case load was 1,231,415.But hospitalisations have not risen. According to an HT tracker of 15 regions, almost 85.3% of hospital beds are currently vacant.The trends in India are consistent with what has been seen globally: the Omicron variant is significantly less likely to lead to severe disease due to a combination of intrinsic characteristics -- the virus is less able to replicate in the lungs -- and baseline immunity conferred by vaccination or a past infection.Public health experts are also of the view that Omicron may not be responsible for at least some of the hospitalisations. The Delta variant, they add, is still in circulation, even though Omicron is increasingly becoming the dominant variant.“Omicron numbers may be rising, but we must not forget that Delta is still present and hospitalisations could partly be a result of the Delta variant too. It is not possible to get every single positive sample genome sequenced as it is an advanced test that is expensive and time consuming,” said a senior epidemiologist with the central government, who is also a part of several key committees advising the government on Covid-19.And death numbers, while on the rise, may be on account of comorbidities, or largely among the unvaccinated (or partially vaccinated), or both.The analysis of 97 deaths between January 9 and 12 in Delhi showed that nearly three of every four fatalities was of a person who did not have any dose at all, and, from a smaller subset of 34 people whose comorbid conditions were known, all of the deceased patients had some other illness that is established to raise the risk of death.At the directions of the Centre, several hospitals have put on hold all elective procedures to be able to spare beds, ventilators and other essential supplies, and human resources needed to manage a surge in hospitalisation. Only emergency patients are being managed at the moment.On Monday, the health ministry wrote to states asking them to bolster health infrastructure and personnel keeping in mind the 5-10% hospitalisation rate among Covid-19 positive cases that the country is reporting currently.“The rise in coronavirus cases seemed to be driven by a combination of the Omicron and Delta variants of concern,” Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, said in a letter to states. “The situation is dynamic and evolving, therefore, the need for hospitalisation may also change rapidly.”“Things are pretty much under control at the moment but it is an evolving situation, and we have to remain prepared for the worst,” said another official from the government requesting anonymity.
15-01-2022||India||Draft bill proposing council of town, country planners in works||The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) is working on a draft bill to bring focus on urban planning by creating a National Council of Town and Country Planners that will set standards, benchmarks and code of ethics for professionals working in the field, according to senior government officials aware of the matter.The concept of the bill is being discussed within the ministry at the moment, a MoHUA official said, asking not to be named.“Urban planning is crucial for the development of sustainable cities. The concept of a draft bill is being discussed at the ministry level to bring focus on urban planners. Like there are councils for architects, doctors, lawyers, the concept of a council for urban planners is being considered,” the official said.“The NITI Aayog had also recommended a bill and formation of a national council for town and country planners,” he added.In September last year, the government’s federal think tank, NITI Aayog, came out with a report titled “Reforms in Urban Planning Capacity in India”, which highlighted the shortage of urban planners in the country and recommended the need for building capacity and a regulatory framework for urban planners.Dr K Rajeswara Rao, special secretary, NITI Aayog, said that the advisory committee, which prepared the report, observed that concerted actions are required to bring in more structure, professionalism, and identity to the urban planning profession.“This will be important to improve the quality as well as quantity of planning professionals in the long run. It recommended a National Council of Town and Country Planners to be constituted as a statutory body of the government of India. The purpose would be to set standards, benchmarks and code of ethics just like it is done by councils for lawyers, chartered accountants and so on,” Dr Rao said.The report said that 63% of the 7,933 towns and cities (urban settlements) in India don’t have a master plan, which is considered critical for managing urbanisation challenges. Dr Rao said that cities where large-scale investment is being done are facing major planning-related problems due to the shortage of urban planners in the country.“Nearly 65% cities don’t have a master plan, and in the rest of the cities that have a master or development plan in place, it is not enforced and implemented properly. This results in urban sprawl,” he said.The draft proposes to standardise the recruitment rules for staff in town and country planning departments, urban development authorities, and urban local bodies, said a second MoHUA official aware of the development.The federal Town and Country Planning Organisation, which comes under MoHUA and assists the ministry in formulating policies for urban development, said that states often don’t adhere to the Centre’s advisories to hire qualified urban planners.Sabyasachi Das, former planning commission in-charge at DDA, “There is so much focus urban development and redevelopment in cities now. There is a need to have a proper planning done for cities for which government institutions should recruit qualified urban planners. There are government department where the posts are lying vacant for years. The government should focus on filling up these posts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draft-bill-proposing-council-of-town-country-planners-in-works-101642183509639.html
15-01-2022||India||‘A sudden jerk and all came tumbling down’: Survivors recall horror||It had been months since Rukia Khatun had visited her mother in Barpeta, Assam. The daily wage labourer who works in Jaipur, set off with her seven-year-old daughter Sahida in tow on the Guwahati-Bikaner Express on Wednesday.On Thursday, 12 coaches of the train derailed in Maynaguri region of West Bengal and Sahida went missing in the resulting pandemonium.Rukia’s search came to a tragic end on Friday when she was told Sahida’s body was traced to the Jalpaiguri Jalpaiguri super speciality hospital.Sahida was among the nine people killed in the accident. At least another 36 people were injured. According to the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), there were 1,053 people onboard at the time of the accident.While the accident shattered Rukia’s family, some like Gautam Barman, a resident of West Bengal’s Cooch Behar district, escaped with minor injuries. “I was to get down at New Cooch Behar station and I was preparing for the same. If I had died, it would have shattered my family. I have elderly parents, wife and three children,” he said.Barman was standing near the toilet of the S6 coach preparing to deboard when the train first jerked violently. “When the first jerk came at 5 pm, passengers started falling over each other. I would have died or been seriously injured had I not gone near the bathroom,” he told reporters at Jalpaiguri district hospital.Rishab Mishra, was travelling in the same coach as Barman.“The train had crossed the Jalpaiguri Road station and running at full speed,” Mishra said.“Just half an hour later, I felt a sudden jerk and most of the passengers tumbled down from the upper berths. Moments later, came a second jerk and by that time all passengers were on the floor. Immediately after, came the third jerk and everything was finished,” Mishra said.Train driver Pradip Kumar had something similar to say. “All the signals including the home signal, starter and advanced were showing green. The train was given the go-ahead by the station master of the approaching station and we were moving ahead. But as we approached the advanced signal I felt a sudden jerk. It was a massive jerk and the engine started swaying,” said Kumar.He applied the emergency brakes and the train came to a grinding halt. As he looked out of the window, he said he saw a cloud of dust. “I immediately climbed down and went to the rear end [of the train]. I didn’t have to go too far. The compartments were lying derailed and crumpled on top of one another like matchboxes,” he recalled.Siddharth had boarded the train at New Jalpaiguri. “All coaches after the one in which I was derailed around 5 pm... saw many dying in front of my eyes,” he said. He boarded a special train arranged by the railways and reached Guwahati on Friday morning.Krishna Das, a resident of Uttar Maumamari under Maynaguri police station, was out buying vegetables when he heard a big bang. “I saw train coaches derailing and coach S5 riding on S6. I rushed to the accident site and rescued four people. One of them died while I was still holding him,” he recalled.
15-01-2022||India||Toll at 9, Vaishnaw hints at mechanical failure as cause||The toll in the Bikaner-Guwahati Express train accident in West Bengal’s Jalpaiguri rose to nine on Friday, with Union minister Ashwini Vaishnaw saying that a mechanical failure in the locomotive appeared to have caused the accident.“Preliminary probe suggested that the issue was with the locomotive’s equipment and not with speed restrictions or tracks. There will be marks on the equipment. Only after dismantling it and studying those marks, the actual reason behind the accident can be ascertained,” Vaishnaw, who inspected the accident site, told reporters. “The root cause (behind the accident) will soon come out. An inquiry into the unfortunate incident is underway. We pray for the departed souls and wish for a speedy recovery of the injured. Talks are on with the families regarding the distribution of ex-gratia,” he added. Five people were killed and at least 36 were injured after 12 coaches of the Guwahati-Bikaner Express derailed on Thursday evening. Four more bodies were recovered hours later. While 23 passengers were undergoing treatment at a super specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri, six were admitted at the North Bengal Medical College and seven at Maynaguri Rural Hospital, a spokesperson of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) said.The condition of at least 10 passengers is said to be critical.“The fault could have been anywhere, from the train’s traction motor to the tracks. It will be ascertained only after a proper enquiry. An enquiry by the commissioner of railway safety is underway,” a senior railway official said, seeking anonymity. The train was bound for Guwahati and the accident took place in Maynaguri region around 5 pm, the NFR had earlier said in a statement, adding that 1,053 passengers were on board at the time.Recounting the incident, Pradip Kumar, the driver, said: “All the signals including the home signal, starter and advanced were showing green. The train was given a go ahead by the station master of the approaching station and we were moving ahead. But as we approached the advanced signal, I felt a sudden jerk. It was a massive jerk and the engine started swaying.” Besides Vaishnaw, Rajasthan power minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati and disaster management and relief minister Govind Ram Meghwal arrived in north Bengal and visited some of the injured passengers in Siliguri.Senior railway officials said while rescue operations were completed by the early hours of Friday, the restoration work by removing the derailed compartments and repairing the tracks were underway. As many as 10 trains, mostly intercity and DEMU (local) trains were cancelled along the affected route on Friday while a couple of others were short terminated or short originated. The routes of 10 other long-distance trains were diverted, the railways said. “Special trains and buses were arranged so that the remaining passengers could reach their destinations,” Moumita Godara Basu, Jalpaiguri district magistrate said. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MP and Bharatiya Janata Party leader demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-in-bengal-train-tragedy-reaches-9-vaishnaw-hints-at-mechanical-failure-as-cause-101642183210948.html
15-01-2022||India||Play, Pay, News: Why Google’s services are on CCI radar||Google is very much in the regulatory crosshairs, in India. The Competition Commission of India (CCI), the antitrust regulator’s recent order for a probe into the Google News platform practices, is the fifth such investigation opened into the tech behemoth’s practices in the country.Under scrutiny are products, services and policies, such as how the company allows purchases on its Play Store, its efforts to promote Google Pay, its licensing deals for Android TV and the perceived dominance of Android, which is seen to have restricted competition as well as choice for users. CCI has already fined Google ₹135.86 crore in 2018 for bias in Search results, a space where the tech giant is the leader globally.The news problemThe latest investigation is on how Google runs News, an aggregation service deeply embedded within Google Discover and Google Search platforms on phones and PCs.The Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA), which includes the digital arms of India’s biggest media houses (including Hindustan Times), has raised concerns regarding the opaqueness of the algorithms that determine which news website gets more visitors (that result in clicks) from search results and has questioned unilateral decisions on revenue sharing with publishers, whose snippets are often used in News and Search to enrich results.“As DNPA, we are very grateful to CCI that they have taken up the matter and we are confident that the justice will be served,” Sujata Gupta, secretary general, DNPA said. Google India did not respond to requests for comment.The probe order clarifies that Google is potentially violating provisions of Section 4 of the Competition Act, 2002. “The allegations of the Informant, when seen in this vertically integrated ecosystem operated by Google, makes it prima facie appear that news publishers have no choice but to accept the terms and conditions imposed by Google,” said the CCI in the order. In a way, Google is the gateway between publishers and readers.Google News globally rivals aggregator platforms, such as Microsoft Start (this replaces Microsoft News) and Apple News. But neither has the advantage of being integrated in a platform as large as Google Search, though Microsoft is changing that with the optional taskbar integration for the news feed app in Windows 11.“A reading of CCI’s prima facie order against Google and Alphabet Inc. shows that there is adequate incriminating information and evidence demonstrating Google’s monopoly and abuse of dominance in the relevant market, that is online web search services and online search advertising services,” said Abhishek Malhotra, managing partner at TMT Law Practice.Revenue loss is a concern for news publishers. “The Informant alleges that Google is the major stakeholder in the digital advertising space, and it unilaterally decides the amount to be paid to the publishers for the content created by them,” the probe order notes.“Intervention through competition law or regulation is the right way to bring fairness and ensure viability of the news industry which is the fifth pillar of democracy,” said Vikas Kathuria, associate professor, School of Law and head, Centre on Law, Regulation & Technology, BML Munjal University.In many countries, Google has been under the scanner for how it negotiates with news publishers. The company was fined $592 million in France in July 2021 for breaches in negotiating payment terms with publishers for reusing content.Google has since made some proposals to the French authorities, such as “negotiate in good faith” with publishers and no impact on ranking for protected content, and five-year revenue agreements.In 2020, the Australian government first mooted the News Media Bargaining Code to ensure platforms such as Google and Facebook have content deals with news publishers. In 2021, ahead of a law being passed by Australia, Google scrambled to sign deals with major publishers.“It will ensure that news media businesses are fairly remunerated for the content they generate. Freedom of Media is a mandate as per Article 19 of the Indian Constitution. Bringing Google within the framework of Indian Law will ensure the Right of Life of crores of developers and users in India,” said Virag Gupta, a lawyer and Cyber Law expert.Google Play’s restrictionsThe tech giant is also being investigated for Play Store policies. The new Google Play billing system, which developers must mandatorily integrate in all apps and games they publish on the Play Store for Android, will be the sole route for in-app purchases. Be it one-time purchases or subscriptions. Google takes a cut from each transaction.“By forcing their choice of payment system on app owners and by denying the app owners their choice of payment provider, Google is indulging in anti-competitive behaviour by abusing their market,” said Sijo Kuruvilla George, executive director of Alliance of Digital India Foundation (ADIF).There are serious numbers at play here. Android has around 95.24% market share in India, according to latest numbers by research firm StatCounter. Apple’s iOS for iPhone follows as a distant second, with 3.76% share. Google Play Store is the official platform for downloading apps and games on Android devices. The Play billing system gives advantage to Google Pay, the company’s own digital payments platform.Google has insisted that a very small number of developers will be impacted by the changes. “Irrespective of how many app owners it affects, this practice is in violation of competition laws,” added George.Last year, Google slashed commission fee from 30% to 15%, for some transactions, such as subscriptions.In Korea, Google is now providing alternative payment systems for Play Store developers to choose from. A new law banned app platforms from monopolising payment methods, which has forced tech giants including Google, to widen the options available to developers. The Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) has already imposed a fine of $176.64 million on Google in September for antitrust practices.Advantage Google Pay?CCI has been scanning Google’s policies for perceived privilege given to payment app Google Pay, including being preloaded on Android phones being sold in India. Google Pay was earlier called Google Tez. The contention is that Google Pay’s rivals, which include PhonePe, Paytm, Amazon Pay and WhatsApp Pay, do not have the same privilege.The market is massive. Some of the most popular phones in India run Android.“A similar case in Europe was that of Internet explorer being preloaded on Microsoft Windows computers, thereby affecting the market of other browsers. Microsoft was forced to give an option to users to select the browser. Bundling of Google Pay on Android phones could be a similar case affecting competitors in the space,” says Prasanth Sugathan, legal director, Software Freedom Law Center (SFLC.in).George said the amount of user data Google already holds, when topped up with financial data of users, could serve to extend its dominance and monopoly.Android monopoly, a global problemSmartphone operating system Android is also under the scanner, for highlighting Google’s own apps. In a not-so-surprising twist, CCI said in September 2021 that it found Google guilty of anti-competitive behaviour and restrictive trade practices around Android and the phone market.Google Pay isn’t the only app that gets prime preloading privilege on Android phones. Ten apps, including Gmail, Chrome, Maps, Photos and Search, must be mandatorily preloaded on Android phones if the phone maker wishes to integrate Google Mobile Services (GMS) in the Android they use.If they don’t, they can only get access to a barebones Android version – that isn’t really an option in the highly competitive Android phone market.This specifically isn’t an India problem.The UK Government’s Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) released a report in December, which says that Apple and Google have too much control over operating systems (iOS and Android), app stores (App Store and Play Store), and web browsers (Safari and Chrome) that together form their ‘ecosystems’. There is a concern that when people buy a phone running either platform, they are largely controlled by this ecosystem.Google is still fighting a €4.34 billion ($5 billion) fine imposed by the European Union in 2018 after being found guilty of similar anti-competitive behaviour with Android.Bias in SearchCCI imposed a penalty of ₹135.85 crore on Google in 2018, after it was found guilty of bias in search results. The findings indicate Google’s search results were tailored to favour the company’s own services and partners while also deploying advertising services to disadvantage some advertisers over others.“Existence of monopolies in the tech space is a reality and we have seen actions being taken by various regulators in Europe and the US against Microsoft, Google, Facebook, Apple and Amazon,” says Sugathan.This isn’t the first time Google has been fined. “In three antitrust cases, $9.7 billion fine has been imposed on Google by the European Commission. In the US, many states have filed a lawsuit against Google over alleged anti-competitive practices to boost its online advertising business by illegally working with social network Facebook,” Virag Gupta points out.TV agreements under lensGoogle’s agreements with smart TV manufacturers are also being investigated. In this case as well, there is the issue of Google requiring TV manufacturers to sign the Television App Distribution Agreement (TADA), and an Android Compatibility Commitment (ACC), which mandate that an entire suite of Google apps must be preloaded on TVs, including YouTube, Google Play Movies and Play Store.What to expect?It may be a while before any fines are imposed on the Android anti-trust verdict, and for the investigations in progress to be completed. There is expectation that the investigation on Play Store billing policies, will be completed within 60 days. That, and the Google News policies probe, are the two big ones.“There is a high likelihood that in both the cases, Google may be held liable for abuse of dominant position, given the extensive incriminating evidence available. Once held liable, the quantum of penalty will be imposed on the basis of Google’s turnover as per applicable provisions of the Act,” said Malhotra.CCI will be setting a marker with the verdict on Google’s Play Store practices. The antitrust regulator has already opened investigations against Apple’s App Store policies, including in-app transaction commission, not allowing competing application stores on iPhones, and approval policies for app submissions.
15-01-2022||India||16-yr-old girl found on Alwar bridge wasn’t raped or abducted: Police||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan police on Friday said that the minor girl with mental illness, who was found in a critical condition on an overbridge in Alwar on Tuesday night, was not raped or abducted but reached the Tijara Bridge on her own. The 16-year-old girl was admitted to a local hospital in critical condition and the same night, taken to a hospital in Jaipur for treatment. The girl later underwent surgery and her condition is stable now.Superintendent of Police, Alwar, Tejaswani Gautam said, “The panel of doctors submitted a report to the police in which they have said that injuries are not suggestive of any penetrative assault... So far, facts and technical information of medical experts suggest that there is no possibility of rape in the case.” Gautam also said the police have traced the route taken by the girl from her village to the city. “We found that the driver and the auto she travelled in along with 8-10 other passengers. The forensic science team searched the auto and found nothing suspicious. We have also questioned the driver. Now the passengers in the auto will be questioned. The girl travelled around 25 km from village and reached Alwar City in the auto. From there, she walked towards the bridge,” she said.The medical report of the girl has not come yet and several police teams are investigating the case, she said.Police said that after scanning footage of over 250 CCTV cameras it was found that the girl visited many areas of the city and in one video, was seen sitting on the footpath. “In one of the videos, she is seen walking towards the bridge but there is no camera on the bridge where she was found in distressed condition,” she said.Police said apart from the CCTV footage and from the statement of the auto driver and other people of the area, they have not found anything suspicious. “Now the investigation is happening to find what happened around the bridge,” another police officer said.Child psychologist and experts in dealing with specially-abled persons also interacted with the minor to get any information related to what happened with her. But she didn’t respond as she was in pain. The police are now preparing a questionnaire which will be asked through the experts.The Rajasthan State Human Rights Commission has already taken suo-moto cognizance of the case and sought reports from the Alwar district administration and Jaipur’s JK Lone Hospital for a report. The Alwar superintendent of police has been told to submit a factual report by January 18 and arrest the culprits involved in the crime.
15-01-2022||India||Normal train operations resume at West Bengal train accident site after two days||Train movement has regained normalcy at the site in West Bengal's Alipurduar district where the Bikaner-Guwahati Express derailed two days before, Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) chief public relations officer Guneet Kaur said on Saturday.She added that train operations resumed at 12am on Saturday after the track was certified for movement at 20kmph. The first goods train passed the section at 2.05am while the first passenger one, an Assam-bound Rajdhani Express (Dibrugarh-New Delhi Rajdhani Express), crossed the track at 11.53am earlier in the day.Also Read | ‘A massive jerk, followed by two more’: Survivors recount Bengal train tragedyKaur said that restoration work of the affected railway section commenced soon after the rescue and relief operations were completed. The process was overseen by senior NFR officials and other departments, including telecom and signal.The accident happened on January 13 after at least 12 coaches of the Bikaner-Guwahati Express derailed in the Alipurduar section of the NFR between New Domohani and New Maynaguri stations in Bengal. At least nine were killed while 36 others left injured after the accident. The train started in Bikaner in Rajasthan on Wednesday night and was supposed to reach Guwahati in Assam on Friday morning. The accident occurred at 5pm in Bengal on Thursday.A total of 10 trains, primarily intercity and DEMU (local) trains, were cancelled along the affected section on Friday while a few were either short terminated or short originated, Railways said. Meanwhile, the routes of 10 additional long-distance trains were diverted.Union railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who visited the accident site on Friday, said that as per preliminary probe, the derailment took place due to a glitch in the "locomotive equipment.""The root cause (behind the accident) will soon come out. An inquiry into the unfortunate incident is underway," he added.The Railways has announced ex gratia of ₹5 lakh for the family of the deceased in the accident, while ₹1 lakh for those who suffered injuries. Those who sustained non-serious injuries in the accident will receive ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-train-operations-resume-at-west-bengal-train-accident-site-after-two-days-101642250254996.html
15-01-2022||India||Villagers clash with police at steel plant site in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur||Bhubaneswar: Around two dozen villagers including women and teenagers protesting the proposed steel plant by JSW Steel at Dhinkia village of Jagatsinghpur district were injured after police resorted to lathi charge to disperse them.Police said Debendra Swain, a former member of the panchayat samiti spearheading the protest against the project, was arrested along with two others as he led a group of armed miscreants to attack the police and government officials.Jagatsinghpur SP Akhileswar Singh said police had to act as the villagers started throwing urine on them and some even attacked the police with razors. “We had to do mild lathi charge to disperse the villagers. At least 7 policemen have been injured in the scuffle,” said Singh.#WATCH | Jagatsinghpur, Odisha | Police baton-charged people in the Dhinkia village who were allegedly protesting over the proposed steel plant site in the district, today pic.twitter.com/fPQGBRMgDmAs many as 15 platoons (450 personnel) of police were deployed in Dhinkia area in view of the prevailing situation, news agency PTI said, quoting a local official said.Prashant Paikray, spokesperson of the Jindal Pratirodh Bheetamati Suraksha Samiti, the organisation protesting the steel plant in the area, alleged police personnel assaulted people when they tried to stop the cops from entering the village to demolish the betel vine plantations.Erasama Tehsildar PN Das, said the villagers had given consent to acquire their betel vines following which the administration demolished them.There is no illegality, he claimed, according to PTI.“When the villagers tried to stop the police from entering Dhinkia, police charged them with batons sparing none, not even women and children. Many villagers have received serious injuries,” said Paikray.The villagers alleged that the demolition drive was arbitrary and designed to expedite land acquisition for the JSW project. “I joined the protest against the demolition drive of our betel vine. But police beat us up mercilessly,” alleged an old woman.In 2017, JSW Utkal Steel Limited, led by industrialist Sajjan Jindal, proposed to set up a 13.2 million tonnes per annum integrated steel plant at the same site that was initially allocated to Korean steel major Posco more than a decade ago. The Korean company, which signed a pact with Odisha government, dropped out in 2017.The new steel plant by JSW in Jagatsighpur is expected to be connected with the company’s proposed 30 MTPA iron-ore grinding plant in Keonjhar district via a 312 km-long slurry pipeline.A 52 MTPA captive jetty located near the mouth of Jatadhar river will also cater to the import and export requirements of the company. But ever since the company signed up for setting the steel plant, it is facing similar protests in Dhinkia who say they did not want the project.Earlier on December 20 last year, tension prevailed in the village following a violent face-off between the villagers and the police. The villagers opposed the administration’s move to demarcate the boundary of the village which forms part of the project site of JSW. Since January 1, an uneasy calm prevailed in the area as the people of Dhinkia installed bamboo gates at the entrance of the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-clash-with-police-at-steel-plant-site-in-odisha-s-jagatsinghpur-101642218972260.html
