16-01-2022||India||NIA arrests absconding trafficker in West Bengal fake currency notes case||Malda: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested an absconding person who was allegedly involved in a case of smuggling fake Indian currency notes from Bangladesh, an official said on Sunday.In a joint operation with the BSF, the NIA arrested Aladu from his native place in West Bengal’s Malda.The case was registered in September 2019 by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) unit in Malda following the seizure of high-quality fake Indian currency notes (FICNs), with a face value ₹1,99,000, from an accused, an official of the investigation agency said.Subsequently, the NIA re-registered the case and took up the probe in October 2019.Earlier, the NIA had filed a charge-sheet against four accused, including Aladu, who was absconding since 2019, for his role in the FICN trafficking, the official said.He had been involved in the procurement of fake notes from his Bangladeshi associates and circulating the same in India, the NIA official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-absconding-trafficker-in-west-bengal-fake-currency-notes-case-101642357231090.html
16-01-2022||India||Woman tortured with cigarettes, raped in Madhya Pradesh, husband among 5 arrested||Indore: A 32-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and tortured by her husband and four of his friends in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore district, police said on Sunday, adding that five accused were arrested.The woman claimed that she was brutalised by her husband and others who performed unnatural sex and also singed her private parts with cigarettes. They also threatened to kill her when she resisted the sexual assault, an official said quoting the FIR.The alleged gang-rape occurred at a farmhouse under the Shipra police station area of Indore between November 2019 and October 2021, the official said.He said the woman, hailing from Chhattisgarh, got married to an Indore-based man after meeting him on a matrimonial site. However, the man is already married, the police sub-inspector said.The complainant told the police that she somehow escaped from the farmhouse and travelled to her parent’s home in Chhattisgarh. But one of the accused men followed her there intending to harm her, the official added.Five men, including the victim’s husband, were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and were arrested from various areas of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, he said, adding that further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-tortured-with-cigarettes-raped-in-madhya-pradesh-husband-among-5-arrested-101642357051509.html
16-01-2022||India||Odisha para-athlete covers 213 km in 24 hours on manual wheelchair||BHUBANESWAR: A 28-year-old para-athlete from Odisha on Sunday claimed to have broken the existing world record in covering the maximum distance in a manual wheelchair after rolling 213 km on a cycle track in a span of 24 hours. Kamalakanta Nayak of Puri district who started pushing his wheelchair at 4.30 pm on Saturday, completed 575 laps between two busy traffic squares in Bhubaneswar by 4.30 pm on Sunday covering 213 km as video cameras, GPS trackers and mobile phones recorded his feat. Except taking a break of 2 hours for hydrating, physiotherapy sessions, attending nature’s call and taking food and water, Nayak did not stop for a single moment between Rajmahal square and Master Canteen square – approximately 570 metre — for the entire duration. “The previous record was held by Portugal’s Mario Trinidad who covered 182.4 km in a manual wheelchair in a span of 24 hours. Nayak broke Trinidad’s record in 20 hours. We have sent all the evidence including video records of last 24 hours, GPS data and report of independent witnesses to the Guinness Book of World Records for final validation. We had independent witnesses coming for 4 hours each from ICAI, Kalinga Runners Group. They basically timed every lap that Kamal achieved. Once Guinness Book approves the evidence, Nayak would become the world record holder,” said Siddharth Daga, his mobility partner. After achieving the record, Nayak said: “Nothing is impossible in life. I am thankful to my sister and mentors who motivated me to overcome the physical barriers. I have been practicing for the last six years to achieve this and was confident of covering the distance in a record time.” Nayak, who suffered a spinal cord injury that rendered him paralysed waist down, is the only Indian who has completed a wheelchair ultra-marathon of 139.57 km in 15 hours. He has so far completed 16 half-marathons and 13 full marathons. He is the captain of the Odisha Wheelchair Basketball Team. He is also a champion in Peer Mentoring Paralysed Spinal Cord Injury Person across the country changing the lives of about 500 persons with spinal cord injury. Founder of Odisha Wheelchair Association Durga Prasad Patnaik who helped Nayak, said they have been planning to hold the event for the last 15-20 days. “We started playing to become independent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-para-athlete-covers-213-km-in-24-hours-on-manual-wheelchair-101642355551062.html
16-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave: What are the projections for other states as Delhi, Mumbai cases dip?||Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata on Sunday continued the declining trend of the Covid-19 cases following what experts have been saying that metro cities would see a quick rise and fall of the ongoing wave of the pandemic. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said the fall in the numbers indicates a plateau though there has been a decrease in the number of Covid tests too, as the positivity rate is also declining.According to the latest projection of the Cambridge tracker updated on January 13, in the later part of January, cases will rise in other states.Here are 5 things you need to know about the third wave in India1. Cambridge tracker has projected that Bihar, Chandigarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal are likely to see their maximum daily cases in the ongoing third week.2. Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are likely to peak in the fourth week of January.3. Apart from the projections, the local administrations of some districts have also said they are apprehending a peak. For example, the Indore administration is apprehending a peak in the last week of January or in the first week of February, seeing the progression of the cases.4. Pune district administration has recently said that Pune is at least three weeks behind Mumbai in terms of the pace of infection. Hence, the Pune administration too is apprehending a peak by the last week of January.5. As far as the R-value is concerned, it has come down in the week between January 7 and 13, IIT Madras analysis said. It has also been found that in the first week of January, the R-value reached beyond 4.On Sunday, Delhi reported 18,286 Covid cases and 28 deaths and the positivity rate dropped from 38.64% to 27.87%. Mumbai's daily tally fell below 10,000 as the city reported 7,895 cases. Kolkata's 24-hour tally was 3,893. Bengaluru Urban district saw 21,071 infections and five deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-what-are-the-projections-for-other-states-as-delhi-mumbai-cases-dip-101642353204116.html
16-01-2022||India||Former SBI employee arrested for stealing gold from bank locker||BHUBANESWAR: A former contractual employee of State Bank of India (SBI) in Odisha’s Koraput district was arrested after he stole around 1.6 kg of gold jewelries from the bank locker after hiding himself in a corner, police said on Sunday. Shekhar Kuldipiya, who worked as a messenger of SBI’s Laxmipur branch in Koraput district between 2014 and August 2020 was arrested on charges of stealing around 1.6 kg of mortgaged gold ornaments kept in the locker room in November last year. Koraput SP Varun Guntupalli said Kuldipiya entered the bank on November 30 afternoon on the pretext of some work. “He then hid himself in the computer server room of the bank. Unaware of Kuldipiya’s presence in the bank’s room, the bank employees locked the gates at 8 PM after banking hours. At night, Kuldipiya came out of the hideout and went to the branch manager’s room to get the strong room and locker keys. He then took away the gold jewelry kept in 21 packets in the strong room and locker, and hid inside the bank’s toilet. He managed to sneak out after the bank opened for regular transactions at around 10 am the next day,” said the SP. Though the theft of the gold ornaments occurred in November, the bank’s manager became aware of the theft this month following which he lodged a formal complaint on January 14. When the police examined the footage of CCTVs installed at the branch, they saw Kuldipiya stealing the gold jewelry from the bank. “As he worked as a messenger for 6 years, he was well aware of the bank’s functions and timings. Due to Kuldipiya’s involvement in irregularities, the bank had earlier disengaged him,” the SP said. Apart from the stolen gold ornaments, police have also seized ₹2.95 lakh cash and household articles worth over ₹1 lakh. The police are probing why the siren and safety alarms of the bank did not blow when the heist happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-sbi-employee-arrested-for-stealing-gold-from-bank-locker-101642353150717.html
16-01-2022||India||Sena-NCP to contest election without Congress in Goa as seat-sharing talks fail||MUMBAI: After the collapse of seat-sharing talks with the Congress for the Goa assembly elections, the Shiv Sena is girding its loins to contest the polls in alliance with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The two parties are likely to formalise their alliance for the coastal state on January 19, and the Sena may contest 15 seats. “The NCP and Shiv Sena are in an alliance in Maharashtra and the Congress is also with us. But in Goa, they seem to have some issues with seat sharing. Our talks were going on well, but this (alliance) could not happen. The NCP’s talks with them too have been unfruitful. But this does not mean we will not contest the elections,” said Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut. Earlier, the Shiv Sena was eager to replicate a Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA)-like experiment in Goa with the Congress and the NCP to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Jitesh Kamat, Shiv Sena state unit chief, Goa, said their talks with the Congress hit a roadblock over the seats to be shared. “The Congress was offering seats like Priol, Porvorim, Pernem, and Sanvordem, while we were eager to contest from Mapusa and Siolim, where our workers have been active for the past five years,” he explained. Hs said the tie-up with the NCP was likely to be announced on January 19. The Sena is likely to contest 15 seats, mostly in North Goa, which borders Maharashtra. He charged that the politics of Goa revolved around 10 to 12 individuals, who were corrupt, often jumped ship from one party to another and had links with the land and drugs mafias. The BJP recently inducted those with links to the drugs mafia, added Raut. “We want that the voters of Goa must elect the common people who contest the elections. We will put up candidates from among the people,” he stated, adding that the late Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray similarly gave leadership opportunities to those from the masses. Raut also took a swipe at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for conducting door-to-door campaigns for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Goa, while Covid-19 cases in his state were rising. Despite Goa bordering Maharashtra and the cultural and historic links between the two states, the Shiv Sena has not been able to secure a political opening in the coastal state. In 2017, the Sena fought the assembly elections in an alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and the Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM), floated by veteran Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) hand Subhash Velingkar, but was severely drubbed in all the three seats that it fought from. The only face-saver for the alliance was the victory of the MGP, which has an organic base in the Hindus, on three seats, though the party supported the BJP soon after. The Sena’s foray in the 2012 Goa assembly elections also came a cropper. Political analyst Hemant Desai noted that the Shiv Sena and the NCP had little presence on the ground in Goa, and the NCP’s lone MLA and Benaulim strongman Churchill Alemao shifted to the Trinamool Congress. The Shiv Sena made little attempts to create an organic base in Goa unlike the AAP. The political developments in Goa are less likely to impact the fate of the MVA in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senancp-to-contest-election-without-congress-in-goa-as-seat-sharing-talks-fail-101642348050159.html
16-01-2022||India||News updates HT: Mumbai revises Covid-19 rule for passengers from Dubai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has withdrawn the additional restrictions that it mandated for passengers flying to the city from the United Arab Emirates, including Dubai. The new rules will be applicable from January 17, the civic body said. In its earlier order, the civic body had mandated compulsory 7-day quarantine and RT-PCR test on arrival for passengers arriving from the UAE. Read MorePunjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's brother Manohar Singh has said he will be contesting as an independent from Bassi Pathana assembly seat where he was expecting to get a ticket from the Congress. The party has fielded MLA Gurpreet Singh GP from the seat. Calling the party's decision as ‘injustice’ Manohar Singh Channi said it is also an injustice to the people of the constituency. Read MoreMumbai's daily caseload fell below 10,000 on Sunday as 7,895 fresh Covid infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, continuing the downward trend, which is also kindling hopes that the pandemic has plateaued in the city. 84% of the new cases are asymptomatic while 11 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. A total of 57,534 tests were conducted. The recovery rate stands at 92% and the doubling rate of the infection in Mumbai is 48 days. Read MoreReligious leader Yati Narsinghanand was on Sunday sent to 14-day judicial custody by a Haridwar court in connection with the ‘Dharma Sansad’ hate speech case. Narsinghanand, who was the organiser of the controversial event, was arrested by the Haridwar Police last night; this was the second arrest made in the case after Waseem Rizvi, former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Central Shia Waqf board. Read MoreThe hostage situation at a synagogue in Texas was resolved on Saturday night with the release of four hostages and the death of the hostage-taker, but the demand of the suspect has raised brought back global jihad on the agenda. Read MoreIndia's Lakshya Sen produced a magnificent effort to beat world champion Loh Kean Yew of Singapore 24-22 21-17 in the final of men's singles at the Indian Open. This is Sen's first BWF World Tour Super 500 title and third overall. Read MoreAmid Omicron spread, a cup of hot tulsi tea could not only give your day a refreshing start but also boost your immunity and help you ward off Covid-19 risk. Tulsi or holy basil, also known as the queen of herbs is grown and worshipped in many Indian houses. Read MoreLet's face it. The Hotel Transylvannia series was never Shrek or Ice Age. It had half-decent films, propped up by some amazing inventive animation and direction from a master - Genndy Tartakovsky. The star power of Adam Sandler helped as well. The fourth and final instalment of the series - Hotel Transylvania: Transformania - lacks both of these. And that, along with some unimaginative writing, makes the film the worst chapter of an already mediocre franchise. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-ht-mumbai-revises-covid-19-rule-for-passengers-from-dubai-101642345309064.html
16-01-2022||India||'Why insult an officer': Priyanka Chaturvedi, Himanta Biswa Sarma fight it out on Twitter||Reacting to Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma's public act of schooling a government official, the video of which surfaced on social media, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said the chief minister should share clear instruction before "choosing to insult an officer who was doing his job".The job here was to clear Himanta Biswa Sarma's convoy by halting the traffic on National Highway 37. The chief minister called deputy commissioner Nagaon and gave him an earful for stopping the traffic for him. "Arrey DC sahab yeh kya natak hain. Kyun gadi ruka hain? Koi raja, maharaja aaraha hain kya? (What is this drama? Why are the cars held up in traffic? Is any king coming for a visit?)," he asked the deputy commissioner.Watch how Himanta Sarma got off his car to clear traffic jam; scolded officer The chief minister was quoted as saying that there was a clear direction to not create inconvenience for people during his visit. "For over 15 minutes, National Highway was blocked including ambulances. This VIP culture is not acceptable in today's Assam," Sarma said. I think everyone in the country would want VIP culture to end- but does not happen by recording videos of publicly humiliating an ‘over active’ bureaucrat who has earned his rank to be there, was my limited pointAlso, ref Protocol: (1/2) https://t.co/BHoprkK0tR"DC Nagaon, Sh Nisarg Hivare, was just following the protocol duty. If the CM wants to give up his protocol, rather than being disrespectful to the DC, he can issue a notification for new norms. This seems a publicity exercise, to achieve that by humiliating an officer is condemnable," Priyanka tweeted.As Sena MP implied that the public humiliation of a government official was uncalled for and the show was a publicity exercise, Himanta told her that halting traffic on National Highway is not the standard practice. It was the "over-activism" of the Police, which needs to be stopped. "If we are trying that in Assam, you should bless us, not criticise," Sarma wrote.To this, Priyanka Chaturvedi cited the VIP security rules of the home ministry and said that changing the VIP culture, which everyone in the country would want, does not happen by recording videos of publicly humiliating a bureaucrat.“For a minute if one was to pause and think, if these words to humiliate a DC were used by a non-BJP Chief Minister, there would be an explosion of TV debates asking CM to step down. But he’s from BJP, toh jo bhi kiya acche ke liye hi kiya hoga," Priyanka added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-insult-an-officer-priyanka-chaturvedi-himanta-biswa-sarma-fight-it-out-on-twitter-101642343190451.html
16-01-2022||India||Tripura students’ body calls for strike on Monday over assault by traffic police||AGARTALA: The Twipra Students Federation (TSF), an indigenous students’ organisation of Tripura announced that it will hold a 12-hour strike across the state on Monday protesting against the reported assault on two varsity students by a Traffic police three days back, after their two-wheeler broke down on the road through which chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s convoy was supposed to pass. The strike will be held from 5 am to 5 pm. Two students, Angel Reang and Abhijit Debbarma were allegedly beaten up by a traffic policeman after their two-wheeler broke down at Circuit House in Agartala on January 13. “The matter is very serious. This is violation of the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Though the students filed complaint in the police station, the case is not registered yet. We called for the 12-hours strike demanding action against the traffic police, “ chairperson of TSF advisory board Upendra Debbarma told reporters while announcing the strike in Agartala. Debbarma is also joint secretary of North East Students Organization (NESO). TSF general secretary John Debbarma said, “ We request people from all sections of the society to cooperate during the strike.” Soon after the incident, different students’ organisations including the National Students Union of India (NSUI) and Left students’ bodies protested against the incident and demanded prompt action against the traffic police. Police registered a case based on the complaint filed by Traffic Police unit against the two students under Section 253 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Later, they started an inquiry into the incident under the supervision of deputy superintendent of police (Traffic) Koyal Debbarma. The traffic constable, accused of assaulting the students, was removed from field duties till completion of the inquiry. Tribal Welfare minister Mewar Kumar Jamatia condemned the incident and stressed on the inquiry into the matter. He didn’t comment on the strike called by the student body. Jamatia is also general secretary of the BJP’s ally Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT). BJP spokesperson Prabir Chakraborty said, “The government has already ordered for a probe into the matter. After inquiry, everything will be clear. This bandh has no logic and I appeal people not to support the bandh. I also appeal to the TSF to lift away their bandh till the inquiry report comes in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-students-body-calls-for-strike-on-monday-over-assault-by-traffic-police-101642343371331.html
16-01-2022||India||Less than 10,000 cases recorded in Mumbai; 7,895 infections in 24 hours||Mumbai's daily caseload fell below 10,000 on Sunday as 7,895 fresh Covid infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, continuing the downward trend, which is also kindling hopes that the pandemic has plateaued in the city.  84% of the new cases are asymptomatic while 11 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. A total of 57,534 tests were conducted. The recovery rate stands at 92% and the doubling rate of the infection in Mumbai is 48 days.As the cases are dropping, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has withdrawn the additional restrictions that it mandated for passengers flying to the city from the United Arab Emirates, including Dubai. "No special SOP henceforth will be applicable for passengers coming from UAE, including Dubai. Guidelines applicable to international travellers arriving from countries other than countries at-risk will be made applicable to travellers arriving from UAE," the notice issued on Sunday said.Maharashtra on Sunday reported 41,327 fresh cases and 29 deaths. On Saturday, the state reported 42,462 cases and 23 deaths.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said the state government will be considering reopening schools after the next 10-15 days if the declining trend continues. "Demands are rising from certain quarters for reopening of schools as children are suffering the education loss. We will consider it after 10-15 days as there is a low (rate of) infection among children. The chief minister will take the final call in this regard," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-10-000-cases-recorded-in-mumbai-7-895-infections-recorded-in-24-hrs-101642340930670.html
16-01-2022||India||Dharma Sansad case: Religious leader Yati Narsinghanand sent to 14-day judicial custody||Religious leader Yati Narsinghanand was on Sunday sent to 14-day judicial custody by a Haridwar court in connection with the ‘Dharma Sansad’ hate speech case. Narsinghanand, who was the organiser of the controversial event, was arrested by the Haridwar Police last night; this was the second arrest made in the case after Waseem Rizvi, former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Central Shia Waqf board.The religious leaders had apparently called for genocide and the use of arms against Muslims while speaking at the ‘Dharm Sansad’ event in Haridwar from December 17 to 19, 2021.Subsequently, an FIR was registered against Yati Narsinghanand and Wasim Rizvi alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, along with many others, including another Hindu seer named Sagar Sindhu Maharaj, in the hate speech case.According to the PTI news agency, Narsinghanand, the head priest of the Dasna temple in Ghaziabad, has been booked under Sections 295 (A) and 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sent to Roshnabad Jail.Section 295 (A) deals with deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs while section 509 deals with the word, gesture, or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman.Rakinder Singh Kathait, station house officer (SHO) of the jail, told PTI that Yati Narsinghanand was picked up on Saturday night from Sarvanand Ghat of the Ganga, where he was staging a ‘satyagraha’ against the arrest of another accused in the case – Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, earlier known as Waseem Rizvi.Tyagi is already in jail, Kathait said. Many of the other speakers at the ‘Dharma Sansad’ are accused of delivering hate speeches.Two FIRs have been lodged in Haridwar against more than ten people, including Narasinghanand and Tyagi, in this regard. Meanwhile, a special investigation team is probing the case, the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharma-sansad-case-religious-leader-yati-narsinghanand-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-101642339953164.html
16-01-2022||India||Karnataka announces seed funding up to ₹50 lakh each for 200 startups||To promote technological innovation in Karnataka, 200 startups will be provided with seed funding of up to ₹50 lakh each in the current year, the State Higher Education and Minister for IT/BT and Skill Development Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana said on Sunday.Addressing the occasion of the first 'National Startup Day' event observed at Vidhana Soudha, the education minister said, "The seed funding will be facilitated to additional 75 startups to achieve the tally to 200 startups in the year."In the present year, the state has so for attracted ₹1.60 lakh crores of foreign direct investment which is more than 50 per cent of the investment made in the entire country.The state is home to over 13,000 startups out of the total 57,000 in the country.In view of maintaining the leading position of the state in the sector, the stress on digital education and skill development will be focussed through effective implementation of the National Education Policy of India (NEP) 2020, he explained.Narayana pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the role of startups will be crucial in India becoming "Vishwaguru and super power".Going forward along the lines of the Prime Minister's thought, the growth of hardware will also be facilitated together with software in the state, the minister said.Under Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) policy, ₹5,000 crores will be given as subsidy, and out of this ₹2,000 crores has already been given in the first year, Narayana said.The Union government has observed the 'Startup India Innovation Week' from Jan 10-16 and announced national awards for the Startups for their innovative product development.Out of the 56 startups awarded, 14 from the state have bagged the same to put the state on top in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-announces-seed-funding-up-to-rs-50-lakh-each-for-200-startups-101642338144901.html
16-01-2022||India||Mumbai revises SOP for people travelling from Dubai as Covid cases drop||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has withdrawn the additional restrictions that it mandated for passengers flying to the city from the United Arab Emirates, including Dubai. The new rules will be applicable from January 17, the civic body said. In its earlier order, the civic body had mandated compulsory 7-day quarantine and RT-PCR test on arrival for passengers arriving from the UAE. "No special SOP henceforth will be applicable for passengers coming from UAE, including Dubai. Guidelines applicable to international travellers arriving from countries other than countries at-risk will be made applicable to travellers arriving from UAE," the notice said.However, according to the latest guidelines issued by the civil aviation ministry, which came into effect from January 11, all international travellers have to undergo a seven-day home quarantine.The daily cases of Mumbai reached the peak of over 20,000 in January and since then, cases have been coming down. On Sunday, Mumbai reported 7,895 infections. The decision to remove the additional surveillance on people coming from Dubai was taken in a virtual meeting of the civic officials where it was discussed that Mumbai seems to have reached its peak of the third wave.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said the state government will be considering reopening schools after the next 10-15 days if the declining trend continues. "Demands are rising from certain quarters for reopening of schools as children are suffering the education loss. We will consider it after 10-15 days as there is a low (rate of) infection among children. The chief minister will take the final call in this regard," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-revises-sop-for-people-travelling-from-dubai-as-covid-cases-drop-101642339356112.html
16-01-2022||India||Delhi court rejects bail plea of 'Sulli Deals' app creator Aumkareshwar Thakur||A Delhi court on Sunday rejected the bail plea of Sulli Deals app creator Aumkareshwar Thakur.Metropolitan Magistrate Vasundhra Chhaunkar has dismissed the bail plea of Sulli Deals app creator Aumkareshwar Thakur.The IFSO unit of Delhi Police's Special Cell arrested the mastermind of the Sulli Deals app from Indore last week after receiving information about him from Bulli Bai app case mastermind Neeraj Bishnoi during the investigation.The Court noted that the investigation in the case is at an initial stage and the accused has been arrested after great and time-consuming efforts following the MLAT process."The accused had consciously used Top Browser to disclose his identity and various complaints have been received against the 'Sulli Deals' app throughout the country. The investigation is at a nascent stage where crucial evidence and further chain of events are yet to be conclusively unearthed," the Court observed.According to the Court, granting bail to the accused at this juncture will prejudice a fair investigation. "Therefore, in the opinion of the Court, the accused is not entitled to bail at this stage, " the court said."On the basis of above observations and reasons, bail application of accused Aumkareshwar Thakur is dismissed," the court said.In July 2021, the 'Sulli Deal' app was made on the Github platform to auction Muslim women. The matter came to light when Delhi Police took suo moto cognisance of this matter. The Delhi Police were investigating the case for the last six months but the first arrest in the case came after Bulli Bai app case mastermind Niraj Bishnoi was apprehended from Assam's Jorhat.Delhi Police, during the investigation, found out that the Bulli Bai mastermind Niraj Bishnoi and Aumkareshwar Thakur were virtually connected over the internet through chat rooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-sulli-deals-app-creator-aumkareshwar-thakur-101642337498893.html
16-01-2022||India||Possible neotectonic activity behind collapse of Konark Temple: IIT researchers||KOLKATA: The main portion of the 13th century Konark Temple in Odisha, a UNESCO World Heritage site, may possibly have collapsed due to involvement of some neotectonic activity, a team of researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur has suggested. The researchers claim that even though there are multiple speculations about how the main portion of the temple collapsed, this is for the first time that they have got some scientific evidence to suggest that tectonic movement may have led to the collapse of the temple. The massive temple dedicated to the Sun God was built by King Narasimhadeva-I of the Ganga dynasty between 1243 and 1255. It is one of the most popular tourist spots of the eastern state. The temple as seen today is actually the Jagamohana (assembly hall) of the actual temple. The main temple tower, known as Garbha Griha, which enshrined the presiding deity has collapsed and only the remains can be seen. “There are many theories and speculations about how the main temple collapsed. But none could be proved scientifically. Our study looks at this old historic problem from a geological perspective. The findings reveal that neotectonic activity may have been responsible for the collapse of the earlier temple structure,” said William Kumar Mohanty, a professor of department of geology and geophysics at IIT Kharagpur. Earlier in 2016, the same team found evidence of the extinct Chandrabhaga River near the UNESCO world heritage site. The researchers took the help of satellite images and then validated it with other field data to trace the paleochannel of the ancient river. Odisha’s coastal region is undergoing tectonic activity even today as a result of reactivation of the faults which crisscross the basement of the Mahanadi delta. The subsidence and uplift of basement blocks is responsible for morphological changes along the trajectories of the river channels flowing through the coastal region. These tectonic movements are likely to have disrupted any existing river flowing along the fault planes and may be one of the causes for the drying of many river channels, including the ancient Chandrabhaga River passing north of the Konark temple. “Low to moderate magnitude earthquakes in this region, which lies in seismic zones II and III, indicate significant slow movement on basement faults (tectonic creeps) most likely as a result of the northward movement of the Indian plate. Collapse of the Konark Sun Temple is likely linked to neotectonic activity in this region” said Saibal Gupta, professor of Department Ggeology and Ggeophysics at IIT Kharagpur. The findings have been published in Journal of Earth Science System, a peer-reviewed journal brought out by the Indian Academy of Sciences. The four-member team comprising researchers Subhamoy Jana and Prakash Kumar was led by Mohanty and Gupta. The exact date and reason for the collapse of the temple is shrouded in mystery. Even though it is difficult to ascertain how long the temple stood the test of time, there are many speculations on this. The researchers said that some theories and their drawbacks were discussed in a book titled Suryakhetra Konark by Balaram Mishra. One of the theories suggests that the structure of the temple was never completed because of the early death of King Langula Narasimha Dev. Another theory states that after the suicide of Dharmapada (son of Bisu Maharana, main engineer of the temple), the temple lost its sacredness and was subsequently abandoned by the devout, leading to the temple falling into a state of disrepair. Another common belief is that during construction of the temple, the interior and exterior of the temple was filled with sand and when the sand was removed the temple collapsed. But there are researchers, who have a different opinion and claim that had there been a tectonic movement, other temples that are contemporary to the Konark Temple would have also been affected. “The IIT team may have their own evidences but there are many other smaller temples in that area within a radius of 10 km. Take for example the Chaurasi Varahi temple and the Gangeswari temple. Both are contemporary to the Konark temple and are still intact and well preserved by the Archaeological Survey of India. Had there been a tectonic movement they all would have been affected,” said Anam Behera, assistant professor of ancient Indian history, culture and archaeology at Utkal University in Odisha. The IIT team, however, said that the two faults located within 30 km from the surface of the earth intersect close to the Konark Temple. The ancient Chandrabhaga River too used to flow close to the temple. Hence, the loose sediment deposits below the temple would amplify any slow tectonic movement around these faults, affecting only the Konark Temple. “There are indeed two faults close to the Konark Temple and tectonic movements centering around these faults might have possibly led to the collapse. The Lingaraja Temple in Bhubaneshwar and the Puri Temple were not affected because they were located far off. Tectonic movement is still going on in the area and in future even mild earthquakes may reactivate the faults which in turn could take a toll on the existing temple structure,” said Kabir Mohan Sethy, professor of geography at Utkal University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/possible-neotectonic-activity-behind-collapse-of-konark-temple-iit-researchers-101642337369067.html
16-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu shuts schools for all classes till January 31 amid Covid-19 spread||In view of the rising cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), being driven by the Omicron variant, the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday declared a holiday in schools for all classes till January 31.Further, the state government has also postponed the exams that were scheduled to be held on January 19.While a holiday has already been declared for students of classes 1 to 9, physical classes are being held in schools only for those in the 10-12 grades. However, considering the welfare of students against the background of rising virus cases, a holiday has been declared for all classes, according to a government release.“Fresh dates for the examinations would be announced later for classes 10 and 12, ” news agency PTI quoted the release as saying.On January 5, announcing fresh curbs to tackle the virus spread, the government had barred physical classes for students of classes 1 to 9 in all schools across the state and had permitted it for only those in 10-12 standards.Meanwhile, there are currently 1,31,007 active Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu. While the total deaths from the Covid-19 disease stood at 36,967, the cumulative recoveries in the state reached 27,47,974.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-shuts-schools-for-all-classes-till-january-31-amid-covid-19-spread-101642335330880.html
16-01-2022||India||Tigress Collarwalli, mother to 29, dies at the age of 16 at Pench Tiger Reserve||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh’s most popular tigress T 15, popularly known as Collarwalli, which created a record of sorts by giving birth to 29 cubs, died due to prolonged illness in Pench Tiger Reserve on Saturday in Chhindwara district, forest officials said. The 16-year-old tigress was also known as Mataram for giving birth to 29 cubs in eight litters, said Alok Mishra field director, Pench Tiger Reserve. Mishra said, “The tigress was ill for the past two days due to old age. She was last spotted on January 14 near Bhura Dev Nullah. She was lying down there and a large number of tourists spotted her. She was under observation of veterinary doctors and was unable to walk. The tigress took last breath at 6.15 PM on Saturday.” “The exact cause of death will be known after post mortem but prima facie it appears to be multi-organ failure due to old-age,” he added. “The Collarwalli was the most popular tigress among tourists and got her name because she was spotted with radio collar tied around her neck. She was born to T 7, popularly known as Badimada and T 1, known as Charger in 2005. In 2008, a team of experts from Dehradun fitted radio collar. In 2008, the tigress gave birth to three cubs but all of them died. In October 2010, she delivered five cubs at a time which increased her popularity among wildlife lovers,” said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest, (wildlife). “She lived in the wild for more than 16 years which is also a record. Her legacy is not limited to Pench as her female cub was shifted to Panna Tiger Reserve who gave birth to five cubs and contributed a lot in success of relocation project of tigers in Panna Tiger Reserve,” said Aniruddha Majumder, a scientist at the state forest research institute, Jabalpur. Majumder said he was devastated with the news. “Collarwalli was a legend,” he added. 
16-01-2022||India||Earthquake measuring 2.6 on Richter scale hits Uttarakhand’s Chamoli||DEHRADUN: Earthquake tremors measuring 2.6 on the Richter scale were felt in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday, according to National Center for Seismology website. The earthquake occurred at 3:35 am and was located 23 km west of Joshimmath and 5 km beneath the earth’s surface. National Center for Seismology (NCS) is the nodal agency under earth sciences ministry for monitoring earthquake activity in the country on 24X7 basis. Earthquakes continue to shake up the fragile Himalayas. In August 2021, earthquake tremors measuring 3.8 on the Richter scale were felt in Dehradun district. Last year on January 8, an earthquake measuring 3.3 on the Richter scale was reported in Bageshwar district. On December 1, 2020, an earthquake hit Haridwar after a gap of 40 years. The earthquake measuring 3.9 on the Richter scale was reported from the Haridwar region at 9:41 am. Experts pointed out that the source of the earthquake was due to stress release in the Himalayan Frontal Fault which is located in this area. In February 2020, Bageshwar was hit by an earthquake measuring 4.7 on Richter scale. On December 8, 2019 Joshimath area was hit by an earthquake measuring 3.2 on the Richter Scale. On November 12, 2019, an earthquake measuring 4.5 on the Richter scale was felt in Pithoragarh district. In September 2019, an earthquake measuring 3.6 on the Richter scale was reported from Chamoli district. In February 2017, a magnitude 5.1 earthquake struck at a depth of 16 km near Rudraprayag district. The Himalayas being the youngest mountain chain (around 50 million years old) in the world, which is still rising (around 5 mm per year) due to Indian plate folding under the Tibetan plate, Uttarakhand reports high seismic activity, with most areas falling under Seismic Zones IV and V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-measuring-2-6-on-richter-scale-hits-uttarakhand-s-chamoli-101642334548735.html
16-01-2022||India||Mamata writes to PM Modi over R-Day tableau rejection, says ‘profoundly shocked’||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to PM Modi urging him to reconsider the decision of excluding West Bengal's proposed tableau for the Republic Day parade. "It is even more baffling for us that the tableau was rejected without assigning any reasons or justifications," Mamata wrote adding that she was profoundly shocked and hurt by the decision.The proposed tableau was to commemorate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and his Indian National Army on his 125th birth anniversary. The tableau would have carried portraits of Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Vivekananda, Chittaranjan Das, Sri Aurobindo, Matangini Hazra, Birsa Munda, Nazrul Islam, Mamata wrote,"All the people of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the central government. Bengal was at the forefront of the Indian freedom struggle and has paid the heaviest price for the country's Independence through the partition," Mamata added.Defence Ministry rejects Kerala’s Republic Day tableau againThis is the fourth time West Bengal's tableau proposal got rejected in the past few years, In 2015, 2017 and 2020, West Bengal's tableau proposals were rejected.Before Mamata, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to defence minister Rajnath Singh over the rejection. "I am disappointed and shocked to learn that the Central Government has rejected the proposal of the State Government of West Bengal for tableau showcasing its cultural heritage and Netaji's life and contributions in our Freedom Struggle on Republic Day 2022. This is an insult to the people of West Bengal, its cultural heritage and our great hero Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose," Chowdhury wrote.The Central Government has decided to start the Republic Day celebrations every year from January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.The Centre has also rejected the Kerala government's proposed tableau on social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and the Jatayu Park monument. According to reports, the Centre wanted a tableau on Adi Sankaracharya but the government insisted on Sree Narayana Guru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-writes-to-pm-modi-over-r-day-tableau-rejection-says-profoundly-shocked-101642332142255.html
16-01-2022||India||India's Covid R-value dropped between January 7 and 13: 5 points||The latest analysis of India's Covid R-value by IIT Madras has revealed that the value dropped between January 7 and 13 in comparison with the previous weeks. R-value is a crucial parameter to track the movement of the pandemic curve. Going by the latest R-value, the pandemic situation has bettered in the second week of January, compared to the first week.R-value indicates the transmissibility of the virus. If the value is over 1, it is considered pandemic as a value above 1 means one infected person can spread the virus to more than one person. In the past week, the R-value was 2.2, which is still high as this value means 100 infected people can infect 220 people, which is more than double.Here are 5 things to know about India's present R-value and its implications:1. The R-value of Mumbai was 1.3, Delhi 2.5, Chennai 2.4 and Kolkata 1.6 in the second week of January. Researchers said the R-value was close to 4 in the first week.2. In the last week of December, the R-value was close to 2.9.3. R-value is different for different cities and it depends on transmissibility probability, contact rate and expected time interval in which infection can happen.4. For the past few days, the 24-hour Covid tally of metro cities has been moving towards stabilisation. After breaching the 20,000-mark, Mumbai's daily infection fell to 11,000 and is expected to dip below 10,000 on Sunday. Delhi health minister Satyandra Jain has also been claiming that the Covid-19 situation in the Capital is moving towards stabilisation. However, the dip in the number of daily cases could be attributed to the decrease in the number of testing. But going by the R-value, it can be said that the pandemic situation has been improving.5. The situation is different for districts, which saw the surge late.The ongoing pandemic has been driven by Omicron, the latest variant of Covid. Scientists projected a short and sharp spike of the wave which will recede fast, depending on immunity and vaccination coverage.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-r-value-dropped-between-january-7-and-13-5-points-101642331312198.html
16-01-2022||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IMD predicts severe cold in many states across country, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday predicted severe cold day conditions across multiple states of the country over the span of the next week. Read moreCongress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) politics of "hatred" is very harmful for the country and is also responsible for unemployment. Read moreVirat Kohli's decision to quit Test captaincy out of the blue has gotten everyone talking. While members of the cricketing fraternity are paying their tribute to Kohli on their respective social handles, some pundits and experts are attempting to understand the reason behind the unexpected decision. Read moreActor Anushka Sharma on Sunday shared a post for her husband, cricketer Virat Kohli, a day after he quit as the Test captain for the Indian cricket team. Taking to Instagram, Anushka also attached pictures to her note and in one of them, she was seen kissing Virat. Read moreEnough data is yet to be processed to determine how the Omicron variant is affecting the children but the recent death of seven kids in Delhi (between Jan 9-12) has put the spotlight on children with co-morbidities getting infected by the deadly virus. Read moreTata Safari is all set to become the automaker's fifth model with a Dark theme, as the homegrown automaker is ready to launch Tata Safari Dark Edition on January 17 in India. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-imd-predicts-severe-cold-in-many-states-across-country-and-all-the-latest-news-101642330590018.html
16-01-2022||India||A day after Twitter poll, Rahul Gandhi's another attack on BJP||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) politics of "hatred" is very harmful for the country and is also responsible for unemployment.The attack came a day after Gandhi attacked the BJP government by posting an online Twitter poll asking his followers which are its biggest shortcomings.“Domestic and foreign industries cannot run without social peace,” he said in a tweet."Will defeat this growing hatred around you everyday with brotherhood. Are you with me? #NoHate," Gandhi added.मैं भी यही मानता हूँ कि भाजपा की नफ़रत भरी राजनीति देश के लिए बेहद हानिकारक है। और ये नफ़रत ही बेरोज़गारी के लिए भी ज़िम्मेदार है। देशीय व विदेशी उद्योग बिना सामाजिक शांति के नहीं चल सकते।रोज़ अपने आस-पास बढ़ती इस नफ़रत को भाईचारे से हराएँगे- क्या आप मेरे साथ हैं?#NoHate https://t.co/Bzc7IMruXQCongress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) politics of "hatred" is very harmful for the country and is also responsible for unemployment.The attack came a day after Gandhi attacked the BJP government by posting an online Twitter poll asking his followers which are its biggest shortcomings.“Domestic and foreign industries cannot run without social peace,” he said in a tweet."Will defeat this growing hatred around you everyday with brotherhood. Are you with me? #NoHate," Gandhi added.|#+|In the online quiz, the Congress leader asked people about the "biggest shortcoming" of the BJP government and gave them three options to choose from including "unemployment", "tax extortion", "price rise" and an "atmosphere of hatred".The poll elicited 3,47,396 votes, with most of them (35 per cent) voting for the fourth option, indicating the prevalence of hateful atmosphere was the central government’s biggest failure.भाजपा सरकार की सबसे बड़ी कमी क्या रही है?According to the post, the second biggest failure of the government was unemployment, with 28 per cent of those interacting with the poll voting for it.Two days ago, Rahul Gandhi chose the newest craze on social media, Wordle, to take a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government.On Twitter, Gandhi used the format of the game but changed the letters to reflect Congress’s allegations against the Prime Minister. The photograph shared by the leader contained words like ‘Jhumla’ (scam), ‘Taxes’, ‘snoop’, ‘photo op’, in an obvious attack on the ruling party.Wordle is an online word game and gives a player six chances to guess the day’s secret word, which has five letters. The aim is to figure out the secret word with the fewest guesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-twitter-poll-rahul-gandhi-s-another-attack-on-bjp-101642327273023.html
16-01-2022||India||Vaccination added great strength to fight against Covid: PM Modi||Lauding India's Covid-19 vaccination drive as it completes a year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said it has added great strength to the fight against the pandemic and has resulted in saving lives and protecting livelihoods.When the pandemic first struck, not much was known about the virus. However, our scientists and innovators immersed themselves in developing vaccines, he noted. India feels proud that our nation has been able to contribute to fighting the pandemic through vaccines, Modi tweeted."I salute each and every individual who is associated with the vaccination drive," he said, adding that the role of our doctors, nurses and healthcare workers is exceptional."When we see glimpses of people being vaccinated in remote areas, or our healthcare workers taking the vaccines there, our hearts and minds are filled with pride," he said. The prime minister asserted that India's approach to fighting the pandemic will always remain science based. Health infrastructure is also being augmented to ensure that fellow citizens get proper care, he said, asking people to keep following all Covi-19 related protocols. The countrywide vaccination drive against Covid-19 on Sunday completed one year, during which over 156.76 crore vaccine doses were administered.  According to Health Ministry officials, over 92 per cent of the adult population have received at least one dose while over 68 per cent have been fully vaccinated. The Centre will issue a postal stamp on Sunday afternoon to mark the completion of one year of the inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-added-great-strength-to-fight-against-covid-pm-modi-101642326420450.html
16-01-2022||India||Severe cold approaching; these states may see heavy rain, dense fog next week||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday predicted severe cold day conditions across multiple states of the country over the span of the next week. In a post from its official handle on Twitter, the IMD warned of isolated to scattered rains and snowfall in several areas and also a very dense fog cover over others, most of these regions being in northwest India.The latest IMD bulletin, issued this afternoon, alerted of cold day to severe cold day conditions in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan during the next two days and over eastern Uttar Pradesh during the next three days.According to the MeT department, this is how the forecast for the next week looks:Rainfall Alert:1. Isolated to scattered light/moderate rainfall over Telangana on 16th January; over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on 16th & 17th January and over Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Mahe during the next three days.2. Isolated light/moderate rainfall very likely over sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, and Andaman & Nicobar Islands during 18th-20th January.3. Isolated thunderstorms with lightning very likely over Telangana and coastal Andhra Pradesh on 16th January.4. Isolated to scattered light/moderate rainfall over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, and Tripura during 19th and 20th January.5. Isolated to scattered light/moderate precipitation over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh during 16th-20th January. 6. Isolated light/moderate precipitation over Himachal Pradesh during 17th-20th January and over Uttarakhand during 18th -20th January.Snowfall alert:Thereafter, under the influence of another Western Disturbance, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall likely over western Himalayan region and isolated to scattered rainfall over adjoining plains of northwest India during 21st to 23rd January.Fog conditions:Dense to very dense fog in isolated parts during the night/morning hours very likely over Rajasthan and eastern Uttar Pradesh during the next two days and dense fog in isolated parts over Jammu division and Himachal Pradesh on 16th-17th January; over western UP and northern Madhya Pradesh during next the two days.Cold wave conditions:1. Cold day to severe cold day conditions in some/isolated pockets very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, western Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan during the next two days and over eastern Uttar Pradesh during next three days.2. Cold wave conditions in isolated pockets are very likely over eastern Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-cold-approaching-these-states-may-see-heavy-rain-dense-fog-next-week-101642324707120.html
16-01-2022||India||'Omicron a deviant': Virologist says probably 2 pandemics going on side by side||At a time when scientists are exploring whether Omicron is a different pandemic altogether, virologist and former chief of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr T Jacob John said it is very likely that two pandemics are going on side by side -- one by the Delta and the other by Omicron.Providing some fresh insight into the origin of Omicron, the virologist told news agency PTI that Omicron is not "fathered, or mothered, by Wuhan-D614G, Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, Kappa or Mu and that much is for sure".According to Dr Jacob, Omicron's immediate parentage is not known but it has some distant connection with Wuhan-D614G, which began the pandemic."Since Omicron is illegitimate or 'deviant' from COVID-19 pandemic progression script, we must think of two pandemics going on side by side -- Delta and close relatives, and Omicron and its variants in future.Delhi may see about 17,000 cases today, dip in positivity rate: Health ministerThis is also the reason why people infected by Omicron, which can only be confirmed by genome sequencing, are reporting different symptoms than traditional Covid, Dr Jacob said. Traditional Covid impacts the respiratory system, while Omicron's effect is mostly in the throat region.As far as the peak of the third wave is concerned, Dr Jacob said metro cities will reach and end the peak of Omicron faster.Recently, John Bell, a professor of medicine at the University of Oxford, said Omicron is not causing the same disease as the previous Covid strains.Omicron was first identified in South Africa in November 2021. Initially, it was thought to be a mild variant leading to fewer complications and hospitalisation. It was also seen as the beginning of the end of the pandemic. However, following Omicron's fast transmission and its impact on unvaccinated people, scientists are now saying that Omicron is not mild, but less severe for vaccinated people. A more dangerous variant or a combination of variants might be the future of the pandemic.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-a-deviant-virologist-says-probably-2-pandemics-going-on-side-by-side-101642324057701.html
16-01-2022||India||CBI arrests GAIL director, five others in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a director of Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) and conducted searches at his residence in connection with an alleged bribery case. The CBI has also arrested five more people in the matter.According to the CBI, atleast 1.29 crores cash, gold jewellery worth ₹1.30 crores and other valuables have been recovered during searches from the premises of the accused.The CBI had conducted searches in Delhi and Noida in connection with a bribery case filed against the Director (Marketing) at GAIL on Saturday.A senior CBI officer informed that CBI has registered a case against the Director (Marketing) GAIL, and others including Private persons, private companies and unknown others on the allegations/ information that they are indulged in corrupt and illegal activities by obtaining bribes from the private companies buying petrochemical products marketed by the GAIL.It was further alleged that at the direction of representatives of the private company, a private person had requested the Public Servant of GAIL for allowing some discount to the buyers on petrochemical products being marketed by GAIL in lieu of illegal gratification. It was also alleged that another private person has also collected ₹40 lakh from the accused earlier in this matter.The CBI laid a trap and apprehended a private person and a Director of a Private Company based in Delhi when the alleged bribe of ₹10 lakh was received by the private person from the said Director of Private Company allegedly on behalf of the Director (Marketing) GAIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-gail-director-five-others-in-bribery-case-101642323435245.html
16-01-2022||India||Now, Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil has an offer for Tesla CEO Elon Musk||A minister in Maharashtra on Sunday came up with an offer for Tesla CEO Elon Musk to start business in the west Indian state, a day after his counterpart in Telangana made a similar proposal.The offers came close on the heels of the maverick billionaire American entrepreneur sharing a tweet about the challenges his electric car-making company was facing while dealing with the Indian government.Tagging the now viral tweet of Musk, Maharashtra Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil wrote, “Maharashtra is one of the most progressive states in India. We will provide you all the necessary help from Maharashtra for you to get established in India. We invite you to establish your manufacturing plant in Maharashtra.”.@elonmusk, Maharashtra is one of the most progressive states in India. We will provide you all the necessary help from Maharashtra for you to get established in India. We invite you to establish your manufacturing plant in Maharashtra. https://t.co/w8sSZTpUpbThe senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was only two days late in making a similar offer that came from Telangana’s urban development minister KT Rama Rao, who is also the son of chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao.“Hey Elon, I am the Industry & Commerce Minister of Telangana state in India. Will be happy to partner Tesla in working through the challenges to set shop in India/Telangana. Our state is a champion in sustainability initiatives & a top notch business destination in India," the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leader wrote.On January 13, Musk, while replying to a Twitter user regarding Tesla’s business plans in India, said, "Still working through a lot of challenges with the government."Musk had said in 2020 that Tesla would set up manufacturing units for electric vehicles in India. A Tesla subsidiary firm named India Motors and Energy Private Limited has been set up. The company is based out of Bengaluru.Government sources have said that while Tesla was free to use the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) window to produce electric vehicles in India, Musk wanted to slash import duties without offering any commitment to produce in India. And, there lay the challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-maharashtra-minister-jayant-patil-has-an-offer-for-tesla-ceo-elon-musk-101642316856539.html
16-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Mansukh Mandaviya hails Covid-19 vaccine drive, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As the country completed a year of administering vaccines to its citizens against the coronavirus disease that has disrupted life and livelihood of both poor and rich alike, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday hailed the inoculation campaign as the most successful one in the world. Read moreUnion law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju on Sunday shared a video on Twitter showcasing the vibrant Sarok festival – a carnival of the Akas community in the East Kameng district of Arunachal Pradesh wherein locals come together wearing colourful traditional attires, dance and celebrate on the streets. Read moreFormer India captain Sunil Gavaskar has made a big statement, saying that Virat Kohli's decision to step down as captain of the Test team could stem from the possibility that he might get sacked for a second time in just over a month. Read moreEV startup Ola Electric has different plans for customers who have booked its S1 electric scooter in the latest round. The company will upgrade its S1 customers to S1 Pro hardware, providing them with all S1 features. Read moreThe year 2022 marks 10 years of Sidharth Malhotra in the film industry. And from the looks of it, the actor is all set to stamp his authority on Bollywood this year. Read moreNewly-married Ankita Lokhande celebrated her first Makar Sankranti after tying the knot with Vicky Jain. The Pavitra Rishta actor took to Instagram recently to share a video that offered a sneak peek into her celebrations with family. Read moreFormer Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Quraishi believes that the charge by India's opposition parties and certain former bureaucrats that the country poll panel favours ruling party has a merit, citing the case of Ashok Lavasa over the violation of model code conduct. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mansukh-mandaviya-hails-covid-19-vaccine-drive-and-all-the-latest-news-101642316161355.html
16-01-2022||India||Watch: Kiren Rijiju shares video of Sarok festival, says ‘we are nothing without our culture'||Union law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju on Sunday shared a video on Twitter showcasing the vibrant Sarok festival – a carnival of the Akas community in the East Kameng district of Arunachal Pradesh wherein locals come together wearing colourful traditional attires, dance and celebrate on the streets.Rijiju shared a small clip of his visit to Bana village in the district and expressed the importance of restoring one's culture.“A small clip of colorful Sarok Festival of the Akas at Bana in East Kameng Dist. of Arunachal Pradesh. We are nothing without our original culture,” tweeted the minister, who is also the state ambassador for Arunachal Pradesh.Sarok festival is celebrated as a prayer to Mother Earth for the well being of all humankind.Earlier, Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu conveyed his greetings and offered prayers for peace, prosperity and progress of every community of the state.He congratulated the Akas community for keeping the tradition alive and taking pride in their heritage and indigenous identity, native only to the northeastern state.Governor BD Mishra had also extended his greetings to the people of the state on the occasion and said he hoped the festivities would usher in peace, prosperity and happiness among people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-kiren-rijiju-shares-video-of-sarok-festival-says-we-are-nothing-without-our-culture-101642311895271.html
16-01-2022||India||A year on, India's Covid vaccine coverage surpasses 150 crore. Leaders hail drive||As the country completed a year of administering vaccines to its citizens against the coronavirus disease that has disrupted life and livelihood of both poor and rich alike, senior leaders, including Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and home minister Amit Shah on Sunday hailed the inoculation campaign as the most successful one in the world.Congratulating health workers, scientists and citizens of the country, Mandaviya said the campaign was launched under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with ‘sabka prayas’ (endeavour of all).“Today the world's largest vaccination campaign completes one year. This campaign started under the leadership of PM @NarendraModiji with 'Sabke Prayas' is the most successful vaccination campaign in the world today. I congratulate all the health workers, scientists and countrymen,” he wrote on Twitter.Also read | Covid-19 pandemic cannot go on forever, will end soon: ExpertShah wrote, "I congratulate the talented scientists, health workers, all corona warriors and countrymen of the country on the successful completion of 1 year of the world's largest free vaccination campaign in the fight against corona under the strong and inspiring leadership of Prime Minister," he wrote on Twitter.The home minister too lauded the PM for his continuous efforts towards working in the interest of the nation and setting India as an example for the world. "With the efficient leadership, determination and continuous efforts of Prime Minister @narendramodiji, India has set an ideal in the world that if the government and citizens unite in the interest of the country and set a common goal, then how the country can overcome the impossible by conquering every challenge. may also make it possible. #1YearOfVaccineDrive," he wrote.Exactly a year ago, India began its vaccine campaign against pandemic with the first doses administered to its healthcare workers, fighting the battle from the front. It has since administered more than 156.76 crore doses. The drive was later expanded to cover frontline workers, followed by people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with comorbidities.Later, the vaccine coverage was also expanded to all above 45 years of age and recently to those above 18 years of age.The country started vaccinating its teenagers between the age group 15-18 on January 3, 2022. The process of administering precautionary doses to the healthcare workers, frontline workers and sixty plus individuals also commenced from January 10 this year.According to the health ministry, 1,56,76,15,454 vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries, as revealed by provisional reports till 7am on Sunday.In the last 24 hours, more than 66 lakh vaccine doses were administered.Meanwhile, the vaccines have been termed as one of the biggest weapons in wake of the emerging new variants of Covid-19. The highly transmissible Omicron variant, first detected in South Africa last year and later across the world, is possibly fuelling the third wave of infections in the country.With 2,71,202 fresh infections being registered in the past 24 hours, India reported yet another surge in its Covid-19 tally on Sunday, maintaining the upward trend since the past few weeks.The current active caseload stood at 15,50,377, comprising 4.81 per cent of the total infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-on-india-s-covid-vaccine-coverage-surpasses-150-crore-mandaviya-hails-drive-101642311689290.html
16-01-2022||India||Odisha notifies task force for drug trafficking||BHUBANESWAR: A fortnight after it named former state police chief Abhay as head of State Task Force against Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, the Odisha government on Saturday formally constituted the task force mandated to formulate the state’s policy on narcotic drugs within the context of national policy.While Abhay, who goes by one name, will chair the taskforce, a multi departmental co-ordination committee headed by chief secretary and co-chaired by him will formulate the state policy on drugs. The multi-departmental committee will comprise secretaries of home, health and family welfare, social security, excise, school and mass education, higher education, information technology and information and public relations departments.The home department, which notified the government order, said the mandate of the task force will be to coordinate, suggest action in drug demand reduction, raise community awareness, increase community participation and public cooperation, focussed intervention in schools, colleges and among youth.“In Odisha, it is imperative to give a serious push to efforts to contain drug abuse and drug trafficking, so that the emerging problem is nipped in the bud. This can be done by a combination of demand reduction, supply reduction, and harm reduction measures,” the resolution said.Odisha has over last few years emerged as a major centre for drug trafficking with cannabis grown in erstwhile Maoist-affected areas being trafficked all over the country. As compared to the seizure of 198 quintals of cannabis in 2015, enforcement authorities seized a record 1600 quintals of cannabis in the state in 2021.As per the Smuggling In India report for the year 2019-20 released by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Odisha has emerged as the source state of cannabis in India apart from Andhra Pradesh. “There is a distinct trend emerging from these seizures which indicates a flow of huge quantities of Ganja coming from Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, passing through Telangana, Chattisgarh and MP before reaching the consumption centres in northern states of India, mainly U.P. and Bihar. Ganja not only has narcotics angle but also a national security concern as the illicit proceeds from the trafficking of it are used for feeding the growth of extremist activities,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-notifies-task-force-for-drug-trafficking-101642307846075.html
16-01-2022||India||India sees another surge with 2,71,202 new Covid cases, positivity rate dips marginally||India on Sunday reported another major surge in Covid-19 cases with 2,71,202 fresh infections being registered in the past 24 hours. With this, the active caseload currently stood at 15,50,377 that comprised 4.81 per cent of the total infections.According to latest updates available with the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the daily positivity rate currently stood at 16.28 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was at 13.69 per cent. The daily positivity rate is marginally lesser than Saturday’s when it was 16.66 per cent.The ministry said 7,743 cases of the Omicron variant that is said to be the cause behind the latest surge have been so far detected in the country.With 314 deaths due to related complications, the cumulative fatality tally touched 4,86,066. Also, 1,38,331 patients were cured from the disease in the last 24 hours taking the total recoveries to 3,50,85,721.The government said a total of 70,24,48,838 samples have been tested so far for the virus of which 16,65,404 tests were conducted on January 15.Meanwhile, 156.76 crore doses of vaccine have been administered against Covid-19 so far as part of the nationwide inoculation drive launched last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-another-surge-with-2-71-202-new-covid-cases-positivity-rate-dips-101642305520332.html
16-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Tamil Nadu to observe Sunday lockdown today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.2nd Sunday lockdown in Tamil Nadu today; existing Covid curbs extended till Jan 31Tamil Nadu will be placed under a complete lockdown on Sunday in view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government has been reimposing a Sunday lockdown in the state since January 9. Read moreSKM announces stir in Lakhimpur to push for MoS Mishra’s removalThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions that spearheaded the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three laws, on Saturday announced an agitation in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri to push for the dismissal and arrest of junior home minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, whose son Ashish Mishra is the key accused in the October 3 violence. Read moreWill Punjab raise a toast for AAP’s Bhagwant Mann before polls?Arvind Kejriwal has resorted to the virtual to get real on the oft-raised question of his Aam Aadmi Party’s chief ministerial face for Punjab. The move requires political decoding as unlike in the Congress, there’s just one serious contender for the top job in his party. Read moreSouth Africa ready to live with Covid, no plan to impose lockdown, quarantineSouth Africa said that it is ready to live with the Covid-19 pandemic and does not plan to impose a lockdown or quarantine rules. A PTI report said the government has decided to take a more pragmatic approach while keeping an eye on severe Covid and whether or not health systems are imminently under threat. Read moreBCCI president Sourav Ganguly opens up on Virat Kohli's decision to step down from Test captaincyBCCI president Sourav Ganguly on Sunday opened up on Virat Kohli's decision to step down as India's Test captain. The 33-year-old made a sudden announcement on Twitter on Saturday evening, an announcement that came following the series defeat in South Africa and which was preceded by an array of public exchanges between him and the administrators of the BCCI. Read moreKareena Kapoor in ₹43k top and velvet pants enjoys day out with family: Can you guess her bag's price?Actor Kareena Kapoor Khan visited her father, Randhir Kapoor, yesterday with Saif Ali Khan, Karisma Kapoor, and her two sons, Taimur Ali Khan and Jehangir Ali Khan. The style icon, known for making heads turn with her glamorous fashion choices, did the same for the casual outing in a chic and comfy ensemble. Read moreSuniel Shetty to Swara Bhasker, stars react to Virat Kohli stepping down as Test captain: ‘Teary-eyed but grateful’As Virat Kohli stepped down as the Test captain of the Indian cricket team, many Bollywood celebrities praised him for his achievements. He announced his decision in a statement posted to his social media accounts on Saturday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tamil-nadu-to-observe-sunday-lockdown-today-101642302455405.html
16-01-2022||India||2nd Sunday lockdown in Tamil Nadu today; existing Covid curbs extended till Jan 31||Tamil Nadu will be placed under a complete lockdown on Sunday in view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government has been reimposing a Sunday lockdown in the state since January 9.As part of restrictions, restaurants are allowed to offer only take away services from 7 am-10 pm and food delivery is allowed too. Essential services workers are allowed to continue their routine work.On January 9, the state woke up to deserted arterial roads, bylanes, markets and malls, and other public places.Barring flights, suburban and other train operations, bus and other public transport services, including the Metro rail, has been suspended. People are allowed to attend family functions, including marriages, during the Sunday lockdown. According to the state government, only 100 people are allowed to attend marriages.The existing Covid-19 restrictions in Tamil Nadu, including the closing of schools from classes 1 to 9, kindergarten, coaching centres and limited seating capacity in public transport, have been extended to January 31.Tamil Nadu is also observing a night curfew from January 6 between 10 pm-5 am.Since January 14-18, all places of worship have been shut across the state to prevent crowding.In view of the mid-January Pongal (harvest) festival, the government has allowed travel in state-run buses with 75% occupancy to enable people to travel to their native districts.The daily coronavirus disease daily in Tamil Nadu continued an upward trend with a high of 23,978 cases on Saturday. This is the second straight day that the daily infections were above the 23,000-mark. As many as 11 patients died and nearly 11,000 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 36,967 and 27,47,974, respectively. The active cases in the state stand at 1,31,007.According to the Union health ministry, Tamil Nadu along with seven others states has emerged as states of concern with high Covid-19 cases and positivity rate.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-sunday-lockdown-in-tn-today-existing-covid-curbs-extended-till-jan-31-101642291598685.html
16-01-2022||NA||Breaking: Punjab logs 7,396 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths; positivity rate at 20.76%||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Punjab logs 7,396 new cases, 13 deaths; positivity rate at 20.76%COVID19 | Punjab records 7,396 new cases & 13 deaths; Active case tally at 41,250Today's positivity rate at 20.76% pic.twitter.com/d6oD6rWzPWNoted thespian Saoli Mitra passes away in KolkataNoted thespian Saoli Mitra has died in Kolkata. Her family made the news public at night after cremation as she wished. Mitra was the daughter of legendary theatre artistes Shambhu Mitra and Tripti Mitra, and also the recipient of the Sangeet Natak and Padma Shree awards.West Bengal records 14,938 new Covid-19 cases, active cases rise to 160,305COVID19 | West Bengal registers 14,938 fresh cases & 36 deaths today; Active cases rise to 1,60,305. Positivity rate at 27.73% pic.twitter.com/CgCTwsQhlFDelhi records 18,286 new Covid cases, active case count dip to 89,818COVID19 | Delhi reports 18,286 new cases & 28 deaths in last 24 hours; Active cases declines to 89,819. Positivity rate at 27.87% pic.twitter.com/vlyymZVN0rGoa: Former Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco quits TMCGoa: Former Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco has resigned from the primary membership of the Trinamool Congress Party: Mahua Moitra, Lok Sabha MP and AITC Goa in-chargeLourenco resigned from Congress and joined TMC on December 21Cop, civilian injured in grenade attack on security forces in SrinagarJammu and Kashmir: Terrorists lobbed a grenade on security forces in the Saraf Kadal area of Old Srinagar city. A cop and a civilian were left injured in the attack, more details are awaited.Punjab BJP urges EC to postpone February 14 assembly pollsPunjab BJP writes to Chief Election Commissioner requesting him "to postpone Feb 14 State Assembly polls as many people from SC community from the State would visit Varanasi, in view of Guru Ravidas birth anniversary on Feb 16 pic.twitter.com/OvLrSYiVnsMumbai reports 7,895 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deathsCOVID19 | Mumbai reports 7,895 new cases & 11 deaths today; Active cases 60,371 pic.twitter.com/Grv3TRMtmhChandigarh reports 1,358 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate at 22.49% Chandigarh reports 1,358 new cases today; Active cases at 9,203. Positivity rate at 22.49% pic.twitter.com/WJsA3V8mYzMumbai: International passengers from UAE now exempted from 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR on arrivalMaharashtra | International passengers arriving from UAE including Dubai in Mumbai are now exempted from compulsorily 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR on arrival: BMC pic.twitter.com/TnUlASMANhMaharashtra | International passengers arriving from UAE including Dubai in Mumbai are now exempted from compulsorily 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR on arrival: BMCReligious leader Yati Narsinghanand sent to 14-day judicial custodyHaridwar Court sent religious leader Yati Narsinghanand to 14-day judicial custody in the 'Dharm Sansad' hate speech case: Haridwar PolicePunjab CM Channi's brother says will fight as independent from Bassi Pathana seatPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's brother Manohar Singh, who was eyeing a Congress ticket from Bassi Pathana assembly seat, on Sunday said he will contest as an independent from the constituency after the ruling party fielded its sitting legislator. In its first list of 86 candidates, Congress on Saturday gave the ticket to party MLA Gurpreet Singh GP from Bassi Pathana (SC) seat.Mamata urges PM Modi to include tableau of freedom fighters from Bengal in Republic Day paradeWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Modi over the "rejection of proposed tableau of West Bengal for the ensuing Republic Day Parade" and requests to "include the tableau of freedom fighters from West Bengal in the parade" pic.twitter.com/2vtVEA2HoeIndia not only manufactured vaccines but also vaccinated large part of population in short time: Health minister"As a result of country's solidarity & PM Modi's commitment during #COVID19, India not only manufactured vaccines but also vaccinated large part of population in short time," tweeted Union health minister Mansukh Madaviya.Tamil Nadu: Schools for all classes shut, exams postponed in view of Covid-19 surgeSchools have been declared shut in Tamil Nadu for all classes, due to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The exams which were supposed to be held on January 19 are now postponed: Tamil Nadu govt‘The world is amazed’: Health minister on India completing 1 year of vaccine drive“Today is an important day for us as we've completed one year of vaccine drive,” said Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya. “The world is amazed by our vaccination drive; over 156 crore doses have been administered. 93 per cent of people above 18 years of age are vaccinated with the first dose of the vaccine and 70 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated.” Australian Open 2022: Djokovic 'disappointed' with losing deportation appealDjokovic released a statement shortly after three Federal Court judges unanimously upheld a decision made on Friday by Immigration Minister Alex Hawke to cancel the 34-year-old Serb’s visa on public interest grounds because he is not vaccinated for Covid-19. Read More‘Yogi ate khichdi for votes,’ SP chief Akhilesh Yadav hits out at UP CMTaking a dig at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath eating lunch at a Dalit's household in Gorakhpur on Makar Sankranti on January 14, Akhilesh said: “You all must have seen he ate Khichdi with so much disinterest. He must be remembering, oh we forgot to send shampoo, soap (for the family to have a wash beforehand)… He ate khichidi for votes.”Former UP minister Dara Singh Chauhan joins Samajwadi Party in presence of party chief Akhilesh YadavFormer UP minister Dara Singh Chauhan joins Samajwadi Party in the presence of SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav, in Lucknow.“I welcome Dara Singh Chauhan and his supporters who have come along large numbers,” Yadav said.UP assembly polls: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel participates in door-to-door campaign in NoidaCongress leader & Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Bagehl participated in a door-to-door campaign in Noida, ahead of UP Assembly elections. pic.twitter.com/OsjWcJidBmNovak Djokovic loses legal fight, to be deported from AustraliaNovak Djokovic’s hopes of playing at the Australian Open were dashed Sunday after a court dismissed the top-ranked tennis star’s appeal against a deportation order. Read moreUttar Pradesh shuts schools, colleges till Jan 23 due to Covid surgeUttar Pradesh has extended Covid-19 restrictions and closed all schools, colleges and educational institutions till January 23 in view of the rising infections.North Korea train makes 1st crossing to China for since lockdownNorth Korea train makes first crossing into China since border lockdown, reports Reuters.Mansukh Mandaviya hails India's vaccination drive as “most successful in the world”Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya hails India's vaccination drive as "the most successful in the world," as the country completes one year of nationwide vaccination drive.India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 156.76 crore. More than 66 lakh vaccine doses have been administered in the last 24 hours.Telangana extends vacation for all educational institutions till January 30Chief Secretary, Telangana told news agency ANI, “It has been decided to extend the vacation of all educational institutions in Telangana till January 30, 2022.”All Texas synagogue hostages out 'alive and safe', says Guv Greg AbbottAll Texas synagogue hostages are out 'alive and safe', says governor Greg Abbott.India reports another surge with 2,71,202 new Covid infections, active cases up by 1,32,557India's Covid-19 tally continued its upward trend with 2,71,202 new cases on Sunday. Active cases rose by 1,32,557, while 314 new deaths were accounted.Tsunami threat from Tonga volcano eruption has ‘passed’, reports AFPTsunami threat from Tonga volcano eruption has 'passed', reports news agency AFP.Delhi AQI slips to ‘very poor’ category againDelhi's air quality remains in the 'very poor' category, with overall AQI at 301 as per the data provided by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India.One hostage released uninjured in Dallas area synagogue, say police"A hostage was released uninjured," said the Colleyville police department in a statement. Four people were held hostage in Dallas-area synagogue by a man demanding the release of convicted Pakistan scientist Aafia Siddiqui.81 police personnel in Mumbai, 31 in Pune test positive for COVID-19 in last 24 hoursAs many as 81 Mumbai policemen tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, informed police on Saturday. With this, the tally of positive police personnel rose to 1,312 in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-16-2022-101642291738239.html
16-01-2022||India||SKM announces stir in Lakhimpur to push for MoS Mishra’s removal||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions that spearheaded the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three laws, on Saturday announced an agitation in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri to push for the dismissal and arrest of junior home minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, whose son Ashish Mishra is the key accused in the October 3 violence that left eight people dead in the district.Four farmers and a journalist died when an SUV owned by Ajay Mishra ran over farmers from behind in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. In the ensuing violence, three more people — two of whom were Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and one was the driver of the car — were killed. Ashish Mishra has been in jail since October 9, 2021.“We will start a protest at the site where the farmers were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri from January 21, if the government fails to accept our demand to remove Teni,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Takait, after a meeting of farm unions.In a statement, the SKM said a permanent protest would be organised at Lakhimpur Kheri against the “brazen insensitivity” of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the case and its failure to remove Teni.The SKM also called to observe a nationwide “Day of Betrayal” on January 31, against the government’s “reneging on its assurances to the farmers”.“To protest this betrayal to the farmers, the SKM has decided that on 31st January, Day of Betrayal will be observed across the country,” the statement read.“If the government does not accept our demands before January 21, we will visit every village in Uttar Pradesh to tell people about their anti-farmer policies,” Takait added.On farm bodies contesting Punjab polls, SKM said any leader who participates in election or is part of any political party cannot be part of the morcha. “If needed, this decision will be reviewed in April after these assembly elections,” a statement issued by farm leaders Darshan Pal, Hannan Molla, Yogendra Yadav and Joginder Singh Ugrahan, among others, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skm-announces-stir-in-lakhimpur-to-push-for-mos-mishra-s-removal-101642286770686.html
16-01-2022||India||Pakistan national held along IB in Jammu, repatriated||A Pakistani national was arrested after he inadvertently crossed into the Indian side along the International Border (IB) in Samba sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, BSF officials said.A BSF spokesperson said that the Pakistan national, Rehman of Narowal in Pakistan, was apprehended by the BSF men while he was roaming suspiciously along the border in Ramgarh sector of Samba district. “One Pakistani national crossed over inadvertently to India on the Balhad border today (Saturday) at about 1300 hours. He came about 200 metres inside India and was apprehended by the alert troops,” said the spokesperson, adding that on preliminary questioning, it was found that he had accidentally crossed the IB into this side.At around 6.45pm, the Pakistan national was handed over to the rangers on a proper receipt at a flag meeting, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakistan-national-held-along-ib-in-jammu-repatriated-101642281435414.html
16-01-2022||India||Gujarat: Two shot dead by former armyman during clash in Porbandar, 11 booked||A former Army man allegedly gunned down two persons during a clash between two groups of a community in Gujarat’s Porbandar town, police said on Saturday.An offence has been registered against 11 persons, including a local BJP councillor and his son, for the incident that took place on Friday night, an official said. The two groups held a grudge against each other over some past dispute about the municipality election held in February last year, Superintendent of Police Porbandar Ravi Mohan Saini said. “Last night, some members of two groups from Maher community clashed. One of them was a former Army man, who had a licenced weapon. Two persons died from shots fired from the weapon at a close range,” the official said. According to the police, the clash erupted after vehicles of some members of the two groups were hit, following which people started hurling abuses and firing in the air.Armed with a revolver, swords and baseball bats, they attacked each other, leaving two dead and one (the complainant) seriously injured, it was stated. The police have arrested three persons including ex-Army man Arbham Odedara and seized the weapon, he said, adding that efforts are underway to nab others.An FIR has been registered under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons) and 504 (intentional insult) of the IPC against 11 persons, an official of Kamla Baug police station said.The deceased persons were identified as Kalpesh Bhutia and Raj Keshwala, he said.Local BJP councillor Bhima Odedara and his son Nilesh are among 11 persons named in the FIR, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-two-shot-dead-by-former-armyman-during-clash-in-porbandar-11-booked-101642275074789.html
16-01-2022||India||NIA, ED call for AIIMS panel to assess jailed Kashmiri businessman’s health||Days after former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti urged the government to release businessman Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali on humanitarian grounds because he is suffering from cancer, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) have proposed forming a panel of doctors from AIIMS to assess his illness.Facing terror and money laundering charges for supporting secessionist and terrorist activities in Kashmir, Watali was arrested by the NIA in August 2017, and has been in judicial custody since then.Seeking urgent bail, Watali’s lawyer Shariq J Reyaz informed the special judge NIA court – Parveen Singh at Patiala House Courts – on January 11 that the businessman has been diagnosed with stage IV prostate cancer that requires immediate, supervised medical treatment.Watali, 70, is suffering from chronic multiple ailments, including acute diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, and dyslipidemia hypertension marked by high blood pressure, his lawyer said. On account of severe back pain, he has been rendered immobile and was carried around on a stretcher for the past two months.Watali was admitted at Max Hospital in Saket on December 30 after doctors opined that his was a case of prostate cancer that could lead to paralysis, according to Watali’s bail plea, which was reviewed by HT. The reports of Max hospital have been submitted along with it.Appearing for NIA, senior advocate Sidharth Luthra informed the court that the agency wants to refer the case to the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi to constitute a panel of doctors to assess Watali’s condition and submit a status report on his illness. ED’s special prosecutor Nitesh Rana echoed Luthra’s stand.Agreeing with both sides, the court adjourned the matter till January 28. Meanwhile, it has asked the jail authorities not to remove Watali from Max Hospital till the next hearing.In her appeal to the central government, Peoples Democratic Party president Mufti tweeted on December 31: “Zahoor Watali imprisoned in Tihar jail is suffering from malignant cancer & is critically ill. He is in urgent need of medical attention & needs to be with his family. Request GOI (Government of India)to release him on humanitarian grounds so that he can get the necessary care.”She had tagged home secretary Ajay Bhalla and the home ministry in her tweet.The law enforcement agencies have alleged that Watali was receiving money from Hafiz Saeed, chief of terror outfits Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jamaat-Ud-Dawa, from ISI, from the Pakistan High Commission at New Delhi and also from a source based in Dubai, which he was remitting to the Hurriyat leaders, separatists and stone pelters in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-ed-call-for-aiims-panel-to-assess-jailed-kashmiri-businessman-s-health-101642274836393.html
16-01-2022||India||Uttar Pradesh elections: EC notice to Samajwadi Party for Covid norms’ breach during induction event||Lucknow: The Election Commission of India issued a notice to the Samajwadi Party on Saturday over a violation of the model code of conduct and Covid-19 guidelines in an event organised by the party on Friday. The poll panel has asked the SP to explain its stand within 24 hours, failing which the commission will take appropriate action without further reference to the SP. The poll overseer had announced the schedule for Uttar Pradesh assembly election on January 8. It had also issued a broad guideline with regard to conduct of the election during Covid-19 pandemic, imposing a ban on rallies, road shows, processions and street corner meetings till January 15, the commission’s secretary Ajoy Kumar wrote in a letter to the general secretary of the SP. The commission on Saturday extended the ban till January 22.Taking cognizance of media reports of violation of the commission’s Covid-19 guidelines in a public gathering in the office compound of the SP on Vikramaditya Marg in Lucknow, the watchdog sought a report from UP’s chief electoral officer (CEO). The CEO in his report sent on January 14 informed that the existing Covid-19 protocol had been violated by organizing public gathering in the SP office premises in the name of a virtual rally. A police complaint under sections 188, 269, 270 and 341 of the Indian Penal Code, section 54 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, and section 3 of the Pandemic Act, 1897, had been lodged against some two thousand functionaries of the SP on Friday, he said. Political parties were important stakeholders in the electoral process and they have always cooperated with the election commission in carrying out its constitutional duties of conducting election during challenging times, Kumar said. The available reports suggested that the SP had violated the lawful directions of the commission, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-elections-ec-notice-to-samajwadi-party-for-covid-norms-breach-during-induction-event-101642274114846.html
16-01-2022||India||‘Miscarriage of justice’: Uproar mounts on court order||Thiuruvananthapuram: Widespread outrage continued in Kerala on Saturday, a day after a Kottayam court acquitted Roman Catholic bishop Franco Mulakkal of charges of repeatedly raping a nun. The court’s verdict cast aspersions on the victim, many women activists, artists and legal experts said. Some have started an online campaign called Avalkoppam (with her) to vent their anguish at the court order that gave a clean chit to the lone accused in the case, former bishop of Jalandhar diocese, Franco Mulakkal (57). Others asked the state government to immediately challenge the verdict in the Kerala high court. “None of the witnesses backed down. Medical evidence was supportive. The only drawback was delay in reporting the crime. It is disgusting the man walked free,” said actor Reema Kallingal.“It is sad the court questioned the integrity of the victim. It will give a wrong message to the suffering,” said lawyer and activist Asha Unnithan.  The verdict was a clear case of “miscarriage of justice, ” said B Kemal Pasha, former judge at the Kerala high court. Justice Pasha questioned some of the findings in the verdict. The Supreme Court has clearly stated that a rape accused can be convicted on a victim’s testimony, if she is found to be credible and trustworthy, he said. “I found it interesting that the trail court said prosecution failed to produce the mobile phone used by the victim at that time of the assault and later. And delay in reporting such a case cannot be the reason for the acquittal. Reason for delay is well explained, going by the social background of the case,” the former justice said. Acquitting Mulakkal, the judge of the additional district and sessions court I in Kottayam said in the verdict that the victim’s claim that she was raped on 13 occasions under duress cannot be taken as reliable on the basis of her solitary testimony. “There are exaggerations and embellishments in the statement of the victim. Police failed to seize the mobile phone of the victim as it would have given some input into alleged messages sent by the accused. The in-fight... of the nuns and desire for power and position to control congregation is evident in the case,” judge G Gopakumar said in his verdict on Friday. The court dismissed the case, also citing reasons that the victim’s statements were contradictory on several occasions and corroborative evidences were missing. “This is a case in which grain and chaff are inextricably mixed up. It is impossible to separate chaff from the grain. She made every attempt to hide certain facts. It is also evident that the victim was swayed under the influence of others who had vested interests in the matter,” said the 289-page verdict. The order further said: “This court is unable to place reliance on the solitary testimony of the victim and hold the accused guilty of offences charged against him.” The verdict was disappointing for all women, said human rights activist Joemon Puthanpurakkal, who fought to get justice for Sister Abhaya, who was murdered in 1992, for 28 years. “It seems that instead of going after the accused, the court has done a good research on the victim and agreed to all contentions put forward by the defence,” Puthanpurakkal said. “Besides this, prosecution was also overconfident. It is disappointing verdict for all suffering women.” Abhaya’s body was recovered from a well in a convent, and while initially the police dismissed it as suicide, a nun and a priest were convicted in the case 28 years later in December 2020. Friday’s verdict was a temporary setback and the nun should continue her fight for justice, Puthanpurakkal said. Mulakkal is the first Indian bishop arrested in connection with a rape. In her complaint to police in June 2018, the victim nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by Mulakkal between 2014 and 2016. The special investigation team probing the case arrested the bishop in September 2018, and charged him with wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation. Mulakkal was the bishop of the Jalandhar diocese of the Roman Catholic church. The 43-year-old complainant nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus, a congregation under the same diocese. The case attracted national attention after five fellow nuns staged a two-week sit-in protest in Kochi, seeking action against the bishop. Though the victim filed a complaint on June 29, 2018, it took three months for police to arrest Mulakkal on September 19. Trial in the case, which started in November 2019, had concluded on January 10. The court had restrained media from publishing any matter relating to the trial. Interestingly, right before the trial started in the case, a relative of the victim, her cousin’s husband, had reportedly sent a lewd message to her, which she promptly informed her cousin. Soon after the case came up for hearing, the cousin filed a police compliant against the nun, and the defence used this to question the morality of the victim. “Soon after she filed a police complaint, there was a concerted social media attack on her by people close to the church. Many theories and stories were floated once she filed a complaint about this. And this case was part of it and it was summarily rejected the police. Sad that the court also fell into the trap set by the defence,” said Sister Jesme, who came out of the congregation, questioning the alleged ill-treatment by church authorities. The court was trying to give an interpretation that the relationship between the victim and accused was consensual, Jesme said, which she found shocking. Meanwhile, the prosecution has started discussion to file an appeal in the high court. “We have given the go-ahead. We will approach the high court in a couple of days,” said former police superintendent S Harishankar, who supervised the three-year-old investigation. His outburst against the verdict on Friday that “it was unprecedented in legal history” triggered a controversy. A defence lawyer said it was not expected from an Indian Police Service officer and this will be brought to the notice of the high court’s registrar. After walking free, Mulakkal visited some of his relatives and also Kerala Congress leader PC George on Saturday, with people close to him saying he is likely to leave for Jalandhar. A big reception was waiting for him in the diocese headquarters, they said. George, who supported Mulakkal since the case first came up, said, the “move to dent the powerful church was foiled by believers”.
16-01-2022||India||January 16 to be marked as Startup Day, says PM Modi||January 16 will be celebrated as National Startup Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared on Saturday, saying that this is India’s “golden era of startups” with immense growth potential in rural and semi-urban areas, as they will be the backbone of a new India.The number of startups in the country has jumped to 60,000 from 500 five years ago, with 42 unicorns coming up last year, signifying “self-reliant and self-confident” India. The country currently has 82 unicorns, officials said, each valued in excess of $1 billion; the number is the third highest in the world. Modi had launched the Startup India movement on January 16, 2016.“Today India is rapidly moving towards hitting a century of unicorns. I believe the golden era of India’s startups is starting now,” the Prime Minister said during an interaction with young entrepreneurs at Startup India Innovation Week, organised by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade.Startups have immense growth prospects in semi-urban and rural areas, as only half of India’s population is currently online, he said, urging the entrepreneurs to move towards villages as well. “Whether it is mobile internet, broadband connectivity or physical connectivity, aspirations of villages are rising, and rural and semi-urban areas are waiting for a new wave of expansion,” Modi said.Earlier, the startup community shared their ideas with the Prime Minister on a variety of sectors, including data-collection mechanism in agriculture, agri-marketing, health care, edtech, retail, promoting green sustainable products and sustainable means of transport. The virtual meeting was attended by ministers Piyush Goyal, Mansukh Mandaviya, Ashwini Vaisnaw, Sarbananda Sonowal, Parshottam Rupala, G. Kishan Reddy, Pashupati Kumar Paras, Jitendra Singh and Som Parkash.“I congratulate all the startups of the country, all the innovative youth, who are raising the flag of India in the world of startups,” Modi said. “For this culture of startups to reach the far-flung parts of the country, it has been decided to celebrate January 16 as National Startup Day.”Recalling the concept of the current decade as the ‘techade’ of India, he listed three important aspects of the changes that the government is making to strengthen innovation, entrepreneurship and start-up ecosystem. First, to liberate entrepreneurship and innovation from the web of government processes and bureaucratic silos. Second, creating an institutional mechanism to promote innovation. And third, handholding young innovators and young enterprises, he said.The government has taken several measures to make lives of entrepreneurs easy, he said, for example, removing problems of ‘angel tax’, simplification of tax procedure, arranging for government funding, allowing self-certification of nine labour and three environment laws, and removal of more than 25,000 compliances.The government is institutionalising innovation by involving students since childhood, the Prime Minister said. “More than 9,000 Atal Tinkering Labs are giving children a chance to innovate in schools and work on new ideas,” he said.India is experiencing exponential rise in the indicators of innovation, he said. As compared to 4,000 patents approved in 2013-14, over 28 thousand patents were granted last year. In 2013-14, about 70,000 trademarks were registered. In comparison, more than 2.5 lakh trademarks were registered in 2020-21. In 2013-14, only 4,000 copyrights were granted, compared with more than 16,000 last financial year, he said.India’s campaign for innovation has resulted in improvement of India’s ranking in the Global Innovation Index, the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/january-16-to-be-marked-as-startup-day-says-pm-modi-101642273874859.html
16-01-2022||India||DMK likely to hold indirect polls for civic body chiefs||The DMK government in Tamil Nadu has no plans to hold direct elections for the post of mayors in corporations and chairmen in municipalities and panchayats, party leaders said. Almost 10 months after coming to power in May 2021, the ruling DMK is set to test electoral waters again in urban local body polls, likely to be held in February, almost after a decade. The stakes are high as whichever party wins a majority of the wards in the 21 corporations, 138 municipalities and 490 town panchayats in the state will also get to win positions of mayors and chairmen and hold control over cities and districts. In an indirect election for heads of local bodies, the ward members elected by the people will elect a corporation mayor, municipal chairman and panchayat head. “As of now we will be going for indirect elections (to these top posts) and if there is any change, it will have to be tabled in the assembly but that is unlikely. We are just waiting for the election dates to be announced,” said a senior DMK leader in the state on condition of anonymity. Late J Jayalalithaa in 2016 had passed a legislation that provides 50% quota for women in urban local bodies and there have been indications that the ruling DMK is planning to have a woman mayor for Chennai. The capital city has had two women mayors in the 1950s and 1970s. “But, we cannot say that for sure now because the government is yet to notify details about which corporations are reserved for women and SC/STs,” says the DMK leader. “Our discussions are ongoing. What I can say is that we will ensure representation of women and people for backward classes get representation.” This is evident from the party restructuring its booth committees with members from the women’s wing and youth wing. The DMK is confident on urban local body polls as they have been on a winning streak since the 2019 parliamentary elections. After forming the government in May last year, the DMK notched a huge victory in the rural body polls held in nine newly carved districts in October last year. “We generally have a good hold in corporations and municipalities. But we are concentrating in all regions. Because governing the state and the local bodies will ensure a smooth administration, which is why we think it is better to continue with indirect elections,” the DMK leader said. TN’s seesaw in indirect polls DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi brought in direct elections to mayor’s post in 1996. His son and current chief minister M K Stalin became the first directly elected mayor of Chennai. This saw a departure in 2006 when the party decided to conduct indirect elections to the local bodies. Current health minister M Subramanian occupied the Chennai mayor’s post. This was reversed when the AIADMK rule began in 2011. The AIADMK passed a legislation in the state assembly that allowed people to directly elect the heads of urban local bodies. However, in 2016, the AIADMK decided to hold indirect elections, but the polls were deferred and have not been conducted since then. During its rule, the AIADMK government conducted elections only for local bodies in rural areas in 2019. Experts say that holding indirect elections to these posts is a way for the ruling party to exercise control over those occupying the positions. “Jayalalithaa had several issues with Saidai Duraisamy (Chennai mayor between 2011 and 2016) but she couldn’t remove him because he was the mayor elected directly by the people. Which is why in 2016 they changed it to indirect elections,” said Jayaram Venkatesan, convener of Arappor Iyakkam, a grassroots movement which has exposed several cases of corruption in local bodies. “A mayor is meant to serve public interest and not political interest. So if the mayor is indirectly elected by the councillors, there is no accountability and the party can change the mayor anytime they wish to if he doesn’t toe the line,” Venkatesan said. 
16-01-2022||India||8 dead in suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar’s Nalanda district||Eight people died after drinking illicit liquor in Nalanda, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s home district, police said on Saturday.The incident took place on Friday evening and the deceased were identified as Bhago Mistri (55), Manna Mistri (55), Dharmendra alias Nageshwar Mistri (50), Kalichanra Mistri (48), Sunil Kumar (24), Arjun Pandit (51), Jaipal Sharma (49) and Rakesh Kumar (45), all of them residents of Chhoti Palari and Pahar Talli under Sohsarai police station.Confirming deaths of eight people, superintendent of police (SP), Nalanda, Ashok Kumar, said the toll may go up as many others are injured. “We are trying to locate all those who have taken ill in the incident. At present, two people are admitted to hospitals and are said to be in critical condition, but the number could be more,” the SP said.Shivaji Chauhan and Ram Swarup, both around 50 and from the same locality, were left critically injured in the incident, police said, adding that they are being treated at Bihar Sharif sadar hospital.Family members of the deceased said the victims, who worked as construction labourers, had consumed alcohol together and fell sick after reaching home.Deputy superintendent of police, sadar, Sibli Nomani, under whose jurisdiction the incident took place, said the reasons for the death were yet to be ascertained. “Statements of the bereaved families are being recorded. Postmortem reports of the deceased are being awaited to know the exact cause of the deaths,” said Nomani.Bihar director general of police SK Singhal could not be contacted for comments. Additional chief secretary, home, Chaitanya Prasad refused to comment, saying the state police chief was the right person to comment on the incident.This is the seventh incident of hooch tragedy in Bihar in the past six months, claiming lives of more than 40 people, even as the state has been under total prohibition since April 2016.Most of the hooch tragedies have been reported from East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur districts in recent times.State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief and West Champaran MP Sanjay Jaiswal on Friday once again batted for the review of prohibition law, saying the “legislation might be well-intentioned, but its implementation had brought shame to the state”. His reaction was to a social media post of Janata Dal (United) spokesperson Abhishek Jha, who had questioned Jaiswal’s visit to the houses of victims of hooch tragedy in the latter’s home constituency.In a post, Jaiswal also claimed to have personal knowledge of many instances in which people from other states had to suffer for carrying liquor, though they were merely passing through Bihar.Expressing shock over the Friday’s incident, Janata Dal (United) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said those responsible for the incident will be dealt with strictly. “Such incidents are abated by unsocial elements, who are utterly disappointed by the liquor law. So far as the state BJP chief’s assertion is concerned, I hope that leaders of the alliance partner must abide by the coalition dharma and help the government enforce the law with full firmness. After all, they too have taken pledge to make Bihar liquor-free,” said Ranjan.Congress leader and former MLC Ajay Kumar Singh said that recurring hooch tragedies exposed the failure of the state government, adding that it was high time the liquor law is reviewed to save the poor, who generally fall prey to spurious liquor.“Leaders of the ruling parties have openly said that alcohols of good brands are easily available. But the poor mostly resort to the illegally produced country liquor as they are available cheap. The government should better focus on social awareness to dissuade people from alcohol consumption rather than using the stringent legal route,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-dead-in-suspected-hooch-tragedy-in-bihar-s-nalanda-district-101642273514853.html
16-01-2022||India||Curbs will hit industry, rue K’taka traders||The small-time business owners have questioned the Karnataka government’s decision to extend the night and weekend curfew till January 31.Opposing the government’s move, the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and India (FKCCI) president IS Prasad said, “The state government should avoid succumbing to the temptation of announcing a lockdown or imposing harsher curbs due to the rising caseload in Karnataka.”“As per many experts, even if there is a surge in cases in third wave, the focus should be on stricter enforcement of protocols, including masking, maintaining social distancing, washing hands regularly, rather than imposing a lockdown that will impact industry and trade,” read the statement. The traders, who have been suffering losses for past two years, are questioning the rationale behind the imposition since several vaccination drives have been carried out in the state. “As per the estimates of last year, the lockdown-induced losses incurred by the industries in Karnataka were nearly around ₹75,000 crore and the state suffered a revenue loss of around ₹10,000 crore per month. Before taking any decision, these factors should be considered,” said Prasad. Meanwhile, restaurant owners in the city also raised similar concerns. Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association president PC Rao said, “As many as 2,000 restaurants and hotels in Bengaluru suspended operations during the second wave, which peaked in May 2021. Of them, only half have reopened.” “If these restrictions continue, 10-15% of the existing places in Karnataka might go out of business. Many owners have invested large amounts to make sure their restaurants have a better dining facility. With these restrictions, their financial burden is only going increase,” he said. “Business was slowly picking up and we had taken our workers back, but now again the process has been disrupted,” said Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotel and Restaurants’ Federation. Ola Uber Taxi Drivers and Owners’ Association president Tanveer Pasha, said option of work from home is suitable only for the rich and people in blue-collar jobs. “Since the imposition of curfew, the demand has slashed by more than half. If these restrictions continue, more than half of Bengaluru’s auto and cab drivers will be off the road. Many have not even paid of their loans yet,” he said.  Auto driver Rajaappa said apart from his usual trips his monthly earning used to come from dropping off children at school and a daily drop of an employee to the IT park. “What was the point of the vaccination, if they are going to continue with these lockdowns?” he asked. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government is expected to take a decision on further restrictions in January last week. 
16-01-2022||India||Netaji’s birth anniversary to now be part of Republic Day celebrations||Republic Day celebrations from this year will start on January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, in line with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government’s “focus to commemorate important aspects of our history and culture,” an official said on Saturday.It was not immediately clear what this will entail. One possibility is that the government will count events to commemorate Bose’s birth anniversary held every year to be part of the Republic Day celebrations.Last year, the central government announced that January 23 will be celebrated as Parakram Diwas, or day of valour.Other such days, observance of which has become a yearly affair, are August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, October 31 as National Unity Day (birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel), November 15 as Janjatiya Gaurav Divas (Birsa Munda’s birth anniversary), November 26 as Constitution Day, and December 26 as Veer Baal Divas (a tribute to the four sons of Guru Gobind Singh), the official said, requesting anonymity.Although it was a good decision, the government needs to understand and implement his ideology to really honour the freedom fighter, according to Chandra Bose, kin of Netaji.“Subhas Chandra Bose is extremely relevant in 21st century India. We see all across the country, I don’t suggest any specific political party, all parties are engaged in divisive politics. This must stop,” he said. “Netaji envisioned a united India. If Netaji had returned to India, there would not have been a partition of India or partition of Bengal. India will again get divided, unless you bring Netaji’s ideology into the national mainstream of politics.”Ahead of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary this year, Chandra Bose, who is a member of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to have the freedom fighter’s image on currency notes. He also suggested declaring January 23 a national holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-s-birth-anniversary-to-now-be-part-of-republic-day-celebrations-101642273214983.html
16-01-2022||India||Seer Narsinghanand held in Haridwar hate speech case||The Haridwar Police on Saturday arrested seer Yati Narsinghanand in connection with hate speeches made at a three-day-long Dharm Sansad in Haridwar on December 17-19.This is the second arrest in the hate speech case after public uproar as videos of the event were widely circulated on social media and the Supreme Court sought a response from the state government on what it had done about the speeches. On January 13, the Uttarakhand Police arrested Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, the former Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board chairman who until last month went by the name Waseem Rizvi, in connection with the case.Narsinghanand is the sect chief of the influential Juna Akhada, and one of the five accused named in the FIR.Circle officer (Haridwar), Shekhar Chandra Suyal, confirmed the arrest, saying: “Narsinghanand was arrested in Haridwar on Saturday night as part of the case which was registered against him on Thursday.”“Narsinghanand would be presented before the local court on Sunday. A probe is on in the case and proper action would be taken as per law,” he added.During the Dharm Sansad, some participants had called for violence against religious minorities while one of the speakers said he wished to shoot former prime minister Manmohan Singh.The FIR, filed by the police on December 23, initially listed only one accused, Tyagi. On December 25, names of Pooja Shakun Pandey alias Annapurna Maa, and Dharamdas Maharaj, a general secretary of the Hindu Mahasabha, were added. On January 1, police added the names of event organiser Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj. Another case was registered the following day against Tyagi over the same incident.A second case was also lodged against Narsinghanand at a Haridwar police station on charges of insulting religious beliefs, and making derogatory remarks about women. The complaint was filed by a third-year law student Ruchika (who goes by her first name), police said. Narsinghanand, who is based at Dasna Temple in Ghaziabad, said that he did not say anything that offended or insulted women. 
16-01-2022||India||Woman’s version is inconsistent and exaggerated: Kerala Court in acquittal order||A court in Kerala on Friday acquitted Roman Catholic bishop Franco Mulakkal on charges of repeatedly raping a run in a convent, saying the victim’s statement was “inconsistent” and police failed to provide evidence to back her claim.In the copy of the order made available on Saturday, the court made scathing remarks on victim’s intentions, saying she was swayed under the “influence” of others and had once “accepted to drop the matter” if her convent was placed under the diocese of Bihar.Mulakkal, 57, was accused of raping the nun multiple times during his visit to a convent in Kottayam district between 2014 and 2016, when he was bishop of the Jalandhar diocese of the Roman Catholic church. The complainant is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus, a congregation under the Jalandhar diocese.Acquitting the bishop, Gopakumar G, judge of the additional district and sessions court I, Kottayam, said in his order that the victim’s claim that she was raped on 13 occasions cannot be relied upon based on her sole testimony.The court compared the victim’s statement with that of the witnesses and said there was no consistency in her statements as she gave different versions of the rape incidents. The court also doubted her statement saying that she has photographs and had exchanged emails with the bishop a day after the incidents.“She had travelled long distance with the accused in his car and had attended many functions on almost all days, next to the days of the alleged forceful sexual violence,” the court pointed out, adding that the witness who had travelled with the victim and the accused during some of those occasions had no hint about the sexual violence to which she was subjected to on the previous nights.The grievance projected by her to her companion sisters was that the accused was taking retaliatory steps for not yielding to his sexual desires, the court said, whereas her version before the court was that she was forced into sexual intercourse on 13 occasions.“Prosecution has failed to give proper explanation for the inconsistent version,” the court said. “In view of the inconsistent version of the victim, this court is of the view that she cannot be categorised as a sterling witness.”Apart from the victim’s testimony, “there is no corroborative evidence to prove the prosecution case,” the court said.“The police could not seize the mobile phone used by the victim which would have provided some input into the alleged vulgar messages sent by the accused,” it said. “The explanation offered for the non-production of the phone is thoroughly dissatisfactory.” It said the laptop also was not subjected to scientific analysis, as it was claimed that the hard disk was damaged.Although the hymen of the victim was found torn in her medical examination, it did not confirm rape, the judge said in his verdict. “Even if it is assumed that the complaint was a false complaint, from the mere fact that the victim’s hymen was found torn, penile penetration or forceful sexual intercourse cannot be inferred,” the court said in 289 page judgement.In its remarks on the trial, the judge said it was a case in which the grain and chaff were inextricably mixed up.“It is impossible to separate the grain from the chaff. There are exaggerations and embellishments in the version of the victim. She has also made every attempt to hide certain facts,” the court said.It was evident that the victim was swayed by others who had vested interests in the matter, the judge said.“The in-fight and rivalry and group fights of the nuns, and the desire for power, position and control over the congregation is evident from the demand placed by PW1 (victim) and her supporting nuns who were ready to settle the matter if their demands for a separate region under the diocese of Bihar is accepted by the church,” it said.“In the said circumstances, this court is unable to place reliance on the solitary testimony of PW1 (victim) and to hold the accused guilty of the offences charged against him,” the court said in its order acquitting Mulakkal of the offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.Many women activists, artists and legal experts criticised the verdict. some started an online campaign called Avalkoppam (with her) to vent their anger and outrage. Many of them asked the state government to move the High Court immediately.The verdict was a clear case of “miscarriage of justice,” said B Kemal Pasha, former justice of the Kerala high court. Questioning some of the findings in the verdict, the retired judge said that the Supreme Court has clearly stated that a person accused of rape can be convicted on the testimony of the victim, if she is found to be credible and trustworthy.“And delay in reporting such a case cannot be the reason for the acquittal,” justice Pasha said. “Reason for delay is well explained, going by the social background of the case.”Lawyer and human rights activist Joemon Puthanpurakkal, who fought for justice in the murder case of Sister Abhaya case for 28 years, said the court seems to have agreed with the defence. “It is a disappointing verdict for all suffering women,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/womans-version-is-inconsistent-and-exaggerated-kerala-court-in-mulakkal-s-acquittal-order-101642270340561.html
16-01-2022||India||New combat uniform unveiled on Army Day||The Indian Army on Saturday unveiled a new battledress that will provide soldiers better camouflage and more comfort at an impressive parade in Delhi Cantonment to mark the 74th Army Day. The highlight of the parade was a refreshing blend of the old and the new to demonstrate the army’s evolution over the years.The elite warriors of the Parachute Regiment took part in the parade sporting the new battle fatigues with a digital camouflage pattern that will gradually replace the existing decades-old combat uniform, even as marching contingents from the Assam Regiment and the Jammu  & Kashmir Light Infantry turned heads with the soldiers donning vintage uniforms from the 1960s and 1970s.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane inspected the Army Day parade that was attended by Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari, Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar and top officers of the armed forces. January 15 is celebrated as Army Day, as it was on this day in 1949 General (later Field Marshal) KM Cariappa took over the command of the Indian Army from General FRR Bucher, the last British Commander-in-Chief.The parade ground in Delhi Cantonment is named after Cariappa.The new combat uniform pattern was selected after a careful study of the army’s working requirements and the need to introduce uniformity in battle fatigues worn by soldiers. The National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) helped the army finalise the new uniform.While paratroopers sporting the new battledress took part in the parade with their trademark Tavor TAR-21 assault rifles, soldiers from the Assam Regiment were attired in their service uniform from the 1960s and marched with their vintage .303 rifles.The military hardware showcased by the army included tanks, infantry combat vehicles, artillery guns and surface-to-air missiles – weapons systems that are a staple at the Army Day parade.But the format of the parade was different this time. The main battle tank Arjun featured in the parade alongside the vintage Centurion tank that took part in the 1971 India-Pakistan war.Second Lieutenant Arun Khetarpal, who was posthumously awarded the hallowed Param Vir Chakra, commanded a Centurion tank named Fama Gusta JX202 during the 1971 war and single-handedly inflicted maximum damage on the enemy.Arun was only 21, and commissioned in Poona Horse only six months before the war began, when he destroyed seven Pakistani Patton tanks in the Battle of Basantar fought on December 16, 1971.Another vintage element was the OT-62 Topas armored personnel carrier inducted into the army in the 1960s. It led the mechanised infantry column of BMP-II infantry combat vehicles. Also, the locally made 155mm 45-calibre Dhanush towed artillery guns followed the vintage 75/24 Indian field gun from the 1960s.“The Army Day Parade this year showcased the evolution of various weapon systems held in the Indian Army’s inventory,” the army said in a statement. The Indian Army’s theme for the year 2022, In Stride with the Future, is an acknowledgement of the increasingly critical role played by niche and disruptive technologies in modern warfare, the statement added.The army chief awarded 15 Sena Medals, including five posthumously, for gallantry, and 23 citations to different units for outstanding performance. Naravane also released a commemorative postage stamp on Permanent Commission to Women Officers in the Indian Army.Earlier in the day, the three service chiefs laid wreaths at the National War Memorial to honour India’s fallen soldiers.Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his best wishes to soldiers, veterans and their families. “The Indian Army is known for its bravery and professionalism. Words cannot do justice to the invaluable contribution of the Indian Army towards national safety,” Modi tweeted.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the army had distinguished itself as a courageous and professional force, unwavering in its commitment to defend the country.
16-01-2022||India||‘Most underrated concepts in our society’: Rahul on ‘consent’ in marital rape||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took to Twitter to share a thought on marital rape. He wrote consent is among the most “underrate concepts in our society” and that it must be “foregrounded” in order to ensure women's safety in the country.“Consent is amongst the most underrated concepts in our society. It has to be foregrounded to ensure safety for women,” Rahul tweeted.
16-01-2022||India||Delhi, Mumbai may have hit Covid peak as cases fall, Bengal extend curbs to contain spread||India's Covid-19 infections have spiralled to see more than a lakh cases daily over the past week as the Omicron variant spreads to every corner of the country. Fresh tally of infections increased from about 1.8 lakh on Monday to nearly 2.7 lakh on Saturday, as per data available on the Union health ministry website.Although a majority of the patients in the third wave of the pandemic have so far complained of symptoms no different from a flu, experts have warned that the Delta strain, which caused the devastating second wave, is still around.Here's how this week in the pandemic looked for India:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-mumbai-may-have-hit-covid-peak-as-cases-fall-bengal-extends-curbs-to-contain-spread-101642298413498.html
