17-01-2022||India||Spectre of child marriage, trafficking looms large in Sunderbans||In September 2021, two sisters, 15 and 19, received job offers. Ordinarily, they would not have wanted to work but the argument to stay home just didn’t exist. The pandemic was raging, and their educational institutions had been shut for over a year. Their father, the only earning member of the family, had lost his job as a daily wage labourer in Kolkata.There were mouths to feed, and no money. There were no options left.So it was arranged that the two sisters, and three other women from their village in the Sunderbans in West Bengal, would travel to Delhi to work as maids in the homes of the rich and the affluent. They left home on a bus and reached southeast Delhi’s Madanpur Khadar three days later, exhausted and disoriented.Things began to unravel quickly. They sensed they had unwittingly become part of a prostitution racket.“Almost everyday we were asked to line up and be introduced to strangers. Sensing something was wrong, one of the women in our team managed to flee and return to our village. She informed police and we were rescued on October 20, and returned to our village on October 23,” the 19-year-old said, understandably unwilling to share more information.Subsequent investigations led to the arrest of six people, including prime suspect Nur Alam Khan, and a couple from the village of the two girls. The girls were sold at ₹15,000 each to the prostitution ring, police officers told HT.These two girls were rescued, but others may not have been so lucky. Experts fear many such girls were lost to the effects of the pandemic and prolonged school closures, particularly in impoverished areas.In the second part of a series on the wider impact of school closures, HT traveled to the Sunderbans to discover the ramifications of the pandemic in an area where child labour, human trafficking and child marriages have long dominated the discourse. Any gains made over the past decade may have been wiped out by the pandemic, and two cyclones.“The Sunderbans and south Bengal have always been an area of concern when it comes to trafficking and child marriages,” said Rishi Kant of non-profit Shakti Vahini, a member of the team that rescued the two sisters. “With schools closed during the Covid-19 pandemic, people losing their jobs and the delta being hit by two back-to-back cyclones – Amphan in May 2020 and Yaas in May 2021 – the children, mostly girls, have become all the more vulnerable,”Vulnerability in the SunderbansLocated on the southern tip of West Bengal where the Ganga meets the Bay of Bengal, the Sunderbans delta comprises 102 islands, of which 54 have human habitations and the rest are forest hunting grounds of the Bengal tiger.Most of the 4.5 million people that call the Sunderbans home make a living from farming, fishing, collecting forest honey or catching crabs and prawns. With no prospects of regular employment, many are now leaving the islands looking for work, travelling to cities such as Kolkata, but also states as far away as Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra.When the pandemic struck, even this tenuous system was broken. As the government invoked a harsh lockdown in March 2020, lakhs of migrants took to India’s roads, walking, climbing atop buses and trains, desperate for the solace of home, their places of work no longer able to sustain them.Around one lakh migrants returned to the Sunderbans in 2020, according to Bankim Chandra Hazra, Sunderban affairs minister of West Bengal.Mosiar Sardar, a class 12 student at a madrassa in Canning, was one among the many whose life changed in a matter of months. His father, Rezaul Sardar, used to work as a daily wage labourer in Kolkata’s Metiabruz. In June 2020, he returned home, only to return to work in December 2021. In that time, Sardar has gone from class 12 student to an auto-rickshaw driver.“My father was unemployed for more than a year. If I don’t work, my family will starve. I hope to appear for the board exams in 2022, but am unsure if I will be able to,” said Sardar.No time for learningHis family used up their savings and borrowed some more from a relative to buy the auto-rickshaw for ₹1.28 lakh in October 2020. It now earns them between ₹300 and ₹400 a day. Sardar works 12 hours a day, from six to six, ferrying passengers from Canning railway station to Godhkhali, the gateway to the Sunderbans. There is simply no time for school.Schools in West Bengal shut down in March 2020, and were reopened for classes IX to XII in February 2021. Classes continued for around two months before they were again closed in April 2021. Schools reopened in November 2021 after the second wave subsided, but have had to be shut down again from January 3 because of the third wave.Chiranjib Mondol, a teacher at the Shantigachi High School at Lahirpur on Satjelia Island, said classes for students of Class 9 to 12 started in the middle of November. “But some of our students have not attended since then. Only around 15-20 out of 44 boys in Class 9 are coming to school regularly,” Mondol said. “The attendance of girls is more than that of boys, with around 25-30 of 35 coming to school everyday. We managed to get in touch with a section of them. Some have gone to work in other states along with their parents, who are migrant labourers.”A survey in just two villages in 2021 by another teacher in Satjelia, who did not wish to be named, which was part of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan to identify school drop outs, revealed that of 224 girls surveyed, at least seven were married during the pandemic, and at least four boys left for other states to work.“When then lockdown was there, restrictions were imposed and schools were closed, there was very little news filtering in on what was going on,” said Nihar Ranjan Raptan, founder secretary of Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra, a NGO working in the delta. “Now, a grim picture is emerging.”Child marriages rise during pandemicThe school closures in the Sunderbans also brought to a grinding halt an inbuilt mechanism that kept a check on child marriages and truancy: the Kanyashree clubs. These clubs are essentially information networks developed by each school across the state, particularly in the Sunderbans, where the students act as eyes and ears of school authorities, keeping an eye out for child marriages.The clubs are a part of the Kanyashree programme, a state government scheme launched in 2013 by the Mamata Banerjee government. Under the scheme, a girl student gets around ₹1,000 per year and ₹25,000 once she turns 18, if she is unmarried and studying in school. She gets another ₹25,000 for her marriage if she is over 18 years under the Rupashree scheme.If she is unmarried and continues with postgraduate studies, she gets another ₹25,000 under the Kanyashree III scheme. Across the state, there are 7.4 million girls enrolled under the Kanyashree programme.“This huge (Kanyashree) network helps us keep a tab on students. From this network we found out that at least three students were not in the village,” said Rocky Das, a teacher Rangabelia High School. “We contacted their families and found out that they have gone to Andhra Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands to work.”If some schools like the Rangbelia High School, which has around 1,130 students in Gosaba, managed to keep the clubs alive, for most others, with students back home, the connection between them and the teachers was lost. In academic year 2020-21, when the pandemic was raging and reports of child marriages were doing the rounds, in just one school in Gosaba, 22 applications under the Kanyashree programme were rejected after the girl was found to be married. Between April and November 2021, there were 11 such rejections.“When we get to know (about the child marriage), police are informed. But the parents are so poor that they beg us not to lodge a complaint as it would ruin the lives of both the boy and the girl. They are let off with a warning and an undertaking,” said Sudeshna Roy, special consultant with the West Bengal Commission for the Protection of Child Rights.Despite some advances made in the past decade, the girl child is still considered by many as a burden, Roy said. “So, whenever there is a loss of income in the family, the girl is married off even though she is yet to attain legal age. Sometimes she is sent off to work and that how she often becomes a victim of trafficking” she said.A help desk introduced by the commission to receive calls on cases of child marriage in June 2020 received 169 calls from across the state, with a majority coming from south Bengal and the Sunderbans.Lost childhoodsAcross the country, experts in the field said school closures and the economic losses and a cycle of debt for the poor precipitated by the pandemic meant more child trafficking and marriages.“The Bachpan Bachao Andolan (save childhood campaign) after a survey in April 2020 warned that such incidents would rise once the lockdown was relaxed. Between March 2020 and November 2021, we have rescued at least 11,044 children,” said Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of the campaign. “Of these, around a thousand were rescued when they were in transit from one state to another.”Most of these cases were reported from states such as Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan. While the boys were mostly brought from Bihar, Odisha and Chattisgarh, the girls came from West Bengal, Jharkhand and Assam, said Tingal.These dangers were acknowledged, even predicted by the Union home ministry as well when in an advisory in July 2020, it asked all states to set up new anti-human trafficking units and upgrade infrastructure of existing ones to combat and prevent the menace.In December 2020, the National Human Rights Commission of India also asked all state governments to set up a 24/7 helpline for the reporting and tracking of these cases, asking for special surveillance in railway stations, bus depots, airports, and routes to remote villages.“Trafficking thrives on human vulnerability,” said Sunitha Krishnan of Prajwala, who has worked on these issues for decades and was awarded the Padma Shri in 2016. “The Covid-19 pandemic triggered the biggest ever migrant crisis in the country. The traffickers found this as one the best opportunities.”“I would say the rate of trafficking of women and girls shot up 100-fold during this time,” she said. “During the lockdown, when the entire world was going inwards, trafficking went outwards. Traffickers found newer ways to trap people. It was not just the traditionally poor people who fell in trap, but even the new poor who fell victims. The potential targets increased. Online methods were increasingly used to trap the weaker section by the well-oiled trafficking network.”Speaking to HT, Sashi Panja, state minister for women and child development and social welfare said, “Covid-19 hit us only in early 2020. But child marriage, trafficking and child labour has always been a challenge for us, which the government is fighting along with social workers. We need to watch out for the students mostly in the upper primary section. There is no denying that incidents have taken place. Chances of trafficking could be limited because people were not moving out during Covid but child labour may have gone up.”Roy said education and awareness were the only ways forward. “It is not just education of girls but also boys because whenever there is a marriage, a boy is also involved,” she said. “Sex education and lifestyle education is also very important.”Back at the Sunderbans, a worried Chiranjib Mondol can only think of one way where losses from the previous year can begin to be mitigated. “We need to open schools at the earliest,” he said. “Once the academic processes, studies, exams, annual programs such as sports, midday meals start, I am sure we can return to some form of normalcy.”(With inputs from Neeraj Chauhan)
17-01-2022||India||After ‘coup’, premises allotted to Kashmir Press Club taken back||Srinagar: The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday cancelled the allotment of building and land to the Kashmir Press Club, two days after the building was taken over by a small group of journalists, flanked by the police. The government said that it wanted to avoid a law and order situation after “rival groups levelled various allegations against each other”. The premises have been handed over back to the estates department.The government had faced criticism after the takeover of the KPC premises by a group of journalists led by M Salim Pandit and accompanied by armed policemen on Saturday. The Editors Guild of India termed the move a ‘coup’ while former chief minister’s Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti went on to tag it as a ‘state sponsored coup’.“…The rival groups have been levelling various allegations against each other also with regard to the use of the premises belonging to the estates department that was being used for the legitimate use of the members of the journalistic fraternity. In view of this aspect of the dispute and in view of the reports in social media and other sources indicating a potential law and order situation, including a threat of breach of peace and the safety of bonafide journalists, an intervention has become necessary,” the government said in a statement issued through the information department.Although the 2-year-term of 11-member executive and management body of the 300-member strong club, which was elected in 2019, had ended last year in July, fresh elections could not be conducted since the club itself had to be registered again. The re-registration certificate which was issued on December 29, was suspended again on January 13. Nine journalists’ bodies of Kashmir, including the elected Kashmir Press Club body, had termed the takeover as “illegal and arbitrary”. The head of the ‘disgruntled’ group, Salim Pandit, said that the term of the present press club had expired in July and the club was in a “mess”.The government statement said that KPC as a registered body has ceased to exist and its managing body too has come to a legal closure on July 14, 2021, the date on which its tenure came to an end.“In its failure to register itself under the central Societies of Registration Act, further compounded by its failure to hold elections to constitute a new managing body, some individuals of the erstwhile club have been committing illegalities on several counts, least of which are false portrayal of being owner-managers of an entity which is no longer in legal vogue,” it said.It said that in view of the “dissensions between various groups of journalists, it has been decided that the allotment of the premises at Polo View in view of the now deregistered Kashmir Press Club be cancelled and control of land and buildings situated at Polo View Srinagar which belongs to the Estates Department be reverted back to the said Department”.“The government is committed to a free and fair press…and also hopes that a duly registered bona fide society of all journalists shall be constituted as soon as possible and the same shall be able to approach the government for reallocation of the premises,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-coup-premises-allotted-to-kashmir-press-club-taken-back-101642442202372.html
17-01-2022||India||Abhishek Banerjee reaches Goa to finalise nominees for upcoming assembly polls||Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee reached Goa on Monday evening on a three-day trip to finalise the list of candidates the party wants to field in the upcoming Goa assembly elections. TMC leaders said the party may contest 32 of Goa’s 40 assembly seats against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and leave the remaining eight for its ally, the Maharashtawadi Gomanthak Party. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said that she wants to consolidate anti-BJP forces and contest polls in other states with a target to win. Abhishek Banerjee, who is seen as the driving force behind this expansion plan, announced on June 8 that TMC will set up units in other states with the aim to take the BJP head-on. TMC leaders also said that Uttar Pradesh-based Samajwadi Party (SP) wants Mamata Banerjee to campaign for it for the coming assembly polls in the state. SP national vice-president Kiranmay Nanda will meet Mamata Banerjee at her south Kolkata residence on Tuesday afternoon. “Our party chief Akhilesh Yadav wants Mamata Banerjee to campaign for us in UP. The BJP has stopped all campaigns by the opposition citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite that, people are attending Yadav’s meetings in large numbers. Mamata Banerjee does not want to contest any seat in UP. We will let her decide how she will campaign for the SP,” Nanda told HT on Monday evening. The Congress has already announced that it will have no alliance with TMC in Goa. Taking a dig at the TMC, Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “Mamata Banerjee’s only intention is to weaken the Congress by splitting anti-BJP votes. There are around 1100000 voters in Goa but the TMC is spending crores to capture votes.” BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said Abhishek Banerjee is making a futile attempt. “This is a good time for tourists to visit Goa. Let him enjoy the weather and the ambience. Beyond that, he cannot do anything,” said Ghosh. Following the resounding victory over the BJP in the 2021 Bengal assembly polls, the TMC renewed its contract with the Indian Political Action Committee, or I-PAC, the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor. Kishor, who has left I-PAC, has been meeting regional leaders in different states since June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhishek-banerjee-reaches-goa-to-finalise-nominees-for-upcoming-assembly-polls-101642442081183.html
17-01-2022||India||In revised guidelines, govt details use of Covid drugs and therapies with riders||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday issued a revised clinical guidance for management of adult patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wherein it said anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory therapy, such as steroids, can have the risk of secondary infection like invasive mucormycosis, when used too early, at higher dose or for longer than required.It said there was no evidence of injectable steroids benefitting Covid patients not requiring oxygen supplementation or in continuation after discharge.The revised guidelines were issued by AIIMS, ICMR-Covid-19 National Task Force and Joint Monitoring Group (DGHS) under the Union health ministry.The guidelines continued to recommend emergency use authorisation (EUA) or off-label use of remdesivir in patients with “moderate to severe” disease and those with no renal or hepatic dysfunction within 10 days of the onset of any symptom. It warned against use of the drug for patients who are not on oxygen support or in home settings.COVID-19 National Task Force under Ministry of Health and Family Welfare releases revised clinical guidance for the management of adult COVID-19 patients pic.twitter.com/x4R6ZntVnzIt said injection methylprednisolone 0.5 to one mg/kg in two divided doses, or an equivalent dose of dexamethasone, can be given usually for a duration of five to 10 days in moderate cases. The same drug can be given for the same duration in severe cases in two divided doses of one to two mg/kg."Inhalational budesonide (given via metered dose inhaler/dry powder inhaler) at a dose of 800 mcg BD for five days can be given in mild cases if symptoms (fever and/or cough) are persistent beyond five days of disease onset,” the statement read.If cough persists for more than two-three weeks, one should opt for investigation for tuberculosis and other conditions, it added.According to the guidelines, EUA or off-label use of the tocilizumab drug may be considered for use in the presence of severe disease, preferably within 24 to 48 hours of onset of severe disease or intensive care unit (ICU) admission.Tocilizumab may be considered for patients with significantly raised inflammatory markers, and not improving despite use of steroids with there being no active bacterial, fungal or tubercular infection, they stated. Coronavirus patients have been classified into those affected by mild, moderate and severe disease, the guidelines stated.According to the guidance note, upper respiratory tract symptoms without shortness of breath or hypoxia have been categorised as mild disease and have been advised home isolation and care. Those suffering from mild Covid should seek medical attention if they have difficulty in breathing, high grade fever, or severe cough lasting for more than five days.Those having breathlessness with SpO2 fluctuating between 90-93 per cent, can get admitted to a ward, and they will be considered moderate cases. Such patients should be given oxygen support and awake proning should be encouraged in all patients requiring supplemental oxygen therapy, in sequential position changes every two hours, the guidelines stated.Respiratory rate over 30 per minute, breathlessness or SpO2 lower than 90 per cent on room air should be considered as severe disease and such patients have to be admitted to an ICU as they will need respiratory support.Such patients should be put on respiratory support. Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) -- helmet or face mask interface depending on availability -- may be considered in those with increasing oxygen requirements if work of breathing is low.High flow nasal cannula should be considered in patients with increasing oxygen requirements. Intubation should be prioritised in patients with high work of breathing if NIV is not tolerated and institutional protocol for ventilatory management should be used when required, the new guidelines said.Those aged above 60 years, or those having cardiovascular disease, hypertension and coronary artery disease diabetes mellitus and other immunocompromised states, such as HIV, active tuberculosis, chronic lung, kidney or liver disease, cerebrovascular disease or obesity are at high risk for severe disease and mortality, the guidelines stated.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-revised-guidelines-govt-details-use-of-covid-drugs-and-therapies-with-riders-101642440124583.html
17-01-2022||India||Global throwaway culture to investing in India: Highlights of PM Modi’s Davos address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday delivered his address virtually at the World Economic Forum, Davos Agenda, and touched upon a range of topics during his speech.Modi opened his remarks by hailing the country’s vaccination drive against the Covid-19 pandemic and went on to speak about several topics such as economic reforms, climate change, digital infrastructure, digital payments and also called for investments in the country at the global forum.Here are some of his top quotes during the address:Also read | PM Modi talks of India's ‘bouquet of hope’ at World Economic Forum||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-throwaway-culture-to-investing-in-india-highlights-of-pm-modi-s-davos-address-101642437880418.html
17-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu jabs all kids in 15-18 age group with first anti-Covid dose||All eligible beneficiaries in the 15 to 18 years age group have been immunised against Covid-19 with the first dose of the vaccine in Tamil Nadu, said health minister Ma Subramanian. The vaccination drive for the young adults began across the country on January 3.“100 per cent school students between 15 to 18 years in Tamil Nadu have been inoculated with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine,” news agency ANI quoted state Subramanian as saying on Monday.As of 8.15pm, the state administered 18,66,382 doses of the vaccine to beneficiaries between 15 and 17 years of age, according to data from the Co-WIN dashboard. Also, a total of 9,00,11,768 doses have been administered so far, including 93,657 precautionary third doses.Also read | Tamil Nadu shuts schools for all classes till January 31 amid Covid-19 spreadOn Monday, 23,443 more people tested positive for the disease along with 20 fatalities, taking the total caseload to 29,63,366 and the death toll to 37,009, according to a bulletin from the state health department. The active caseload was recorded at 1,52,348.Of the new cases, Chennai added the most numbers with 8,591 new cases in the last 24 hours, followed by 2,236 cases in Chengalpattu and 2,042 cases in Coimbatore.Meanwhile, the state has reported 241 cases of the Omicron variant so far and 231 of them have been discharged while the 10 remaining cases have been cross-notified to other states such as Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Jharkhand and Puducherry. Chennai alone has reported 144 cases of the total Omicron cases in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-health-minister-says-100-of-15-18-age-group-jabbed-with-covid-first-dose-101642437258938.html
17-01-2022||India||Assam logs highest-ever daily Covid-19 cases at 6,982; positivity rate crosses 10%||Assam on Monday recorded 6,982 new Covid-19 cases-- the highest single day surge since the pandemic began two years ago and the overall test positivity rate (TPR) reached the highest mark till date of 10.75%. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took to Twitter to inform about the surge. Among the districts, Kamrup (Metropolitan), which includes Guwahati, recorded the highest number of 1491 new cases while 11 people died due to the disease across the state. Like the rest of the country, Assam has witnessed a rise in Covid-19 cases since the beginning of this month with new infections doubling nearly every three days. The overall recovery rate, which was over 98% at the end of last month, came down to 95.18% on Monday. In view of the surge, the Assam government has decided to treat all new Covid-19 cases as that of the Omicron variant of the virus. Night curfew timings were increased from 10 pm to 6 am last week and from January 15, the government has banned entry of those not fully-vaccinated from public places, offices and means of transport. Addressing journalists on January 7, CM Sarma had speculated that between January 20 and January 30, Assam will have nearly as many cases during the peak of the second wave last year (around 6,500 cases in a day). On Monday, the figure touched nearly 7,000—three days earlier than anticipated. “We assess that this time the peak might be anywhere between 10,000 to 12,000 or maybe more. So as per our estimation, the number of infections will be much more than the first and second waves of Covid-19,” Sarma had said. 
17-01-2022||India||‘Pro-Planet People’: PM Modi talks climate in World Economic Forum address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually addressed the World Economic Forum (WEF) at its online Davos Agenda summit, where he introduced the idea of a “P3 (Pro-Planet People) movement” that underlines India's climate change commitments at the global forum.Also Read | PM Modi talks of India's ‘bouquet of hope’ at World Economic ForumRecalling the fact that he had introduced a similar idea – ‘Mission L.I.F.E – Lifestyle for Environment’ at the COP26 climate summit last year, Modi said the P3 movement will now help India achieve its sustainable environmental goals.In his WEF Davos Agenda address, the Prime Minister reiterated India's “clean, green, sustainable, and reliable” energy goals, which entails a net-zero carbon emission target by 2070.Talking about lifestyle changes that must be made to meet climate commitments, Modi said, “We have to accept that our lifestyle is also a big challenge for the climate.”Also Read | Average time for environmental clearance down to less than 90 days: Govt“Throwaway culture and consumerism have made the climate challenge more serious,” the Prime Minister said, adding, “It is important for Mission 'LIFE' to become a global mass movement.”On November 1 last year, Modi had announced at the Glasgow summit on climate change that India’s non-fossil energy capacity will reach 500GW by 2030, meeting 50 per cent of the country’s energy requirements by 2030.He had said that India will reduce its total projected carbon emissions by one billion tonnes between now and 2030, reduce the carbon intensity of India’s economy by 45 per cent by 2030 over 2005 levels, and achieve net-zero emissions by 2070.Modi, however, had also flagged that these ambitious actions would be impossible without adequate climate finance from developed nations.Besides India's climate change commitments, the Prime Minister on Monday also spoke about the successful nationwide vaccination campaign inoculating crores of Indians against the coronavirus and the country's unwavering trust in democracy and technology to empower the 21st century with the temperament and talent of his fellow countrymen – a phenomenon that he described as a “bouquet of hope” in these difficult times marked by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proplanet-people-pm-modi-talks-climate-in-world-economic-forum-address-101642432204196.html
17-01-2022||India||'Stop playing Twitter Twitter with PM': BJP-JDU's open duel involves Asoka and even RJD||A long post on Facebook by the Bihar unit head of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) issuing a warning to ally Janata Dal (United) over alleged controversial remarks against Emperor Asoka has led to a word of words in the ruling camp.Hours after Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal demanded the arrest of Daya Prakash Sinha, the Sahitya Akademi Award winning playwright, and asked the Nitish Kumar-led government to "stop playing Twitter Twitter with the Prime Minister”, a strongly worded rejoinder came from JD(U) parliamentary board chief Upendra Kushwaha who accused the former of trying to wash his hands off the matter by putting the ball in the state government's court.Last week, Jaiswal had lodged a complaint against Sinha, also a Padma Shri recipient, of denigrating the historical figure considered "the pride of Bihar" and spreading "incorrect information" that he was the national convenor of the BJP cultural cell.In a lengthy post, he demanded arrest of the dramatist who resides in Uttar Pradesh, in the light of the FIR and "trial before a fast track court"."Once Sinha is pronounced guilty, a delegation of the Bihar government may meet the President (Ram Nath Kovind) with the request that Padma Shri awarded to the convicted person be withdrawn," said Jaiswal.In a recent interview, Sinha expressed the view that Asoka was very much like Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb, as both rose to power after fratricide and projected an image of piety to appear respectable. Since then, Sinha who has won the literary award for a play based on Asoka is in the eye of a storm.Soon after, the JD(U), which draws its support base from Koeris and Kurmis, had mounted an offensive on the issue. The Maurya dynasty was founded by Chandragupta Maurya, Asoka's grandfather, who is an OBC icon.Jaiswal, however, ticked off the JDU’s national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan and Kushwaha, without mentioning either by name. "One of you has been a minister at the Centre and the other in the state... asking the Prime Minister to withdraw Padma Shri given by the President is nothing but bakwaas (nonsense)".Citing the example of wrestler Sushil Kumar who has not been stripped of a Padma Award despite being charged with murder, Jaiswal said no recipient of the civilian honour has been stripped of the same in "74 years" since Independence.Kushwaha took the bait and came out with an open letter addressed to Jaiswal, stating that his attempt to make withdrawal of Sinha's Padma Shri consequent upon his conviction was "laughable", given his mention of Sushil Kumar's example."For you, the matter may have ended with your eyewash of the complaint you have registered with the Bihar police. Our protests will continue till the honours bestowed upon Sinha are withdrawn. And we don't care who is supposed to do the needful, the President or the Prime Minister," Kushwaha said.In his post, Jaiswal also took exception to JD(U) leaders repeatedly tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Twitter and warned them of a backlash from the BJP's troll army. "Stop playing Twitter Twitter with the Prime Minister. He is the pride and honoor of every BJP activist. If you don't stop doing this, 76 lakh party workers in the state will give a befitting reply," he said.Jaiswal further said the BJP was founded on the principle of cultural nationalism and it can brook no distortion of the glorious history of Indian kings. "It, however, is in favour of educating the young generation about the excesses committed by Bakhtiyar Khilji and Aurangzeb," said Jaiswal in an apparent dig at the JD(U)'s proclaimed commitment to secularism.He also pointed towards the resurgence of the RJD, founded and headed by Kumar’s arch-rival Lalu Prasad. "We do not want the chief minister’s residence to become a den of criminals like it was before 2005," said Jaiswal. Kumar became the chief minister of Bihar in 2005. Using a Ramayana metaphor, Jaiswal said, "The wolf is on the prowl wearing the guise of a golden deer. A generation has been born since 2005 and it is getting enticed, since it does not fathom Ravana's designs". The RJD, which is now being steered by Prasad's younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav, has the largest number of MLAs in the state.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-playing-twitter-twitter-with-pm-bjp-jdu-s-open-duel-over-asoka-row-101642434853854.html
17-01-2022||India||Bengal government relaxes Covid-19 curbs as positivity rate drops||The West Bengal government on Monday relaxed some of the restrictions imposed due to spiralling Covid-19 cases, as it allowed gyms to reopen and gave permission for jatra (theatre) and outdoor shooting. The move comes at a time when the positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in the state has dipped from 33.8% on January 9 to 26.4% on Monday. An order issued by the state government on Monday said that gyms could now reopen with 50% of the capacity every day till 9 pm, provided staff and users were either fully vaccinated or were RT-PCR negative. Jatra (theatres) have been allowed up to 9 pm with 50% capacity in an outdoor venue. In an indoor venue, a maximum of 200 people may be allowed. Outdoor shootings for films and televisions have also been permitted. “The daily count of Covid-19 cases had shot up to more than 24,000 on January 9, while on Monday it dipped to 9,385. The positivity rate, too, had dropped during the same period,” said a senior official of the state government. On Monday, Kolkata registered 1,879 fresh cases of the Covid-19 infection. According to statistics published by the Union health ministry, the weekly positivity rate of Kolkata, which had shot up to 57.9% between January 2 and January 8, has dropped to 53.5% between January 10 and January 16. “There is no place for complacency and we have to be very cautious at least till the first week of February. The positivity rate of Kolkata, even though it has come down, is still higher than most of the cities including Delhi and Mumbai,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, Mukherjee, is a member of the expert committee that was set up in 2020 to advise chief minister Mamata Banerjee on pandemic-related matters. While the death toll was 18 on January 9, it has jumped to 33 on Monday. On January 15 and January 16 at least 39 and 36 people had died. The recovery rate has also dropped from 94% to around 90% in the last one week. It was only on January 2 that the state government imposed restrictions closing down schools and colleges while allowing only 50% workforce in offices and putting a 50% cap on trains and metro. Direct flights from UK were stopped and flights from Delhi and Mumbai were allowed to land only three days a week. On Saturday, the West Bengal election commission had postponed the polls in four civic bodies by three weeks, even as the state government relaxed some of the restrictions. Marriage ceremonies were allowed to be held with 200 people or 50% of the seating capacity of the venue. Earlier the cap was 50 people. The state also allowed fairs and melas to be organised following Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-government-relaxes-covid-19-curbs-as-positivity-rate-drops-101642434640213.html
17-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: China to send 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses to Africa and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China to send another 1bn Covid vaccines to Africa: XiChina will supply another one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to African countries, President Xi Jinping announced at the all-virtual Davos forum on Monday, adding that 150 million vaccine doses will donated to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries. Read morePM Modi talks of India's ‘bouquet of hope’ at World Economic ForumPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually addressed the World Economic Forum, Davos Agenda, wherein he spoke about the country's bouquet of hope. Read more As Covid-19 cases dip, Bengal eases virus restrictions: Details hereThe West Bengal government on Monday added a few more relaxations in its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols in the wake of a fall in the daily case count. Read more'If given an opportunity...': ODI vice-captain Bumrah opens up on prospects of leading Team India in Tests after KohliAmid three popular choices for the position of Test captaincy in the Indian cricket team, pacer Jasprit Bumrah is slowly emerging as one of the likely candidates that the selectors might want to look at for the role after Virat Kohli had announced his decision to step down from the position last week. Read moreAkshay Kumar thanks Twinkle Khanna for ‘21 years of adventure’ with pic from anniversary date, fan calls them ‘cuties’Actor Akshay Kumar and his wife, actor-turned-author Twinkle Khanna are celebrating their 21st wedding anniversary. On the occasion, Akshay penned a heartfelt note for Twinkle on social media. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-china-to-send-1-billion-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-africa-and-all-the-latest-news-101642434010692.html
17-01-2022||India||PM Modi talks of India's ‘bouquet of hope’ at World Economic Forum||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually addressed the World Economic Forum, Davos Agenda, wherein he spoke about the country's bouquet of hope. Besides successfully vaccinating crores of Indians against the coronavirus, the Prime Minister spoke about India's unwavering trust on democracy and technology to empower the 21st century with the temperament and talent of Indians as part of this bouquet of hope. “India is celebrating its 75th year of Independence. At the same time, the country administered 156 crore vaccine doses to its population,” he said.He further spoke about how lifestyle changes were essential to fight the climate change crisis. “The current throwaway culture and consumerism have made climate challenge more serious.”Modi said keeping our goal of 'Global good' we have committed to net zero target by 2070. India's growth will be green, clean, sustainable and reliable, he added.Also read | Global throwaway culture to investing in India: Highlights of PM Modi’s Davos address“Though India constitutes 70 per cent of the global population that takes up power commission of only 5 per cent, our effort for sustainable development is 100 per cent.”Speaking about India's contribution towards the world during the pandemic, he said, “Our multi-lingual, cultural environment is not only our strength but the strength of the world.” "In this period of the coronavirus pandemic, India showcased its strength by providing free food to more than 80 crore of our citizens… Today, India is the third-largest pharma producer in the world. During this time, we have  seen how India has followed the vision of 'One Earth, One Health' is saving crores of lives by giving essential medicines, vaccines to many countries," he added. Today, India has the world's largest, safe and successful digital payments platform. In the last month alone, 4.4 billion transactions have taken place in India through Unified Payments Interface (UPI), he said.Stating that this is the best time to invest in India, Modi said the entrepreneurship spirit that Indians have, the ability to adopt new technology, can give new energy to each of our global partners.“In 2014, there were a few hundred registered startups in India. Today, their number has crossed 60,000 with more than 10,000 registered in the last six months. More than 50 lakh software developers are working in the country today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-talks-of-india-s-bouquet-of-hope-at-world-economic-forum-101642431930023.html
17-01-2022||India||Stalin seeks PM Modi’s intervention over Tamil Nadu's exclusion from R-Day tableaux||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his “urgent intervention” over the exclusion of the state’s tableau from the Republic Day parade in Delhi this year.In his letter, Stalin said he was deeply disappointed over the fact that Tamil Nadu’s tableau showcasing renowned freedom fighters would not be included in the parade.“This is a matter of grave concern to the state of Tamil Nadu and its people and I request your urgent intervention to arrange to include the tableau of Tamil Nadu that will showcase the freedom fighters of Tamil Nadu in the Republic Day Parade 2022 in New Delhi,” he wrote.குடியரசு தின அணிவகுப்பில், தமிழ்நாட்டிலிருந்து நாட்டின் விடுதலைக்காகப் போராடிய வீரர்களின் உருவங்கள் அடங்கிய ஊர்தி இடம்பெறுவது மறுக்கப்பட்டிருப்பது குறித்து மாண்புமிகு முதலமைச்சர் @mkstalin அவர்கள் மாண்புமிகு பிரதமர் @narendramodi அவர்களுக்குக் கடிதம் எழுதியுள்ளார். pic.twitter.com/l33BpS3WXcHe said the theme “Tamil Nadu in the Freedom Struggle” was chosen in line with the Centre’s theme for this year, “India @75- Freedom Struggle, Ideas @ 75, Achievements @75, Actions @75, & Resolve @ 75”.He said state representatives had appeared thrice before the expert committee thrice and the latter had expressed satisfaction with the theme during the first meeting.The state’s tableau was planned to have Tamil freedom fighters during the British Raj in the front and those from the times of the East India Company at the back, according to the CM. He added VO Chidambaranar, Subramania Bharathi, Velu Nachiyar and Marudhupandiyar brothers, all who were from the state and fought against the British, were part of the tableau.Also read | Mamata writes to PM Modi over R-Day tableau rejection, says ‘profoundly shocked’“VO Chidambaranar, Maha Kavi Bharathiar, Veeramangai Velu Nachiyar, Maruthu brothers are few among the several freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu. Exclusion of the tableau of Tamil Nadu will deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said.“I am given to understand that Tamil Nadu was not called for the fourth round of meeting and it was informed that the state of Tamil Nadu has been left out while shortlisting,” he added.Earlier, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the Kerala state government have expressed their disappointments over the rejection of their respective states’ tableaux from the Republic Day Parade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-seeks-pm-s-intervention-over-tamil-nadu-s-exclusion-from-r-day-tableaux-101642424135238.html
17-01-2022||India||Abu Dhabi fire: Embassy in close touch with UAE officials over 2 Indian nationals' death||The Indian embassy in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) said it was in close touch with the authorities concerned regarding the death of two Indian nationals in an explosion at Mussafah near ADNOC’s storage tanks at the industrial city of Abu Dhabi.A Pakistani national was the third victim of the explosions and fires that followed a suspected drone attack by Yemen’s Houthi rebels on Abu Dhabi. Another six persons were injured in the explosions.“UAE authorities have informed that the explosion at Mussafah, near ADNOC’s storage tanks, has led to 3 casualties, which includes 2 Indian nationals. The Indian Embassy in UAE is in close touch with concerned UAE authorities for further details,” the embassy said in a statement.Earlier, the envoy to UAE Sunjay Sudhir said the identities of the two deceased Indians were being ascertained. “Two Indian nationals killed. Their identities being ascertained,” Sudhir was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.State-run Emirates News Agency WAM said preliminary investigations suggested that the cause of the fires were "small flying objects, possibly belonging to drones that fell in the two areas”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abu-dhabi-fire-embassy-in-touch-with-uae-officials-over-2-indians-death-101642419459045.html
17-01-2022||India||Republic Day flypast to recall 1971 war glory||The military flypast at the upcoming Republic Day parade will feature flying formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna operation, apart from showcasing the Indian Air Force’s combat capabilities, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday. As many as 75 different aircraft from the IAF, army and navy --- India is celebrating the 75th year of its Independence --- will take part in the January 26 flying display, including Rafales, Sukhoi-30s, Jaguars, C-130J special operations aircraft, Mi-35 gunships, MiG-29K maritime fighters and P-8I maritime surveillance aircraft, IAF officials said at a press preview of the flypast. “This will be the largest and grandest display,” an official said. The flying display is the highlight of India’s biggest ceremonial parade. The indigenous Tejas light combat aircraft and the Mirage 2000 jets are not taking part in the parade as single-engine aircraft are normally not permitted to fly over Rajpath though the LCA made its debut at the 2017 parade. The Tangail formation will feature a vintage Dakota aircraft along with two Dornier 228 aircraft, the officials said. The Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka --- the biggest airborne operation mounted by Indian paratroopers --- set the stage for surrender by the rival army. The aim of the operation was to capture the Poongli Bridge on Jamalpur-Tangail-Dhaka road and the ferry site on Louhajang river to intercept Pakistani army’s 93 Brigade that was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka. Around 750 men of the 2nd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment were involved in the successful mission. The paratroopers defeated a force that was three times numerically superior and shattered the will of the Pakistani army to defend Dhaka. The Meghna formation to commemorate a critical heli-borne operation during the 1971 war will involve a CH-47F Chinook helicopter and four Mi-171V choppers, the officials said. IAF helicopters played a critical role in moving troops across the Meghna river in erstwhile East Pakistan.Also, the IAF tableau at the parade will display of fighter planes attacking the Governor House in Dhaka and a model of the Gnat fighter that played an important part in the 1971 war. The 1971 war, which ended with the liberation of Bangladesh, gave India a new generation of heroes including Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon. Then 26, he is the first and only person in IAF to be decorated with Param Vir Chakra, the country’s highest war-time military honour. He was posthumously awarded PVC. His moment of glory came on December 14, 1971, when the Srinagar airfield faced a furious attack by at least six Sabre aircraft of the Pakistan Air Force. In the midst of the strafing of the airfield by the enemy aircraft that presented grave danger to his own safety, Sekhon took off in his Gnat, heroically engaged a pair of Sabres, shot them down and forced the PAF package to retreat before his own aircraft was hit and exploded into a fireball. In December, India observed the Swarnim Vijay Parv at India Gate to mark the culmination of year-long celebrations organised across the country to commemorate the 50th anniversary of victory in the 1971 war. The 13-day war ended on December 16 with the Indian Army taking 93,000 Pakistanis as prisoners of war. The Republic Day flypast will end with 17 Jaguar fighters flying in a formation to commemorate the 75th year of the country’s Independence. 
17-01-2022||India||India's first mRNA vaccine may be effective against Omicron, human trials to begin soon||Amid the latest nationwide surge in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant, India's first mRNA (messenger RNA) vaccine is set to begin its human trials soon.Officials familiar with the development told news agency ANI trials are expected to begin in February. Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals has submitted phase II data of the mRNA vaccine and also completed recruitment for the phase III data, they added.The officials said the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is likely to review the data soon. The mRNA vaccine has also been developed for the Omicron variant, and it will soon be tested on humans for efficacy and immunogenicity.What is the name of this mRNA vaccine?In September last year, Gennova had issued a press statement, providing an update about the vaccine trials. The pharmaceuticals company had said the DCGI had approved in August that year the phase II and phase III study protocols for India's first mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine, developed by Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Limited.The name of the vaccine is HGCO19, it said, adding that Gennova had submitted the interim clinical data of the phase I study to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), India's national regulatory authority.Early studies found vaccine ‘safe, tolerable’The Gennova press statement said the vaccine subject expert committee had reviewed the interim phase I data and found that HGCO19 was “safe, tolerable, and immunogenic” in the participants of the study.Where are the trials being held?The company said the study is being conducted in India at approximately 10-15 sites in phase II and 22-27 sites in phase III. “Gennova is using the DBT-ICMR clinical trial network sites for this study," it said.mRNA vaccines belong to the category of nucleic acid vaccines, which use genetic material from disease-causing viruses or pathogens to trigger an immune response against it within the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-first-mrna-vaccine-may-be-effective-against-omicron-human-trials-to-begin-soon-101642417041675.html
17-01-2022||India||Texas hostage taker’s Pakistan connection||UK national Malik Faisal Akram from Blackburn, the hostage-taker at the synagogue in Texas on Saturday, hailed from the Jhelum district in Punjab, Pakistan, and his family had emigrated to the UK nearly 50 years ago. Akram, who died during the situation, had identified himself as Faisal Siddiqui, brother of Pakistan-born neuroscientist Aafia Siddiqui and had asked for her release from a federal prison in Texas, where she is serving an 86-year sentence for attempting to murder US soldiers in Afghanistan in 2010.According to official sources based in London, Akram was a member of the pan-Islamic Tablighi Jamaat and had travelled abroad for works related to the organisation. He was married to a Gujarati Muslim woman and has five sons and a daughter. However, he also struggled due to marital problems and reportedly had poor relations with his father. He also lost a brother to the Covid -19 pandemic recently.Also read | Texas hostage situation brings focus back on Al QaedaHis father is a known member of the Muslim community in London and the family also has political links through Malik Irfan, a Councillor linked to the Labor Party.Further, Akram also briefly served as the head of the Rondell street Islamic Centre in the London area, also known as Reza Masjid, where largely Muslims of Pakistani origin prayed. He also prayed at the Eldorado Masjid that was frequented by Gujarati Muslims in the region. He is a known participant in demonstrations supporting pro-Palestine agenda and Guantanamo Bay prisoner rallies and approved of Jihad.Meanwhile, two teenagers, believed to be Akram’s sons, were arrested from Blackburn, UK, on Sunday following a raid there.Aafia Siddiqui, also known as Lady Al Qaeda, was married to the nephew of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Pakistani national and the prime accused in the 9/11 attack. Several pan-Islamic jihadist groups have made attempts in the past to secure the release of Siddiqui, who has doctorate from Brandeis University.
17-01-2022||India||India may begin vaccination for 12-14 year age group from March: Top govt official||Vaccination of children in the age group of 12 to 14 against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may begin in March once the inoculation of those in the 15-18 year category is completed and a policy decision in this regard may be taken accordingly.Dr NK Arora, chairman of the Covid-19 working group of NTAGI, said, of the estimated 7.4 crore (7,40,57,000) population in the 15-18 age group, over 3.45 crore have received their first dose of Covaxin so far with the second one due in 28 days.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya shared on Twitter earlier in the day that over 3.5 crore children in the 15-18 age group have received their first dose since January 3 when the drive was expanded to include the young adults.Amazing enthusiasm among Young India for #COVID19 vaccination 💉Over 3.5 crore children between the 15-18 Age group have received 1st dose of COVID-19 vaccine, since 3rd January.Congratulations to all my young friends who have got vaccinated.#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/4sa8DzCIJ4Vaccination of children in the age group of 12 to 14 against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may begin in March once the inoculation of those in the 15-18 year category is completed and a policy decision in this regard may be taken accordingly.Dr NK Arora, chairman of the Covid-19 working group of NTAGI, said, of the estimated 7.4 crore (7,40,57,000) population in the 15-18 age group, over 3.45 crore have received their first dose of Covaxin so far with the second one due in 28 days.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya shared on Twitter earlier in the day that over 3.5 crore children in the 15-18 age group have received their first dose since January 3 when the drive was expanded to include the young adults.|#+|"Adolescents in this age group have been actively participating in the inoculation process, and going by this pace of vaccination, the rest of the beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group are likely to be covered with the first dose by January-end and subsequently their second dose is expected to be done by February-end," Dr Arora, the chairman of the Covid working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The government is likely to take a policy decision for initiating the vaccination drive for the 12-14 age group in March, he added. According to him, there is an estimated 7.5 crore population in the 12-14 age group.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2, 2021.The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 last year for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1, 2021.The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination has commenced from January 3 this year for adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years.India began administering the “precaution dose” -- a third jab of the vaccine -- to healthcare, frontline workers, including personnel deployed for election duty and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities from January 10, amid the country witnessing a spike in coronavirus infections, driven mainly by the Omicron variant of the virus.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-begin-vaccination-for-12-14-year-age-group-in-march-top-govt-official-101642417959529.html
17-01-2022||India||Tripura students’ body withdraws strike after state govt assures it will step in||The Twipra Students Federation (TSF), an indigenous group from Tripura, has called off the 12-hour strike due to be held today, protesting against the alleged assault on two students by traffic personnel after the Tripura government assured it would look into the matter, TSF advisory board chairman Upendra Debbarma said . Two students, Angel Reang and Abhijit Debbarma were allegedly beaten up by a traffic policeman on January 13 after their two-wheeler broke down near the Circuit House in Agartala close to which Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s convoy was supposed to pass. Information and Cultural Affairs minister Sushanta Chowdhury held talks with the TSF leaders late on Sunday night assuring them that their demand of registration of a case against the traffic policeman and proper legal action against him would be looked into. “Registration of a complaint filed by the students who were assaulted, magisterial probe into the incident and treatment for the students are our demands. After our discussion with the ICA minister, our case was lodged late at night. We have also been assured that cases against the students will be withdrawn. After getting these assurances, we have called off our strike,” Upendra Debbarma told reporters adding that they would wait for 3-4 days to see whether their demands were met, failing which they would go ahead with their agitation. Soon after the incident, different students’ organizations including the National Students Union of India (NSUI), Left students’ bodies protested against the assault on students and demanded prompt action against the traffic police. Tripura Police have registered a case based on the complaint filed by the traffic police unit against the two students under Section 253 of Indian Penal Code. Later, they also began probing the incident under the supervision of deputy superintendent of police (Traffic) Koyal Debbarma. The traffic constable, accused of assaulting the students, has been removed from field duty till completion of the inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-students-body-withdraws-strike-after-state-govt-assures-it-will-step-in-101642418138090.html
17-01-2022||India||Pakistan sending IEDs into India through land and sea drug route: Intel report||Delhi Police investigations into the recovery of RDX-packed improvised explosive device (IED) at Ghazipur last Friday has taken a sinister turn with intelligence reports indicating that the Pakistani establishment is using land and sea drug pipeline to push ready-made IEDs into India.It is learnt that the remotely controlled timer in the Ghazipur explosive was set to detonate one hour eight minutes after the IED was armed. While the exact number of bomb consignments smuggled into India is anybody’s guess but as many as 20 IEDs, 5-6 kilograms of IED, and 100 grenades have been recovered by Punjab police alone. It is understood that terrorists based in Pakistan have been told to assemble more IEDs or tiffin bombs for distribution beyond Punjab and into poll-bound states like UP and sensitive states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Delhi.According to security agencies, the cross-border drug smugglers dealing in Afghan heroin and opium have been tasked to push IEDs into India through drones and sea-going vessels. “The IED consignments, funded by drug money, are still coming into India with the objective of fanning a communal flare-up after a major incident,” said a senior official. 26/11 accused and Lashkar-e-Taiba Pakistan origin terrorist David Coleman Headley had disclosed to NIA how the Pakistani terror strikes were funded by drug money with drug smugglers often involved in the supply of arms and ammunition across the border into India.Fact is that had the Delhi Police PCR not responded with alacrity in the Ghazipur case, the blast would have killed several innocents and created an atmosphere of uncertainty in the capital city. The explosive was put inside a steel tiffin with cycle bearing and nails, which itself becomes the source of deadly shrapnel when exploded. The bomb is designed in such a way that RDX forms a core charge with ammonium nitrate and fuel oil acting as a secondary charge to soup up the explosion.In the past decade, tiffin bombs were the signature of Pak-sponsored Indian Mujahideen terrorist group with such IEDs used in 2005 Sarojini Nagar and Paharganj market blasts. The same devices were used by the group in blasts in Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Varanasi, Haldwani, Jaipur, Hyderabad, and Mumbai to deadly effect with hundred of innocents being killed in the rampage orchestrated by radicalized locals at the behest of their handlers across the border.
17-01-2022||India||Human traficking from Assam worsens during Covid-19 pandemic: Rights activists||GUWAHATI: In May 2020, at the peak of the countrywide lockdown and travel restrictions because of Covid-19, 15-year-old Meena Ray (name changed) was trafficked from her village in Kokrajhar district of Assam with the promise of marriage and sold to a brothel in West Bengal’s Siliguri town. Luckily, with help of child activists and the police, she was rescued a month later and was brought back. Investigations revealed that a 35-year-old man from Bongaigaon district of Assam, who was involved in poultry business, befriended Ray on a social media platform and trafficked her to Siliguri. Experts in Assam believe Ray’s was just one of the many cases of human trafficking that happened during the past two years after the Covid-19 pandemic started. While Assam has been a hub for human trafficking in the past, it is feared the scenario has worsened due to the new disease. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) figures, Assam recorded 308 cases of human trafficking in 2018 - the second highest figure in the country after Maharashtra (311). The number dropped to 201 in 2019 (third highest after Maharashtra (282) and Andhra Pradesh (245). In 2020, Assam recorded 124 cases - seventh highest after Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand and Rajasthan. “Human trafficking, especially trafficking of children, continued during the nationwide lockdown in 2020. We recorded 144 cases of child trafficking during that year in just four districts of Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri, which form the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR),” said Digambar Narzary, chairperson of Kokrajhar-based Nedan Foundation, an anti-trafficking NGO. “Last year, a total of 156 cases of child trafficking was recorded in the four districts of BTR region alone. The figure would be much bigger if data for the entire state is tabulated,” he added. Narzary says return of thousands of people who went outside the state for work during 2020 because of the pandemic and lockdown, closure of schools due to the pandemic and lack of enough seats in schools and colleges to accommodate students appearing in board exams, who were promoted en masse without conducting tests, could be some reasons for rise in trafficking. “In BTR, a total of around 50,000 students got promoted in Class 10 board exams while the total available seats in higher secondary schools and colleges were only around 26,000. This led to shortage of seats in colleges. Many students who were not able to secure seats started accompanying former migrants who started returning to their workplaces outside the state when lockdown measures eased,” he said. Last year 40 children (16 girls and 24 boys), who were trafficked from Baksa district of Assam in 2018-19, were rescued from Sikkim. The matter about the missing children came to light when the state government directed health and social welfare departments to report cases of children who were absent from their homes. “Trafficking is going to increase in coming months as peoples’ lives and livelihoods have got affected totally due to Covid-19. It is not possible for parents in many poor families to continue supporting their children’s education especially those who are in the senior classes as it’s expensive,” said Narzary. He added that while earlier people from outside the state used to come to Assam and lure children and women away with various inducements, now due to the lockdown and restrictions on movement, people from within the vulnerable communities act as sub-agents of traffickers from outside and play a big role in the operations. “It is not easy for people from outside the state to come to indulge in trafficking. So the modus operandi has changed. People from within communities are trafficking children, women and youths in the name of jobs as labourers outside. Those trafficked would only get to know what will happen to them only after they reach their destinations,” said Narzary. “While several trafficked victims end up as labourers or are sold into prostitution, Narzary said that another new trend in recent years is of girls trafficked outside the state to be sold as brides in states like Haryana and Rajasthan or to be used for surrogacy purposes,” he added. Narzary cited the example of an 18-year-old from Dhubri district who was sold to a man in Rajasthan in 2018. After she gave birth to a girl child, the man, who wanted a boy, sold her off to another person. When she gave birth to another girl child, the second man also left her. She was rescued in 2020 from Ajmer with two small girls. The victim is back in her home in Dhubri now. Another emerging trend is of luring victims through social media. Due to lockdown and classes conducted online, children have got access to mobile phones for their studies. “Now profile of students especially girls are now available because of online classes. Some students go to mobile repair shops to repair or recharge their phones and they come in contact with potential traffickers. Now traffickers have access to these girls and are able to become friendly through online chats and lure them with promise of marriage, jobs or a better life,” said Narzary. Child rights activist Miguel Das Queah pointed out that while Covid-19 and the lockdown and restrictions accompanying it have pushed millions to poverty and led to conditions which are fertile for human trafficking, the actual figures on how many are trafficked could be difficult to estimate. “Cases of trafficking are usually not identifiable when it is reported to the police as in most cases it is registered as a missing person report or case of abduction/kidnapping. It is only when victims are rescued, the trafficking aspect comes to light,” he said. According to the NCRB data, in 2020 a total of 177 persons (in 124 cases) were trafficked in the state and the same year 157 trafficked persons were rescued. Data shows that most of the victims were trafficked for domestic work (36), followed by forced labour (26) and forced marriage (18). In 2020, a total of 877 children went missing from the state while 685 who went missing in previous years, were yet to be traced. The same year, police rescued 1232 missing children. In 2020, a total of 3859 persons (including children) were reported missing from Assam. If 3437 missing persons from previous years are added to the list, the figure goes up to 7296. “According to the Supreme Court guidelines, the police have to register a FIR for a missing person’s report, but many times this doesn’t happen as police treat it as a case of elopement or something else. In the case of missing children, the first 48 hours are crucial. But due to police inaction, theirs is no rescue and till the time the victim is recovered there’s no clarity on whether it was a case of trafficking,” said Queah. He cited the example of a 13-year-old girl from Hajo in Kamrup (Rural) district who had to drop out of school due to the pandemic and was sent to her uncle’s place in Guwahati. Her uncle sent her to someone else’s home to serve as a domestic help. The girl, who was being physically and mentally abused, was rescued recently. But till that happened, there was no record of her getting trafficked. The present state administration under Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has given the slogan of ‘zero tolerance against child trafficking and child sexual abuse’ as one of his main agenda, but activists suggested framing of proper guidelines on what needs to be done and how trafficking can be prevented. “I urged the CM to prepare a clear-cut modus operandi to prevent trafficking. Rescuing a victim is just one aspect of the issue. One needs to have measures to prevent trafficking, ways to rescue, prosecution of those involved and rehabilitation,” said Narzary. Apart from strict directions to police to register FIRs in the cases of missing children and take prompt action to rescue them, Queah stressed that the social welfare department of the state should get more proactive to identify causes of trafficking and take steps to ensure children and others don’t get trafficked. 
17-01-2022||India||Delhi, Haryana govts engage in squabble over rising Covid-19 cases||Governments in Delhi and Haryana engaged in a war of words over surging cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), fueled by the fast-spreading Omicron variant.On Sunday, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said three districts in the state – Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonipat – have seen an increase in their infection rate due to the surge in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Delhi.“The increase in Covid cases in Delhi have affected the National Capital Region, because of which the infection rate has increased in Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat,” Vij said.Vij said Haryana was "adversely affected" by Covid-19 due to its proximity to Delhi, adding that his government was tackling the situation by making all necessary arrangements regarding healthcare services. He further assured of providing complete treatment to patients coming from the national capital or elsewhere.A day later, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said Vij's comments were nothing but 'political talks’. “I can also tell how many Haryana people are testing positive in Delhi. Over 1,000 Covid-19 cases are being reported from outside Delhi every day,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Meanwhile, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said a blame game over Covid-19 will not help eradicate the pandemic.Speaking to reporters after flagging off the first electric bus in Delhi, Kejriwal said, "I won't indulge in blame games. It's not going to eradicate the disease. Wherever there is coronavirus in the country it should be eradicated."This is not the first time that the Delhi and Haryana governments have indulged in a war of words over the Covid-19 crisis. In April 2021, the Delhi government accused the neighbouring Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Haryana of blocking oxygen supply during the second wave when the pandemic was wreaking havoc in the capital. The Haryana government had said the supply was interrupted due to technical reasons.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-haryana-govts-engage-in-squabble-over-rising-covid-19-cases-101642406996881.html
17-01-2022||India||LJP leader Rajendra Prasad Singh returns to BJP||BETTIAH: Amid growing differences among NDA constituents in Bihar over liquor prohibition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday reinducted Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader and former BJP state vice president Rajendra Prasad Singh. Singh contested assembly elections from Dinara seat in Rohtas district as the LJP nominee and pushed Janata Dali-United (JD-U) leader and science and technology minister in Nitish Kumar cabinet Jai Kumar Singh to third place. He rejoined the BJP in the presence of party state president Sanjay Jaiswal at his residence here, dealing a blow to both the JD-U and the LJP. Rajendra Singh described his reinduction in the BJP as homecoming. “Call it my folly or anger, I chose to contest the election in the larger interest of people of my constituency. I am back in my original party as per the people’s aspirations along with my supporters,” said Singh, who lost to Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) Vijay Mandal by a margin of 8,228 votes in 2020 assembly election. Singh has worked for the RSS and sister organisations for close to four decades and served the BJP as the party’s mantri of Kanshi and Awadh in Uttar Pradesh (between 2004 and 2013), maha mantri of Jharkhand organisation (2013 and 2015) and BJP state vice president (2019-20). He deserted the party following denial of ticket in 2020 assembly elections. Welcoming him to the party fold, BJP state president Jaiswal described Rajendra Singh as the tallest leader of south Bihar. “He has served the party in various capacities in the past. Burying all the differences that arose in the past, he is joining us and we heartily welcome him,” Jaiswal told media persons. When contacted, Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) Bihar state president Raju Tiwari and former Govindganj (East Champaran) MLA sought to downplay the matter. “Rajendra Prasad became inactive in LJP after the assembly polls. It is now clear that he had joined us for his vested interest,” said Tiwari. Meanwhile, the differences between the BJP and the JD-U over liquor prohibition in the state widened. BJP state president Jaiswal put the JD-U in dock, accusing the Nalanda district administration of conniving with the liquor mafia. “My question to the JD-U if members of all 11 families of those who died in hooch tragedy in Nalanda be sent to jail... For giving consolation to such families is a crime in the eyes of the party,” Jaiswal, a doctor and three-time MP from West Champaran Lok Sabha seat, said on Sunday in a Facebook post, which created a ripple in political circles because BJP is the biggest ally in the four-party NDA coalition led by JD-U’s Nitish Kumar. Jaiswal’s poser came in reaction to JD(U) spokesman Abhishek Jha’s recent social media post in which he questioned the BJP state chief’s visit to the houses of hooch tragedy victims in the latter’s constituency. “If the prohibition is to be implemented, first of all, the Nalanda administration should arrest the senior officer who gave a false statement, because the administration’s job is to run the district and not to give the reason of death to the people who died of a strange disease due to spurious liquor. It clearly shows that the administration itself is involved with the liquor mafia and is working to hide their misdeeds,” the state BJP chief wrote in his post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljpleader-rajendra-prasad-singh-returns-to-bjp-101642406916679.html
17-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi condoles Padma Shri Shanti Devi's death and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Padma Shri Shanti Devi dies at 88; PM Modi, Odisha CM extend condolencesPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the demise of social worker and Padma Shri awardee Shanti Devi, who passed away last night at her residence in Gunupur, in Rayagada district of Odisha. She was 88. Read more AIIMS Patna to go ahead with MBBS exams despite state-run colleges deferring itAIIMS Patna director has said that the institute will conduct MBBS examination as per schedule, following all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Read more Yezdi starts deliveries of all three motorcyclesYezdi Motorcycle on Sunday has commenced deliveries of its three newly launched models - Adventure, Scrambler and Roadster. The three retro-themed motorcycles come carrying the old-school Yezdi motorcycles' charm blended with modern elements. Read more&amp;nbsp;Tata Open Maharashtra 2022: Players to enter bio-bubble & event behind closed doors, confirms Tournament Director SutarTata Open Maharashtra, South Asia’s only ATP Tour-level tournament, is back in 2022 after a hiatus of two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The ATP 250 event, which will take place between January 30 and February 6 at the Balewadi Stadium in Pune, is still on schedule but is going to be a lot different from its previous editions, according to the tournament officials. Read moreKrushna Abhishek calls estranged uncle Govinda ‘bade miyan’ on The Kapil Sharma Show, says family feud will be solvedKrushna Abhishek talked about his estranged uncle Govinda on Sunday’s episode of The Kapil Sharma Show and said that he learnt everything from him. Read more Are you pregnant amid ongoing Omicron wave? Tips to followGetting jabbed for Covid-19 can reduce the severity of infection in pregnant women. Here are other tips that pregnant women should follow amid pandemic.Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-condoles-padma-shri-shanti-devi-s-death-and-all-the-latest-news-101642402047800.html
17-01-2022||India||Kumbhalgarh, Todgarh sanctuaries unsuitable for viable tiger populations: NTCA||JAIPUR: A National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) report has ruled out the possibility of declaring Rajasthan’s Kumbhalgarh and Todgarh-Raoli wildlife sanctuaries as a tiger reserve to decongest the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve saying their landscape is unsuitable to hold viable big cat population.In the report, retired Indian Forest Service officers RN Mehrotra and NK Vasu, NTCA Tiger Cell scientist Kausik Banerjee, and additional inspector general (NTCA) Hemant Kamdi pointed out the length of the proposed tiger reserve is about 200-220 km. It added its width varies between 3 to 15 km (average width 6.5 km), which would make it difficult to confine tigers and other wildlife within the boundary of the proposed reserve.“And, this may escalate the likelihood of human-wildlife conflict in the adjoining landscape,” said the report, a copy of which HT has seen.The report has recommended a critical tiger habitat by creating a core of at least 800-1,000 sq km (with a minimum width of 15-20 km) by including areas from both Kumbhalgarh and Todgarh-Raoli wildlife sanctuaries. It added the habitat should comprise inviolate areas without human pressure with ample prey base so that it can sustain at least 20 breeding females in the long term. The report called for urgent action for “incentivised voluntary” relocation of human settlements from within both the sanctuaries.“The entire landscape [including the proposed Tiger Reserve] is interspersed with an unmitigated network of national and state highways, district roads and, a medium gauge railway track. These might pose a serious threat to an establishing tiger population in the proposed tiger reserve,” the report said.On green corridors, the report said the proposed tiger reserve is an isolated patch of forest with no connectivity with Ranthambhore, which has the only tiger source population in the state. “So, the only way to populate the reserve would be through translocation and soft release,” the report said. Ranthambore had 79 tigers in July 2021 when the state forest department conducted the last estimation.Also Read | Tigress Collarwalli, mother to 29, dies at the age of 16 at Pench Tiger ReserveKumbhalgarh Wildlife Sanctuary (610.52 sq km) and Todgarh-Raoli Wildlife Sanctuary (495.27 sq km) are spread over Ajmer, Pali, Rajsamand, and Udaipur districts in the Aravalli Hills. Officials said Tigers lived in the forests of Kumbhalgarh and the adjoining regions such as Roopnagar, Dewair, Phulwari Ke Nal till the 1960s before they were wiped out due to hunting.The report said the major portion (approximately 60%) of the proposed tiger reserve and adjoining landscape have moderate to steep slopes making the effective area available for tigers much less than the total proposed area. It said the rugged terrain may play an important role as potential leopard refuge patches in presence of tigers in the landscape in the future.The report said the current prey abundance in both Todgarh-Raoli and Kumbhalgarh was low to support a viable tiger population and a decline has also been reported during the past two decades.Mehrotra said the proposed area is surely a good habitat for the tigers but the government should work on implementing their recommendations to convert the forest into a tiger reserve, which will not only be beneficial for the big cats but people in the longer run. He said the recommendations are doable.Mehrotra said the state government needs to consolidate and merge adjoining revenue land to increase forest area. “It is a good forest area but degraded with time and can be rejuvenated.”Chief wildlife warden Arindam Tomar said the report has been sent to the government for a decision.Member of Parliament (Rajsamand) Diya Kumari, who is an NTCA member, urged Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the environment minister Hemaram Choudhary to take action on the report so that the wildlife sanctuaries can be declared a tiger reserve.In July 2021, Ramgarh Vishdhari Sanctuary in Bundi was declared as the fourth Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan. Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (Sawai Madhopur), Alwar’s Sariska Tiger Reserve, and Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve in Kota are the other three tiger reserves in the state. 
17-01-2022||India||AIIMS Patna to go ahead with MBBS exam despite state-run colleges deferring it||PATNA: The All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Patna will conduct the practical examination of the second professional MBBS examination of the 2019 batch from Monday, said officials, even as medical examinations in state-run institutions have been postponed due to spike in Covid-19 cases.Eight examinees have not responded to a questionnaire sent by AIIMS on their health status, while 74 others are reported to be healthy. As many as 800 employees of the institute have so far tested positive for Covid-19 this year. The AIIMS sent a questionnaire to the examinees, seeking their response by Sunday evening if they were confirmed positive, had symptoms but were not positive in test or were either healthy or recovered from Covid-19. They will be segregated, on the basis of their response, before their four-day exam begins from Monday, said the official quoted above. “We will conduct our MBBS examination as per schedule, following all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. We do not want to derail our academic session, which has been affected over the last two years. We are trying to get our students back into the mainstream [of academics],” said Dr Saurabh Varshney, executive director of AIIMS-Deoghar, who also holds charge of director, AIIMS Patna. “We will divide the examinees into two broad categories. One group will have the ones showing symptoms of Covid-19 and the other will comprise the healthy ones. We will conduct the examination in separate halls, dividing the examinees into smaller groups, with sufficient space between them. We will follow this arrangement at AIIMS Deoghar as well,” added Dr Varshney. Some departments like microbiology will conduct the exams in two sessions – morning and afternoon — in order to segregate the healthy and infected examinees,” said Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani, dean (academics), AIIMS Patna. “The hall in which the examinees infected by Covid-19 will write their exams will be fumigated every day,” he added. “Our idea of not deferring the exams is also to condition our medicos so that they understand and accept the situation arising out of a pandemic and prepare themselves to serve the society as doctors in event of any medical adversity,” added Dr Bhadani. The theory examination of the 2019 batch of medicos at AIIMS was conducted between January 4 and 14. The practical examination in pathology, microbiology, pharmacology and forensic medicine and toxicology disciplines is schedule from January 17 to 20. The first professional MBBS examination was held last month and the result was declared early this month. The Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU), which decides the medical curriculum in state government-run medical colleges of Bihar, has, however, postponed till further notice all exams, including the 1st professional MBBS examination 2021 and the 1st professional Bachelor of Ayurveda Medicine and Surgery 2020 (II), scheduled to begin from January 19. Bihar reported 5,410 new infections on Sunday, taking the total count of active cases to 35,508. Patna reported the highest 1,575 cases, with a positivity rate of 17.40%, followed by Samastipur 349 (8.19% positivity), Muzaffarpur 333 (6.05% positivity), Purnia 248 (5.35% positivity) and Bhagalpur 189 (7.72% positivity) among others, according to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday.
17-01-2022||India||Padma Shri Shanti Devi dies at 88; PM Modi, Odisha CM extend condolences||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the demise of social worker and Padma Shri awardee Shanti Devi, who passed away last night at her residence in Gunupur, in Rayagada district of Odisha. She was 88.Shanti Devi, also known as Lugdi Devi, received the prestigious Padma Shri award from President Ram Nath Kovind on November 9, 2021. She was known for her dedication towards the underprivileged community and restoring peace in the Maoist-affected areas in Odisha.“Shanti Devi Ji will be remembered as a voice of the poor and underprivileged. She worked selflessly to remove suffering and create a healthier as well as just society. Pained by her demise. My thoughts are with her family and countless admirers. Om Shanti,” tweeted PM Modi.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik also extended his grief at her death.“Saddened to learn of the death of Padma Shri Award-winning social worker Shanti Devi. Her lifelong efforts to help the needy and tribal have always been inspiring. Her contribution to social work is invaluable. I extend my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family and wish them well,” Patnaik tweeted in Odia.Born in Balasore district in 1934, Shanti Devi began social work at an early age and founded the Seva Samaj ashram at Gunupur in Odisha. She worked towards the education of tribal girls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-shri-shanti-devi-dies-at-88-pm-modi-odisha-cm-extend-condolences-101642398472915.html
17-01-2022||India||Former Goa Congress MLA Reginaldo Lourenco quits Trinamool Congress||PANAJI: Former Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, who quit the party to join the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC), has now resigned from the AITC. In a handwritten resignation letter, Lourenco said he is resigning from the primary membership of the party with immediate effect, without citing any reasons. “AITC has received a letter from Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco resigning from primary membership of the party. We had welcomed him into the party as we have countless others. Now that he wishes to leave, we wish him well,” Mahua Moitra, Lok Sabha MP & AITC Goa in-charge said. Lourenco, who was considered a prize catch, by the Trinamool Congress is the second leader to align forces with the new entrant in Goa’s political scene before backing out. Prior to this Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar threw his weight behind the Bengal-based party, before now joining the Congress. Lourenco, who was described as “unstable” by State Congress president Girish Chodankar, quit the Congress back in December saying that the Trinamool Congress was better placed to defeat the BJP and said he was joining the Trinamool to be on the ‘ruling side’ after the elections. However, it soon became clear that his move to the Trinamool Congress was not very well received by his supporters and getting re-elected on a AITC ticket suddenly seemed to be no longer guaranteed. Congress leader Michael Lobo, who also joined the party recently, called on Lourenco to rejoin the Congress. “To strengthen the @INCGoa and to boost our purpose of forming [a] Congress government in 2022, I request Reginaldo to join us back,” Lobo said. Lourenço quit the Congress after he was declared as the party’s candidate back in December. When he quit the party for the AITC the Congress said it was ‘stunned and betrayed’ by Lourenco’s move but vowed to put the ‘betrayal’ behind it and take the party forward. Upon quitting the Congress, Lourenco hit out at the Congress leadership terming them indecisive and slow to take decisions as reasons for his quitting the party. Lourenco was earlier too disappointed with the functioning of the Congress party but seemingly decided to keep differences aside after a call from Rahul Gandhi. He was made working president of the party after deciding to recommit himself to the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-goa-congress-mla-reginaldo-lourenco-quits-trinamool-congress-101642399595799.html
17-01-2022||India||West Bengal biodiversity board attempts to bring back traditional crop varieties||KOLKATA: Equipped with knowledge about the traditional practices and bio-resources in the form of People’s Biodiversity Registers, experts from the West Bengal Biodiversity Board (WBBB) are now trying to revive some of the traditional varieties of paddy, pulses, vegetables, fruits and medicinal plants. This, experts say, will not only help farmers to bring down dependency on chemical fertilisers and thereby increasing profit, but also help fight the vagaries of nature including flood, rising salinity and drought triggered by climate change and global warming. “Take paddy for example. Almost six to seven decades ago farmers in West Bengal used to grow at least 5000 varieties of desi or traditional paddy. But now we can find only around 460 varieties. We have probably lost the rest as no one grows them now. One can only find high yielding varieties,” said HS Debnath, chairman of the WBBB. Experts from the biodiversity board, however, stumbled upon dozens of these traditional varieties and the knowledge associated with them after People’s Biodiversity Registers were prepared by the biodiversity management committees comprising people at the village, block and district levels. West Bengal now has 3380 such registers which is a dossier containing comprehensive account of local bio-resources along with related traditional knowledge and practices of the area. “Now that we have the PBRs in hand, we are trying to revive whatever remains of the traditional varieties. It could be paddy, pulses, fruits, vegetables and even medicinal plants. We have already managed to identify around 100 paddy varieties. But first we are trying to register the varieties under the Protection of Plant Variety and Farmers Right Act so that the rights of the farmers are protected,” said Debnath. While around 14 have already been registered, another 74 are in the queue, officials said. Each variety is differentiated by identifying more than 50 morphological characteristics and around eight biochemical characteristics, so that they are distinctly separate from the nearest similar variant. “The list contains traditional varieties such as Dudheshwar, Kanakchur and Tulaipanji known for their aroma. Varieties like Bhadoi, Danbhutia and Bhashamanik can grow even in farmlands which are flooded and have four to five feet of standing water. Then there is Bhutmuri, Nyata, Jhulur which can withstand drought. In the Sunderban where salinity is a major problem variety such as Patnai, Nona Bakhra, Tangrasali would survive and give a good yield,” said Anirban Roy, a research officer of the board, who has been working on these registers for years. The board has also roped in an expert from the Calcutta University to develop low- cost models on how to increase plant yield using traditional methods and home-made manures. “Farmers are dependent heavily on chemical fertilisers and pesticides. But as their prices are rising, the profit margin of farmers is going down and many times they are incurring losses too. These chemicals also play havoc with the soil health as they kill the micro-organisms. I try to show the farmers how to increase soil fertility, boost plant growth and kill pests with easily available things such as cow dung, cow urine, banana stem, rotten fish, lime and ash among other items. This brings down their input cost which in turn help them to make profit,” said Krishnendu Acharya, professor of botany in Calcutta University. Now that the board has identified farmers who are still growing some of the traditional varieties of paddy, vegetables, fruits and pulses among others, efforts are on to come up with at least five ‘seed banks’ across the state. “Initially we thought of setting up a centralized seed bank in and around Kolkata. But then we came up with the idea of developing smaller seed banks in five agro-climatic regions of the state. Talks are being held,” said Debnath. But it is not just paddy. The PBR also speaks of dozens of varieties of vegetables and fruits that the common man hardly knows of. “At least eight varieties of potatoes can be found only in and around Balurghat in Uttar Dinajpur district. We found at least 20 varieties of runner beans in Birbhum. There are varieties which are completely white, while one has a red border on it. Then there are several varieties of chilly and brinjal of various, shapes, sizes and taste. Also, there are varieties of pulses and fruits which we used to hear in our childhood,” said Roy. The board is now trying to come up with marketing strategies so that the products grown by the farmers could be sold and they get the right incentive. “One way would be to brand the vegetables just as we do in the case of Basmati or other varieties of paddy. For example, the farmers would not just sell a brinjal. They would sell ‘Palui’ brinjal which is soft and has a particular taste. They would not just sell chilly but would brand them as Beldanga chilly which is thin and very hot,” said Debnath 
17-01-2022||India||India logs 258,089 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate rises to 19.65%||A day after recording a massive spike, India's daily Covid-19 tally dropped slightly with 258,089 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative caseload to over 37.3 million, the Union health ministry data showed on Monday. The death toll, on the other hand, continued on an upward trajectory with as many as 385 people dying of the disease in a day.Of these, there were a total of 8,209 cases of the Omicron variant, which is now present in all 29 states and union territories.The highest number of cases of the new variant were recorded at 1,738 from Maharashtra, followed by 1,672 from West Bengal.The country's active cases now stands at 16,56,341, which is 4.43 per cent of the total infections. The daily positivity rate increased to 19.65 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate stood at 14.41 per cent. The daily positivity count showed nearly a 4 per cent rise from yesterday's 16.28 per cent.Meanwhile, 1,51,740 recoveries in the last 24 hours took the total recoveries to 3,52,37,461. India's recovery rate now stands at 94.27 per cent.A total of 703.7 million Covid tests have been conducted so far, including 13,13,444 tests in the last 24 hours. As many as 1.57 billion vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-258-089-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-rises-to-1965-101642391161964.html
17-01-2022||India||Govt allows use of existing power connections to charge EVs||NEW DELHI: The government has revised the rules for the electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure and allowed their owners to charge their EVs using the existing electricity connections at homes or offices. It has also given the go ahead for the allotment of government land to private entities through bidding for setting up public charging stations (PCS).The Union power ministry issued the revised promulgated guidelines and standards on Friday and said the government plans to roll out PCS on a large scale in two phases. The first phase will cover megacities with a population of above 4 million as per the census 2011, expressways, and important highways connected to these mega cities. Big cities such as state capitals, Union Territory headquarters, and important highways connected with these cities will be covered in the second phase.“...owners may charge their EVs at their residence or offices using their existing electricity connections… The tariff applicable for domestic consumption shall be applicable for domestic charging,” the ministry said in a statement.As per data with the ministry of road transport and highways, India has 947,876 registered electric vehicles. But only 1,028 PCS have been installed throughout the country so far, according to the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE).Also Read | Sidhu invites Elon Musk to Punjab, aims to make Ludhiana electric vehicle hubThe revised guidelines are important because, by 2030, India has set a target of 30% EV sales penetration for private cars, 70% for commercial vehicles, 40% for buses, and 80% for two- and three-wheelers. At present, only about 2-3 e-car variants cost below ₹15 lakh in the country. The cost of two-wheelers and three-wheelers have almost come at par with the existing petrol ones after factoring in the subsidies. Apart from the high cost of EVs, a major cause for the sluggish sale of EVs in the country, other than Delhi, has been the lack of charging infrastructure.The new rules mention the infrastructure requirement and prescribed standards for installing PCS. “Any individual/entity is free to set up public charging stations without the requirement of a license, provided that such stations meet the technical, safety as well as performance standards and protocols laid down under the guidelines as well as norms/ standards/ specifications laid down by power ministry, BEE and Central Electricity Authority (CEA) from time to time. An exhaustive list of compliance requirements for PCS has also been outlined. These include norms for ‘appropriate’ infrastructure for civil, electrical, and safety requirements.”The Centre has left it to the state governments to fix the ceiling of service charges to be levied by PCS. This has been allowed because some states have rolled out their EV policies under which they offer subsidies for purchasing an EV and for setting up charging stations.So far, 14 states have released their EV policies. They include Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, and Bihar. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has told Parliament that Uttar Pradesh and Delhi account for 44% of the EVs registered in India.To make charging stations financially viable, the government has also put in place a revenue-sharing model for the land used for public charging stations. “Land available with the government/public entities shall be provided for installation of PCS to a government/public entity on a revenue-sharing basis at a fixed rate of ₹ 1 / kWh (used for charging), which will be paid to the land-owning agency on a quarterly basis. Such revenue-sharing agreement may be initially entered by parties for a period of 10 years. This model may also be adopted by the public land-owning agency for providing the land to a private entity for installation of PCS on bidding basis with a floor price of ₹ 1/ kWh,” it said.The BEE is preparing action plans for the installation of public charging stations for nine major cities such as Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Surat, and Pune. “As per the initial estimates, a total of 3263 chargers under a business-as-usual scenario, 23,524 chargers under the moderate scenario, and 46,397 under aggressive scenario are being targeted for installation of PCS in these cities by 2030,” a power ministry official said.
17-01-2022||India||UK Sikhs push back against anti-India forces, pass resolution thanking PM Modi||The Sikh community in the United Kingdom has started to push back against anti-India campaign, which is led by the Khalistanis. The latter have organised many protest marches in the UK in the past few months.But on Sunday, the leaders of the Sikh community gathered at Gurdwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, located in Park Avenue, Southall, and passed a resolution thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government for doing so much for the Sikh community and helping to bridge the misunderstandings.Also Read | Khalistan separatists plan to show PM Modi as anti-PunjabThey also thanked that Prime Minister for announcing December 26 as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’ and declaring it a public holiday.In the congregation, the Sikh leaders and gurdwara committee office bearers challenged those who are pushing “factually incorrect” narrative about India and its current government, a statement from them said.The passing of the resolution us being seen as a bold step by the local community in the UK, which so far remained silent and chose not to confront a handful Khalistanis propagating anti-India narrative.On the occasion of the 365th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, PM Modi announced that December 26 will be celebrated as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’ from 2022. This will be a tribute to the bravery and martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s sons, he said.He had earlier lauded the contributions made by the Sikh Gurus, which he said is not just limited to society and spirituality, but helped India at various junctures."Guru Tegh Bahadur's valour and his sacrifice against Aurangzeb teaches us how the country fights against terror and religious fanaticism. Similarly, the life of the tenth Guru, Guru Gobind Singh Sahib is also a living example of tenacity and sacrifice at every step," PM Modi had said while addressing the Gurpurab celebrations at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib in Gujarat in December last year.He also praised the contributions made by gurdwaras during the difficult corona time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-sikhs-push-back-against-anti-india-forces-pass-resolution-thanking-pm-modi-101642391169112.html
17-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Ex-U'khand minister Harak Rawat may join Cong today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Harak Singh Rawat may join Congress today. Know why he was expelled from the BJPHarak Singh Rawat, who was dismissed from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Uttarakhand on Saturday, is likely to join the Congress party today, news agency ANI reported. Read moreCold to severe cold conditions likely in parts of northwest IndiaCold to severe cold conditions were likely to continue in parts of northwest India on Monday as the region recorded significantly low day but above normal minimum temperatures from Friday to Sunday. Read moreArvind Kejriwal to flag off Delhi's first DTC electric bus todayDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will on Monday flag off Delhi Transport Corporation’s (DTC’s) first electric bus. The ceremony will take place at DTC’s Indraprastha’s depot at 12 noon. Read moreNorth Korea fires suspected ballistic missile, 4th test in JanuaryNorth Korea fired on Monday what could be a ballistic missile, Japan's coast guard said, in what would be the fourth test this month as Pyongyang forges ahead with new military developments amid stalled stalks with the United States and South Korea. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan shares glimpses of quaint courtyard, personal music studio named Saptaswar. See picsAmitabh Bachchan has shared a glimpse of the quaint and royal courtyard at one of his residences, along with a short poem dedicated to the area. Read more'A sign some new player might come': Amidst Rahane-Pujara debate, Harbhajan identifies another area of concern for IndiaTeam India endured a tough Test series defeat against South Africa, losing the three-match contest 2-1. The team led by Virat Kohli, which was also the last time the 33-year-old led India in a series, kicked-off the tour on an emphatic note, securing a commanding win by 113 runs at Centurion. Read moreWatch| Heritage building, Secunderabad Club, one of India's oldest, destroyed in fire||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ex-u-khand-minister-harak-rawat-may-join-cong-today-101642388970925.html
17-01-2022||India||Ahmedabad airport to remain shut for 9 hours daily till May 31. Here's why||A part of Ahmedabad's Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport will be closed for nine hours every day from Monday onwards due to planned 'recarpeting work' on the runway. At least 52 flights arriving and departing from the airport will be rescheduled during the entire duration.As per the airport officials, the work will begin today and go on till May 31 this year. The resurfacing work will be carried out on all days, barring Sundays and public holidays, from 9am to 6pm.The work was supposed to begin from November 2021 but got delayed due to the festive season.Airport officials have taken steps to ensure that minimal revision of flight schedules takes place during this time so that passengers do not face inconvenience.“The work will include runway overlaying, runway strip grading and slope assessment, runway end safety area (RESA) grading and slope assessment, along with storm water drain construction and reinstallation of signages in the maneuvering area," read a statement issued by an airport spokesperson."Runway maintenance closures are mandatory procedures in line with international safety standards to ensure aircraft safety and increase runway life,” it added.Meanwhile, Gujarat registered 10,150 fresh coronavirus positive cases on Sunday, raising the state tally to 9,26,240, the health department stated. There were eight Covid-19 fatalities, one of the highest tolls in a single day in recent months. With this, the death toll climbed to 10,159 in Gujarat including two each in Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Bhavnagar and one death each was reported from Vadodara and Tapi districts, the state bulletin read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-airport-to-remain-shut-for-9-hours-daily-till-may-31-here-s-why-101642385200611.html
17-01-2022||India||Cold to severe cold conditions likely in parts of northwest India||NEW DELHI: Cold to severe cold conditions were likely to continue in parts of northwest India on Monday as the region recorded significantly low day but above normal minimum temperatures from Friday to Sunday.M Mohapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department (IMD), said an intense western disturbance passed last week in the region. “After a western disturbance passes, cold northerly winds bring extremely cold air from the Himalayas to this region. These chilly winds bring down day temperatures. These conditions will continue till Monday at least.”R K Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre, said low clouds and fog were leading to less sunshine and have brought down day temperatures.A cyclonic circulation is also lying over the Arabian Sea and Konkan coast in lower tropospheric levels while a relatively feeble western disturbance was affecting weather in Jammu and Kashmir. A fresh western disturbance was likely to affect the Western Himalayan region from Tuesday and another northwest India from January 21 and bring scattered rainfall.Scattered light to moderate rainfall is also likely in Telangana, coastal Andhra Pradesh, and Rayalaseema on Monday and in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Mahe during the next three days. Isolated light to moderate rainfall is likely in sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands from Tuesday to Thursday.Dense to very dense fog was likely in the night and morning hours in places such as Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu, and Himachal Pradesh this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-to-severe-cold-conditions-likely-in-parts-of-northwest-india-101642388614872.html
17-01-2022||India||‘Ghazipur haul part of a 24-bomb Pak shipment’||Delhi Police’s investigations into the improvised explosive device (IED) recovered from the Ghazipur flower market on Friday have revealed that it was part of a 24-bomb consignment sent from across the border either through land or via a sea route by the Pakistani deep state to local terrorists. Other devices, recently recovered in Jammu and Kashmir, and Punjab are believed to be part of the same consignment and it is also believed that some devices may have been smuggled into Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh.Also Read| IED at Ghazipur market: Security checks choke traffic at Delhi bordersAccording to top Delhi Police investigators who asked not to be named, the Ghazipur device was a tiffin bomb with three kilograms of RDX as the core charge and ammonium nitrate as a secondary charge. The device was packed in a steel tiffin with nails and ball bearings and could be detonated remotely.HT learns that these IEDs were smuggled from across the border to existing sleeper modules in India as well as to some criminal gangs. A terror module busted by Delhi Police in September 2021 with arrests in Mumbai, Lucknow, Allahabad, and Delhi itself has been linked with this IED recovery. Delhi Police investigators believe that the IED consignment came to India around last Independence Day. While the Delhi Police and security agencies are trying to recover other IEDs from the consignment, HT learns that a number of these IEDs have also made their way into Gujarat through the sea route and in UP through the land route. “It appears that radicalized elements in India are being tasked from across the borders to plant devices at pre-fixed targets or use local criminal elements to do the job; a nationwide alert has been issued so that a terror strike is averted,” said a senior security official who asked not to be named.Also Read| IED found at Ghazipur market: Proper recce was done before planting bombIn the first decade of this millennium, Pakistani deep state initiated what later came to be known as the Karachi project where young men in India were radicalized by Pakistan trained religious fundamentalists to make and detonate ammonium nitrate bombs in India to show that the country was under threat from home grown terrorism and not cross-border terrorism. By 2010, more than 500 civilians in India had died on account of bomb attacks in Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, UP and Bihar.
17-01-2022||India||1st S-400 unit to be ready by April, 4 others by 2023||India has begun work on deploying the S-400 Triumf advanced surface-to-air missile defence system, with the first unit to be made operational in April, HT learns.While the Narendra Modi government remains tight-lipped about the entire project, officials with direct knowledge of the matter have told Hindustan Times that all five units will be deployed in depth areas to tackle the threat from China.All the five units of the S-400 system, which can take down a hostile aircraft or missile at a range between 40km and 400km, are expected to be operational by next year.Also Read| US trying to undermine S-400 deal, India showed it’s a sovereign country: LavrovThe S-400 system was purchased from Russia through a $5-billion deal signed in October 2018.The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA are locked in a stand-off across the 597km-long Ladakh LAC since May 2020, with Beijing reluctant to restore the April 2020 status quo ante in Gogra-Hot Springs and restore India’s unhindered patrolling rights in Depsang Bulge in Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) sector and Charding Nullah Junction (CNJ) in Demchok sector. PLA has already deployed two S-400 systems across LAC in Ngari Gar Gunsa (opposite Demchok) and Nyingchi (across Arunachal Pradesh) with the remaining three deployed to tackle the threat from the Indo-Pacific.James O’ Brien, President Joe Biden’s nominee for the US State Department’s coordinator for sanctions policy, told the Senate Foreign Committee last Wednesday during his confirmation hearing that while the US has discouraged India from acquiring the S-400 systems from Russia, Washington’s decision on whether to sanction India under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (or CAATSA; a law that aims to penalise Russia, North Korea and Iran and countries dealing with them, by extension) or grant a waiver will be done only after weighing important geostrategic considerations in relations to China. He said that it was difficult to compare India with Turkey (which has been sanctioned by the US for buying the S-400 system from Russia) as the latter was a NATO ally that broke with legacy deals on defence procurement systems. In contrast, India is a partner of growing importance, and one with legacy defence relations with Russia.HT learns that India has made clear to its close ally US through top diplomatic and security channels that the acquisition of Russian S-400 system was in its national interest as it is faced with a belligerent PLA all along the 3,488km-long LAC.While India has offered technical solutions so that the S-400 system does not share details on US manufactured military aircraft and helicopters with Russia, it has also decided that all five systems would be deployed to protect India from the mounting military threat from Beijing.Also Read| S-400 purchase is based on threat perception, government tells ParliamentAlready, advance consignments of two S-400 systems have arrived in India from Moscow and work is on to assemble the systems and the radars by Indian teams trained in Russia.Analysts say that the fact that the systems will be deployed against China may well weigh in on the US decision; China, at this point, is the US’s primary concern.The S-400 system is one of a kind with a powerful radar at the heart of the offensive air defence system.It can track multiple targets at multiple ranges and neutralise them before the adversary’s fighter, bomber or missile, pose a threat, using anti-missiles with varying range.The S-400 system is so powerful that it is capable of tracking, engaging and addressing the threat of Chinese fighters the moment they take off from air bases near the Line of Actual Control.
17-01-2022||India||Legendary Kathak dancer Birju Maharaj dies at 83||Legendary Kathak dancer Birju Maharaj has passed away, news agency ANI reported on Monday, citing his relative. He was 83."He was under treatment for the past month. He had sudden breathlessness at around 12:15-12:30 am last night; we brought him to the hospital within 10 mins, but he passed away," his granddaughter Ragini Maharaj told ANI.Watch: ‘Irreparable loss’, says PM Modi on Birju Maharaj's demiseHis image in my mind will always be smiling, she added.Birju Maharaj was an exponent of the Kalka-Bindadin Gharana of Lucknow.He was born as Brij Mohan Nath Mishra on February 4, 1937 in a well-known Kathak dancing family. Besides father Achchan Maharaj and uncles Shambhu and Lachchu Maharaj, he was shaped by the influence of Bindadeen Maharaj.He began performing as a child alongside his father, and became a Guru (Maharaj) in his teens. Birju Maharaj also performed in the durbar of Rampur Nawab.By the time he was 28, Birju Maharaj's mastery of the dance form had won him the coveted Sangeet Natak Akademi Award.Known for his perfect rhythm and expressive abhinaya, or gesture language, Birju Maharaj developed his own unique style. He was known as a brilliant choreographer, and he helped popularise dance-dramas.Birju Maharaj was the recipient of numerous awards for his contributions to the performing arts, including one of the country’s highest civilian honours, the Padma Vibhushan in 1986.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legendary-kathak-dancer-birju-maharaj-dies-at-83-101642382684212.html
17-01-2022||India||No person can be vaccinated without prior consent: Centre tells Supreme Court||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that COVID-19 inoculation guidelines issued by the Union health ministry do not envisage forcible vaccination without obtaining the consent of an individual.On the issue of exempting persons with disabilities from producing vaccination certificates, the Centre told the apex court that it has not issued any SOP that makes it mandatory to carry the vaccination certificate for any purpose.The Centre said this in its affidavit filed in response to a plea by NGO Evara Foundation seeking door-to-door, priority COVID-19 vaccination for persons with disabilities."It is submitted that the direction and guidelines released by Government of India and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare do not envisage any forcible vaccination without obtaining consent of the concerned individual."It is submitted that vaccination for COVID-19 is of larger public interest in view of the ongoing pandemic situation," the affidavit filed by the Union health ministry said.The ministry said that "it is duly advised, advertised and communicated through various print and social media platforms that all citizens should get vaccinated and systems and processes have been designed to facilitate the same.""However, no person can be forced to be vaccinated against their wishes," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-person-can-be-vaccinated-without-prior-consent-centre-tells-supreme-court-101642378248170.html
17-01-2022||NA||Breaking highlights: Throwaway culture and consumerism have made climate challenge more serious, says PM Modi||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Haryana reports 9,204 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload at 54,814Haryana saw 9,204 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours and the death toll stood at 10,116, reports ANI. The active caseload stood at 54,814.UAE condemns ‘heinous Houthi attack’ after 3 killed in suspected drone strikeUAE condemned the “heinous Houthi attack” after three people were killed in  a suspected drone strike, reports AFP. No alliance in Goa yet, will contest Manipur polls with Congress: NCP's Nawab MalikNationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik said that his party couldn't form a pre-poll alliance with the Congress in Goa due to “some local leaders,” reports ANI. “Tomorrow, our general secretary and a minister will visit Goa to talk about the alliance. We will contest the Manipur polls in alliance with Congress,” he said.India emerged as the world's largest pharma producer: PM Modi in address at WEF Davos Agenda"During Covid, we witnessed how India walked the vision of 'One Earth, One Health' and provided medicines and vaccines to several countries, saving numerous lives.Today, India has become the pharmacy to the world - the third largest producer," PM Modi said in his address at the World Economic Forum, Davos. India gives entire world ‘a bouquet of hope’, says PM Modi in address to World Economic Forum"Today, India is facing another Covid wave and is moving forward financially with positive mood.In just 1 year, India has administered nearly 160 crore Covid vaccine doses. A democracy such as India has given the entire world a bouquet of hope," Modi said. Karnataka logs 27,156 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths Karnataka saw 27,156 new Covid-19 cases and 14 related deaths as the total caseload reached 3,247,243 and the death toll climbed to 38,445. The active caseload stood at 217,297.West Bengal eases Covid curbs, gyms allowed to operate at 50%West Bengal govt eases COVID-19 restrictions in the state.Gyms can operate with 50% capacity till 9pm, Jatra shall be allowed with 50% capacity till 9pm and outdoor shooting for films and TV programmes allowed in the state following COVID appropriate protocols pic.twitter.com/fQiFEyXB7FGyms have been allowed to operate at 50% upto 9pm and Jatras have been allowed also until 9pm with 50% capacity at outdoor venues and 50% capacity or 200 people, whichever is lower, in case of indoor venues. The state also allowed outdoor shootings for films and TV programmes following Covid protocols. Manipur sees 32 new Omicron Covid-19 casesManipur reported 32 new Omicron Covid-19 cases and the state's tally went up to 39, news agency ANI reported.Mumbai sees 5,956 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths #CoronavirusUpdates17th January, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/jbK3bLVDF1With 5,956 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths, Mumbai's total caseload reached 1,005,818 and the death toll climbed to 16,469. Uttar Pradesh logs 15,622 new Covid-19 cases, 9 deathsUttar Pradesh logged 15,622 new Covid-19 cases and nine more deaths, reports PTI. With 12,527 new cases, Delhi records 31.4% drop in daily Covid-19 tally; tests down to 44,762Delhi reported 12,527 new Covid-19 cases and 24 deaths as the city's total caseload reached 1,722,497 and the death toll climbed to 25,387.‘Will deeply hurt sentiments, patriotic feelings’: TN CM Stalin to Modi on rejection of Republic Day tableauகுடியரசு தின அணிவகுப்பில், தமிழ்நாட்டிலிருந்து நாட்டின் விடுதலைக்காகப் போராடிய வீரர்களின் உருவங்கள் அடங்கிய ஊர்தி இடம்பெறுவது மறுக்கப்பட்டிருப்பது குறித்து மாண்புமிகு முதலமைச்சர் @mkstalin அவர்கள் மாண்புமிகு பிரதமர் @narendramodi அவர்களுக்குக் கடிதம் எழுதியுள்ளார். pic.twitter.com/l33BpS3WXcTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin wrote to PM Modi after the state's tableau was excluded from the Republic Day parade, seeking his intervention.  India may begin vaccinating 12-14-year-olds from March, says Covid-19 task force head Dr NK AroraIndia may begin inoculating children in 12-14 age group against COVID-19 in March as 15-18 population is likely to get fully vaccinated by then: Dr N K Arora, chairman of COVID-19 working group of NTAGIKarnataka CM chairs meet with state health minister, senior officials to review Covid-19 situationBengaluru: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai, along with state Health Minister Dr. K Sudhakar, chaired a virtual meeting with senior officials of the State Govt, Health Dept and Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) experts regarding #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/HdKAeKOohuGoa shuts Raj Bhavan to public until Jan 23 due to Covid-19 surgeGoa Raj Bhavan has been closed for visitors for one week until January 23, due to rising Covid-19 cases in the state, reports ANI.‘No serious symptoms among Covid-19 cases in Indore, most under home isolation’: OfficialIndore chief medical health officer BS Setia said that no serious symptoms were found among Covid-19 cases in the city and majority of them were under home isolation, reports ANI. There were 1890 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday and the active caseload stood at 10,313. “153 patients are hospitalized, 12 cases with comorbidities needed ICU & 28 needed oxygen-beds,” he said. EC postpones Punjab assembly election, voting to take place on Feb 20Election Commission has decided to reschedule the Punjab assembly elections in the following manner:1. Date of Notification: 25th January 2022 (Tuesday)2. Last date of Nomination: 1st February 2022 (Tuesday)3. Date of Scrutiny: 2nd February 2022 (Wednesday)4. Date of Withdrawal: 4th February 2022 (Friday)5. Date of Poll: 20th February 2022 (Sunday).UP assembly polls: Akhilesh calls for ‘Ann Sankalp’, promises MSP, interest-free loans, loans and pensions for farmers"As we just took Ann Sankalp, prompted by farmers issues, we announced that on forming the government, MSP will be implemented on all crops and will clear all dues to cane farmers within 15 days...And for this if we need to constitute Farmers' Revolving Fund, then we will form it to ensure timely payments to farmers," Akhilesh Yadav said.“Also the SP government will make provision for interest-free loans, insurance, and pension for farmers,” he added, noting that these promises will be added in SP's manifesto along with the already promised free power to farmers for irrigation.ECI allows authorised media persons to cast votes through postal ballotsThe Election Commission of India has allowed journalists authorized by ECI to cast their votes through postal ballot facility, the commission said in a letter to Chief Electoral Office, Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/oV029BdAtl‘BJP campaigning door-to-door for 5 days,’ says Chhattisgarh CM Bhagel, fumes over FIR for alleged poll violation“Why was the FIR only against me? How will election campaign happen like this? Why was there no FIR against BJP's election campaign in Amroha? EC's biasness is visible at the beginning itself… The election commission should give a demo on how to do election campaigning. We will do it exactly like that. BJP has been campaigning door-to-door for 5 days in Amroha, why are there no actions on that? I campaigned only y'day. EC should be fair,” Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Bhagel lashes out at Election Commission over alleged poll violation.AAP to announce name of Punjab CM candidate tomorrow at 12 noon, says Arvind KejriwalAam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal said that the name of Punjab CM candidate will be announced tomorrow at 12pm.100% Delhi population vaccinated with 1st dose, 80% with both shots: Satyendar JainDelhi to report around 14,000-15,000 cases today, much less than yesterday. Around 2.85 crore doses have been administered in Delhi; 100 per cent eligible population inoculated with 1st dose, 80 per cent with 2nd dose, and 1.28 lakh people received precautionary dose, says Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.PM Modi condoles Padma Shri Shanti Devi's death, says ‘ will be remembered as voice for the poor’“Shanti Devi Ji will be remembered as a voice of the poor and underprivileged. She worked selflessly to remove suffering and create a healthier as well as just society. Pained by her demise. My thoughts are with her family and countless admirers. Om Shanti,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A social worker and Padma Shri awardee, Shanti Devi passed away on Sunday night at her residence in Gunupur, Rayagada district of Odisha.Will work for Congress, form govt in Uttarakhand: Expelled BJP minister Harak Singh Rawat"Congress Party will form government in Uttarakhand. I will work for Congress party," said the expelled Uttarakhand BJP Minister Harak Singh Rawat, speaking to news agency ANI.India's Covid-19 tally drops slightly with 258,089 cases, deaths up by 385India registered a slight drop in daily Covid-19 tally. A total of 258,089 fresh cases recorded today, while the death count rises marginally with 385 fatalities. Active cases stand at over 1.65 million.Massive fire at cloth factory in Bhiwandi, property worth crores gutted in blazeProperty worth crores gutted in a massive fire that broke out in a closed cloth factory last night in Kazi compound, Bhiwandi. Cause behind fire not yet clear; fire brigades reached the spot at earliest. No casualties reported yet, said Thane Municipal Corporation.UK police arrest 2 teenagers in South Manchester in connection with Texas synagogue attack, reports AFPUK police arrest two teenagers in South Manchester over Texas synagogue attack.Kathak maestro Pandit Birju Maharaj dies at 83, announces relativeLegendary Kathak dancer Pandit Birju Maharaj passed away, news agency ANI reported citing a relative. It is being said that he had a massive heart attack. He was 83.Two teenagers held in connection with Texas synagogue attackOfficers of UK's Counter Terrorism Policing have made two arrests in relation to the Texas synagogue attack. Two teenagers were detained in South Manchester on Sunday evening, the police said.BJP's final list of candidates for Goa polls to be announced on January 19Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who arrived at the Goa airport early on Monday after meeting BJP leaders in the national capital said that the final list of candidates for the assembly elections will be announced on January 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-17-2022-101642377452339.html
17-01-2022||India||‘Fog hole’ brings sun out but cold persists||Parts of the national capital recorded ‘cold day’ conditions on Sunday, despite a ‘fog hole’ over the city allowing in some sunlight and pushing up the maximum temperature from the season’s lowest, recorded a day ago.While Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, recorded a maximum temperature of 17.2 degrees Celsius (°C) on Sunday, three notches below normal, some parts of the city still recorded ‘cold day’ conditions, with the mercury increasing only marginally, to 12.8°C, at outer Delhi’s Narela.Though officially Delhi witnessed ‘cold day’ only on Friday and Saturday, parts of the Capital recorded such conditions for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday.Narela was Delhi’s coldest location on Sunday, followed by Jafarpur (13.5°C) and Mayur Vihar (14.3°C). The minimum temperature in the Capital rose to 8.1°C, a degree above normal, from 6.1°C a day ago.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a ‘cold day’ is declared when the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10°C and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5°C below the normal.The Capital recorded its lowest maximum temperature for two years on Saturday, when the daytime mercury dipped to 14.8°C at Safdarjung and 10.7°C at Narela.IMD senior scientist RK Jenamani said both the Safdarjung and Palam stations recorded shallow fog on Sunday. The IMD had issued an Orange alert for Sunday, forecasting both dense fog and cold day conditions.“This is the fourth consecutive day in Delhi now where cold day conditions have been seen. Some parts saw sunlight due to a clearance occurring in the low clouds due to winds,” said Jenamani.Navdeep Dahiya, an amateur weatherman who runs ‘Live Weather of India’, said satellite imagery showed dense fog and low clouds looming over the entire northern plains, but a fog hole led to some relief in parts of Delhi.“Fog holes are generally observed over urban cities and are linked to emissions. These are rarely seen in open settings such as fields,” he said.Jenamani said that cold day conditions were expected at isolated parts of Delhi on Monday as well.“The visibility was around 800 metres at Palam between 7.30am and 9.30am. It was around 600-700 metres at Safdarjung, but shallow fog was recorded at both locations. We can expect moderate fog on Monday, with similar low clouds to persist,” he added.The IMD classifies fog as ‘shallow’ when the visibility is between 500 and 1,000 metres, as ‘moderate’ when it is between 200 and 500 metres, and ‘dense’ when it is below 200 metres.IMD has forecast that the mercury will hover between 8°C and 16°C on Monday.Delhi’s air quality meanwhile remained in the ‘poor’ category, with an air quality index (AQI) of 264 recorded as per Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin – a slight increase from Saturday’s reading of 258.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a government forecasting body, Delhi’s air quality is likely to remain in the ‘poor’ category over the next two days, with further deterioration expected from January 19, as wind speed drops.“Prevailing foggy conditions and a gradual increase in wind speed is likely to keep air quality in the ‘poor’ category for the next two days. From (January) 19th onwards, wind speed is likely to decrease, leading to low ventilation of pollutants,” said the Safar forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fog-hole-brings-sun-out-but-cold-persists-101642372698151.html
17-01-2022||India||CBI arrests GAIL marketing director in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested ES Ranganathan, director (marketing) of state-run gas corporation GAIL, in a bribery case of over ₹50 lakh for allegedly giving discounts to private companies buying petrochemical products marketed by the firm, the agency said on Sunday.The central agency has busted an alleged bribery racket involving Ranganathan, several middlemen and businessmen. It arrested five people in the case on Saturday.Ranganathan was the sixth person to be arrested in the case.During the searches conducted at eight locations in Delhi-NCR, including Ranganathan’s office at Bhikaji Kama Place in Delhi and his residence in Sector 62, Noida, the agency recovered ₹1.29 crore in cash, gold jewellery and other valuables (with an approximate value of ₹1.25 crore), CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said.On Saturday, the agency recovered ₹84 lakh in cash from other accused in the case. So far, ₹2.13 crore in cash has been recovered in the case.The agency said Ranganathan was collecting bribes from prospective beneficiaries of discounts to private companies that were buying petrochemical products marketed by the Gas Authority of India (GAIL).“Ranganathan was indulging into corrupt and illegal activities in criminal conspiracy with middlemen Pawan Gaur and Rajesh Kumar, who is also director of Rishab Polychem Pvt. Ltd based at Bahudargarh Road, Delhi. Kumar and Gaur allegedly acted as Ranganathan’s middlemen by obtaining bribe from the private companies buying petrochemical products marketed by the Gas Authority of India Ltd (GAIL),” said a CBI official, asking not to be named.Other than Ranganathan and middlemen Gaur and Kumar, the CBI also charged N Ramakrishnan Nair -- who allegedly collected bribes -- along with businessman Saurabh Gupta and his Panchkula-based company United Polymer Industries, and Aditya Bansal and his Karnal-based Bansal Agency.CBI said that Gaur asked Ranganathan to give illegal discount to the buyers on the petrochemical products being marketed by GAIL.The agency’s FIR in the case said that Kumar and Gaur met Ranganathan at his Noida residence on December 11 last year to discuss the proposal.Two days later, Gaur informed Kumar that the discount proposal was being considered.In order to arrange bribes, Kumar got in touch with other prospective beneficiaries of a discount, after the final decision was taken in GAIL on the issuance of the discount order. Gaur, Kumar and Ranganathan again met at a five-star hotel in Delhi on December 14 to discuss the matter, the agency said.In an exchange filing on Sunday, GAIL said the financial impact of Ranganathan’s arrest cannot be ascertained at the moment.It also said that as per media reports, Ranganathan has been arrested in the said case, but the company is not aware of any information other than those published or reported.“At this stage no estimated financial impact or estimated amount can be ascertained,” GAIL added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-gail-marketing-director-in-bribery-case-101642361261106.html
17-01-2022||India||Three children die soon after measles vaccine in Belagavi; probe ordered||Three children have allegedly died due to the side effects of the measles-rubella (MR) vaccine in the Belagavi district of Karnataka in last four days, said a district health official, privy to the matter, on Sunday.The deceased have been identified as 13-month-old Pavitra Hulagur and 14-month-old Umesh Kuragundi of Bochabal village and Chetan Pujari (16 months) of Mallapur village in Ramdurg taluk, said an official, adding another child is undergoing treatment at the hospital. The health department has ordered a detailed investigation of the incident.According to officials from the health department, as many as 17 children had been vaccinated at the Anganwadi school in Salahalli village of Ramdurg taluk by the local primary health center (PHC) on January 12. Four among them were given MR vaccine. Within one-and-a-half hour, all four children who had taken MR vaccine got sick, started vomiting and passing loose motion.“The children were immediately shifted to Ramdurg taluk hospital, however, one of them died on the way,” said district health officer Dr Shashikant Munyal.“The doctors here kept one child under their supervision whose condition was not that serious, while the other two were recommended to Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) hospital. However, both died on Saturday,” he said. “The doctors raised concerns about the reaction of MR vaccine but we have never seen such reactions before. A probe has been ordered into the matter and the investigation is underway,” he said.Two doses of MR vaccine are given to the children at the age of 9-12 months and 16 to 24 months respectively. Dr Munyal further said two children had taken the first dose of MR while the other two had come for the second dose. The health department has stopped giving MR vaccines after the incident and samples have been sent for laboratory testing.“We are awaiting the post-mortem report. Things will be clear after that,”said Karnataka’s minister for higher education Dr CN Ashwath Narayan.Meanwhile, the family members of deceased children are blaming the health officials for the incident and have accused them of being irresponsible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-children-die-soon-after-measles-vaccine-in-belagavi-probe-ordered-101642361131425.html
17-01-2022||India||Madhya Pradesh plans public safety law to give more power to police||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh government will introduce in the upcoming budget session of the state assembly a legislation that makes licences mandatory for any private establishment visited by 100 or more people every day to ensure that it is following prescribed safety norms, officials from the state’s home department said.According to the draft of the Public Safety Bill, the onus of safety of visitors will lie with the management of such commercial, industrial, religious, medical, and educational establishments. The bill also gives police right to enter such establishments at any time to inspect if safety norms are being adhered to .“The private establishment will have to take the licence of public safety from local municipal corporations and municipalities. The licence will be mandatory for the establishments visited by a large number of people daily. The licence will be given after ensuring that the all safety measures have been implemented,” said an official involved with preparing the draft.The bill lists out several safety measures that need to be followed.“In the measures, the establishment has to install hand-held metal detectors, door frame metal detectors, and high-resolution cameras. It has to keep the recording of closed-circuit television surveillance cameras for 30 days,” said a second official who asked not to be named.The bill also gives power to the police to access CCTV footage in case of a crime at such establishments.“MP Police can inspect the establishment at any time and can ask for recordings for the investigation of a case. Under this bill, the establishment can’t refuse to share the video footages,” said the first official.The bill will have a provision of fines for violation of safety norms, and also for failing to procure a licence. “In case of violation, the establishment will have to pay a fine. The penalty amount is being finalised,” the official added.When contacted, Rajesh Rajora, additional chief secretary, MP home department, said, “The state government’s priority is to strengthen the security of people and to make the public place safer. The draft of Public Security bill is ready and after approval of cabinet, it will be tabled in the budget session of the assembly.”The budget session of the state’s legislature will begin next month.Once enacted, Madhya Pradesh will become the second state in the country after Andhra Pradesh to have such a law, Rajora added.The Andhra Pradesh Public Safety (Measures) Enforcement Act came into force in August 2013 and has a provision of fine up to ₹10,000 for non-compliance of rules, including installing CCTV cameras and getting licences.Last year, Bhopal Police launched an app to get access recorded footage from CCTVs installed at private hospitals, petrol pumps, and malls. However, police are yet to evaluate the success of this app.Experts said the implementation of the new legislation will be key to get the desired outcome.“Under the Safe City project, CCTV cameras have been installed at many places but often they are found to be not working. MP has so many laws from fire safety to environment clearances but the implementation is very bad. With introduction of new law, the implementation and monitoring are also necessary,” said Praveen Bhagat, an expert of urban development programmes. Bhopal Sarafa Association president Naresh Agrawal said, “Instead of asking for certification or license from establishment, the state government should involve different business associations or market association. To give access of footfall and regular visitor of business like jewellery shops can create trouble for people.”There is also possibility that recorded data can be misused by some miscreants or cyber hacker, he added. 
17-01-2022||India||Karnataka’s Covid positivity rate surges to 20% in two weeks||With increasing infections, the positivity rate across the state continues to see an upward trend. “Karnataka’s positivity rate has come in the range of 20%, the highest since the onset of the pandemic,” said an official privy to the matter on Sunday.The rate of infection in Bengaluru has witnessed a marginal decline, indicating the possibility of the virus spreading to other districts.The state’s positivity rate has climbed from 0.69% (on January 1) to nearly 20% (as on January 15), according to the state’s Covid-19 war room data.“Chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai has already spoken to all the heads of district administration and has given them complete freedom to take action, including implementation of additional restrictions based on the ground situation,” Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education Dr K Sudhakar said on Sunday.As per the official data, Bengaluru’s active caseload has come down from around 80% in the last week to around 73% on Saturday.In the last seven days (up to January 15), other districts of Karnataka have added a total of 50,641 new infections as against Bengaluru’s 1,17,488, data shows.During the same time period, the number of new infections increased from 1,187 on January 1 to 34,047 in the 24-hour period on January 15, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Sunday.Due to the night and weekend curfew in Karnataka, people are forced to commute from Bengaluru to their respective villages and towns, adding to the risk of transmitting the virus.The southern state has lost nearly 40,000 lives to the virus.Kolar, about 60 km from Bengaluru, has a positivity rate of around 24.6%, closely followed by Tumakuru which stands at 24.26%. A significant amount of people travel to Bengaluru from these two neighbouring districts on a daily basis, thereby increasing the risk of infection.As per the official information, other districts like Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Hassan, Shivamogga, Chitradurga and Ballari have also shown higher positivity rate. At least 15 out of the 30 districts (Vijayanagara is calculated under Ballari) have reported higher than 10% positivity rate, data shows. Only four districts — Haveri, Yadgir, Koppal and Bagalkote — in the state have less than 4% positivity rate.The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has already placed the entire state under restrictions. Previously, the state government had come under fire from its own ministers and party men who expressed concern over loss of livelihoods due to night and weekend curfews.Meanwhile, the public has also expressed concerns on multiple social media platforms as well for cracking down on people trying to earn a living while giving political leaders a free-pass to violate and later get away without any charges.The possibility of another lockdown has also been doing the rounds on news channels even though the government has denied any such move on its part.“The government has made all preparations to deal with the third wave of infections,” said the health minister. Sudhakar said that over 10,000 doctors have been trained to deal with Covid patients under home isolation. “In the next few days, all final year medical students will join the effort. No matter how many people get infected, they will be given proper treatment to contain the third wave,” Sudhakar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-covid-positivity-rate-surges-to-20-in-two-weeks-101642360474912.html
17-01-2022||India||Andhra to build energy-efficient houses for weaker sections||The Andhra Pradesh government has proposed to provide energy-efficient power infrastructure to its mega project of weaker sections housing for 30.76 lakh beneficiaries with financial assistance from KfW, German government-owned bank, officials said on Sunday.The housing programme, named as Jagananna Colonies, was launched by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on June 3 last year as part of his pre-election promise of “Navaratnalu-Pedalandirki Illu (nine promises-housing for all the poor). In the first phase, 1.56 million houses are being constructed at a cost of ₹28,034 crore in around 17,000 colonies.An official spokesman of the state energy conservation mission (APSEM) A Chandrasekhar Reddy said as many as 1.07 million houses have been grounded as on January 8 this year of which 6,901 houses were already completed and another 38,688 houses were completed up to roof level. Construction of another 9.6 lakh houses has been completed up to basement level, he said.The spokesman said the state government has proposed to provide energy efficient infrastructure in these housing colonies – right from electricity distribution infrastructure to provision of energy-efficient electric appliances to each house such as LED bulbs, tube lights and wiring.Reddy said KfW has come forward to extend financial and technical cooperation for this housing project. “The proposal came up for discussion at a virtual meeting held on Saturday, in which officials of the KfW, AP housing department and APSEM participated,” he said.KfW’s head of energy efficiency Dr. Martin Lux proposed to extend financial assistance of Euros 150 million for construction of energy efficient houses and Euro 2 million for technical assistance after successful appraisal of project. Besides, the bank would also extend additional financing support for electricity distribution infrastructure and strengthening the distribution network for supply of power to these Jagananna colonies.The housing department has proposed to supply four LED bulbs, two LED tube lights, two energy-efficient fans to each household that helps in saving energy bills, contribute to energy conservation and environmental protection. Besides, energy efficient street lights and energy efficiency pump sets for drinking water will be arranged in the 17000 Jagannna colonies.The spokesman said with implementation of energy efficiency measures, there is a possibility to reduce temperature by 2 to 4 degrees inside the houses depending on the weather conditions of particular area. The beneficiaries can adopt those energy efficient designs in their houses for which housing department engineers and staff will help them to implement the same, he said.“The housing department shall send detailed project reports (DPRs) related to electricity distribution infrastructure and related information pertaining to energy efficiency and housing data within a week to the KfW,” Reddy added.
17-01-2022||India||Video on ‘sex-for-job’ scandal: Belagavi woman alleges harassment; police blame delay in forensic report||A 25-year-old woman from Karnataka’s Belagavi district, about 505 km from Bengaluru, has been subject to mental torture by her husband and the society at large after a video clip, in which another woman who purportedly bears some resemblance to the former, went viral on social media nine months ago. The video relates to the ‘sex-for-job’ scandal which involves former minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ramesh Jarkiholi. The scandal cost Jarkiholi his place in the cabinet. “I am not that lady in the video. I don’t have a black mark on my lap like that lady in the video; besides, the lady doesn’t have a tattoo on her forehead like me. Is this not enough to prove my innocence? Women police constables checked my body parts physically. They have noted down all the details. But my husband’s family isn’t ready to accept it. But I want justice”, the woman said, requesting anonymity. The possible mistaken identity continues to fuel harassment against this woman, forcing her to run from pillar-to-post in her attempt to get authorities to clear her name. The 25-year-old woman has even filed a complaint in March 2021 under IT Act, 2000 and sections 498A, 504, and 509 of IPC against nine people including her husband, brother-in-law, and some other family members and outsiders who circulated the video to different social media platforms. She also blames the police for not taking action against the accused so far. Dinesh Kalahalli, a social activist, had filed a complaint in March last year in Bengaluru’s Cubbon Park police station. An unverified video of what looks like the minister with an unnamed woman sharing physical intimacy had gone viral with TV news channels in Karnataka playing the incident on loop. An alleged phone call between the two, in which a person alleged to be the minister, making corruption allegations against Yediyurappa is also being used against the BJP-led government in the state. The Jarkiholi case has taken twists and turns, with the BJP legislator accusing several of his partymen and many from the Congress of trying to sabotage his political career. The actual woman in the video, or at least the one who is believed to be in the video, has made a physical appearance before the police and the courts, and presented her side of the case. But none of this has had any bearing on the life of the 25-year-old woman who remains an ‘accused’ for her own husband and village elders. The young woman has also approached the forensic laboratory science (FSL). Ghataprabha police have sent the video to FSL in Bengaluru around eight months ago and are still waiting for the report. But the delay in the FSL report is adding to her challenges. However, speaking to HT, superintendent of police Laxman Nimbaragi discarded the allegations of the complainant, saying the case is under investigation. “We have been waiting for the FSL report. We sent all the details to FSL immediately after the complaint was registered. Delay is happening in getting the FSL report but we will again request the concerned to send the report at the earliest. Hope we will get it within a few months,” the officer said. Nimbaragi also said police can’t arrest the accused named in the complaint immediately without a preliminary investigation, as per the wish of the complainant. According to advocate Gurunath Kori, delay of FSL report is the common problem faced by the victims. “There are cases where the report has been delayed for more than two years even in serious cases like rape. This is a problem in the system which needs to be addressed. As far as this case is concerned, the police department can request the FSL authorities to send the report without delay, since it’s a case of a woman’s social life,” Kori said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-on-sex-for-job-scandal-belagavi-woman-alleges-harassment-police-blame-delay-in-forensic-report-101642359871916.html
17-01-2022||India||Chennai women’s collective to combat poverty, pandemic||Chennai: Alamelu Bhaskar, in her 30s, a mother to two toddlers whose photocopying shop was shut due to lockdown restrictions when the pandemic began in March 2020, had at that time feared her family and their similarly poor neighbours would die of starvation over being infected by the virus. But, instead of giving up, Bhaskar used her time to drive a community initiative along with a dozen other women to crowdsource food, groceries and monetary assistance to distribute them to the most vulnerable, such as senior citizens, women-headed families, and people with disabilities and mental illness. Bhaskar is among a few working women in Chennai belonging to lower socio-economic groups, who were identified with leadership potential and picked by a city-based NGO (Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities--IRCDUC) five years ago to be trained to create more women leaders in low-income communities. When the pandemic hit, these women had been central to helping other women like themselves in the absence of safety nets. Bhaskar was elected to the coordinator’s post in her residents’ welfare association last year, achieving one of the visions of the initiative that women should occupy such positions. Now with the fast spreading Omicron variant, there is dismay and discontent again but the power of these groups lies in coming together to address their issues on their own.“This time I’ve closed my shop voluntarily to be safe because I have two children at home,” Bhaskar says. “But, there are also a lot more women who have risen up to the challenges now.”While Bhaskar predominantly volunteers, not too far away from her, Mercy Muthu, 44, has immersed herself into this community work full-time, taking home just a stipend from the NGO. This is paltry compared to the monthly ₹20,000 she earned when she was a team leader in a prominent call centre from the heart of Chennai city but here is why Mercy has been doing this work for the past two years. She had to let go off her job in 2017 when her family was among hundreds who were forced to move to the city’s peripheries by the government as part of relocating those living along water bodies for flood prevention. In January 2020, two months before the first case of Covid-19 entered Chennai, Mercy Muthu and four other women knocked on thousands of doors in their locality’s slum tenements to draw up a list of pensioners, widows, destitute women and people with disabilities. There was an issue of pensions and social assistance of ₹1000 from the government being cut because these individuals had been relocated due to the floods. Given that they no longer lived in the previous address, the pensions and assistance had stopped. They identified 300 such deprived benefactors. “Some of them sobbed uncontrollably to us because they are fully dependent on their pension,” recalled Mercy. Their new residence in Perumbakkam has jurisdiction that falls between Chennai and the adjoining district of Chengalpattu. The five women – all aged between 30 and 40 – met the Chengalpattu collector who in turn directed them to the revenue inspector in Tambaram who instructed them that they will have to open new accounts in Shollingnallur’s Indian Bank which is in the city. “No one knows about such rules, that’s where our work comes in,” says Mercy. Everyday they took a group of 10 to the bank to open their accounts. “And this ₹1000 was what rescued them when the pandemic hit.”Global crises like Ebola in 2014 and the 2008 recession have shown that disasters have a gendered impact, so when Covid-19 hit, it was just a question of how these inequities would manifest. More cases of domestic violence and sexual abuse came to light within this community too given the pandemic-induced lockdown. “By now we have become emboldened to go to police stations to file complaints and women are supportive to one another. There is a sense of respect and a little fear also when people use us,” says Mercy. Eight women marched into a police station last year to accompany the mother of a child who had been sexually assaulted by a neighbour during the first wave of the pandemic and the case is in the trial stage. “These women see each other and they get inspired. Basically, it’s all about synergy,” says Vanessa Peter, founder of IRCDUC who along with one of the trustees A D Nundhyny began training women like Mercy and Bhaskar who in turn are now training more women. Mercy has identified 50 women through her field work in the past two years to be a woman leader like her. “We speak to a lot of people. Some women will have all the details about other vulnerable persons and direct us to help them. It shows that they care. I can tell they have the potential to be a leader amongst us,” says Mercy. Their work is to meet the basics but it is crucial to ordinary everyday living – like fixing civic issues, ensuring that social security schemes reach the benefactors, setting up camps for Aadhar registration. Now with Omicron spreading fast, though there is no full lockdown except on Sundays, people have been asked to stay home. So Mercy and the group are re-assessing their situation where they bring help home. For instance, the DMK which formed the government in May has rolled out a scheme, “Makkalai thedi maruthuvam”, meaning health services at your doorstep, and these women are linking those with health issues with this scheme. “We informed the local health officers and they have even arranged for physiotherapy to be done inside people’s homes,” Mercy says. Mercy has grown enough for her work to be recognised for the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board renamed by the DMK as Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board. She now sits in community development meetings. “The aim is we women shouldn’t be dependent on anyone, not even the government. We should use government schemes but we have to get together to help ourselves.”Bhaskar was elected to a resident welfare association (RWA), Peter says, because she was visible doing the work. “The idea is to create spaces where women can be participative.” Last month, the state issued a government order to launch ‘Nam Kudiyiruppu, Nam Poruppu’ (Our Tenements, Our Responsibility) scheme to maintain these tenements constructed by the department of Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board. Peter says 50% of RWAs must be occupied by women in response to the order which also states that the maintenance and repair works will be carried out solely by resident welfare associations and some by the Board and some with 50:50 contribution of both. “But the state cannot completely abdicate its responsibility towards the poor. These aren’t middle class localities where RWAs can cover all maintenance. There is much left to be done within these communities before they take up such a huge responsibility.”
17-01-2022||India||Telangana extends holidays for educational institutions amid Covid spike||The Telangana government on Sunday announced extension of holidays for all educational institutions in the state till January 30 following a steady rise in Covid-19 cases in the past two weeks.The educational institutions are supposed to reopen on Monday after a week-long vacation for Sankranti festival. In fact, the vacations should have started on January 11, but the state government advanced them from January 8.“Now, with the third wave of Covid-19 is gradually peaking, the government has decided to extend the holidays for the educational institutions till January 30,” stated an order issued by chief secretary Somesh Kumar.By Saturday evening, Telangana reported 1,963 positive cases as active cases mounted to 22,017.All universities in Telangana announced closure of institutions till January 30. As a result, all the examinations scheduled to be held this month, including semester examinations in degree colleges, have been indefinitely postponed.Osmania University, however, announced that it would conduct on-line classes for the graduate and post-graduate students till the month-end. At the same time, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Hyderabad also announced that all the colleges under its purview would conduct online classes from January 17.According to a circular issued by the university, classes for UG/PG courses-BTech/BPharm I and II years, MTech/MPharm I and II years, MBA/MCA I and II years, Pharm D I, II, III, IV, and V years, and Pharm D (PB) I and II years will be conducted online.Mid-exams for Pharm D/Pharm D (PB) II years scheduled from January 17 to 22 could be conducted during second spell of instructions as per the convenience of the colleges, it said.No extension of holidays in Andhra The Andhra Pradesh government declared that the schools will be reopened on Monday. “There is no extension of Sankranti holidays for educational institutions in the state,” state education minister Adimulapu Suresh said in a statement.He said the decision was taken after an extensive discussion in the education department. The government felt that closure of schools and colleges would affect the academic schedule. “All precautions would be taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus,” he said.As on Sunday morning, Andhra Pradesh reported 4,570 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The total number of active cases in the state is 26,770, a bulletin from the state government said.
17-01-2022||India||Rajya Sabha polls another focus point for Cong in 2022||Retaining its only government in northern India or returning to power in Uttarakhand and Goa or improving its tally in Uttar Pradesh — the Congress’s key stakes in the upcoming elections also include a possible gain in its Rajya Sabha tally this year.Among the 75 Upper House seats going to biennial polls during 2022, there are 7 seats from Punjab, 11 from Uttar Pradesh and one from Uttarakhand. These polls would be crucial for the party to improve its tally in Parliament. For, as things stand now, the party is set to lose at least four seats in the Upper House in other states, according to its own internal calculations.The Congress, which had 56 Rajya Sabha MPs in 2019, is now down to 34, but is still the largest Opposition party in the Rajya Sabha where, for a long time, the NDA government was in minority and suffered delays in clearing legislation. But for the past two years, the government has gradually gained control through numbers.In 2022, the Congress will lose two seats in Assam when its MPs Ranee Narah and Ripun Bora complete their terms in April 22. In Karnataka, of the four seats going to the polls, it can retain its lone MP. The Congress will not be able to hold the seat held by former UPA minister Oscar Fernandez, who passed away last year September.Similarly, in Himachal Pradesh, Anand Sharma, the party’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha, is unlikely to win in a straight contest for one seat in April this year. The BJP is in power in the state.Uttar Pradesh will see eleven seats falling vacant in 2022 followed by seven in Punjab and one in Uttarakhand. A good performance of the Congress in these states can help the principal opposition party gain a few seats to compensate for the losses from other areas.Of these eleven Rajya Sabha seats in UP, the Congress has just one outgoing MP, Kapil Sibal. The party, led by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in the state, is trying to carve out a voter base among women.“In our current position in the UP assembly, we would not be able to even retain Sibal’s seat. We have a long way to go in UP,” said a senior Congress strategist requesting not to be named.The party’s best chance, therefore, lies in Punjab and Uttarakhand. Among the outgoing seven MPs in Punjab, the Congress has just two — Partap Singh Bajwa and Ambika Soni. “We are confident of retaining the state and an improved performance would help us bag additional seats in the state at the expense of BJP and Shiromani Akali Dal. Depending on the Punjab results, we can compensate the loss of four seats in other states from Punjab alone,” said the strategist.In Uttarakhand, the biennial election would be held in July, three months after the assembly election in the state. This too, would be a direct fight between the BJP and the Congress and whoever wins the assembly poll can hope to bag the Rajya Sabha seat as well.The Congress, otherwise, hopes to gain two seats in Rajasthan and one seat in Jharkhand, the strategist said.
17-01-2022||India||HT THIS DAY: January 18, 1954 -- India win by innings and 50 runs||MADRAS- The Commonwealth were beaten by an innings and 50 runs shortly after lunch today, the last day of the fourth Test here. India are now leading 2-1 in the present series. The last six tourists’ wickets fell today to the addition of 74 runs to their overnight score of 94 for 4. Ghulam Ahmed took four wickets and Gupte accounted for two batsmen. The tourists lost’ Watkins (44) and Loxton (9) before lunch. After resumption there was a collapse and their last four wickets fell for the addition of only 18 runs to the lunch total of 150 for 6. Barrick came to partner Watkins when play was resumed this morning. Gupte completed his unfinished over. Ghulam continued at the other end. With a push to cover for a single off Gupte, Barrick sent up the 100 of the inniggs. When Watkins pulled Gupte for a single 110 appeared, 16 runs having been added in 35 minutes’ play. At 112, Watkins was out, leg before to Ghulam Ahmed. He scored 44 in a stay of 171 minutes and hit Ave fours. Suryanarayana fielded for Umrigar who left for Bombay today for private reasons. At 126 the sixth wicket fell, when Loxton was bowled by Ghulam Ahmed for 9 runs. Skipper Barnett came in next. Barrick and Barnett carried on with occasional singles. A single by Barrick off Ghulam sent up the 130 of the innings. BOWLING CHANGE The score kept on moving steadily, if slowly and when Barnett turned Gupte to fine-leg for three, 142 appeared on the board. The first bowling change was made at that total, Kripal Singh coming in for Gupta to enable the slow spinner to change over to the other end. Barnett swept Gupts to square-leg for four to reach 10 in a total of 146. Stealing a single oft Gupte, Barrick soon took the total to 150 when lunch was taken. His score then was 24. Barnett was batting with 11. Ghulam Ahmed’s analysis up to lunch was 48 overs, 31 maidens, 36 runs and five wickets. The tourists lost their seventh wicket immediately after resumption without any addition to their pre-lunch total. In Gupte’s second over Barrick played defensively and gave an easy catch to Manjrekar at short square-leg. Nine runs later, Berry was also back in the pavilion, bowled by Ghulam Ahmed for nil. Meanwhile, Barnett had collected two fours off Ghulam Ahmed and Gupte, respectively. A run later, Barnett himself was bowled by Gupte for 20. Ghulam Ahmed rounded off the Commonwealth second innings for 168 by knocking Loader’s stumps for 7. Iverson remained unbeaten with 2. India thus won by an innings and 50 runs. The tourists second innings terminated 25 minutes after lunch I and lasted 353 minutes in all. Ghulam Ahmed returned the brilliant analysis of 51.1 overs, 32 maidens, 42 runs and 7 wickets. | Trophies were presented to Roy and Ghulam Ahmed for the best batting and bowling performances in this Test by Mr Sri Prakasa, Governor of Madras. SKIPPER HAPPY Ghulam Ahmed, skipper of the Indian Team, said he was very pleased with India’s victory. He added: “ I congratulate the members of my team for the co-operation they gave me both on and off the field. As this victory was badly needed, I am very happy that we have achieved the same at Madras.” Congratulating the Indian team on their splendid victory B. A. Barnett, captain of the Commonwealth team, said that he hoped to even up the series in the fifth and final Test at Lucknow. Barnett added Ghulam Ahmed bowled very well and paid a tribute to young Kenny of Bombay who, he said, playing his first Test, made a grand debut and forecast a bright future for him. Explaining the failure of his team Barnett said: “ We missed Loader and Iverson in our attack during India’s first innings. Meuleman’s century was a grand knock.” MUKHERJEA’S MESSAGE Mr J. C. Mukherjea, President of the Boaid of Control for Cricket in India, congratulating the Indian players on their grand victory, said: “ I am glad that the Indian team has won so handsomely. They were up against a very strong side and they have been able to show under the captaincy of Ghulam Ahmed that the team is composed of players who can hold their own against the best attack. The Commonwealth team has a number of well-known players. Madras is to be congratulated on achieving this distinction.” SCORE BOARD INDIA.-Ist Innings 440 for 9 decL COMMONWEALTH-1st Innings 222 COMMONWEALTH.-2nd Innings C. J. Barnett c Ramchand b Ghulam Ahmed 14 Marshall Lb.w. Gupte 36 Edrich b Ghulam Ahmed 2 Meuleman b Ghulam Ahmed 1 Watkins 1.b.w. Ghulam Ahmed 44 Barrick c Manjrekar b Gupte 24 Loxton b Ghulam Ahmed 9 Barnett b Gupte 20 Loader b Ghulam Ahmed 7 Berry b Ghulam Ahmed 0 Iverson (not out) 2 Extras 9 Total 168 FALL OF WICKETS: 1-16, 2-18, 3-26, 4-94, 5-112, 6-126, 7-150, 8-159, 9-161. BOWLING ANALYSIS OMRW Phadkar 9 5 9 0 Ramchand 3 2 3 0 Gupte 53 23 92 3 Ghulam Ahmed 51.1 32 42 7 Kripal Singh 7 3 13 0||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-january-18-1954-india-win-by-innings-and-50-runs-ghulam-ahmed-takes-7-wickets-101642358971929.html
17-01-2022||India||Lata Mangeshkar still under observation||Legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar continues to be under treatment in the ICU of a city hospital here, the doctor treating her said on Sunday.The 92-year-old singer tested positive for coronavirus with mild symptoms and was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai last week.Associate professor Dr Pratit Samdani from the Breach Candy Hospital told PTI, “She continues to be in the ICU and is under treatment”.Later in the day amid speculation that Mangeshkar’s condition was deteriorating, a spokesperson for the veteran singer denied media reports, calling them “false news”.“It is disturbing to see false news being circulated. Please note that Lata didi is stable. Continues to be in ICU under treatment of able doctors. Please pray for her quick return home,” Anusha Srinivsan Iyer, the spokesperson for Mangeshkar, said in a statement.Earlier in the day, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the health condition of the melody queen was “improving”.“Lata Mangeshkar’s condition is improving. I spoke to the authorities of the Breach Candy Hospital who updated me about her health. I told them that the spokesperson of the hospital should provide updates on the singer’s condition as people are eager to know about her health,” Tope told reporters in Jalna.After discussing with her family members, the Breach Candy Hospital can update about the health of the veteran singer, Tope said.Mangeshkar’s niece Rachana Shah had on Thursday said the singer was doing well and requested the media to respect the privacy of the family.Regarded as one of Indian cinema’s greatest singers, Mangeshkar started her career at the age of 13 in 1942 and has over 30,000 songs to her credit in several Indian languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lata-mangeshkar-still-under-observation-101642358912865.html
17-01-2022||India||Telangana CM invited to SP’s UP campaign||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has been invited by the Samajwadi Party to join the polls campaign for Uttar Pradesh, a senior leader of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti told HT here on Sunday. “We have received a request from Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, asking KCR to campaign for his party in the Uttar Pradesh elections. The party is discussing the same and the chief minister will take a call,” senior Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) leader and state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar,said.The invitation fits among Rao’s attempts to form a non-Congress and non-Bharatiya Janata Party front at the national level before the next general elections, Kumar said. According to Kumar, the chief minister held a meeting with senior TRS leaders to discuss Yadav’s request on Sunday afternoon. “A decision on whether KCR should take part in the campaign directly or through virtual mode will be taken keeping in view the present Covid-19 pandemic situation,” a senior TRS functionary familiar with the development said.If the situation is conducive, Rao could participate in the UP campaign in the third and fourth phases of elections, the party leader said.On Thursday, TRS working president and Rao’s son K T Rama Rao, in an interaction with his social media followers on Twitter, indicated that his party might join the election campaign for SP in the run-up to the UP assembly elections.“We shall take a call soon after consultations within the party. The current trend in UP favours Samajwadi Party,” he had said in reply to a question by a follower.Off-late, TRS supremo Rao has been mounting a no-holds-barred attack on the BJP and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre.On December 14, Rao held talks with his Tamil Nadu counterpart and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M K Stalin to discuss the possibility of a floating third front, comprising regional parties and like-minded national parties, including the Left.He followed it up with a meeting with the national leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Communist Party of India on January 8. He hosted lunch for them and held discussions about the need to build up a third alternative to the Congress and the BJP at the national level by next elections.Senior CPI (M) leaders including national general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, former Tripura chief minister Manik Sircar, CPI (M) politburo members Ramachandran Pillai and Balakrishna, besides CPI national general secretary D Raja, CPI parliamentary party leader and Kerala MP Binay Viswam and Kerala revenue minister Rajan and others held deliberations with KCR.According to a senior TRS leader, the chief minister brought to the notice of the Left party leaders that the Congress was not in a position to project itself as a strong opponent of the BJP and hence, there is a need for a third alternative political force in the country.On January 11, a delegation of the Rashtriya Janata Dal, led by Bihar leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav, met Rao in Hyderabad. According to functionaries familiar with developments, Rao also spoke to RJD supremo Lalu Prasad about efforts to form the third front.Before 2019 general elections, too, the TRS chief made similar attempts on the formation of a “federal front” of regional parties. Apart from Stalin and Akhilesh Yadav, KCR had discussions with Janata Dal (S) president H D Deve Gowda, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha chief Hemanth Soren.The federal front proposal, however, did not take off, as Stalin, Soren and Pawar ruled out the possibility of a front without the Congress.
17-01-2022||India||Bihar: Toll in Nalanda hooch tragedy climbs to 13, SIT to probe case||The death toll in the Nalanda hooch tragedy on Sunday rose to 13, prompting the Bihar government to form a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the matter, officials said. While six people are undergoing treatment at various government and private hospitals, two of them appeared to have lost their eyesight. More than 30 people have been arrested so far, the officials said. According to Patna inspector general Rakesh Rathi, the station house officer (SHO) of Sohsarai police station, under whose jurisdiction the incident occured, has been suspended. Nalanda superintendent of police Ashok Mishra confirmed that 13 people have so far died in the incident which took place on Friday evening. All the deceased are residents of Chhoti Palari and Pahar Talli under Sohsarai police station, he said. “To probe the incident, an SIT led by Sadar deputy superintendent of police and comprising Sohsarai police station in-charge and circle inspector, has been constituted to search for those responsible for the tragedy,” Mishra said.“The postmortem reports of all the deceased are awaited to know the exact cause of the deaths,” he added. The bodies of eight of the deceased were handed over to family members after post mortem, police said. Nalanda district magistrate Shashank Subhankar said: “On the basis of the doctors’ report, it seems all the deaths were attributed to the consumption of spurious liquor. Thirty-four people, who are related to the tragedy, have been arrested so far.”This is the seventh incident of hooch tragedy in Bihar in the past six months, claiming lives of more than 40 people, even as the state has been under total prohibition since April 2016.
17-01-2022||India||MP’s famous ‘Collarwali’ tigress dies at 16||T15 or Collarwali, the legendary tigress of Madhya Pradesh’s Pench Tiger Reserve in Chhindwara district who earned the title of “super mom” after giving birth to 29 cubs, died after prolonged illness, officials said on Sunday.The tigress was 16. Also known as Mataram, she had given birth to 29 cubs in eight litters during 11 years - between 2008 and 2018 - the officials said, adding that 25 of the 29 cubs survived.“The tiger was ill due to old age. She was last spotted near Bhura Dev Nullah on January 14. She was spotted lying down. She was under the observation of veterinary doctors and was unable to walk. She passed away at 6.15 pm on Saturday,” Alok Mishra, field director, Pench Tiger Reserve, said. “The exact cause of the death will be known after a post mortem but prima facie it appears to be due to multi-organ failure caused by old-age,” he added. As a female cub, the tigress was radio-collared in March 2008. While the radio collar stopped functioning later, she was again radio-collared in January 2010. This is how she got her name Collarwali, Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said. “The Collarwali was the most popular tigress among tourists. She was born to T 7, popularly known as Badimada and T 1, known as Charger in 2005. In 2008, a team of experts from Dehradun fitted a radio collar on her,” he said.In May 2008, Collarwali gave birth to three cubs but they could not survive. “In October 2010, she delivered five cubs at a time which increased her popularity among wildlife lovers,” Kumar said. “She lived in the wild for more than 16 years which is also a record. Her legacy is not limited to Pench as her female cub was shifted to Panna Tiger Reserve who gave birth to five cubs and contributed a lot in the success of the relocation project of tigers in Panna Tiger Reserve,” Aniruddha Majumder, a scientist at state forest research institute, Jabalpur, said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan paid tribute to the tigress.“Tribute to the ‘Super Tigress Mom’ Collarwali of @PenchMP, the pride of Madhya Pradesh and mother to 29 cubs, who played an important role in achieving the Tiger State status for MP. The forests of Madhya Pradesh will always resonate with the roar of the cubs of the ‘Queen’ of Pench Tiger Reserve,” Chouhan said in a tweet. (With inputs from Bhojraj Raghuvanshi )
17-01-2022||India||Daytime temperatures plummet across northwest India, to persist till Monday: IMD||Bitter cold continued to affect several parts of northwest India on Sunday with most parts of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, parts of Madhya Pradesh, east and northwest Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh recording cold day to severe cold day conditions, when day temperatures are significantly low.Cold day to severe cold day conditions in some/isolated pockets are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan over the next two days and over East Uttar Pradesh during the next three days, the India meteorological department (IMD) said on Sunday.Most parts of northwest India recorded significantly low day temperatures (see box) but above normal night or minimum temperatures on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. “This is mainly happening because an intense western disturbance had passed last week from over northwest India. After a western disturbance passes, cold northerly winds bring extremely cold air from the Himalayas to this region. These chilly winds bring down day temperatures. These conditions will continue till Monday at least,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Dense to very dense fog also prevailed in some pockets over Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and East Uttar Pradesh and isolated pockets over Jammu, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Assam.On Sunday early morning, Bikaner recorded zero visibility; Churu, Ajmer and Sagar 25 m each; Udaipur 50 m; Lucknow 100m; Kota, Ratlam, Damoh, Nowgong and Dhubri 200 m each; in Delhi Palam and Safdarjung reported 1,000m and 500m.A cyclonic circulation is lying over east and central Arabian Sea and adjoining Konkan coast in lower tropospheric levels. A relatively feeble western disturbance is presently affecting the Jammy and Kashmir region. A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region from Tuesday and another Western Disturbance is likely to affect northwest India from January 21. The western disturbance affecting on January 21 is expected to bring scattered rainfall to northwestern plains also.Scattered light to moderate rainfall is likely over Telangana, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on Sunday and Monday and over Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Mahe in the next three days. Isolated light to moderate rainfall is likely over sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Andaman & Nicobar Islands between Tuesday and Thursday. Scattered light to moderate rainfall is likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during January 19-20. Thereafter, under the influence of another western disturbance, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall likely over Western Himalayan Region and isolated to scattered rainfall over adjoining plains of northwest India during January 21 to 23.Dense to very dense fog in isolated parts in night/morning hours is likely over Rajasthan and East Uttar Pradesh during the next two days and dense fog in isolated parts in night/morning hours over Jammu division and Himachal Pradesh on Sunday and Monday; over West Uttar Pradesh and north Madhya Pradesh during Monday and Tuesday.A cold wave is declared when minimum temperature (is less than 10°C over plains) is 4.5°C- 6.4°C below normal or the actual minimum temperature is less than 4°C. A severe cold wave is declared when minimum temperature is over 6.5°C below normal or the actual minimum temperature is less than 2°C. A cold day is declared when maximum temperature (is less than 10°C over plains) and is 4.5°C-6.4°C below normal and a severe cold day is declared when maximum temperature is 6.5°C below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daytime-temperatures-plummet-across-northwest-india-to-persist-till-monday-imd-101642358613176.html
17-01-2022||India||Haridwar hate speech: Seer Narsinghanand booked for assaulting 3 reporters||A day after he was arrested for alleged hate speeches at a Haridwar event last month, seer Yati Narsinghanand was on Sunday booked for allegedly assaulting a group of journalists on Saturday, Uttarakhand Police said on Sunday. “The seer was booked on the basis of a complaint by a Delhi-based journalist, Vineet Khare, who alleged that he and two of his colleagues were assaulted by the seer and his followers during an interview. The journalist also alleged that he and his colleagues were threatened with dire consequences,” inspector Rakendra Kathait, station house officer of Haridwar Kotwali police station, said. “Following this, Narsinghanand was booked on charges of wrongful restraint, assaulting, criminal intimidation and intentional insults under sections 341,352, 506 and 504 of Indian Penal Code, respectively,” he added. The inspector also said that prior to Khare’s complaint, Narsinghanand had approached police, saying the journalist had “hurt his sentiments by calling him a ‘so-called see’ during the interview”. “However, we are yet to register a case and are verifying his claims,” Kathait said. The seer, meanwhile, was sent to 14-day judicial custody in connection with the hate speeches he made at a three-day-long Dharm Sansad in Haridwar on December 17-19.Narsinghanand is the sect chief of the influential Juna Akhada, and one of the five accused named in the FIR.Besides him, Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, former Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board chairman who until last month went by the name Waseem Rizvi, has been arrested in connection with the case. On January 13, the Supreme Court had sought the state government’s response, within 10 days, on a public interest litigation demanding stringent action taken against those who were involved in the event. 
17-01-2022||India||Covid vaccination pace in India satisfactory, say experts||In the one year that India started its immunization drive against Covid-19, the rate of inoculation has been quite satisfactory as the country has administered 1.57 billionvaccine doses, experts said. “It is a great achievement that the number of vaccine doses that India has already administered is more than the population of several countries in the world,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog. “It has been achieved within a year of having started the national Covid immunisation drive, and that too powered by two made in India vaccines.” India, the world’s largest vaccine maker, has crossed several milestones in its campaign to fully inoculate its population. For instance, on September 17 last year, close to 2.5 crore vaccine doses were administered across the country, highlighting the single-day vaccine administration capacity of states when there is adequate supply of vaccines.“It is commendable that Covid immunisation picked up speed from August,” said K Srinath Reddy, founder of the Public Health Foundation of India. “We now need to ensure that all eligible adults and children complete double-dose vaccination, and all those eligible to get the protective doses receive them by the end of February or early March,” The technological backbone of the Covid vaccine delivery system has been CoWIN, which was created by upgrading an earlier digital platform used for India’s universal immunization program based on an electronic vaccine intelligence network (eVIN).eVIN was an internet-based digital system to track routine immunization, vaccine stocks, and storage temperature in about 25,000 dedicated cold chain storage points in the country, as well as movement of vaccines.“CoWIN is one of the robust IT systems that is capable of large-scale implementation of the programme, and has been working successfully,” said RS Sharma, chief executive officer at the National Health Authority, an autonomous body that supervises the functioning of CoWIN.India’ focus will now be on covering the last mile, and also on providing vaccines to other countries in need, experts said.“Last mile of the target is always most difficult to achieve, especially when it comes to immunisation, as those that are left could be not coming forward due to vaccine hesitancy,” said Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar. “The government will have to aggressively scale up the vaccination drive.” Under the vaccine maîtri initiative, the government has been providing Covid-19 vaccines to other countries and also supplying vaccine doses to the global COVAX programme under the aegis of the World Health Organization, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), and Gavi.“India has not only successfully undertaken one of the largest Covid vaccination drives in the world, but has also given Covid vaccines to over 100 countries already, and will continue to help those in need,” said Balram Bhargava, director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, and secretary at the department of health research.
17-01-2022||India||Vaccination added strength to India’s Covid battle in last 1 year: Modi||India’s vaccination drive against Covid-19 has added great strength to the fight against the pandemic and has resulted in saving lives and protecting livelihoods, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, as the programme completed one year.A total of a total of around 1.57 billion doses has been administered across the country to nearly 908 million people during this period, according to government data.Lauding the exceptional role of doctors, nurses and healthcare workers, Modi said: “I salute each and every individual who is associated with the vaccination drive.” “When we see glimpses of people being vaccinated in remote areas, or our healthcare workers taking the vaccines there, our hearts and minds are filled with pride,” he said. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a tweet, said that India crossed the landmark milestone of administering 100 million vaccine doses on April 1 last year. “As a result of the country’s solidarity and Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji’s commitment during the Corona crisis that the country not only manufactured a vaccine but also inoculated a large part of the population in a very short time. This one year of vaccination campaign shows India’s resolve,” he said in another tweet. Union minister Amit Shah also lauded the leadership and determination of the Prime Minister and the continuous efforts of the people in the country. “Leadership and determination of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the continuous efforts of the people in India have proved that if the government and the people of a country unite to achieve a common goal, then the country can conquer every challenge and make the impossible possible,” he tweeted. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said: “Earlier, about 30-40% people needed to be admitted when they got infected, but now, only 3-4% people need to be admitted, this has been possible only through vaccination... I’m proud that over 107.2 million Covid-19 doses were inoculated in the state till January 15, including the first, second, and precaution doses.” BJP chief J P Nadda said, “The world stood up and applauded us.” Over the past year, India has come together in this fight against Covid, he said, extending gratitude to health workers besides the masses for their efforts to make the drive a success. Hitting out at the government, Congress secretary Pranav Jha said: “We have been able to fully vaccinate only 64% of our population and the third wave has already hit us. The Centre rather than upping the testing has issued an advisory for reducing the testing. Our doctors, nurses and healthcare workers are badly hit. Hospitals are running with bare minimum strength. I don’t know if that should be a reason to celebrate or a reason to review the strategy!” (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-added-strength-to-india-s-covid-battle-in-last-1-year-modi-101642358374001.html
17-01-2022||India||Mumbai records under 10k Covid cases, positivity rate also declining||Daily cases of Covid-19 dropped below the 10,000 mark for the first time in nearly two weeks in Mumbai, with the city reporting 7,895 fresh infections on Sunday, as the numbers from the Omicron wave continued a steady decline over the past week.The positivity rate, the proportion of tests returning positive for Covid-19, meanwhile dropped to 13.7% from an average of around 20-22% over the past week.The number of tests conducted in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) area slightly declined to 57,534 on Sunday, compared with more than 60,000 tests done through most of last week. To be sure, a minor drop in testing is generally not uncommon over weekends.The rate of hospitalisation in the city remained low at 15%, as only 5,722 beds out of a total of 38,127 allocated for coronavirus patients were occupied. The percentage was same as on Saturday. Bed occupancy has been slowly declining in the city – it was 16.8% on Friday and 17.3% on Thursday. A total of 688 patients were admitted to hospitals on Sunday, while 92 more patients in the city needed oxygen support, according to BMC’s health bulletin.The 7,895 new cases reported on Monday took the city’s total case count to 999,209.On Sunday, the city reported 11 deaths due to the virus, taking the total toll to 16,457. The case fatality rate on Sunday was 0.13%, compared with the case fatality rate of 1.6%. There were 60,371 patients still fighting the disease.Experts noted that while there has been a clear drop in infections and positivity rate in the city over the past week, they warned that there may be other factors at play such as the role of home-testing kits that may be underplaying the real numbers of the country.“The trend of cases is lower now, there is no doubt about that. Hospitalisation is still the same,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 task force. “This was the trend we noticed during the second wave, when hospitalisation reduced a few days after the number of cases dropped. This also indicates that people are not as fearful about the disease anymore, and may not be testing in the same numbers as before.”“It is too soon to tell if the peak has passed,” said Dr Harish Chafle, senior consultant, pulmonology and critical care at Global Hospitals. “The lower number of cases can also be attributed to too many people taking tests at home, and not reporting it to the civic body.” “We cannot say that the peak has passed, but our cases have reached a plateau,” said Dr Om Shrivastav, also a member of the state task force. “The next few days will give us a clearer understanding of the behaviour of the infection at present.”HT reported last Tuesday that Mumbai -- one of the earliest hot spot centres in the country’s Omicron wave -- has started showing early signs of decline in cases as well as positivity rate.On January 7, Mumbai reported 20,971 cases, the highest number reported in a single day since the beginning of the pandemic. The positivity rate on January 7 was 28.9%, as 72,442 covid-19 tests were conducted. Similarly, on January 8, Mumbai reported 20,318 covid-19 cases, with a positivity rate of 28.6%, as it conducted 71,019 tests. Since then, the daily Covid-19 cases have been fluctuating, with the city reporting 11,647 cases just three days later on January 11 with a positivity rate of 18%, 16,420 cases on January 12 with a positivity rate of 24.3%, and 13,702 cases on January 13 with a positivity rate of 21.7%. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 10,661 cases, with a positivity rate of 19.5%.Experts have urged Mumbaiites to continue to behave responsibly, wear face masks in public, and self-monitor symptoms that can lead to complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-records-under-10k-covid-cases-positivity-rate-also-declining-101642358372870.html
17-01-2022||India||Amid another wave, Odisha’s Kandhamal district grapples with a learning gap||It is 11am on December 7, and there are lines of worry etched across headmaster RK Sahoo’s face. There are 40 students in front of him, sitting on wooden desks, all disturbingly quiet. Bholeshwar Bidyapith in Phiringia block of Kandhamal is ramshackle, the paint on the walls is peeling off, and there is barely any sunlight in the dark room. Even at the best of times, education in Kandhamal, one of Odisha’s most backward districts is difficult. He asks the question again, his voice echoing in the silence of the classroom. “What is a plus b whole square?” The heads in front of him remain bowed, almost in embarrassment. A board on the crumbling door outside the room says standard 10. The question is elementary, but there is no answer still. There rarely has been over the past few weeks.Like the rest of the country, and therefore Odisha, the Bholeswar Vidyapith in Ratang village shut down in March 2020, as India began dealing with its first Covid wave. For a year and a half, schools in Odisha remained closed as the pandemic went from strength to strength, ravaging health systems and the economy, and causing immeasurable hardship. In that year and a half, school students across India lost access to their schools, with online learning a last resort. As the second deadly Delta wave abated somewhat, India gingerly opened its classrooms state by state, and Odisha finally opened to physical instruction on July 26 for Class 10 and 12, and then August 16 for Class 9. Physical classes for Class 8 and 11 began on October 25 while for Class 6 and 7, they resumed from November 15. Bholeshwar Vidyapith opened its doors on July 26. And when it did, confronted perhaps the biggest challenge that the pandemic has bequeathed to the Indian education system. A deep learning loss. “I don’t know how they will write the papers for their summative assessment in January 2022 if they can’t remember basic algebra. I shudder to think how they will perform during offline exams,” said Sahoo.But this challenge isn’t just a limited question of performance in examinations. As Omicron looms, and more uncertainty confronts India’s schools (many have been shut in response) in a five-part series from across the country, HT looks at the vast ramifications of the pandemic on India’s schools and children: from learning loss to increasing susceptibility to child marriages and trafficking; the closure of low-cost public schools; the linkages between migration and education; even the vulnerability of children to recruitment by Maoist organizations.Learning loss10 kilometres away from Bholeswar Bidyapith, Subhashree Mishra, a teacher at Phiringia village’s “Upgraded high school” is in the midst of a similar, exasperating exercise. The Class 8 teacher has 42 students in front of her, and the response is a similar silence. The question is even more elementary. Speak out loud the numbers between 10 and 99. Of the 42, only two are able to complete the exercise. “There are many who have even forgotten how to sign their names by the time the schools reopened on October 25 for Class 8,” said Mishra.A study by Azim Premji Foundation, titled Loss of Learning During the Pandemic, conducted in February 2021 among 16,067 children across 1,137 public schools and covering 44 districts of Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand revealed that 92% of children on average have lost at least one specific language ability from the previous year across all classes. Similarly, 82% of children on average have lost at least one specific mathematical ability from the previous year across all classes.Anurag Behar, CEO, Azim Premji Foundation, believes that learning loss is clearly the biggest challenge that the country faces in the near future. “Roughly 210 to 220 million children have had virtually no education for practically two years. They have not learnt what they should have and they’ve forgotten much of what they knew at that point in time. This has never happened in the history of education. It’s incredible,” said Behar.A landmark study by Karthik Muralidharan and associates at Education Initiatives, made an assessment of the levels of student achievement in the Adarsh Schools of Rajasthan. “There is a general deficit of average attainment and grade-expected norms. More importantly, within each grade, there is a wide dispersion of student achievement, making it an extremely challenging task for teachers in government schools to handle such variation. The gap between actual and expected learning level only widens as children move to higher grades,” the study said.To map the extent of learning losses,the Union education ministry is currently conducting a National Achievement Survey among 3.8 million students in 123,000 schools in 733 districts across 36 states and Union territories for students of Classes 3, 5, 8 and 10 in which the abilities of the students in language, mathematics, science, social science, English and environmental studies will be tested.Limitations to the digital pushIn April 2020, Odisha’s school and mass education department started online classes for Class X students, providing learning materials to primary, upper primary and elementary students through WhatsApp. In May, the Scheduled Tribe & Scheduled Caste development department started an “Alternative Learning and Mentorship Programme” to teach students through mobile applications, YouTube channels or a doorstep visit by mentor teachers.The practice continued till January 8, 2021 when offline classes resumed for students from Class 10 and 12. But with the second wave spreading its tentacles through the country beginning April 2021, classes were suspended again.This has meant that schools across the state were effectively shut for anything between 13 to 19 months for students of Class 6 -12. Students from Class 1 to 5 have yet to see the insides of their classrooms for over 21 months. In the interim, the only option has been online education. But across various parts of Odisha, that term is fanciful.Odisha school and mass education department minister Samir Dash told the state assembly on December 8 that during the pandemic, at least 49,098 higher secondary students including 15,792 tribal and 11,045 Dalit students dropped out of school. “I have asked the District Education Officers to implement different schemes under the Samagra Sikshya Abhiyan to bring back the dropouts to educational institutions,” he said.In terms of mobile penetration, an October 2021 report from Telecom Regulatory Authority of India puts the national average at 88% with Delhi being the highest and Odisha at 79%.But the Odisha Economic Survey 2018-19 states that at least 20% of the 51,311 villages in the state did not have mobile phone connectivity while the penetration of the internet was 28.22% to the national average of 38.02%. When schools were closed due to lockdown last year, the digital divide grew ever more stark. After all, these numbers refer to households; it is rare for children in even lower middle-class households to have their own devices.Dash told the state assembly in the last session that only 28.87% of students studying in classes 1 to 10 had access to smartphones for online classes. In Kandhamal, just about 13.38% of students had access to smartphones while mobile connectivity was available in 30% of the 2587 villages of the district.In districts like Kandhamal, the digital divide is deep.The real world implicationsIn March 2020, 13-year-old year old Kamandha Kanhar was a class five student of the Phiringia government high school, run by the state SC/ST department. The year ending examinations were yet to be held, and suddenly, his hostel was shut. Without a test, Kanhar was promoted to class 6. In the next year and a half, he had absolutely no access to online education. A resident of Patilipidia village, his parents Bharat Kanhar and Jhagumati Kanhar, are illiterate, and subsistence labourers. He was the first in the family to go to school, his two sisters are younger than him.Nobody in the family has smartphones, and the village has no mobile connectivity. With nothing else to do, Kanhar began going to work with his parents, tilling farmlands someone else owned. “There was no one in the village who could teach us. Though a teacher sometimes visited our village during the pandemic, no one in the village was willing to study,” Kanhar said. On November 15, 2021, when the schools reopened, Kanhar travelled back to his hostel, 20 kilometres away from his village. He found he could not read two words in English. “I could before, there was a sense of practice. Now, I don’t understand anything,” he said.Smrutirekha Nayak, a teacher in Retang upper primary school of Kandhamal said that the biggest hurdle that faces them, is how to make children “re-learn”. “As they were absent from schools, they have difficulties in concentrating. To bring back the rhythm and recoup learning losses we have to work extra hard. But where is the time for it? Earlier children in upper primary classes could do addition using numbers in their notebooks. But now they have forgotten how to do that. Many have simply forgotten how to write in their notebooks. We are forced to start everything from scratch. It is frustrating at times,” she said.Anil Pradhan, a Right to Education activist in Odisha said, “While the long absence of students from schools has affected learning processes, students in districts such as Kandhamal, Koraput, Rayagada, Nabarangpur or Malkangiri with poor network connectivity have lost out the most. Many students have skipped an entire year’s learning and this is bound to show up in their academic performances.”Over the past year, there have been other despairing examples of just how difficult the pandemic has been. In August last year for instance, Andrea Jagaranga, a 13-year-old tribal student of Rayagada district died when the boulder he was sitting on to attend his online classes rolled downhill. Jagaranga had gone back to his village after physical classes were suspended due to Covid-19 and would climb atop a mountain a few furlongs away to find the best connectivity.The way forwardKandhamal’s district education officer Pramod Sarangi admits that learning loss is a major issue for students of Kandhamal considering its poor mobile connectivity. “As most children did not have much writing practice, we have asked the schools to focus on it and undertake learning recovery programmes. The teachers have been asked to teach important parts of the syllabus that the students missed out last year. But it is a difficult task.”Behar of Azim Premji Foundation says both the Centre and the states must act. “States should take all possible measures to recover lost learning. Most importantly, teachers should be given adequate time to help the students recover the lost learning. Let’s say a kid is in 7th grade now. He left school when he was in the 5th. You can’t start with 7th grade syllabus right away as the kid has also forgotten what he had learnt in Class 5 and 6. The states have to give teachers time, and the appropriate kind of material,” he said.The Central Square Foundation, a non-profit organization that works in the education sector has put forth 10 recommendations which include designing targeted interventions, especially for marginalized groups disproportionately impacted by the pandemic. The other recommendations are increasing effective, in-person instructional time by reducing the number of holidays, freeing up teachers’ time from administrative tasks, gently re-inducting children into social interactions and a focus on foundational literacy and numeracy skills.Back at the Phiringia Upgraded High School, headmaster Mahendra Das is almost tearful as he speaks. Most of his 300 students are back in school, but over the past two years, the school has fallen into greater depths of disrepair. Some classrooms are virtually unusable, and students have to huddle together in ones that are. Government mandated social distancing is impossible, and there is always fear of an outbreak. The greater fear is for the future of his students. In India’s education system, there is always an examination on the horizon. “The students are not at fault. They just are not ready. They can barely read, have jumped forward a class. Even for teachers like us, there is very little we can do,” Das said.(Reporting for the story was done in December)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-another-wave-odisha-s-kandhamal-district-grapples-with-a-learning-gap-101642358371621.html
17-01-2022||India||Centre launches stamp to mark 1 year of Covid vaccination||India released a commemorative postal stamp on Covid-19 vaccination on Sunday to mark the first anniversary of the country’s national immunization programme against the virus. The stamp shows a health worker inoculating a senior citizen with Covaxin.“This stamp signifies the remarkable work done by our front line health care workers and scientific community across the country in protecting the people against the Covid pandemic,” health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said while releasing the stamp. “This is a historic occasion for us. Within a span of one year, we have administered more than 156 crore doses. Our vaccination programme is a role model for the global community.”Covaxin is one of the two mainstays of India’s immunisation programme against Covid-19, along with Covishield. It was developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Ltd in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research.  “India has encountered various challenges along the journey, but it is the resolve and dedication of more than 135 crore people that we could overcome every challenge,” Mandaviya said, highlighting the remarkable efforts of all stakeholders in India’s collective fight against Covid-19.The health minister lauded the efforts of India’s indigenous research and development community and pointed to the streamlined production and distribution of vaccines. This was achieved amid an environment of criticism and disbelief, he said.“We are proud of our legacy and will continue to innovate in medical research,” Balram Bhargava, director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said during the launch of the commemorative stamp. “The development of indigenous vaccine Covaxin is a remarkable milestone in India’s scientific capability.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-launches-stamp-to-mark-1-year-of-covid-vaccination-101642358311764.html
17-01-2022||India||1 year on, 70% adults fully vaccinated: Govt||India’s national Covid-19 immunisation programme on Sunday completed its first year, with 70% of the country’s adult population having been administered two doses, and 93% covered with at least one shot of coronavirus vaccines.Marking the occasion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the “exceptional” role of health care workers for a year of hard work.In India, the first shot of a Covid-19 vaccine administered outside of a trial setting was on January 16, 2021. Since then, a total of around 1.565 billion doses has been administered across the country to nearly 908 million people, according to government data.“Today we mark #1YearOfVaccineDrive. I salute each and every individual who is associated with the vaccination drive. Our vaccination programme has added great strength to the fight against Covid-19. It has led to saving lives and thus protecting livelihoods,” the Prime Minister tweeted on Sunday. “At the same time, the role of our doctors, nurses and healthcare workers is exceptional. When we see glimpses of people being vaccinated in remote areas, or our health care workers taking the vaccines there, our hearts and minds are filled with pride,” he added.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that the manner in which the vaccination drive has commenced demonstrates the country’s willpower. “It is a result of joint effort of the entire country and PM Narendra Modi’s commitment that in times of the crisis, India not only developed and manufactured Covid vaccines, but also vaccinated a large chunk of its population within a year. The first year of the vaccination demonstrates India’s willpower,” he wrote in Hindi on Twitter.India’s vaccination drive officially kicked off in January last year, with the initial recipients being millions of health care and frontline workers who were directly dealing with Covid-19 patients. Later, the drive was opened up for the general public in a phased manner – from March 1 for people aged 60 and above; from April 1, for everyone above the age of 45 years; for all adults from May 1; and for teenagers between the ages of 15 and 18 starting January 3, 2022.Till Sunday evening, about 1.565 billion doses were administered across the country, as per government data, with 907.5 million of these shots being first doses, 655.8 being second doses, and another 4.3 million being precautionary, or booster, jabs.In total, 873.6 million adults (93% of the country’s population above 18) have received at least one shot of the vaccine, with 655.8 million (69.8% of adults) being fully vaccinated. About 218 million (23.2%) people have received only one dose so far. Furthermore, another 33.9 million shots have been administered among the roughly 74 million children in the country between the ages of 15 and 18 years, covering 45.7% of the age group.In the global context, India’s coverage of 65.2% of its entire population (not just adults) having been administered at least one shot places it ahead of the global average of 59.9%. However, India’s two-dose coverage of 46.9% of the population lags the global average of 50%, according to Our World In Data. While India’s coverage comfortably exceeds nations such as Pakistan (45% population given a shot), Russia and Bangladesh (51%), it lags several other nations such as Iran (71%), United States (75%), United Kingdom (76%) and Brazil (77%).The drive was put in motion on January 3, 2021, when national drugs regulator, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), VG Somani, granted approval for restricted use in emergency situation to two vaccines: Covaxin and Covishield.While Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), developed and manufactured Covaxin, the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca is being locally manufactured by the Serum Institute of India under the brand name Covishield. Together, these two account for more than 99.7% of all shots administered in the country, with the latter alone accounting for 86.3% of the overall figure.Six more vaccines – Gamaleya’s Sputnik V, Moderna’s mRNA shot, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D, Johnson & Johnson’s Ad26.COV2.S, Novavax’s Covovax, and Biological E’s Corbevax – have also been granted emergency use authorisation. Among these, however, only Sputnik V has been rolled out in a limited manner in a handful of private hospitals across the country, while the remaining five are yet to be made a part of the vaccination drive.To be sure, the first year of the drive has not been without challenges.One of the largest issues has been the patchy rate of vaccination. At times, it has soared to averaging more than 10 million doses a day, and at other times, it has dropped to under 1.4 million shots a day. By the end of September, when India was averaging 10 million shots a day, it looked like the country was set to hit its target of fully vaccinating everyone by the end of 2021. But then, by early October, this pace dropped to under 3 million (government officials attributed the festive season for the drop).One of the reasons for this patchy pace (at least in the initial weeks) was supply. In the initial months of the drive being thrown open to all adults, several states complained to the Centre about the supplies of shots being handed to them.Both these issues, however, appear to have been ironed out now. Average vaccination pace has been promising in recent weeks (around 7.4 million/day), while supply issues have been sorted to a large extent (as on Sunday, states have with them a surplus of 141 million doses, as per government data).“The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country... The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain,” the Union health ministry said.Experts say vaccination is key in reducing the risk of deaths due to Covid-19 considerably.“Vaccination is an important tool; as it has been established that vaccines significantly prevent the risk of getting severe form of the disease and death. Those who are yet to take the shot must take it as soon as possible,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, department of pulmonary medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.
17-01-2022||India||Oil, budget and economic sentiment||There is some merit in the argument that inflation is a bigger dampener on economic sentiment in India than low growth rates. Traditionally, Union budgets have mattered for people at large because of two reasons: prices of goods and income tax rates. With the roll-out of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) in 2017, the Budget has lost its importance as a determinant of prices. The GST has subsumed central and state indirect taxes on most domestically produced goods and rates are decided in the GST Council. However, the budget still has a major influence on the price of an important commodity: fossil fuels such as petrol and diesel. What the forthcoming budget does regarding prices of petrol and diesel will have important implications for the economy. Here are four charts which explain this in detail.Petrol-diesel taxes were increased post-pandemicAs the world came to a standstill after the pandemic, consumption of petroleum products crashed. This led to a sharp fall in petroleum prices as well. Brent crude – the international benchmark for crude oil prices – fell to $9.12 per barrel on April 21, 2020, the lowest level in 21 years. The price of India’s Crude Oil Basket (COB) fell to $19.90 in the month of April 2020, the lowest level in 18 years. The government saw an opportunity in this development and significantly increased taxes on petrol and diesel. Because the base price was very low, retail prices did not increase despite the sharp rise in taxes. This is best seen in petroleum ministry statistics on price build-up of petrol and diesel.
17-01-2022||India||Avoid needless appeals on arbitration awards: Govt||The government has directed its arms, including state-run firms, not to unnecessarily appeal against every arbitration award without realistic probability of success in order to avoid project delays and cost overruns as often such appeals are lost and the government ends up paying more in terms of interest and penalty, two people aware of the development said.This is part of the government’s recent guidelines to implement projects expeditiously and efficiently because public expenditure is key to accelerating growth and creating jobs, they said, requesting anonymity. Like the previous year, the forthcoming budget on February 1 will bank on infrastructure projects to boost the pandemic-hit economy, said one of them working in the finance ministry.Budget 2021-22 enhanced capital expenditure by 34.5% at ₹5.54 lakh crore. The government is also expecting its ₹111 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) to boost growth. The Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020, followed by a 68-day nationwide hard lockdown, saw India’s gross domestic product (GDP) shrank 24.4% in the first fiscal quarter ended June 2020, followed by a 7.4% contraction in the next quarter. It, however, saw a V-shaped recovery on the back of a ₹20.97 trillion stimulus package and policy reforms announced since March 2020. A positive 0.5% growth was reported in the third quarter, followed by a 1.6% expansion in the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. The latest official estimates project India’s GDP growth at 9.2% in 2021-22.A second person, working in a public sector company, said the latest guidelines issued earlier this month have removed several hurdles in project management right from conceptualisation of a project to land acquisition and award of a contract. Guidelines allow award of a contract even on the basis of a single bid, provided the process is objective, non-restrictive and price quotes reflect the market value.“These guidelines are general in nature and framed after about two years of deliberations with various departments and agencies, including CVC (Central Vigilance Commission) and CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India). It aims to execute public projects within the approved cost and time frame, without getting involved in unnecessary legal disputes,” the official mentioned in the first instance said.There are disputes and litigation with contractors while implementing projects. Instead of resorting to legal recourse, either in a court or an arbitration tribunal, both the parties should resolve disputes through discussion and mediation. Arbitration should be evoked only as the last recourse. And unless sure to win, a routine appeal against the arbitration award should be avoided, the official said.“It is perceived that at times appeals are resorted to postpone the issue and shift personal accountability. Such a casual approach has caused more harm to the exchequer because of huge compensation and interest costs in addition to tarnishing the image of the government,” the official added.India’s success rate in arbitration under bilateral investment treaty (BIT) is abysmal, said Prabhash Ranjan, professor and vice-dean at Jindal Global Law School, OP Jindal Global University, in an article on “India’s poor compliance with investment awards”, published in HT on January 13.“Since 2011, approximately 20 BIT arbitrations have been initiated against India... From the data publicly available, an award has been rendered in nine cases. India has prevailed in three of these cases while losing six,” he said, adding that most of the disputes arose because of India’s “capricious behaviour” symptomatic of bad governance.“The country’s global reputation, belief in rule of law and assets of India’s PSUs abroad are all too precious to be sacrificed at the altar of a few million dollars,” he said.The company executive quoted above said the latest guidelines have directed project implementing agencies to monitor the success rate of appealing against arbitration awards or a court order. “It suggests companies to set up a board-level committee to take informed decisions in such cases. It must consider legal merits, practical chances of success, cost of such appeals,” the executive said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-needless-appeals-on-arbitration-awards-govt-101642356811131.html
17-01-2022||India||Historic Secunderabad Club gutted in massive fire in Telangana||A massive fire broke out Secunderabad Club, one of the country’s oldest, in the early hours of Sunday, destroying the 144-year-old edifice completely.A fire department official said they received information about the blaze in the heritage building at about 3am. “We rushed 10 fire tenders to the building immediately. It took about three to four hours to bring the flames under control. The entire club has been gutted to ashes,” the official said.“The club was closed on Saturday on account of Sankranti festival. The fire accident might have started due to short circuit,” the official said.A stunning heritage building with a rich history going back to 1878. Unbelievable. pic.twitter.com/L38eqXscUrFire department officials said they had to struggle a lot to put out the fire due to the presence of “a lot of combustible material” in the premises. Several gas cylinders are believed to have exploded in the fire.Prominent heritage conservationist Anuradha Reddy and also a member of Secunderabad Club, said the club, established by the British in 1878, is one of the oldest clubs in India.“The club is very close to my residence. I thought there was some accident. This morning, I came to know about the incident,” Reddy, who is also convenor of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), said, adding that she heard loud noises earlier in the morning.The club’s century-old Main Club House was given heritage status by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority in 2017.The club has a 8,000 members including military officers, bureaucrats, diplomats, police officials, professionals, scientists and businessmen.
17-01-2022||India||Amid bickering in TMC, BJP punches holes in Abhishek Banerjee’s Covid-19 data||The special Covid-19 management drive started on January 8 in Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s Lok Sabha constituency of Diamond Harbour in Bengal’s South 24 Parganas has triggered a political tussle with opposition parties accusing CM Mamata Banerjee, who is also in charge of the health department, of ignoring the state’s remaining 41 constituencies. “Diamond Harbour parliamentary constituency does it again. Despite its close proximity with Ganga Sagar and Kolkata, Diamond Harbour parliamentary constituency maintains positivity rate of below 3%,” a post on Abhishek Banerjee’s Facebook page said on Monday afternoon. The post appeared hours after the West Bengal health department said in its Covid-19 bulletin that Bengal had registered a positivity rate of 27.73 % on Sunday. On January 8, barely days before the Ganga Sagar fair started in South 24 Parganas; Banerjee held meetings with the district’s bureaucrats and doctors and said in public that he personally felt that all religious festivals and the coming civic body elections should be put on hold for two months in the interest of public safety. Banerjee also announced some measures, including extensive testing of samples and setting up of control rooms, health check-up camps and isolation facilities in his constituency. While a section of TMC leaders projected this as the “Diamond Harbour model” in Bengal’s battle against the pandemic, Abhishek Banerjee announced on January 12 that 53,202 samples were tested in his constituency on that day and only 1151 people tested positive, marking a positivity rate of 2.16%. “We will leave NO STONE UNTURNED in our quest to make Diamond Harbour PC #COVID-19 free. Your well-being will always be our top priority!” he tweeted. The West Bengal health department, on the other hand, said in its daily health bulletin that 71,792 samples were tested on January 12 in entire Bengal and the positivity rate was 30.86 %. On Saturday, when the West Bengal Election Commission postponed the polls in four civic body areas from January 22 to February 12, Banerjee welcomed the decision. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, has launched a scathing attack on the TMC. “If both, the West Bengal health department run by Mamata Banerjee and data put out by Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee for January 12 are correct, then Bengal tested 18,589 people across 41 Lok Sabha constituencies of which 21,004 tested positive! 113% positivity rate. Is Mamata downsizing Abhishek?” Amit Malviya, national head of the BJP information technology and social media cell tweeted on Sunday. Posting the official figures, Malviya, who is also co-in-charge of the party’s Bengal unit, wrote: “As per Abhishek Banerjee, he did 53,203 Covid-19 tests in a single day (January 12) in his Diamond Harbour constituency out of whom 1,151 turned out to be positive. But West Bengal Govt Health Bulletin says 71,792 tests done on that day across the state out of whom 22,155 were positive. So that means only 71,792-53,203 that is 18,589 tests done across remaining 41 constituencies out of whom 22,155-1151 that is 21,004 tests were found to be positive.” “21,004 positives out of 18,589 tests done. Unbelievable 113% test positivity rate across rest of West Bengal, if both the data furnished by Abhishek Banerjee and Govt of West Bengal health dept run by Mamata Banerjee are correct,” Malviya added. The BJP Bengal unit sharpened their attack against the ruling Trinamool Congress once again on Monday. “If the figures are to be believed then Abhishek Banerjee should be made the chief minister. Mamata Banerjee must step down for failing to protect people in the remaining 41 Lok Sabha constituencies,” said Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar. Incidentally, the focus on Diamond Harbour has triggered an adverse reaction among some senior TMC leaders as well. Statements that Kalyan Banerjee, the Lok Sabha member from Srirampur in Hooghly district, has been making since Thursday indicate that he is unwilling to accept the focus on Diamond Harbour. “Why talk about Diamond Harbour? We know only Mamata Banerjee. She is our supreme leader,” Kalyan Banerjee said on Friday. On Monday, posters, demanding a new MP for Srirampur, appeared in parts of Hooghly district. Kalyan Banerjee refused to comment on the posters. Taking a swipe at the TMC, BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said, “It seems Kalyan Banerjee has got to know that he will not be fielded in 2024. The epicentre of power in the TMC is shifting.” Madan Mitra, the TMC legislator from Kamarhati, also expressed his dissatisfaction. On Saturday, he said there was no way party leaders can meet or talk to Abhishek Banerjee. “He is never available at his office,” Mitra said in a social media post.TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee stepped in on Saturday. “As head of the party’s disciplinary committee I am asking all leaders to refrain from making adverse remarks in public. If anyone has any grievance, he should raise it at internal meetings,” Chatterjee said. Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury called the rumblings “a circus”. “Kalyan Banerjee could not have made these remarks spontaneously. He must be having tacit support from Mamata Banerjee. We know that there are differences between the chief minister and her nephew on several issues,” Chowdhury said. TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy refused to give any importance to the BJP’s campaign on the Covid-19 tests done in Diamond Harbour. “Let BJP leaders work on the mathematics they have learnt in their school of politics. It makes no difference to us,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-bickering-in-tmc-bjp-punches-holes-in-abhishek-banerjee-s-covid-19-data-101642431459842.html
17-01-2022||India||HT This Day Jan 17, 1956: CENTRE TO ADMINISTER BOMBAY CITY||By Our Special CorrespondentNEW DELHI- THE Government of India announced tonight their decisions on most of the States Reorganization Commission proposals. While generally accepting the proposals, the Government have made a major departure from the Commission's recommendation regarding the Bombay region.In place of the two States, bilingual Bombay and Vidarbha, as proposed by the Commission, there will now be: Maharashtra State, including Vidarbha, Gujerat State, including Saurashtra and Cutch, and one Centrally-administered area comprising Bombay city and some surrounding villages.The announcement says the proposals for the reorganization of the Punjab and Andhra-Hyderabad regions are still under consideration.The Government have accepted in full the proposals to abolish the institution of Rajpramukhs and to end the constitutional disparity between different States.The Government have also accepted the Commission's recommendation regarding the formation of the new States of Kerala, Karnataka (to be named Mysore) and Madhya Pradesh.The Commission's recommendation in regard to the continuance of the States of Madras, Rajasthan, U.P., Bibar, West Bengal, Assam and Orissa has also been accepted.A Home Ministry communique running into 11 foolscap typed sheets, carrying the Government decisions was issued tonight.Simultaneously with the release of the communique, the Prime Minister in a nationwide broadcast tonight made a fervent appeal to his countrymen for "unity cooperation and hard work.” Mr Nehru asked the people to approach every problem in " a spirit of sweet reasonableness and cooperation."He added: " We all go forward together or not at all. Violence is the very negation of what we stand for and our progress."In his broadcast Mr Nehru made a special mention of the decision regarding the Bombay region and of the discussions held with the representatives of various viewpoints.He said, significantly: " In particular, we were anxious to meet the legitimate aspirations of the Maharashtrian people. Bombay city, as is well known, is geographically surrounded by Maharashtra and may be considered to be a part of it. Even in this city, the dominant and largest linguistic group consists of Manarashtrians. Whatever the fate of Bombay, the Maharashtrians are bound to play a dominant role there."About Punjab the Prime Minister said: " The only major issue that remains is that of Punjab. It is clear that the future of Pigljab depends on the goodwill and cooperation of the Sikhs and Hindus there. Whatever the decision, this is essential. I trust this will be forthcoming."He emphasized that it was necessary to have a number of safeguards which would protect the linguistic minorities as well as othersTEXT OF 'COMMUNIQUEThe following is the text of the communique.The Government of India have had under careful consideration the S.R.C. report since it swas submitted on September 30. 1955. They have naturally been anxious to ensure that the point of view of every party, section, or interest should be taken into consideration before any decisions are reached. With this end in view, the Government arranged for early publication of the report. It has now been before the country for more than three months and has been fully considered by all the political organizations and important sections of public opinion.A conference of Chief Ministers of States was convened in October, 1955, to consider the first reactions in the different States to the proposals made in the report. All the State Governments have now been consulted, and there has been a preliminary discussion of the report in the various State Assemblies in advance of the formal consultation under Article 3 of the Constitution. The report has also been debated in considerable detail in Parliament.After giving careful and anxious thought to the views which have been expressed on the subject, the Government of India have arrived at conclusions which are being embodied in the States Reorganization Bill. This Bill will be placed before Parliament after the legislatures of the States concerned have been consulted.SCHEME WELCOMEDThe report of the Commission is a weighty document based on a thorough and objective examination of a complicated problem. Public opinion in India has also by and large welcomed the scheme proposed by the Commission. The Government of India have, therefore, generally accepted the Commission's recommendations.The departures which have been made from the Commission's scheme are restricted to a few cases in which it has been found that the minimum measure of agreement necessary for the efficient working of administrative units would not be forthcoming on the basis of the Commission's recommendations. In regard to certain disputed border areas, some minor adjustments have been made, largely by agreement.The decisions which have been taken are briefly summarized in the paragraphs which follow.The Government of India have accepted the Commission's recommendation that the existing constitutional disparity between the different States of the Indian Union should disappear as a necessary consequence of reorganization. They have also accepted the further recommendation that the existing Part 'B' States should be equated to Part 'A' States by omitting Article 371 of the Constitution and abolishing the institution of the Rajpramukh, and that the existing Part ‘C' States should also disappear as a category of States. As recommended by the Commission, such of the existing Part C' States as cannot be merged in the adjoining States will be directly administered by the Central Government. The question of devising suitable arrangements for associating the representatives of the people of these areas with their administrations is under consideration.STATES OF THE INDIAN UNIONThe Government of India have accepted the Commission's recommendation regarding the formation of the new States of(a) Kerala,(b) Karnataka to be named as Mysore, and(c) Madhya Pradesh,and also the recommendations regarding the continuance of the States of(a) Madras,(b) Rajasthan,(c) Uttar Pradesh,(d) Bihar.(e) West Bengal,(f) Assam, and(g) Orissa,broadly on the basis proposed by the Commission. Some minor adjustments have, however, been made as regards the areas to be included in some of these States.The Government of India have carefully considered the Commission's recommendation regarding the formation of Bombay and Vidarbha States. The proposal appears to be fair and reasonable. But in view of the strong opposition from the Marathi-speaking areas to the creation of the proposed bilingual State and in view also of the special position of the City of Bombay and public opinion in this area generally, the Government of India have arrived at the conclusion that two States, namely, fi) a Gujarat State comprising the Gujarati-speaking areas with its capital within the State; and (ii) a Maharashtra State comprising the Marathi-speaking areas. including the areas of the proposed Vidarbha State, with its capital within the State; and one centrally administered area, namely, Bombay, comprising (1) Greater Bombay; and (ii) the areas of the villages of Kopari, Mulund, Nahur and Turmbhe in the Thana taluka and the Borivli taluka except the villages of Bheyandar, Dongri, Ghod Bunder, Kashi, Maroshi, Mire, Rai Murdhe and Uttan; should be constituted in Blace of the States of Bombay and Vidarbha as proposed by the Commission. The Government of India hope that it will be possible to make suitable arrangements on an agreed basis to meet the wishes of the people of Vidarbha.The question of devising a suitable form of administration for Bombay and associating the people of this area with its governance is under examination.The Government of India have also taken into account the wishes of the people in the existing Part C State of Tripura. They have come to the conclusion that Tripura may for the time being be continued as a centrally-administered area.The attention of the Government of India has been drawn to the need for the development of the Laccadive and Minicoy Islands, which now form part of Malabar district and the Amindive Islands which now form part of South Kanare district of Madras State. The Government of Madras has suggested that the development of these areas is likely to be accelerated, if they are transferred to and administered by the Centre, and this suggestion has been accepted.PUNJAB STATEThe Commission's recommendations about the formation of (i) a Punjab State comprising the territories of the existing States of Punjab, P.E.P.S.U. and Himachal Pradesh; and (ii) a residuary Hyderabad State or in the alternative a larger Andhra State are still under consideration.In regard to border adjustments, the Government of India have proceeded on the basis of the recommendations of the Commission. Some minor adjustments have, however, been made, largely by agreement. Some further adjustments may follow in the event of similar agreements being reached.In accordance with the decisions which have so far been taken, the States of the Indian Union will be as indicated in the Appendix.The Government of India attach great importance to the recommendations made by the Commission in respect of safeguards for linguistic minorities and certain suggestions in the report intended to correct parochial trends or to secure greater inter-State co-ordination. These recommendations have been accepted in principle. Final decisions in regard to some of them will, however, have to be taken in consultation with the State Governments.The Government of India feel that if the implications of the fact that the Constitution of India recognizes only one citizenship, a common citizenship of the entire. Indian people with equal rights and opportunities throughout the Union, are fully appreciated and accepted, undue importance wiU not be attached to the question of territorial redistribution between the States of the Union.ZONAL COUNCILSAs a further step in the direction of inter-State co-ordination, the Government of India propose, simultaneously with the creation of the new States, to establish zonal councils, which may deal with matters of common concern to the States in different zones, including economic planning and questions arising out of reorganization. The zonal councils will be deliberative and advisory bodies; their creation will not, therefore, in any way detract from the content of the legislative and executive authority of the States. If properly worked, however, these bodies should serve to promote inter-State concord and arrest the growth of acute State consciousness.It is proposed to group the States and areas in the following zones for the purpose of establishing zonal councils:(1) NORTHERIT ZONE: Comprising the existing States of Punjab, P.E.P.S.U., Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan with such territorial adjustments as may be made;(2) CENTRAL ZONE: Comprising U.P. and the proposed Madhya Pradesh States;(3) EASTERN ZONE: Comprising the proposed States of Bihar, Orissa, West Bengal, Assam (including N.-E.F.A.), Manipur and Tripura:(4) WESTERN ZONE: Comprising the proposed States of Maharashtra and Gujarat and the centrally-administered area of Bombay; and(5) SOUTHERN ZONE: Comprising the States of Andhra and Madras together with the proposed States of Mysore and Kerala and the residuary State of Hyderabad as proposed by the Commission.The Government of India also contemplate the appointment of common Governors and the establishment of common High Courts and common Public Service Commissions in certain regions.The task of finalizing a co-ordinated scheme of reorganization of the territories of the States of India has been an extremely complex and delicate one. It has involved reconciliation of the national interest with regional interests and the balancing of one important factor bearing on reorganization against other such factors. Each claim has also had to be considered in relation to other competing claims. It is obviously impossible for any Commission or authority entrusted with a task of such dimensions to satisfy all interests. The impossibility of achieving universal acceptance of decisions of this nature can well be realized. when it is borne in mind that in a number of cases, serious controversy rages on the merits of the proposed readjustment of territories one side contending that the transfer is utterly unjustified and the others seriously questioning the adequacy of the transfer:GOVT. APPEALThe Government of India have endeavoured to seek the largest measure of agreement regarding the changes which have been proposed, in the hope that as a result of the proposed changes, an environment may be created in which the nation will be able to devote itself to the more immediate and urgent problems which face it, including in particular economic reconstruction and development.The Government of India would conclude with an appeal to all sections of public opinion in the country to approach the problem of reorganization from the national rather than from sectional or parochial points of view. The readjustment of State territories on a rational basis is undoubtedly of some importance. But what is of even greater moment is to ensure that in the process of these adjustments, larger ends like national unity and economic progress of the country are not impaired.The aim and motive behind re- organization is the formation of units which may lead to greater administrative convenience facilitating the implementation of national development plans and promoting the well-being of the people of the country as a whole. The Government of India sincerely hope that the decisions which have been taken will be viewed in this perspective and that it will be possible to implement them within the contemplated time-schedule in an atmosphere of tolerance and goodwillAPPENDIXMADRAS: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that the portion of the westernmost pakuthy of Shencottah taluk lying to the west of the ghats will be excluded from the areas proposed for transfer to Madras.KERALA: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that the portion of the westernmost pakuthy of Shencottah taluk lying to the west of the ghats will be retained in Kerala and the Amindive, Laccadive and Minicoy islands will be Centrally-administered.KARNATAKA TO BE NAMED MYSORE: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that Alampur and Gadwal tehsils of Raichur district and Tandur and Kodangal tehsils of Gulbarga district will be excluded from it and Humnabad, Bidar, Bhalki, and Santpur (Aurad> tehsils of Bidar district will be included in it. The Commission's recommendations regarding the transfer to Andhra f rom Mysore of certain portions of Bellary district is being discussed with the State Governments concerned arid a decision regarding these areas will follow.MAHARASHTRA: This State will include the following areas:(i)the districts of Thana (subject to certain minor adjustments mdicated in paragraph 9 of the Press communique), Nasik, Ahmecyagar, West Khandesh, East Khandesh, Poona, Sholapur, Kolnapur, North Satara, South Satara, Ratnagiri, Kolaba and Dangs of the present State of Bombay;(ii) Chandgad taluk of Belgaum district of present State of Bombay.(iii) districts of Akola, Amravati. Yeotmal. Buldana, Nagpur. Wardha, Chanda and Ahandara of the present State of Madhya Pradesh; and(iv) the districts of Aurangabad. Bhir, Osmanabad, Nanded, Parbhani and tehsils of Nilanga, Udgir and Ahmedpur of Bidar district of the present State of Hyderabad.GUJARAT: This new State wU1 be constituted so as to include the following areas: (i) districts of Amreli, Ahmedabad, Baroda, Kaira, Surat, Panch Mahals, Broach, Mehsana, Sabarkantha and district of Banaskantha (except for Abu Road taluk) of the present State of Bombay; (ii) Saurashtra; and (iii) Kutch.MADHYA PRADESH: As proposed by the Commission.RAJASTHAN: As proposed by the Commission.UTTAR PRADESH: As at present constituted.BIHAR: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that the Chandil thana and the Patamda Dolice station of the Barabhum thana of the Purulia sub-district of Manbhum district will be retained in Bihar.WEST BENGAL: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that the Chandil thana and the Patamda police station of the Barabhum thana of the Purulia sub-district of Manbhum district will be excluded from the areas proposed for transfer from Bihar to West BengaLASSAM: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that the present Part C State of Tripure will not be included in its territories.ORISSA: As proposed by the Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-17-centre-to-administer-bombay-city-101642362219829.html
