18-01-2022||India||In Odisha, over 10,000 villages are now free from child-marriage||Even as the debate over a hike in the age of marriage for girls from 18 years to 21 years rages in the country following the introduction of the Prohibition of Child Marriage(Amendment) Bill 2021, over 10,000 villages in Odisha in more than two years have declared themselves to be free from the bane of child marriage.Officials in the state women and child development department said after unveiling of the Strategic Action Plan in 2019 to completely stop the marriage of girls below 18 years and boys below 21 years, the department has managed to make over 10,000 villages child-marriage free.“Through the action plan, we developed a robust management information system for proper monitoring of such marriages at village level and involved Anganwadi workers, Panchayati Raj institution functionaries as well as village elders. Though we have a long way to go we hope to succeed,” said Bhaskar Jyoti Sarma, secretary in the women and child development department.In the National Family Health Survey-4 conducted in 2015-16, the rate of child marriage among girls in Odisha was 21.3, lower than the national average of 26.8. In the National Family Health Survey-5 conducted in 2019-21, the results of which were revealed in November last year, the child marriage rates among girls had dropped to 20.5, indicating that Odisha was doing well in preventing marriages among girls below the age of 18 years.However, the same survey revealed that half of the 30 districts of Odisha had a child marriage prevalence rate of more than 20%. At 39.4%, Nabarangpur reported the highest child marriage incidents followed by Nayagarh (35.7%), Koraput (35.5%), Malkangiri (32.4%), Rayagada (33.2%) and Mayurbhanj (31.2%). Other 7 districts reporting more than 20% are Balasore, Boudh, Dhenkanal, Gajapati, Dhenkanal, Angul and Ganjam. NGO workers on the ground said poverty is one of the main reasons for families to opt for child marriage. “Girls from poor households are more likely to marry as it would lead to reduction in the size of the family while boys under the age of 21 years are married as it would lead to adding one more working hand in the family,” said Ghasiram Panda, national manager for NGO Action Aid India’s Ending Child Marriage Programme.Officials said the 10,000 villages claiming that they were child-marriage free over the last 2 years was a result of several innovative practices adopted by the respective district administration.In Ganjam district which is among the 15 districts where child marriage is quite prevalent, the district collector started a programme called Nirbhaya Kadhi which translates to Fearless Bud. “The campaign was initiated in 2019 from the village level in which all stakeholders including the adolescent girls, Anganwadi workers, ASHA workers and PRI members were made member of a committee that keeps an eye on such marriages. We asked heads of all schools to inform the administration if any girl aged between 12 and 18 remains absent from school for five days and then follow up with the families of the girls through teachers and other grassroots workers,” said Ganjam district collector Vijaya Amrita Kulange. The district administration also raised the reward for any tip-off about child marriages from ₹5,000 to ₹50,000. The administration also made the production of Aadhaar card mandatory for any marriages to take place. “As part of the campaign, every 3rd Saturday of the month was called Nirbhaya Kadhi day for effective engagement and awareness against child marriages,” he said. The Ganjam district administration was able to stop 450 child marriages and video-record 48,383 marriages in 2020 and 2021.In Boudh, another district which sees a high percentage of girls under the age of 18 years getting married, the district officials have formed village-level child marriage prevention committees that meet once a month to see which families would have marriage functions. “Marriage registers are maintained in each village and in the event of any family found to be marrying off their daughter under the age of 18 years and son under the age of 21 years then they are counselled and prevailed upon. If counselling is not successful, then the girl is rescued and rehabilitated till she turns 18 years,” said Rahul Pradhan, district child protection officer of Boudh.The efforts taken have led to over half of the 700-odd villages in the district being child marriage free.In the western Odisha district of Sonepur, the district authorities are running a Sankalp campaign in every village through formation of child marriage prevention committees in villages. Every Thursday, meetings are organised in villages to raise awareness against child marriage. The villages too maintain marriage registers to keep a check on any family trying to get underage boys and girls married off. “So far 767 of the 960 villages have been made child marriage free due to the efforts of the administration and villagers,” said Rakesh Pradhan, district coordinator of Action Aid.In Deogarh district, the village committee has made it mandatory for families to provide a copy of Aadhar of the bride and groom before any marriage can happen.Though there are no particular parameters for any village to be declared as child marriage free, the standard guideline is it should have a functioning task force, a database of all adolescents, no instance of child marriages for the last two years, a duly maintained register of the task force and submission of the villagers to declare the village ‘child marriage free’.“All these things are then sent to the district collector and finally the women and child development department in Bhubaneswar. Once the chief child marriage prohibition officer in Bhubaneswar approves of it then the village is declared child marriage free,” said Ghasiram Panda of Action Aid.Officials said the NFHS-5 may not have managed to reflect the actual drop in child marriages. “We have managed to prevent around 2000 marriages in the last 2 years and managed to impress a large number of people about the criminal part of the action through sustained campaign. The next round of NFHS would surely show that Odisha’s child marriage rates have dropped drastically,” said a senior officer of the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-over-10-000-villages-are-now-free-from-childmarriage-101642529396116.html
18-01-2022||India||Odisha to open 5000 playschools near Anganwadi centres to build foundation for primary classes||The Odisha school and mass education department plans to start playschools in 5000 elementary schools near Anganwadi centres in the state from the coming academic year of 2022-23. The playschools will be on the lines of similar ventures by schools following the NCERT syllabus to develop a strong foundation in children for literacy and numeracy and to prepare them for classes 1 to 3 as well as improve the quality of education.A meeting chaired by chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra recently decided that children upto the age of 5 will attend the Anganwadi centres for supplementary nutrition programmes from 9 am to 10 am, and then participate in the academic activities near such elementary schools under the guidance of the school from 10 am to 12.30 pm. After that the children will take the mid-day meal from the Anganwadi centre.A senior official who attended the meeting said the academic matter of the Play Class (any other name can be given) will be the responsibility of the government school. The CRCCs and DIETs will monitor and provide academic support to the teachers. “Opening of the Play Class in the primary schools located at AWCs will help to ensure maximum enrolment of children in the Government Schools in the Urban and semi-urban areas and develop a strong readiness of children for Foundational Literacy and Numeracy in grades 1 to 3 to improve quality education,” he indicated.Initially the Anganwadi workers will remain present in the class for some portion of the day with the school teachers and provide support to the children/teacher. Gradually, once the children are acquainted with the school teacher, the Anganwadi workers will be withdrawn.The official added that Odisha would be following the pre-school curriculum released by the National Council of Educational Research and Training in 2019 and all pre-schoolers will be taught in their mother tongue or home language.The school and mass education department will give training to 2 teachers (preferably female) from each school on handling small children, ensuring proper transition from play class to Grade l, creating child friendly learning situations etc.Officials said an activity-based curriculum, guided nature study, use of fun activities and use of flip books would be adopted in the Play Class. The activities of the Play Class will be in the light of the NCERT curriculum with exposure to common English words and rhymes etc will be followed in the Play Class.The medium of instruction in the tribal dominated areas will be in the tribal language. The Chief Secretary has instructed officials to ensure development of materials in tribal languages. A concept paper of the initiative and action plan along with the responsibilities of each government department for obtaining government approval is being prepared.The Odisha government last year launched Mission Ek, Dui, Teen from the 2021-22 academic session to improve the foundational literacy and numeracy skills of students through innovative pedagogies as part of the National Initiative for Proficiency in Reading with Understanding and Numeracy (NIPUN Bharat) to cover the learning needs of children in the age group of 3 to 9 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-open-5000-playschools-near-anganwadi-centres-to-build-foundation-for-primary-classes-101642527412552.html
18-01-2022||India||After Delhi snub, Stalin says Tamil Nadu’s tableau to be part of R-Day celebrations in Chennai||Tamil Nadu’s tableau that was rejected by a Central panel for the Republic Day parade in Delhi this year will now be a part of the state’s celebrations on January 26 in Chennai. The same will also be displayed in other major cities across the state, chief minister MK Stalin said on Tuesday.Stalin’s statement came hours after Union defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote to him saying that the state’s tableau did not make it to the final list of 12 tableaux selected for the parade at Rajpath in Delhi.“Tamil Nadu’s tableau designed to celebrate the contributions of those from the state in the freedom struggle has been denied permission to participate in the Republic Day parade in Delhi. To exhibit Tamil Nadu’s contributions to the freedom fight and the state’s patriotism, the tableau will be a part of the state’s Republic Day celebrations. It will also be sent to all major cities in TN for public viewing,” the CM said in a statement.Also read | Rajnath writes to Stalin, Mamata amid row over R-Day parade tableaux snubHe said efforts will be made towards holding a photo exhibition, titled “Tamil Nadu in freedom fight”, which was recently displayed in Chennai.A day ago, Stalin had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his urgent intervention in the exclusion of the tableau that he said would hurt the sentiments of the people of the state. He said the expert committee concerned had not invited the state representatives for the fourth round of discussions after being selected in the first three rounds.He added that all designs proposed by the state with the theme “Tamil Nadu in Freedom Struggle” had been ignored and rejected by the committee. The tableau was proposed to depict those who fought against the British Raj in the front row and those who fought against the East India Company at the back, the CM had said.The contribution of Tamil Nadu for 250 years in the country’s freedom struggle is equally important as every other state, Stalin said. He said that the Vellore Mutiny, in 1806, half a decade before the Sepoy Mutiny in 1857 was an important starting point to the country’s resistance against the British.He also referred to Velu Nachiyar who lived nearly 75 years before Jhansi Rani and fought and won against the British. Besides, he said the tableau would have featured Poolithevan, Veerapandiya Kattabomman, Veeran Sundaralingam, Marudhupandiyar brothers, Dheeran Chinnamalai, VO Chidambaranar and Subramania Bharathi, who were all part of the freedom struggle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-delhi-snub-stalin-says-tamil-nadu-s-tableau-to-be-part-of-r-day-celebrations-in-chennai-101642525560503.html
18-01-2022||India||Proposed amendment to IAS service rules against spirit of federalism: Mamata to PM||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to roll back the proposed amendment in the existing service rules to ensure the availability of a sufficient number of IAS officers for central deputation.According to a latest proposal from the Union ministry of personnel, the Centre wants each state government to make available for deputation to the central government such a number of eligible officers of various levels to the extent of the Central Deputation Reserve prescribed under existing regulations, adjusted proportionately by the number of officers available with the state government concerned vis-à-vis the total authorised strength of the state cadre at a given point of time.Officials said the proposal will give greater say to the Centre as various state/joint cadres were found to be not sponsoring an adequate number of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers as part of the central deputation reserve even though the ministry had flagged the issue several times.In her letter, Banerjee said, "I express my strong reservations to the approach followed by the central government in proposing such an amendment to the Cadre Rules which unilaterally mandates the state government to make such a number of officers available for deputation as prescribed under (the) central deputation reserve."West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Modi to withdraw/ not give effect to the proposed amendment on IAS cadre rule 1954. https://t.co/e6G64EC2EuShe said the proposed amendment is "against the spirit of cooperative federalism and it upsets harmonious arrangement between Centre and States in the matter of posting of IAS and IPS officers".If the proposed amendment is implemented, the actual number of officers to be deputed to the central government shall be decided by the Centre government in consultation with the state government concerned.In case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state government or state governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government “within a specified time”, it has proposed.Existing rules did not mention any time limit for deciding on such disagreement.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-proposed-amendment-to-ias-service-rules-against-spirit-of-federalism-101642526702456.html
18-01-2022||India||Chhattisgarh court rejects IPS officer GP Singh’s bail plea in DA case||RAIPUR: A special court in Raipur on Tuesday rejected the bail application of suspended Indian Police Service (IPS) officer GP Singh, who was arrested in connection with a disproportionate assets case, and remanded him in judicial remand for 14 days.“The bail plea of Singh was rejected by the court and he has been sent to 14 days judicial remand. We sought bail on the grounds that the case lodged against my client under the sections of 13 1 (b), 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, has not been investigated properly before the FIR was registered,” defence lawyer Kamlesh Pandey said.He claimed that as per the rules, there should be an initial investigation before registering an FIR and the accused should have been given a chance to give his statement.“The public prosecutor said that my applicant can influence the witnesses,” Pandey added.Singh, a 1994-batch IPS officer, served as additional director general of ACB and EOW before he was transferred to the state police academy in June last year.The Economic Offence Wing (EOW) produced Singh in the court on Tuesday after his police remand ended. Singh was detained on January 10 by EOW and produced before a special court.EOW carried out searches at around 15 locations linked to Singh between July 1 and 3. Investigators claimed to have discovered documents related to movable and immovable assets worth over ₹10 crore during the raids.An ACB statement on July 3 said documents seized during searches at Singh’s premises suggested that he allegedly amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and indulged in a “massive exchange of money”.“Singh also allegedly tried to commit money laundering by investing in shell companies,” the statement said.
18-01-2022||India||CM Nitish Kumar among 40 new Omicron cases recorded in Bihar||Omicron has emerged as the predominant strain of coronavirus in Bihar after all 40 Covid-19 samples, including that of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, tested positive for the ‘variant of concern’ during the second round of genome sequencing test at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) on Tuesday. Bihar reported, 4,551 new Covid-19 cases, down from 5,410 on Sunday, taking the total count of active cases to 33,883, officials said. The total number of Omicron cases in the state has now gone up to 67 after the strain was detected in 27 (85%) of the 32 Covid-19 samples tested on January 9. Four samples (12%) were then found to have the Delta variant while one was of an insignificant variant, which remained unknown, IGIMS director Dr NR Biswas had then said. Patna accounted for 55% (22) of the 40 cases of Omicron on Tuesday. Muzaffarpur reported five, followed by Gaya three; Jamui, Khagaria and Munger two each. Samastipur, Saran, Sitamarhi and Bhagalpur had one each, said officials aware of the development. Omicron was detected in the samples of a Patna high court judge, an additional chief secretary rank officer, director of an autonomous medical college hospital as well as its principal, among others, said a second official. The samples were collected between January 1 and 11, the last being of the chief minister after his office tweeted on January 10 that Kumar had tested positive for Covid-19. Prior to testing positive, Kumar had attended the national conference of the Indian Medical Association, attended by nearly 5,000 guests in Patna on December 28. He also undertook inter-district tours as part of his Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan and attended his weekly janata durbars to hear public grievances, which were subsequently put on hold. “Omicron has emerged as the predominant strain of Covid-19 in Bihar. There is definitely a declining trend in the number of new Covid-19 cases, but it is too early to conclude anything at this stage. We are keeping a close watch on the situation. Vaccination and following Covid-appropriate behaviour are the key to slowing down the spread of the virus,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health, while addressing a presser later in the evening. The state had logged over 6,300 daily new infections between January 11 and 15. Cases in Patna had also come down from 2,275 on January 12 to 1,218 on Tuesday. “The state’s test positivity rate has also declined from 3.67 on January 14 to 2.94% on Tuesday,” said Amrit. He said the R (reproductive) factor, which was the number of people being infected by a Covid-19 positive patient, had also come down from 4 to less than 2 in the country. “Testing is being done as per government of India guidelines. The test positivity rate is always a better indicator than the number of tests being done,” said Amrit in response to a query on the decrease in the number of tests to around 1.55 lakh a day.
18-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Centre directs states to increase Covid-19 testing, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre pulls up states/UTs on drop in Covid testing, cites positivity trendIn a letter, additional secretary in the ministry Arti Ahuja said this was required keeping in view the trend of case positivity in specific geographies within the states and UTs. Read moreKashmir Press Club closure worst kind of state heavy handedness: Editors GuildThe Editors Guild said the move to take back the premises allotted to the largest journalists’ body in the Valley was the "latest act in a sequence of disturbing events". Read morePunjab polls: Eyeing Baba Bakala ticket, Youth Congress leader revolts against party nomineeYouth Congress leader Satinder Singh Chhajjalwaddi on Tuesday gave the party a 24-hour ultimatum to withdraw the candidature of sitting MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur from Baba Bakala seat in Amritsar district. Read more'Virat will definitely score a 100': South Africa legend makes big claim about Kohli, predicts outcome of IND vs SA ODIsAfter reliving himself from the captaincy duties, India's premier batter Virat Kohli will look to go full throttle in the three-match 50-over series against South Africa starting from Wednesday. Read moreAndrew Garfield lied to Emma Stone as well about Spider-Man: No Way Home, she called him 'jerk' upon finding outActor Andrew Garfield has revealed his ex-girlfriend and The Amazing Spider-Man co-star Emma Stone did not know about him being a part of Spider-Man: No Way Home either. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-directs-states-to-increase-covid-19-testing-and-all-the-latest-news-101642516288306.html
18-01-2022||India||Kashmir Press Club closure worst kind of state heavy handedness: Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India on Tuesday expressed its deep anguish at the shutting down of the Kashmir Press Club (KPC) in Jammu and Kashmir, a region, it said, that has seen the “worst kind of state heavy handedness against any independent media".Issuing its second statement in three days since the Jammu and Kashmir administration said the KPC had “ceased to exist” and took back the premises allotted to the largest journalists’ body in the Valley, the Guild said the move was the "latest act in a sequence of disturbing events".The administration's move was preceded by a "shocking breach of institutional norms when a group of people, with the active support of state police and CRPF, took over the office and management of the Club" last Saturday, the Guild said.“The shutting down of the club is the latest act in a sequence of disturbing events, wherein the 're-registration' of the Club was first arbitrarily put ‘in abeyance’ by the Registrar of Societies on January 14th, followed by the shocking breach of institutional norms when a group of people, with the active support of state police and CRPF, took over the office and management of the Club on January 15th,” it said.The Guild added that with the closure of the KPC, an important journalistic institution in a region that has seen the worst kind "state heavy handedness against any independent media has been effectively dismantled".Established in 2018, the Kashmir Press Club has more than 300 members, making it the largest journalists' association in the region."Space for media freedom and active civil society has been steadily eroding in the region. Journalists frequently face intimidation from terror groups as well as the state. They are also charged under heavy penal laws, and are routinely detained by security forces for reporting or for their editorials," read the statement.It also highlighted the killing of Shujaat Bukhari, the editor of Rising Kashmir, by "unknown people" besides the spate of cases filed by the police against journalists and photographers who were even charged with the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-press-club-closure-worst-kind-of-state-heavy-handedness-editors-guild-101642517383083.html
18-01-2022||India||New in NE | An internet shutdown, a curfew, a walkathon, and a police uniform||Internet shutdown and arrests in Itanagar
18-01-2022||India||Telangana urges Centre to reduce gap between 2nd and 3rd Covid shots, consider boosters for all||The Telangana government on Tuesday wrote to the Centre urging that the gap between the second dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and the precautionary shot be reduced from nine to six months.The state also asked the Union health ministry to examine the feasibility of further decreasing the interval between the second and precautionary dose to three months for health care workers.In a letter to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, his Telangana counterpart T Harish Rao said the vaccination drive has helped reduce the overall infections and its severity, adding that his state has started administering the precautionary dose to eligible groups, as defined by the Centre.Also read | Centre pulls up states/UTs on drop in Covid testing, cites positivity trendHe further urged Mandaviya to consider expanding the booster programme for all beneficiaries above the age of 18.“It is to mention that, data of Covid infections and hospitalisations has beyond doubt proved that vaccines are highly effective and are preventing severe morbidity, hospitalization and mortality,” Rao said.He listed four demands regarding the third dose based on his observations of policies in countries like the United States and the United Kingdom.At present, only healthcare and frontline workers, along with citizens above 60 years of age having comorbid conditions, are eligible for a third shot after completing nine months from taking their second one.Rao said all senior citizens above 60 years of age must be given a third dose.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced in a televised address late last year that a third dose will be administered to select groups, besides throwing open the inoculation drive for all above 15 years of age.The country started the drive to vaccinate children in the 15-17 age group from January 3, while third doses have been administered since January 10.Earlier in the day, Mandaviya said more than 50 lakh beneficiaries have received the third dose and urged all who are eligible to get inoculated at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-urges-centre-to-reduce-gap-between-2nd-and-3rd-covid-shots-consider-boosters-for-all-101642517111843.html
18-01-2022||India||Bharat Biotech again urges health workers to be ‘highly vigilant’ while jabbing teenagers||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited on Tuesday urged healthcare workers to be ‘highly vigilant’ while administering jabs to teenagers aged 15 to 18, citing what it said were ‘additional reports’ stating that beneficiaries in the said age group were being jabbed with ‘unapproved Covid-19 vaccines.’ #covaxin #COVID19Vaccine #covaxinapproval #COVID19 #BharatBiotech #vaccination #healthcareworkers #covidwarriors #covaxinforchildren #pandemic pic.twitter.com/wbGwnBoo0N“We humbly request healthcare workers to ensure that only Covaxin is administered to individuals in the 15-18 years age group. Covaxin received approval based on thorough clinical trial evaluation for safety and immunogenicity in the 2-18 years age group. Currently, it is the only Covid-19 vaccine in India approved for children,” the firm behind the country's first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19 noted in its statement.Also Read | DCGI needs more safety data for Covaxin nod for under 12This is for the second time when the company has issued such a statement; on January 7, it had, for the first time, urged hospital staff to ensure only Covaxin is being administered to teenagers, vaccination for whom kicked off on January 3, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an address to the nation on December 25 last year.At present, only Covaxin and Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila's ZyCoV-D have been approved for age groups below 18. Of these, only the former is being used to inoculate beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group. However, ZyCoV-D was authorised first by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), being cleared for everyone aged 12 and above, on August 20 last year.Also Read | Covaxin booster shot neutralises Omicron, says Bharat BiotechCovaxin, on the other hand, received DCGI's nod on December 25, just hours before PM Modi's impromptu national address.Union health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted on Tuesday that more than 50 per cent youngsters in the 15-18 age group have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-again-urges-health-workers-to-be-vigilant-while-jabbing-teenagers-101642515537836.html
18-01-2022||India||One killed, 5 injured in explosion while making crude bombs in Bengal village||A man died and five others sustained injuries when some crude bombs which they were allegedly making went off on Monday night at Rameswarpur-Dakshinpara village in the Beldanga area of Bengal’s Murshidabad district, police said. The deceased was identified as 45-year-old Yashuddin Sheikh. Local villagers told the police that Sheikh, a resident of Benadaha village, went to Rameswarpur with his associates on Monday to make what is locally known as ‘socket bomb’. After the explosion, Sheikh’s associates left him at the spot and fled. “They were later found by the police and taken to hospital,” an officer from the Beldanga police station said on condition of anonymity. Sankharab Sarkar, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Murshidabad south organisational district unit, said, “Trinamool Congress has turned bomb making into a cottage industry in the district. We have information that the deceased worked for the ruling party.” TMC legislator from Beldanga, Hasanuzzaman Sheikh, denied the charge. “It is being alleged that the deceased was known to a TMC worker named Anaj Sheikh. This man does not hold any portfolio in our party,” said the legislator. The Beldanga police station officer said, “We have started a probe but no arrest has been made yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-killed-5-injured-in-explosion-while-making-crude-bombs-in-bengal-village-101642516790430.html
18-01-2022||India||Ahead of UP polls, Mamata to virtually campaign for Samajwadi Party in Lucknow, Varanasi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will virtually campaign for the Samajwadi Party in Lucknow on February 8 and later, also at Varanasi, SP national vice-president Kiranmay Nanda said in Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon after meeting the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chairperson at her south Kolkata residence. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav will also take part in these campaigns, said Nanda who met Banerjee with Yadav’s message. The meeting went on for around 30 minutes. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases between February 10 and March 10. “Akhilesh Yadav wants Mamata Banerjee to campaign for us because she is the face of the anti-Bharatiya Janata Party force at the national level. The BJP has stopped all physical campaigns by the opposition in UP, citing the Covid-19 pandemic. It is using the election commission. No more than five people are being allowed at any meeting. Under these circumstances, a virtual campaign is the only solution. Banerjee has agreed to this,” said Nanda. The heads of the two parties will also jointly address a press conference on February 8, Nanda said. “The SP will surely form the government. The BJP has realized that its defeat is inevitable. People are coming in large numbers when Akhilesh Yadav is visiting any place. In contrast, few are attending BJP meetings. The SP wants anti-BJP votes to consolidate. That’s why we did not contest any seat in Bengal last year. Likewise, Banerjee, too, does not want to contest any seat in UP,” Nanda added. Yadav had sent Nanda and SP Rajya Sabha member Jaya Bachchan to campaign for the TMC in Bengal in the March-April polls. Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury took a swipe at the TMC. “Mamata Banerjee is not the only face against the BJP. Nanda said that to please her. Leaders like Akhilesh Yadav and Arvind Kejriwal are also anti-BJP faces. Banerjee has at least shown some good gesture by not trying to purchase the BJP leaders who are abandoning their party in UP to join Akhilesh. In Meghalaya and Goa, she used these tactics to weaken the Congress,” said Chowdhury. The Bengal BJP also tried to ridicule Banerjee. “We wish Banerjee a happy journey. She claims to be a religious person. We are sure she will enjoy the Ganga Aarti at Varanasi,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. Banerjee has said several times in recent months that she wants to consolidate anti-BJP forces and contest polls in other states with a target to win. Her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is seen as the driving force behind this expansion plan. He announced on June 8 last year that TMC will set up units in other states. Abhishek Banerjee reached Goa on Monday evening on a three-day trip to finalise the list of candidates the party wants to field in the coming state elections. The TMC will contest with the Maharashtawadi Gomanthak Party as its ally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-up-polls-mamata-to-virtually-campaign-for-samajwadi-party-in-lucknow-varanasi-101642515231696.html
18-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Why Delhi traders fear losing business to neighbouring states||New Delhi: Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of Traders Association, Lajpat Nagar, says that business in the market has dropped below 60% since the weekend curfew, in addition to the imposition of the odd-even opening of shops in markets, by the Delhi government in a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19. Traders’ organisations are planning to write to the Delhi government to relax these norms.
18-01-2022||India||‘ED BJP’s Election Department’: Cong slams raids on premises of Punjab CM’s nephew||The Congress on Tuesday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over raids carried out by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's nephew.In a video posted on Twitter, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, “Modiji, remember one thing, you have used ED, CBI, Income Tax department and the CBDT against several Congress leaders. But we will neither be afraid nor bow down.”Also Read| Illegal sand mining: ED raids Punjab CM’s nephew among six contractorsCiting Channi’s identity, Surjewala said the BJP is insulting a Dalit who became the state's CM and that those belonging to backward communities will not forgive the saffron party.Surjewala also accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of working in an alliance with the BJP as Arvind Kejriwal was the first one to attack the Punjab CM over Tuesday's raids.“The BJP and Arvind Kejriwal are unable to digest the fact how a Dalit took over as the chief minister of Punjab. The ED is not the enforcement directorate but the BJP's election department,” Surjewala said.“Today we saw the limit of vindictiveness. To seek revenge on a Dalit chief minister, the ED has been unleashed in Punjab, with which the chief minister and his family have nothing to do,” he added.Also Read| Punjab CM Channi slams ED raids on nephew, reminds agency of Bengal episodeEarlier in the day, the ED raided at least 10-12 locations in Punjab as part of a money-laundering probe against the 'sand mafia' and companies linked to alleged illegal sand mining.Among the raids, the ED covered the premises linked to Bhupinder Singh alias Honey, who is the nephew of the chief minister.Later, Channi said these raids were a way of putting pressure on him ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab. "Raids are being conducted on the premises of my nephew. They are targeting me and are trying to put pressure on me in view of upcoming Assembly polls. This is not good for democracy. We're ready to fight this," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-bjp-s-election-department-cong-slams-raids-on-punjab-cm-s-nephew-101642511160371.html
18-01-2022||India||China uses heavy machinery for Pangong bridge that will let PLA deploy faster||NEW DELHI: A bridge being built by China across the Pangong lake in an area claimed by India is expected to be completed in a few months and will give the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) an edge in speedily moving troops between several locations.High-resolution satellite imagery of the bridge from January 16, acquired from US space technology company Maxar by NDTV, shows the bridge is eight metres wide and more than 400 metres long, and Chinese workers are using a heavy crane to place concrete slabs between pillars before laying the tarmac.The first satellite images showing the bridge, being built across the narrowest section of the 134-km long strategic lake, emerged earlier this month. On January 6, the external affairs ministry accused China of building the bridge in an area occupied illegally for 60 years.The bridge is located south of a key PLA position on the north bank of Pangong lake. It is being built at a spot where the two banks of the lake are about 500 metres apart.Once completed, the bridge will cut the distance frp, Chinese troop positions on the north bank to a key PLA base at Rutog by around 150 km. Chinese forces currently take almost 10 hours to traverse about 200 km to get from the north bank to Rutog, driving around the lake.China is also working on new roads to connect the end of the bridge on the south bank to Rutog.When the Indian Army blocked an effort by the PLA to unilaterally alter the status quo on the south bank of Pangong lake in August 2020 by taking control of the Kailash heights, the Chinese side had to redeploy troops from other sites through the time-consuming action of driving around the lake.Both countries withdrew front line forces and armoured units from the two banks of the lake in February 2021, though the area has for long been a flashpoint between Indian and Chinese forces.The construction of the bridge “appears to strengthen the idea of permanency being established by Beijing in the region”, said Damien Symon, a geospatial intelligence researcher at the Intel Lab. He noted that the Chinese side is using heavy machinery to continue construction amid a harsh winter.After being stymied by the Indian Army’s efforts in August 2020, the Chinese began building several roads to prevent PLA troops from “being pinched by Indian deployments atop the ridges”, Symon said on Twitter. These roads “have branched towards the bridge since, but are yet to be connected”, he said.With the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) well into its second year, the construction of the bridge “appears to be a lesson learnt by PLA planners looking to provide seamless connectivity (and) rapid mobility for elements responding...to the frontline with India”, Symon added.The construction of the bridge was raised by the Indian side at the 14th round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders on January 12. The talks failed to yield any positive outcome, though both sides agreed to work for the resolution of the remaining issues in the Ladakh sector at the earliest.Earlier on January 6, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government was closely monitoring the construction of the bridge on Pangong lake. “This bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years now. As you are well aware, India has never accepted such illegal occupation,” he said.The government was taking “all necessary steps to ensure that our security interests are fully protected”, and has significantly increased funding for developing border infrastructure and “completed more roads and bridges than ever before”, he added. 
18-01-2022||India||Rajnath writes to Bengal, TN CMs on tableaux row, says selection process transparent||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday wrote letters to the chief ministers of West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, assuring them the selection of tableaux for the Republic Day parade was based on a transparent process. The minister’s letter came after Mamata Banerjee and MK Stalin expressed disappointment over the Centre rejecting the tableaux of their respective states for the Republic Day celebrations, and sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention in the matter. In his letter, Singh wrote that the tableaux proposed by different states and union territories are selected after several rounds of evaluation by a committee consisting of experts from the fields of arts, culture, music and dance. “The tableaux of West Bengal were selected for the Republic Day parade following the same process in 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2021,” Singh wrote to the West Bengal CM. In his letter, Singh said that he respected the CM’s sentiments and it was for this reason he wanted to personally inform her about the selection process. Singh said of the tableaux proposals submitted by 29 states and UTs, 12 were finally approved. West Bengal’s proposed tableau was to commemorate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Indian National Army on Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. The tableau would have carried portraits of Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Vivekananda, Chittaranjan Das, Sri Aurobindo, Matangini Hazra, Birsa Munda, Nazrul Islam, Mamata had earlier written. “Bengal was at the forefront of the Indian freedom struggle and paid heaviest price for the country’s Independence through the partition. People of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the central government,” Mamata added. A central government spokesperson on Monday said, “This year’s tableau of CPWD includes Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, so the question of his insult does not arise.” In his letter to Mamata, Singh highlighted the contribution of Bose to the freedom struggle and said that from this year, Republic Day celebrations will begin on January 23, the birth anniversary of the iconic freedom fighter, instead of January 24, and culminate on January 30. In his letter to Stalin, the defence minister wrote, “This is also to bring to your kind information that during the last few years, the tableaux from Tamil Nadu has been selected for participation in the Republic Day Parade during 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021…You would appreciate that the selection of tableaux is as per the prescribed guidelines on the matter.” The minister wrote that the expert committee examines the tableaux proposals on the basis of theme, concept, design and its visual impact before making its recommendations. In a letter to the PM, Stalin earlier said, “Excluding the tableau will deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu…That the expert committee chooses to ignore and reject all the seven designs shown to it as per the modifications suggested by its members is unacceptable.” Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on January 13 had also sought PM’s intervention after the state’s proposal for the tableau of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and Jatayu Park monument was rejected and the Centre instead changed it to Adi Shankara, which the state rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-writes-to-bengal-tn-cms-on-tableaux-row-says-selection-process-transparent-101642512649899.html
18-01-2022||India||Centre pulls up states/UTs on drop in Covid testing, cites positivity trend||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday said Covid-19 testing in many states and Union territories (UT) was on a decline and asked the authorities concerned to “pay immediate attention” to the issue and increase testing in a “strategic manner”.In a letter, additional secretary in the ministry Arti Ahuja said this was required keeping in view the trend of case positivity in specific geographies within the states and UTS.The official said that testing remained a crucial component in the pandemic management framework across the country. “However, it is seen from the data available on the ICMR portal that testing has declined in many states and Union territories,” she said.Also read | Karnataka warns medical practitioners against spreading misinformation on Covid-19“Please note that in all advisories on testing issued by ICMR, including the latest advisory dated 10 January, 2022, the basic objective remains early detection of cases for quick isolation and care,” she added.The letter said testing remained a “key strategy” for pandemic management due to two reasons, the first being identification of new clusters and new hotspots of cases that could facilitate action to be taken such as setting up of containment zones, contact tracing, quarantining, isolation and following up.“This can enable the state and district administration to curb the spread of infection,” the letter said.The other reason was to ensure reduction in mortality and morbidity, the ministry said. “Progression of disease to a severe category can be averted by strategic testing of those who are at high risk and more vulnerable, as well as in areas where the spread is likely to be higher,” it said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in its latest advisory on January 10 regarding Covid testing, said all symptomatic individuals and the ‘at-risk’ contacts of those who had tested Covid positive must be tested for the disease. Cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste and/or smell, breathlessness and/or other respiratory issues were some of the symptoms listed by the council. This advisory was reiterated by the ministry in its letter.The ministry also highlighted its previous advisories in which it had recommended that “strategic and focused testing should be done of people who are vulnerable, living in closed surroundings, in densely populated areas in emerging new clusters and new hot spots of positive cases etc”.“In order to ensure that an effective track of the spread of the pandemic is kept and also immediate citizen centric action is initiated, it is incumbent upon all states/UTs to enhance testing,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-pulls-up-states-uts-on-drop-in-covid-testing-cites-positivity-trend-101642510332895.html
18-01-2022||India||Covid-19 forces massive cut in R-Day parade spectator count||The spectator count at India’s biggest ceremonial event, the Republic Day parade, will be massively curtailed this year due to Covid-related restrictions with only 5,000 to 8,000 people to be allowed entry to Rajpath to witness the spectacular display of the country’s military might and cultural heritage, top officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. “We do not want the parade to become a superspreader event in the midst of the third Covid-19 wave. The number of spectators has been significantly curtailed. We are still working on the final numbers but it’s going to be between 5,000 and 8,000 people,” said one of the officials cited above. Only double vaccinated adults and single vaccinated children of age 15 and above will be allowed entry. The January 26 parade was attended by around 25,000 spectators amid the ebbing first wave, compared to around 125,000 people who pitched up at Rajpath to watch the event in the pre-pandemic era. A new show with 1,000 drones is expected to add sparkle to the Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29, which marks the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations. “This ‘Make in India’ initiative (drone show) has been organised by a startup, Botlab Dynamics, supported by the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and the department of science and technology. Only the US, Russia and China have the capability for a show with 1,000 drones,” the official said. The duration of the show will be 10 minutes. The Republic Day parade will begin at 10.30 am, instead of the traditional timing of 10 am, for better visibility to the parade and the fly past --- the highlight of the event. The fly past, consisting of 75 aircraft in India’s 75th year of Independence, will feature flying formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna heli-borne operation. The defence ministry has conceptualised a raft of new events to mark the Republic Day celebrations as the country is also observing the 75th year of its Independence, a second official said. This year onwards, Republic Day celebrations will begin on January 23, the birth anniversary of the iconic freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose, instead of January 24, and culminate on January 30, Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary. This year marks Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. On January 23, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar for outstanding work in disaster management at a ceremony to be held at India Gate, said a third official. On January 26, the National Cadet Corps (NCC) will launch a programme called Shaheedon ko Shat Shat Naman, as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, to honour the sacrifices of fallen heroes. “The next of kin (NOK) of around 5,000 fallen heroes will be presented the ‘Plaque of Gratitude,’ by NCC cadets. Each plaque signed by the PM. This activity will be carried out around the same time when the PM pays homage at the National War Memorial in New Delhi,” the first official said. This will mark the beginning of the programme, which will carry on till August 15, 2022 by when the cadets would have felicitated the NOKs of all 26,466 fallen heroes whose names are inscribed on the memorial. Huge scrolls, measuring 75 metres by 15 feet each, will serve as view cutters in the spectator stands along Rajpath. “Ten scrolls were prepared taking inspiration from the unsung heroes of the freedom struggle,” the official said. For the first time, dancers taking part in the cultural segment of the parade have been selected through a nation-wide competition called ‘Vande Bharatam,’ which ended with the selection of 600 dancers. The aim of the competition was to hunt dancing talent from across the country and provide equal opportunity to all to perform at the parade, the officials said. Ten large LED screens, five on either side of Rajpath, will be installed for a better viewing experience. The invitation cards for the parade will be different too this year. The seeds of medicinal plants such as ashwagandha, aloe vera and amla will be embedded in the invites for people to plant them later. This year, the government has also reserved seats for people who usually do not get an opportunity to witness the parade. Seats have been earmarked for autorickshaw drivers, construction workers, safai workers and frontline health workers at both the parade and the Beating Retreat ceremony.
18-01-2022||India||Five Maoists killed in two separate encounters in Telangana, Chhattisgarh||Five members of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), including two women, were killed in two separate encounters with security personnel in the forests spread over Telangana and Chhattisgarh on Tuesday morning, the police said.In Telangana, four Maoists, including a woman, were killed in exchange of fire with a team of Greyhounds (the elite police force of Telangana engaged in anti-Maoist operations) at Karregutta forests near Penugolu village in Mulugu district, which is close to Semaldoddi village of Elmidi police station in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district. According to a top police official of Mulugu district, the Greyhounds, along with teams of District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) from Bijapur were on a combing operation in Peruru, Ilmidi and Usur forest areas bordering Telangana and Chhattisgarh, following information that about 40-50 armed Maoists, including senior Maoist leader Sudhakar, divisional committee member of Venkatapuram were camping in the area.“At around 7 am on Tuesday, the security forces met the Maoists, resulting in exchange of fire between the two sides. During the search of the incident site after the encounter, bodies of four Maoists including a woman, were recovered,” the police official said, adding that the bodies of the slain Maoists were yet to be identified.The encounter was also confirmed by Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P in a statement issued to media.“A jawan belonging to Telangana Greyhounds was injured in the encounter and he was airlifted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital at Warangal for treatment. Presently a search is being carried out by the police in the vicinity of the incident site,” he said.A woman Maoist cadre was gunned down in a separate encounter at Marjum area of Sukma district. “The woman killed in the encounter in Sukma was identified as Munni, and was an area committee member of Maoists, carrying a reward of ₹5 lakh on her head,” the IG (Bastar) said in his statement.A senior Telangana police official said the joint operation comprising police forces from Mulugu and Bhadradri Kothagudem districts and those from Chhattisgarh had been going on for quite some time following a tip off about the movement of top Maoists heading Vajedu, Venkatapuram, Charla and Dummugudem area committees.“We have specific inputs about the movement of the top leaders. Our operation will continue till they are neutralised,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-maoists-killed-in-two-separate-encounters-in-telangana-chhattisgarh-101642507965692.html
18-01-2022||India||UAE drone attack: Jaishankar assures of 'fullest support' to families of victims from India||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday he received a phone call from his United Arab Emirates (UAE) counterpart, Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, condoling the loss of Indian lives in Monday's drone attack near the international airport in the kingdom's capital city of Abu Dhabi.Also Read | 2 Indians killed in drone attack in Abu Dhabi identified: Indian embassy in UAE“Deeply appreciate receiving a call from UAE FM @ABZayed. He expressed condolences for the Indian lives lost in the terror attack in UAE yesterday. Conveyed our strong solidarity with UAE in face of such unacceptable acts,” Jaishankar informed on Twitter.Also Read | US condemns Houthi attack on Abu Dhabi, UAE says reserves right to respondThe minister added that the Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi is working with the authorities in the UAE to provide the ‘fullest support’ to the victims' families. Our Embassy is working with UAE authorities to provide the fullest support to families of the deceased.As many as three people--two Indians and a Pakistani national--were killed, while six others, including another two Indians, were injured in the strike, claimed by the Yemen-based Houthi rebels. The Indian embassy informed earlier today that the identities of the two deceased Indians had been established.
18-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Arrest Clubhouse members discussing Muslim women, says DCW and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DCW demands arrest of Clubhouse app members ‘discussing’ Muslim womenThe Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday issued a notice to the cybercrime cell of the Delhi Police, seeking action against people making derogatory remarks towrads Muslim women on the social audio application ‘Clubhouse’. Read moreDeath sentence for sisters convicted of murdering 9 children in 1990s commutedThe Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday commuted the death sentence of sisters Renuka Shinde and Seema Gavit to life imprisonment after the state delayed in having their mercy petition reviewed for seven years and 10 months. Read moreAllowance didn’t improve attendance at parliamentary panel meets, reveals reportA special allowance for attending parliamentary standing committee meetings, which was discontinued in 2018, did not improve the attendance of lawmakers at such meets, according to a report Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu sought last month. Read moreBritish PM Boris Johnson lied about lockdown party, ex-aide claimsBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson lied to parliament when he claimed he did not know of his staff's plans to hold a drinks party during lockdown, his former aide Dominic Cummings has said. Read moreArmaan Malik says he was told ‘don’t try to be Justin Bieber’ when he started singing songs in EnglishSinger Armaan Malik said that many believe that Indians are not good at singing in English and ‘we always sound like we are trying too hard’. He talked about the comments he got, dissuading him and how he takes them with a pinch of salt. Read moreHonda Shine becomes first 125 cc bike to hit one-crore customers milestoneHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India on Tuesday announced that it has managed to sell one crore Shine motorcycles in the country since the launch of the motorcycle in 2006. Read moreDo you have diabetes? This is the best time to have fruitsPeople with diabetes often struggle to make the right food choices. Picking foods that do not play havoc with their blood glucose levels is essential for diabetes management. Read more‘If he's your no.1 player in all formats, what is the problem?’: Azharuddin names his pick for India's next Test captainLegendary India batter Mohammad Azharuddin believes that there is no harm in making star opener Rohit Sharma the captain of the Test team as he is currently the best player in the country across formats. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-arrest-clubhouse-members-discussing-muslim-women-says-dcw-101642503053494.html
18-01-2022||India||BSF finds 82 drivers with fake licences plying trucks across Indo-Bangla border||In a surprise check at Petrapole Integrated Check Post (ICP) in West Bengal, the largest land port at the Indo-Bangladesh border, the Border Security Force (BSF) in the last two days has found that at least 82 truck drivers were using fake driving licences to ply trucks to and from Bangladesh, a trend which has major security implications. The Customs and Land Port Authority of India have been informed that drivers operating on fake licences cannot be allowed and a police case is being registered by the force to investigate the larger conspiracy. The border guarding force had received inputs that a few drivers were involved in trans-border crimes such as smuggling of gold, silver, phensedyl syrup, drugs etc, while engaged in export and import of goods between India and Bangladesh, following which surprise checks were carried out at the Petrapole ICP on January 16 and 17. While checking the authenticity of drivers’ licences, it found 52 fake licences on the first day and then 30 such fake licences in 30 more trucks the next day. BSF spokesperson Krishna Rao said all 82 fake driving licences have been handed over to the Customs. “The concerned authorities of Customs and Land Port Authority of India were conveyed that BSF cannot allow those trucks to go to Bangladesh whose drivers are found in the possession of a fake driving licence,” he said. He further said – “No driver with a fake driving licence can be allowed to ply trucks to Bangladesh at any cost because such drivers obtain fake Car Passes from the Customs Department on the basis of driving licences upon which BSF allows the trucks to enter Bangladesh.” To ensure smooth running of trade between India and Bangladesh, BSF has also informed Bangaon Transport Association across the border to follow the Standing Operating Procedures (SOPs) so that the security and interests of the nations are not compromised. Petrapole ICP is the largest land port in South Asia, located along the international border between India and Bangladesh, at a distance of about 80 km from Kolkata. Petrapole (India)-Benapole (Bangladesh) is an important land border crossing for both the countries in terms of trade and passenger movement and nearly 30 per cent of land-based trade between India and Bangladesh takes place through here. Since it was operationalised in February 2016, the Petrapole ICP has witnessed an increasing number of passenger movement with an average of 22 lakh people crossing the border post on either side each year. Detailing the reasons why the BSF has decided to beef up security at Petrapole, a BSF spokesperson said the force seized smuggled gold worth around ₹1,44,22,356 from a transporter while he was trying to escape on a bike on January 4. The gold was smuggled from Bangladesh by concealing it inside an import bound truck. Similarly, on July 19 last year, gold worth ₹1.71 crore was seized from an Indian driver coming from Bangladesh. On August 21, 2021, Saudi Riyal worth ₹1,68,38,500 were recovered from an empty Indian truck returning from Bangladesh after unloading export goods. Acting on an intelligence input, the BSF seized 50 kg Marijuana from an Indian truck on January 9 this year apart from several seizures of illegal items including narcotics in the last few months. Rao said that “in all these illegal activities, roles of Indian transporters, labourers, drivers, helpers and different agents and sub-agents have been established”. “It is also worth mentioning here that sometimes, drivers with fake driving licences tend to meet road accidents. Even BSF lost one of its jawans when he was overrun by a truck driver in the month of October 2021. Therefore, it is necessary that BSF must check the validity of the driving licence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-finds-82-drivers-with-fake-licences-plying-trucks-across-indo-bangla-border-101642503945525.html
18-01-2022||India||Assam CM Sarma says roadmap to settle border row with Meghalaya prepared||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said a roadmap for amicable settlement of the border issues with Meghalaya has been prepared based on recommendations of three regional committees with representatives from both states.In a series of tweets, Sarma said an all-party meeting was held during the day wherein the representatives of the parties were briefed on the progress made so far on the issue. Assam ministers Ranoj Pegu and Ashok Singhal and leader of Opposition in Assembly Debabrata Saikia were among those present in the meeting held at the State Guest House  Koinadhara.Sarma said the authorities have reached this stage after several rounds of talks at the chief ministerial level on the matter.We've reached this stage after several rounds of CM-level talks on the matter.My Cabinet colleagues Dr @ranojpeguassam & Shri @TheAshokSinghal, LOP Shri @DsaikiaOfficial, several MLAs, CS Shri Jishnu Barua, senior govt officials & representatives of all parties were present.“Our efforts to resolve the Assam-Meghalaya border row have started bearing fruits as six of the 12 areas of difference have been identified for resolution in the first phase… the areas of differences taken up for final settlement are - Hahim, Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pillingkata and Ratacherra,” he wrote.In a bid to resolve the long-standing inter-state boundary disputes, chief ministers of the two states had met on December 23 last year and decided to resolve the issues over six of the 12 areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-sarma-says-roadmap-to-settle-border-row-with-meghalaya-prepared-101642502397026.html
18-01-2022||India||Money laundering case: Court rejects Anil Deshmukh's plea for default bail||In a setback to Anil Deshmukh, a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Tuesday rejected the former Maharashtra home minister's plea to be granted default bail in connection with a money laundering case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).Deshmukh, against whom the money laundering case was registered by the ED after allegations of corruption against him were levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, approached the special PMLA court for bail on January 4. He argued in his plea that though the agency had filed a charge-sheet against him, the court had not taken cognisance of it, and, therefore, he should be granted default bail.Under Section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), a person who has been arrested can seek default bail if no charge-sheet is filed, and no cognisance is taken within 60 days of the arrest.However, countering his charge, the ED, on January 5, told the special court a charge-sheet was filed within 60 days of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader's arrest. Deshmukh, it said, was arrested on November 2, 2021, under Section 19 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in accordance with the law, under reasonable belief that he was guilty of the offence of money laundering.Also Read | ED opposes Anil Deshmukh’s default bail plea in money laundering caseOn March 20 last year, Param Bir Singh, days after being shunted as Mumbai Police chief in the wake of the Antilia bomb scare episode, wrote to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. In the letter, Singh accused then state home minister Anil Deshmukh of instructing assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, since dismissed from Mumbai police, to collect an amount of Rs100 crore every month from restaurants and bars in the state capital.Also Read | ED files supplementary chargesheet against Anil DeshmukhOn May 11, 2021, the ED registered registered the money-laundering case against the NCP leader on the basis of a First Information Report (FIR) filed against him by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-case-court-rejects-anil-deshmukh-s-plea-for-default-bail-101642500666021.html
18-01-2022||India||DCW demands arrest of Clubhouse app members ‘discussing’ Muslim women||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday issued a notice to the cybercrime cell of the Delhi Police, seeking action against people making derogatory remarks towrads Muslim women on the social audio application ‘Clubhouse’.Taking to Twitter, DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal wrote, “Sulli bai, then Bulli bai and now indecent sexual remarks against Muslim girls on the Clubhouse app! How long will this last? I have sent a notice to the Delhi Police with regard to the Clubhouse case to arrest criminals soon after filing an FIR.”सुल्ली बाई, फिर बुल्ली बाई और अब क्लब्हाउस ऐप पे मुस्लिम लड़कियों के ख़िलाफ़ अभद्र यौन टिप्पणी! ऐसा कब तक चलेगा? मैंने क्लब्हाउस वाले मामले में दिल्ली पुलिस को नोटिस इशू किया है की जल्द FIR कर अपराधियों को अरेस्ट करें! pic.twitter.com/rGBj5y0QFqA two-minute video of the Clubhouse interaction was shared on Twitter earlier in the day by a user named Tanvir Ansari. In the clip, participants, which include both boys and girls, are heard discussing the topic ‘Muslim Gals are more beautiful than Hindu Gals’.One of the participants in the video said that every Muslim girl is ultimately a Hindu and his response was met with the 'Jai Shri Ram' chant. Another participant said that 70 per cent of Muslims are converts as the religion was founded much later.The participants also said that “having sex with a Muslim girl is equal to building seven temples”, while another said it was even bigger and equal to doing as much good as demolishing the Babri Masjid.#SulliDeals and #BulliDeals are just the tip of the icebergHere a bunch of young híndú girls and boys are discussing on @Clubhouse on how violating a Muslim girl is equal to building 7 temples.I bet such discussion are a regular in drawing rooms and at dining tables of Híndús. pic.twitter.com/xahfiEiiqgAccording to the DCW's notice,"In the said conversation, participants can be clearly heard making obscene, vulgar, and defamatory remarks over women and girls especially from the Muslim community."The DCW said it is a very serious matter and merits strict action. The commission has sought a response from the cybercrime cell of the Delhi Police by January 24.The Clubhouse interaction comes to light days after a massive uproar over Bulli Bai app case that listed Muslim women for auction along with their doctored photographs sourced without their permission. The app is said to be a clone of Sulli Deals application that had come to the notice last year. Creators of both the applications have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcw-demands-arrest-of-clubhouse-app-members-discussing-muslim-women-101642495290232.html
18-01-2022||India||Rajnath writes to Stalin, Mamata amid row over R-Day parade tableaux snub||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday wrote to Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin and his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee over the exclusion of the states' tableaux from the Republic Day parade in New Delhi. In his letter to Stalin, Singh said Tamil Nadu’s tableau could not make it into the final list of 12 tableaux selected for participation in the Republic Day Parade.A day ago, Stalin had sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention in the matter alleging the move was an “insult” by the Centre. Banerjee has also lodged her protest over the non-inclusion of the state’s tableau at the parade on Rajpath in the national capital.“This is also to bring to your kind information that during the last few years, tableau from the state of Tamil Nadu has been selected for participation in R-Day during 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021,” Singh further wrote to Stalin, an ANI input said. To Banerjee, Singh wrote, "West Bengal's tableau has been selected for participation in R-Day during 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2021."Defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote to West Bengal Chief Minister over exclusion of the state's tableaux for Republic Day celebrationsIn a letter, the defence minister wrote, "West Bengal's tableau has been selected for participation in R-Day during 2016, 2017,2019, & 2021." pic.twitter.com/7KiAcQjpzmMeanwhile, sources in the government have rejected charges of bias or insult towards tableaux from non-BJP-ruled states stressing that the proposals of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal were rejected by the subject expert committee after due process and deliberations.In a letter to the PM, Stalin said exclusion of the tableau that would showcase the freedom fighters of the state would deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of the state. This came a day after a miffed Banerjee shot off a letter to Modi, while the Kerala government had on Friday protested the exclusion of its tableau depicting social reformer Sree Narayana Guru.Banerjee had expressed shock over the exclusion of Bengal's tableau, which focussed on Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary year, and said such a move would cause "pain" to the people of her state.She had said that exclusion of the tableau, which also featured other icons like Rabindranath Tagore, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo, "amounts to belittling and undermining the freedom fighters".Kerala education minister V Sivankutty has asked the state BJP unit to clarify whether they agreed with "this insulting attitude towards Kerala’s Guru".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-writes-to-stalin-over-tamil-nadu-s-exclusion-from-r-day-parade-tableaux-101642496256255.html
18-01-2022||India||Allowance didn’t improve attendance at parliamentary panel meets, reveals report||NEW DELHI: A special allowance for attending parliamentary standing committee meetings, which was discontinued in 2018, did not improve the attendance of lawmakers at such meets, according to a report Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu sought last month.Naidu asked the Rajya Sabha secretariat to prepare the report after some lawmakers said at an informal interaction with him that the special allowance was an added incentive for many to attend the meetings regularly. The report analysed attendance at parliamentary standing committee meetings when the lawmakers were entitled to the allowance.Lawmakers get ₹2,000 as a daily allowance for attending Parliament and House panel meetings. They also received the special allowance amounting to 25% of the cost of their air travel to attend the meetings before it was done away with when late Arun Jaitley was the finance minister.The secretariat studied the impact of the withdrawal of the allowance. It found that during the last five years, parliamentary panels have spent more time on meetings even as the Parliament sessions have often faced disruptions or washouts. The report said the attendance of MPs at meetings of the eight parliamentary standing committees under Rajya Sabha has marginally dipped from the 2016-17 level due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “During 2016-17 (mid-September to mid-September), when the allowance was available for the full year, the average attendance at 119 meetings of 8 DRSCS [Department-related Standing Committees] was 47.64% and it increased to 48.79% for 119 meetings during 2019-20 when such allowance was not allowed,” the report said. “During 2017-18, the special allowance was available for 6 months. During 2018-19, all the 8 committees of Rajya Sabha reported low attendance, perhaps, due to the General Elections to Lok Sabha in the first half of 2019. Accordingly, 2016-17 was taken as the reference year for assessing the impact of meeting allowance to MPs on attendance during 2019-20 and 2020-21,” it said. Also Read | Venkaiah Naidu seeks report on attendance at House panel meetingsThe average attendance increased from 47.64% in 2016-17 to 48.79% in 2019-20. It dropped to 44.59% in 2020-21 due to Covid.Naidu asked the secretariat to find out the rate of attendance when this allowance was in place even as there was no plan to revive it. The study was done to see how the attendance of MPs can be improved.Low attendance at parliamentary committee meetings came up during an informal meeting of senior lawmakers with Naidu at his chamber after Parliament’s winter session concluded on December 22.The issue was also discussed on December 21 at a meeting between Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and chairpersons of 16 House standing committees. 
18-01-2022||India||2 Indians killed in drone attack in Abu Dhabi identified: Indian embassy in UAE||NEW DELHI: The Indian embassy in the UAE said on Tuesday the two Indian nationals killed during a drone attack by Yemen’s Houthi rebels on Abu Dhabi had been identified and the mission was in touch with their families. The embassy in Abu Dhabi also said two of the six people injured in Monday’s attack were Indian nationals and were discharged after medical treatment. Saudi Arabia-led coalition forces carried out an airstrike on the Houthi-held Yemeni capital Sanaa in retaliation for the attack on Abu Dhabi. According to initial estimates cited in media reports, the airstrike killed 14 people. The coalition also said it intercepted eight drones launched towards Saudi Arabia on Monday. In an update on Monday’s incident posted on Twitter, the Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi said, “Identities of two deceased Indian nationals established. @IndembAbuDhabi officials are in touch with their family members. The mission is working closely with UAE authorities, including ADNOC, for early repatriation of mortal remains.” The mission did not give details about the two dead Indians.The embassy said, “Of the six injured, two are Indian nationals. After receiving medical treatment, they were discharged yesterday night.” The mission thanked the government and foreign ministry of the UAE and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) for their support. ADNOC confirmed on Monday that the three people – two Indians and a Pakistani national – killed in the drone attack were its employees. The three people died in explosions and fires that followed the drone attack by Houthi rebels. The explosions hit three petroleum transport tankers near ADNOC’s storage tanks at the Industrial City of Abu Dhabi. Another fire broke out in a new construction area of Abu Dhabi international airport. Houthi military spokesman Yahia Sarei said his group had launched an attack deep inside the UAE, but didn’t provide details. The ADNOC storage facility, where the tankers caught fire, is 1,800km northeast of Saada, the Houthi stronghold in Yemen. The attack in Abu Dhabi came a fortnight after Houthi rebels seized the UAE-flagged vessel Rwabee with 11 crew members, including seven Indian nationals, in the Red Sea. India and the UAE have demanded the immediate release of the crew members. Yemen has seen intense fighting since Houthi rebels seized the capital Sanaa in 2014. The UAE is part of the Saudi-led coalition that intervened in support of the government in 2015. Though the UAE has decreased the number of troops it has on the ground, it continues to support militias fighting the Houthis and cooperates with the US in counterterrorism efforts in Yemen. 
18-01-2022||India||22,000 signed online petition to postpone GATE exam in view of Covid situation||More than 22,000 candidates have endorsed an online petition demanding that the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE), which is scheduled to be held between February 5 to February 13 in offline format, should be postponed in view of the rising cases of Covid-19 across the country.GATE is conducted for admission to various postgraduate courses in science and engineering, and several PSUs also use its score in their recruitment process. It is jointly organised by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bangalore and seven Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) at Bombay, Delhi, Guwahati, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Madras and Roorkee on behalf of National Coordination Board (NCB)-GATE, department of higher education, ministry of education.IIT Kharagpur is the organising body for GATE 2022 and more than eight lakh candidates are expected to take the exam.The online petition that started last week, signed by 22,680 students by Tuesday afternoon, stated, “With the current third wave, Covid-19 due to its new variant Omicron has spread severely in several states, cities. Several studies including one done by IIT Kanpur predict that the peak of the 3rd wave is expected in early February and the wave will end by April. Therefore the peak is most likely to coincide with the usual exam dates of GATE.”“If the exam dates are not postponed, the candidates appearing for GATE 2022 run an imminent risk of getting infected and spreading it thereby getting threat to their life as well as their family member's lives…On behalf of the GATE participants who have signed this petition, I request you to postpone the GATE 2022 exam dates to a safer date in the month of April,” it added.Priyanshu, a candidate from Haryana’s Narnaul district, said that his examination center is at a distance of 140 km from his place. “If I travel during this third wave, I will not only risk my safety but my family’s as well. Ironically, IIT-Kharagpur has postponed its upcoming alumni meet in view of the pandemic situation. But the GATE exam will be held putting our safety at risk,” he said.Despite several attempts, IIT-Kharagpur did not respond to the emails sent for a comment. A senior official at the ministry of education said, “There is no talk about postponing the exam. The exam will be held with taking all precautionary measures and a large majority of the population is already vaccinated against Covid-19 infection. Postponing the exam will put the careers of lakhs of students at stake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7000-signed-online-petition-to-postpone-gate-exam-in-view-of-covid-19-situation-101642491930414.html
18-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: SC to hear PIL on parties hiding criminal records and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court to hear petition seeking action on parties hiding criminal recordsThe Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to hear the petition seeking a direction to the Election Commission to deregister political parties for hiding criminal case records of candidates along with the reason for their selection.People not willing to get vaccinated in Assam should stay at home: CM SarmaThe Assam government has said that vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is not mandatory for the state's population but people who are not willing to get the jab should stay at home. Read moreHealth authorities dismiss Canada-link to 1st Omicron case in BeijingCanadian health authorities have dismissed the Chinese claim that a Covid-19 infection of the Omicron variant detected in Beijing may have been caused by a package received from Canada. Read moreTata Motors follows Maruti Suzuki in announcing another price hikeTata Motors on Tuesday announced a price hike on its range of passenger vehicles in the country. The increase in prices are effective from Wednesday with the average hike at around 0.9% while referring to customer feedback as a reason for a reduction of around ₹10,000 on certain model variants. Read moreFormer KKR player offered ₹40 lakhs to fix matches - ReportRajagopal Sathish, 40-year-old, lodged a police complaint in Bengaluru, claiming he was offered a sum of ₹40 lakh to fix matches. As per a report in The Indian Express, Satish told the police he was approached by an Instagram user, who goes by the name Bunny Anand. Read moreOmicron positive with mild symptoms? Mental health tips during home isolationOmicron cases in India have been rising rapidly and it's now becoming common to see people around us testing Covid positive and showing flu-like symptoms like cold, cough, headache, fever and sore throat. Read moreRGV calls ‘star divorces’ a warning for youngsters after Dhanush and Aishwaryaa Rajinikanth splitFilmmaker Ram Gopal Varma shared a series of tweets denouncing marriage and celebrating divorce as Dhanush announced his split from Aishwaryaa Rajinikanth. Read moreWatch| How Xi Jinping warned of ‘catastrophic consequences’ of confrontation at Davos||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-to-hear-pil-on-parties-hiding-criminal-records-101642490071102.html
18-01-2022||India||With Devas judgement, Modi government cleans yet another UPA mess||The Narendra Modi government on Monday heaved a sigh of relief after the Supreme Court junked the appeal filed by Devas Multimedia against the decision of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) which in turn had upheld the NCLT decision to wind up the company.Had the Modi government not resorted to timely action by ensuring that ISRO’s commercial arm, Antrix, moved the NCLT for liquidation of Devas on the allegations of fraud, the Union of India case against the arbitration award for Devas, currently under consideration of Netherlands court, would have weakened. The Devas-Antrix deal was signed in 2005 and was cancelled by the Manmohan Singh government in 2011 amidst allegation of corruption but without invoking the national security clause.While India’s case has been bolstered internationally with the SC judgement, it is quite evident that the Narendra Modi government has spent considerable time from sorting out the mess left by the previous UPA regime - be it retrospective tax, oil bonds, defaulting on CST payments to states and ballooning fiscal deficit. Let’s examine these pitfalls one by one.Oil bondsDuring the UPA regime, oil marketing companies had massive under-recoveries as the retail fuel prices did not keep in pace with the global crude oil prices. Instead of compensating the oil companies through fuel subsidies, the government converted under recoveries into long term oil bonds and postponed the payments. It is the Modi government that is now paying through its nose for UPA’s mismanagement as close to ₹10,000 crore have been paid annually as interest on oil bonds worth ₹1.3 lakh crores issued by the previous UPA regime.NPA crisisAnother UPA era legacy that the present NDA regime has to contend with are non-performing assets or bad loans that have wrecked the banking sector. During the previous regime, public sector banks lent thousands of crores to politically connected fat cats often without due diligence. Fact is that in some cases, defaulters managed to get new loans to pay off old loans.Breaking promises to statesThe transition towards value added tax or VAT led to gradual reduction in the central sales tax (CST) distributed among the states. The UPA government, despite repeated assurances to states on compensation for lost share of CST collections failed to fulfill the promise. In 2015, the Modi government approved ₹33000 crore as CST compensation, restoring confidence in Centre-State relations and paving way for the GST implementation. Fact is that the previous regime did not even properly devolve the share of taxes due to states. The CAG has pointed out that for several years between 2004 and 2014, the Centre had devolved less than the due share of taxes to the states as a result of distrust was generated between Centre and States.High fiscal deficitThe high fiscal deficit was yet another landmine left behind. The average fiscal deficit under UPA II was between two to 5.5 per cent of the GDP. This meant that immediate course correction was needed to avoid inflationary pressures and substantial borrowings. Since, 2014, the Modi government has stuck to fiscal prudence without compromising on welfare measures for poor and without imposing additional burden on middle class.Retrospective taxIn 2012, UPA regime retrospectively changed the Income Tax Act to tax transactions involving sale and transfer of shares outside India, where the underlying assets are in India. The controversial retrospective tax amendments adversely impacted India’s image as an investor friendly destination. Further, this amendment caused international embarrassment to India as it caused legal disputes with Vodafone and Cairn, in which the country had to face legal setbacks. It was left to the Modi government to undo this blunder.
18-01-2022||India||‘If cough persists...’: Govt discourages steroid use for Covid treatment||There is no evidence of benefit from injectable steroids in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients who do not require oxygen supplementation or in continuation, after discharge, the government has said in its revised guidelines. The clinical guidance jointly issued by AIIMS, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Covid-19 National Task Force and Joint Monitoring Group warned that anti-inflammatory therapy can lead to a risk of secondary infection like invasive mucormycosis, or ‘black fungus’."There is no evidence for benefit for injectable steroids in those not requiring oxygen supplementation, or on continuation after discharge anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory therapy (such as steroids) can have a risk of secondary infection such as invasive mucormycosis when used too early, at higher doses or for longer than required," the guidelines stated.Under the anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory therapy, the guidelines say, “Injection Methylprednisolone 0.5 to 1 mg/kg in two divided doses or equivalent dose of dexamethasone can be given usually for a duration of 5 to 10 days” in Covid-19 patients. The medicine can be administered orally if the condition of the patient is stable and/or improving.Govt warns against overuse, misuse of Covid medicinesAdult Covid-19 patients have been divided into three categories of mild, moderate and severe disease based on upper respiratory tract symptoms and breathlessness. The government-recommended treatments do not include medicines like ivermectin, favipiravir and Doxycycline. Antivirals like Molnupiravir and monoclonal antibodies are also not included in the guidelines.The government has advised people to investigate for tuberculosis and other conditions if cough persists for more than 2-3 weeks after testing positive for Covid-19.According to the guidelines, people aged 60 and above with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, and CAD Diabetes mellitus and other immunocompromised states (such as HIV), active tuberculosis, chronic lung/kidney/liver disease, cerebrovascular disease, and obesity are at high risk for severe disease or mortality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-cough-persists-govt-discourages-steroid-use-for-covid-treatment-101642485016550.html
18-01-2022||India||People not willing to get vaccinated in Assam should stay at home: CM Sarma||The Assam government has said that vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is not mandatory for the state's population but people who are not willing to get the jab should stay at home.Addressing a press conference in Guwahati on Monday, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that those unwilling to get vaccinated against Covid-19 will not be allowed to enter offices, restaurants and attend meetings.Also Read| Assam logs highest-ever daily Covid-19 cases at 6,982; positivity rate crosses 10%“People not willing to get vaccinated can stay back at home. In Assam, if necessary, then the Covid-19 vaccination certificate will have to be shown. We cannot allow anti-public work to happen,” Sarma told reporters.Last week, the Assam chief minister said that people who are not fully vaccinated will not be allowed entry into public places from January 16.Till now, authorities have administered more than 40 million vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries in Assam of which 203,392 doses were administered on Monday.As many as 767,253 children between the ages of 15-18 have been inoculated and more than 56,000 precautionary doses have been administered to beneficiaries that include health care and frontline workers, people with comorbidities (suffering from many diseases) and those above 60 years of age.Assam has so far recorded 653,717 Covid-19 cases, 6,217 related deaths, 622,205 recoveries and 23,948 active cases.Also Read| Assam: For the unvaccinated, no entry to public places from tomorrowThe state government has revised the timings of the ongoing night curfew from 10pm to 6am. Earlier, the night curfew in Assam was from 11.30am to 6pm.According to the restrictions to ward off the spread of Covid-19, workplaces, business establishments, public and private offices have been asked to close early.Dining in service in restaurants, eateries and dhabas is allowed till 9pm with 50% seating capacity. The takeaway service from these establishments is open till 10pm.Shops selling groceries, fruits and vegetables, animal fodder and dairy and milk booths can also remain open till 9pm in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-not-willing-to-get-vaccinated-in-assam-should-stay-at-home-cm-sarma-101642482301576.html
18-01-2022||India||UGC asks higher education institutions to participate in Surya Namaskar event||NEW DELHI: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has requested higher education institutions to participate in the Surya Namaskar event on Republic Day.The National Sports Federation of India has planned the event as part of the government’s ongoing Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav to commemorate 75 years of India’s independence.“To commemorate the Amrit Mohostav, the federation decided to run a project of 750 million Surya Namaskar in 30 states, involving 30000 institutes and 3 lakh students, from January 1 to February 7 and performing musical Surya Namaskar in front of Tricolour on 26th January... all the higher education institutions and affiliated colleges are requested to participate in the event,” the commission said in a notification.The commission asked the institutions to promote the event by giving wide publicity.In another notification, the commission cited the Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) for the Republic Day at the universities and colleges and suggested activities such as plays, debates, quiz and class projects on themes such as India’s freedom struggle, gallantry awards, and victories of armed forces.The events can be organised both in the physical or virtual format based on the Covid-19 situation, the UGC said.“All higher education institutions and their affiliated colleges are requested to follow SoPs as formulated by the ministry of defence in order to inculcate our best practices all across the nation while celebrating the forthcoming Republic Day celebration and thereafter,” the commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-asks-higher-education-institutions-to-participate-in-surya-namaskar-event-101642482344804.html
18-01-2022||India||Ripudaman Singh Malik thanks PM Modi for taking positive steps for Sikhs||Canada-based Sikh leader Ripudaman Singh Malik has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a number of steps his government has taken for the Sikh community. He expressed his “deep heartfelt gratitude” for the unprecedented positive steps taken by the Modi government.“I am writing you this to express my deer heartfelt gratitude for the unprecedented positive steps taken by yourself to redress long-reading Sikh demands and grievances including elimination of blacklists that restricted visit to India of thousands of Sikhs living abroad, grant of passports and visas to asylees and their families, reopening of hundreds of 1984-riots closed cases leading to conviction and jail term for some, declaring 1984-riots as ‘genocide’ by then Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh on the floor of the House, giving compensation or Rs. 5.00 lakh per family of the anti-Sikh genocide victims, opening of Sri Kartarpur Saheb Corridor facilitating pilgrims from India to visit the revered place of our first Master Guru Nanak Dev Ji,” he said in the letter.He also expressed happiness on declaration of December 26 - the martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s sons - as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’.At the same time, Singh showed concerns at an “orchestrated campaign” by some misguided members of the Sikh community against the Modi government and India. This, he said, is being done at the behest of some foreign powers which are interested in destabilising India and challenge its national integrity.Singh promised to work with the government of India for redressal of pending issues.In a separate letter to the Sikh community, Singh urged them to desist from the vicious and motivated campaign.“Violence in Punjab only ends up hurting the interests of the Sikh community in Punjab and throughout India and around the world. I do my daily Ardaas for world peace as I do not like seeing my community or any community suffer due to violence,” he said in the letter.“I do not believe it is right to unfairly criticise the Prime Minister given his many positive gestures towards the Sikh community. Instead of criticising we should be appreciating and engaging meaningfully with the government of India under his leadership towards a positive partnership for the future,” Singh furthers said in the letter.Malik runs Khalsa schools in Canada and was acquitted in 1985 Air India Kanishka bombing by Canadian judiciary in 2005.Apart from the Vancouver Education Board curriculum, the Khalsa school also teaches Punjabi language and culture. During summer vacations, students take classes in the Sikh religion, including kirtan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ripudaman-singh-malik-thanks-pm-modi-for-positive-steps-taken-for-sikhs-101642480899235.html
18-01-2022||India||India logs 238,018 fresh Covid-19 cases, daily active count drops below 1 lakh mark||India recorded 238,018 fresh Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Tuesday. The daily active count rose by 80,287, dropping below 1 lakh cases for the first time in nearly two weeks. The daily infections dropped by 20,071 since yesterday's tally, while the daily positivity rate stood at 14.43 per cent, as opposed to 14.41 per cent yesterday.As many as 310 fatalities were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the country's death toll to 486,761. The new fatalities included 72 from Kerala and 33 from West Bengal.The active cases now stand at 17,36,628, while recoveries climbed to over 35 million with 157,421 people getting better in the past 24 hours, the bulletin showed. The recovery rate has touched 94.09 per cent.The total count rose to 37,180,271, including 8,891 new Omicron cases, which has been pushing more people around the country into self isolation.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Among worst-hit cities, Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata appear to have plateaued the Covid-19 curve, while several other cities continue to record a surge. A total of 705 million Covid tests have been conducted so far, including 16,49,143 tests in the last 24 hours.The government also stated that it has provided more than 1.5 billion (1,58,16,75,635) vaccine doses free-of-cost to states and union territories so far. More than 132 million (13,25,29,901) vaccine doses remain unutilized and yet to be administered.Also Read | Revised Covid treatment guidelines: All you want to knowEarlier on Monday, the Centre released revised guidelines issued by AIIMS, ICMR - COVID 19 National Task Force and Joint Monitoring Group (DGHS) wherein it asked doctors to avoid giving injectable steroids to patients not requiring oxygen supplementation or in continuation, after discharge, because that can lead to a risk of secondary infection like mucormycosis or ‘black fungus’.For “mild, moderate and severe” cases of Covid-19 infection, the government said home isolation and care is sufficient, along with regular monitoring of body temperature and oxygen saturation.In case of breathlessness with a fluctuating oxygen saturation between 90-93 per cent, the patient can get admitted. They will be considered moderate cases and should be given oxygen support, the guidelines stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-238-018-fresh-covid-19-cases-daily-active-count-drops-below-1-lakh-mark-101642476626682.html
18-01-2022||India||Republic Day parade: Scrolls to depict valour of heroes of freedom struggle||NEW DELHI: Ten scrolls, each measuring 750 metres, depicting valour of heroes of India’s freedom movement, will be put at the Rajpath for the Republic Day parade. Over 500 artists from Odisha and Chandigarh have painted the scrolls reflecting traditional art forms such as Madhubani, Pattachitra, Talapatra Chitra, Manjusha, and Patua.National Gallery of Modern Art director-general Adwaita Garanayak said they organised workshops for amalgamating varied forms of visual and performing arts of the country to represent the essence of unity and diversity in India. “I believe that the gigantic scrolls when displayed at Rajpath will garner the interest of each individual to delve deep into the history of the unsung heroes of India’s freedom struggle and would also draw attention towards the unified visual aspects of modern, indigenous, and contemporary arts of India,” Garanayak said in a statement.The scrolls will be put up behind the seating area for the public, said a Central Public Works Department (CPWD) official.CPWD is also planning to install 10 large LED screens along the Rajpath and is in the process of completing the work at the site, said a second official.With less than 10 days left for the event, the CPWD is giving final touches to the redevelopment work at Central Vista Avenue. This will be the first Republic Day parade at the revamped avenue.Arrangements for seating and the parade were being made at the site. Also Read | Netaji’s birth anniversary to now be part of Republic Day celebrationsAnother CPWD official said major work at the avenue for the parade is over and final touches are being given. “This time, 10 huge LED screens, including four near the presidential dais, for the public (will be put up). Live visuals of the parade will be telecasted.”The agency is in the process of completing the construction work at the parking lots, where space for close to 4,000 vehicles will be provided. A Delhi traffic police officer said parking space for around 7,000 vehicles will be needed. “The parking space at the venue has slightly been reduced due to the construction of amenity blocks and underpasses. We have been provided alternate parking sites at Jawahar Bhawan (on Raisina Road) and Vanijya Bhawan (on Akbar road). This is for the first time we have been provided parking sites at these locations.”Due to the Covid situation, the parade will terminate at the National Stadium while the tableaux will be taken to Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-parade-scrolls-to-depict-valour-of-heroes-of-freedom-struggle-101642478624213.html
18-01-2022||India||IMD predicts rain, dense fog, hail storm in these states, UTs||A Western Disturbance lying over North India will cause rain in Delhi NCR from Friday night and continue till Sunday morning, according to a senior scientist at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Overcast conditions will prevail due to the Western Disturbance, increasing the minimum temperature to 13 degrees Celsius.RK Jenamani of IMD told news agency ANI that the Western Disturbance, however, is weaker compared to the earlier one that caused intense rainfall in the national capital region, adding that there will be light to very light rainfall. Jenamani said there is also a possibility of hail storms in Punjab Haryana."Day temperature to remain low due to rain throughout North India, Rajasthan, Haryana," Jenamani informed.IMD said that a "fresh active Western Disturbance is likely to affect Northwest India from 21st January onwards."Cold day conditions likely to abate in Delhi todayThe Met department has also predicted isolated light/moderate rainfall over Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema, interior Tamilnadu, Kerala for the next 2 days.IMD weather forecast suggested dense to very dense fog in isolated parts in the night and morning hours over Rajasthan, East Uttar Pradesh, West Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal during the next two days.“Cold Day to Severe Cold Day Conditions in some/isolated pockets very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan during next 2 days and abate thereafter,” IMD added.On Tuesday morning, IMD reported dense fog with 50-metre visibility in Bareilly, Bahraich, Sultanpur, Varanasi and Allahabad. Agra, Lucknow and Gorakhpur reported visibility of 200-metre each. Isolated pockets of Bihar and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal witnessed dense fog, with 50-metre visibility in Gaya and 200-metre in Purnea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-rain-dense-fog-hail-storm-in-these-states-uts-101642477875080.html
18-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM to interact with BJP workers virtually in UP, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttar Pradesh assembly election 2022: PM Modi to interact with BJP workers virtually todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday interact with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers of Varanasi, in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. The interaction will take place virtually since the Election Commission of India (ECI) has suspended all physical rallies till January 22 due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read more…On cam: Leopard roams in Mumbai's Goregaon East, residents urged not to panicCCTV cameras captured a leopard roaming freely in Gokuldham area in Mumbai's Goregaon East. The radio-collared leopard was identified by forest department officials. Goregaon East is near Aarey forest & Sanjay gandhi national park. This isn't the first leopard sighting in the area. Leopards often come to these Mumbai areas, looking to prey on street dogs. Following the leopard sighting, residents of the Gokuldham area (Goregaon east) have been urged not to panic. Watch the full video for moreRobert Lewandowski wins FIFA Best Men's player, Erik Lamela gets Puskas AwardBayern Munich's Polish striker Robert Lewandowski won the FIFA Best Men's Player award for 2021 with Barcelona's Spanish midfielder Alexia Putellas winning the FIFA Best Women's Player prize at Monday's ceremony. Read more…Vicky Kaushal relives ‘good old acting school days’ with Shireen Mirza. WatchVicky Kaushal is reliving his “good old acting school days” with friend Shireen Mirza, who shared a throwback video from their time together. Shireen is an actor too and has appeared in the TV show Ye Hai Mohabbatein as Simran ‘Simmi’ Bhalla Khurana. Read more…Barack Obama kisses his 'love, partner, best friend' Michelle Obama in her 58th birthday wish: Read post hereThe former First Lady of the United States of America, Michelle Obama, turned 58 on January 17 and took to Twitter today (IST) to share a video of herself enjoying her birthday cake. Her husband and former US President Barack Obama also posted an endearing wish on social media. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-to-interact-with-bjp-workers-virtually-in-up-and-all-the-latest-news-101642474438781.html
18-01-2022||India||Cold day conditions to persist in northwest India||NEW DELHI: A western disturbance was likely to bring scattered rain to most parts of northwest India this week, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said as cold day conditions with significantly low day temperatures were likely to persist on Tuesday.Cold to severe cold day conditions in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan will continue for two days and abate thereafter. IMD said minimum temperatures were likely to rise by 2-4 degrees Celsius in the region over the next five days. It added dense to very dense fog was likely in isolated parts in the night and morning hours in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, and West Bengal.IMD said a cyclonic circulation was lying over Kerala and neighbourhood and a fresh western disturbance was likely to hit the western Himalayan region from January 18. Another fresh active western disturbance was likely over northwest India from January 21 and an induced cyclonic circulation in Rajasthan on January 22.Isolated light to moderate rainfall was expected in north coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema, interior Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Mahe during the next two to three days. Light to moderate rainfall at a few places with isolated heavy rainfall was likely in north coastal Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and adjoining south coastal Andhra Pradesh.Scattered to widespread rainfall or snowfall was likely in western Himalayan till January 23 while rainfall was expected in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-day-conditions-to-persist-in-northwest-india-101642475443939.html
18-01-2022||India||Al Qaeda affiliate's claim of Ghazipur Mandi bomb scare bogus: Delhi police||Delhi police on Monday said that they have found the claims of terror outfit Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind, an Al-Qaeda affiliated Islamist militant group, regarding the Ghazipur Mandi bomb scare, as bogus.Senior officials from the special cell, the Delhi Police's Anti-Terror Squad, said they are still probing whether the group is responsible for the terror attack attempt.It was on Friday, that a bag full of explosives was recovered from Ghazipur flower market around 10.30 am, after which the entire market was vacated and the IED defused by the National Security Guard (NSG).On Monday, NSG confirmed that it was a mixture of RDX and ammonia nitrate attached to a sophisticated device to cause the explosion.Group linked to Al Qaeda says it planted bomb in Ghazipur market: PoliceThe Delhi Police which had registered a case under the explosive act to probe the incident, however, said they are yet to zero down on any terror outfit responsible for the attempt."During social media monitoring, we have come across a letter with Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind claiming responsibility for the attempted attack. This group is relatively a newer outfit. We haven't found any authentic source to the note so far," said a senior police officer.The letter doing rounds on social media also mentioned that it was due to some technical error that the device did not explode. But it does not mean that the same will happen even the next time, it said.Police have said it could be an attempt to mislead the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/al-qaeda-affiliate-s-claim-of-ghazipur-mandi-bomb-scare-bogus-delhi-police-101642473885087.html
18-01-2022||India||Facial recognition systems, anti-drone teams deployed for Republic Day celebration||After the improvised explosive device (IED) was found at Ghazipur Flower Market ahead of Republic Day and later diffused, the Delhi Police have fortified areas in and around Rajpath with multi-layer security cover, installed facial recognition systems (FRS) and over 300 CCTVs.Deepak Yadav, DCP, New Delhi, said that apart from the terror threat, the rise in cases of Covid-19 is also a major challenge for the force.He has briefed the police personnel about the necessary precautions that need to be followed and has tightened the security arrangements in New Delhi."We have intensified the process of verification of tenants and visitors in hotels in and around the New Delhi area. A quick reaction team (QRT) will be deployed to respond to any untoward situation. We are also deploying an anti-drone team to keep a watch on any flying object breaching security cordon," he said.He added that around 300 cameras with FRS-enabled facilities have been deployed in and around Rajpath. The systems have a database of 50,000 suspected criminals."Due to Covid-19-related restrictions only 4,000 tickets will be available and a total of 24,000 people will be allowed to attend the event," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facial-recognition-systems-anti-drone-teams-deployed-for-republic-day-celebration-101642471702285.html
18-01-2022||India||4.9-magnitude earthquake hits Arunachal Pradesh's Basar||An earthquake of magnitude 4.9 shook Basar in Arunachal Pradesh's Lepa Rada district in the early hours of Tuesday, according to the National Center for Seismology (NCS).The epicentre of the earthquake, which occurred at 4.30am, was at the depth of 10 kilometres and at 148 km north-northwest of Basar.“Earthquake of Magnitude:4.9, Occurred on 18-01-2022, 04:29:30 IST, Lat: 29.16 & Long: 93.97, Depth: 10 Km, Location: 148km NNW of Basar, Arunachal Pradesh, India," NCS tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/49magnitude-earthquake-hits-arunachal-pradesh-s-basar-101642470727527.html
18-01-2022||NA||Breaking highlights: 3 sailors killed in explosion onboard INS Ranvir at Mumbai’s Naval Dockyard||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Delhi govt to deploy senior nursing officers as nodal officers in private hospitalsDelhi govt to deploy its senior nursing officers as nodal officers in private hospitals to monitor the management of Covid-19 patients along with monitoring Covid vaccination pic.twitter.com/yfJcFENEYJDelhi government will deploy its senior nursing officers as nodal officers in private hospitals to monitor the management of Covid-19 patients and vaccination, reports ANI. 3 sailors killed in explosion onboard INS Ranvir at Mumbai’s Naval DockyardThree sailors died and several others were injured in a blast that occurred onboard Indian Navy destroyer INS Ranvir, in Mumbai harbour.Maharashtra logs 39,207 Covid-19 cases, 53 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra saw 39,207 new Covid-19 cases and 53 deaths in the last 24 hours, higher than 31,111 cases and 24 fatalities reported a day before. The total caseload in the state reached 7,282,128 and the death toll mounted to 141,885. TN's tableau, rejected from R-Day parade, to be displayed at Chennai: CM StalinTamil Nadu CM MK Stalin said that the state's tableau which was excluded from the Republic Day parade this year will be displayed at Chennai and other major cities of the state for the public. Ensure 15 to 18 age group jabbed with Covaxin: Bharat Biotech tells healthcare workers Bharat Biotech: "Healthcare workers are requested to ensure that only COVAXIN is administered to individuals in 15-18 age group," following reports of unapproved COVID vaccines being given to 15-18 year age group pic.twitter.com/GpboR1nFeVBharat Biotech, makers of the Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine, have asked healthcare workers to ensure that beneficiaries 15 and 18 years of age are administered only their shot, which has been approved.Mumbai’s daily Covid cases rise marginally to 6149; city sees 7 more deathsCOVID-19 | Mumbai reports 6,149 new cases - 193 more than yesterday, January 17, and 7 deaths today; Active cases 44,084 pic.twitter.com/pHus9NLG4nMumbai saw a slight spike in its daily Covid tally with 6,149 new cases which took the total caseload to 1,011,967. Also, seven more people died on the day and the death toll mounted to 16,476. Delhi's daily Covid cases fall to 11,684The national capital continued a downward trend it its daily Covid-19 tally with 11,684 infections reported in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 17,34,181.  Kerala sees 28,481 new Covid-19 cases, 39 deathsKerala reported 28,481 new Covid-19 cases and 39 related deaths. The state's active caseload stood at 142,512, reports ANI. On the day, 83 total deaths were added as per the new guidelines of the central government and the death toll reached 51,026.UP assembly polls: BJP releases names of 2 more candidatesThe BJP has relased the names of two more candidates for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Chhatrapal Gangwar will contest from the Baheri legislative constituencey and Bahoranlal Maurya from Bhojipura.Delhi shopkeepers protest odd-even rule to check Covid surgeDelhi | Odd-even is now imposed on shops, we were already suffering due to weekend lockdown. Due to this, our shops are open only 10 days a month: Rakesh Kumar, President, Sadar Bazar traders Association pic.twitter.com/ojZtHlufKbShopkeepers in Delhi protested against the odd-even rule implemented in the city to check the surge in Covid-19 cases. They demanded the government for allowing them to run their businesses on the weekends citing economic loss due to the pandemic.SP MLA Nahid Hasan's bail plea dismissedUttar Pradesh | Kairana fast track court dismisses the bail plea of Samajwadi Party MLA and candidate from Kairana, Nahid Hasan. He was arrested by the Police under the Gangster Act and sent to 14-day judicial custody by a Kairana court on January 15th.(File photo) pic.twitter.com/L7ppqp79dBA fast track court in Kairana rejected the bail plea of Samajwadi Party MLA and its candidate from the Kairana assembly constituency Nahid Hasan, reports ANI. Mamata Banerjee to visit UP on Feb 8, to meet Akhilesh Yadav: SP's Kiranmoy NandaSamajwadi Party vice president Kiranmoy Nanda said that West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee is slated to visit Uttar Pradesh on February 8 and will meet with Akhilesh Yadav for a virtual press conference to be held in Lucknow and Varanasi, reports ANI. “TMC and Mamata Banerjee don't want to contest in UP. All seats will be given to Akhilesh Yadav,” he said. Russia demands US' response on security demands before proceeding with Ukraine talksRussian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said that Moscow wanted answers from the US on sweeping security demands before continuing Ukraine talks, reports AFP. ‘Fraud of the Congress, for the Congress, by the Congress’: FM on Devas-Antrix issueResponding to questions regarding the Devas-Antrix issue, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that it was a “fraud of the Congress, for the Congress and by the Congress”. 'GoI didn't appoint arbitrator when Devas went to international arbitration': Nirmala SitharamanIn 2011, when the whole thing was cancelled, Devas went to international arbitration, Govt of India never appointed an arbitrator, was reminded to appoint arbitrator within 21 days, but govt didn't appoint: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman pic.twitter.com/Aly4xZbiz3Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that when Devas went for international arbitration, the then Government of India did not appoint an arbitrator, even after it was reminded to appoint one within 21 days. WATCH | FM Nirmala Sitharaman addresses media on SC order on Antrix-Devas caseUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman addressed the media on the Supreme Court's recent judgement about the Antrix-Devas deal.FM Nirmala Sitharaman talks about SC judgement on Antrix-Devas case, calls it ‘fraud deal’I would like to talk on Supreme Court judgment on Devas-Antrix issue. SC has given a comprehensive order. UPA got cancelled this deal in 2011. It was a fraud deal: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman pic.twitter.com/DyhcpFchkhFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman addressed a press conference and spoke about the Supreme Court verdict on the Antrix-Devas case. “UPA got cancelled this deal in 2011. It was a fraud deal,” she said.Centre asks states, UTs to ramp up Covid testing in strategic mannerMinistry of Health & Family Welfare asks all States/UTs "to immediately increase testing in a strategic manner keeping in view the trend of case positivity in specific areas in the States/UTs" pic.twitter.com/oHSf8B0EfyThe Union health ministry has raised concerns about a decline in Covid-19 testing in many states and Union territories and has asked for the testing be enhanced. “Increase the testing in a strategic manner keeping in view the trend of case positivity in specific geographies within in your States/UTs,” the ministry said.India offers $500 million credit line to Sri Lanka for purchase of petroleum productsIndia offered credit line of $500 million to Sri Lanka for the purchase of petroleum products. The support from India followed discussions between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Sri Lankan finance minister Basil Rajapaksa, the Indian high commission in Colombo said. AAP to announce Goa CM candidate on Jan 19 in PanajiAam Aadmi Party's national convenor and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal will announce the party's chief minister candidate for the upcoming Goa assembly polls in a press conference in Panaji on January 19, reports ANI. PMLA court rejects former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s bail plea in alleged money laundering caseA Special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) Court rejected the bail plea of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Deshmukh argued that, though the Enforcement Directorate (ED) filed a charge-sheet against him, the court had not taken cognisance of it and so he should be granted default bail.Congress releases 3rd list of candidates for Goa pollsCongress releases the third list of candidates for the upcoming #GoaElections2022Michael Lobo, former state minister who recently quit BJP to join the party, will contest from Calangute. pic.twitter.com/QGs2zZnVpjCongress released its third list of candidates for the upcoming state assembly elections in Goa. Michael Lobo, who recently quit the BJP and joined the Congress has been given the Calangute seat.‘We will win by 2/3rd margin’: AAP's Punjab CM candidate MannAam Aadmi Party's CM candidate for the upcoming Punjab polls Bhagwant Mann said that his party will win with two-thirds majority, reports ANI. “Have to deal with several problems in Punjab. Focus will be on providing jobs to youth. 'Mafia raj' will be abolished. I belong to a middle-class family, never thought of reaching here. Will win seats by 2/3 margin,” he said. Rajnath Singh's writes to TN CM Stalin on exclusion of tableau in R-Day paradeThis is also to bring to your kind info that during the last few years, tableaux from the State govt of Tamil Nadu has been selected for participation in R-Day during 2017, 2019,2020, & 2021, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh further added in the letter to Tamil Nadu CM MK StalinUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote to Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin, replying to the CM's letter regarding the exclusion of the state's tableau from the Republic Day parade this year. Click here to read moreKerala reports 63 new Omicron cases, state tally reaches 59163 more Omicron confirmed in Kerala today, taking the case tally to 591. Of 591 cases, 401 persons arrived from 'low-risk' countries, 101 persons from 'high-risk' countries, 70 persons were contacts of patients and 19 reached from other States, announced Kerala health minister's office.Akhilesh Yadav promises free electricity up to 300 units to domestic usersSamajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday announced a major subsidy scheme and promised up to 300 units of electricity free to domestic consumers in Uttar Pradesh if voted to power. Read more3% voters named Navjot Sidhu as Punjab CM face of AAP, says KejriwalMaking the announcement, Kejriwal said that 3 per cent of respondents also named Navjot Sidhu as the CM face of AAP in Punjab.Bhagwant Mann to be AAP's CM candidate for Punjab assembly elections, announces KejriwalArvind Kejriwal announces Bhagwant Mann as AAP's chief ministerial candidate for Punjab assembly elections."21 lakh plus responses received. Besides Mann, LOP Harpal Cheema, State in-charge Jarnail Singh and co-incharge Raghav Chadha present. "Wherever I went, everyone asked me dulha kaun hoga. We decided to ask 3 crore people of Punjab," says Kejriwal.WATCH: Arvind Kejriwal set to announce AAP CM candidate for Punjabਪੰਜਾਬੀਆਂ ਨੇ ਚੁਣਿਆ ਆਮ ਆਦਮੀ ਪਾਰਟੀ ਦਾ CM ਚਿਹਰਾ! https://t.co/xe3h4zo4qpAam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal addresses press conference to announce the party's chief minister candidate for Punjab.PM Modi interacts with BJP workers in Varanasi ahead of UP pollsPM Modi begins interaction with BJP workers of his parliamentary constituency, Varanasi. Modi asks about poll atmosphere in Kashi.Noted cartoonist Narayan Debnath, Padma Shri awardee, dies at 98Prominent cartoonist Narayan Debnath, who received the prestigious Padma Shri in 2021, died at the age of 98 in Kolkata on Tuesday. India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination exceeds 158.04 croreIndia’s cumulative #COVID19 vaccination coverage exceeds 158.04 crores, as nearly 80 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours: Union Health MinistryThe Union health ministry said on Tuesday that the total number of vaccinations in India against Covid-19 have exceeded 158.04 crore, adding, nearly 80 lakh doses were administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours. ED conducts multi raids in Punjab, residence of CM Channi’s nephew being searchedEnforcement Directorate is conducting a raid at Punjab chief minster Charanjit Channi’s nephew Honey’s residence in Homeland Heights. The ED raids are underway at 10 location across Punjab in illegal sand mining case.India reports 2,38,018 new Covid cases, 310 deaths in 24 hours; daily positivity rate at 14.43%India reported 2,38,018 COVID cases (20,071 less than yesterday), 310 deaths, and 1,57,421 recoveries in the last 24 hours.North Korea says it was testing “tactical guided missiles” North Korea says it conducted a test of “tactical guided missiles” in its fourth round of missile launches this month. The announcement comes a day after South Korea’s military detected the North launching two ballistic missiles into the sea.Delhi AQI deteriorates to 'very poor' category with AQI at 312The air quality in the national capital on Tuesday deteriorated to 'very poor' from 'poor' category with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) at 312, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).Earthquake of 4.3 magnitude strikes ManipurAn earthquake of magnitude 4.3 occurred around 7:52am at Churachandpur, Manipur, 46km East-Northeast of Ngopa, Mizoram, stated National Center for Seismology.TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu tests positive for Covid-19I've tested positive for COVID with mild symptoms. I have quarantined myself at home and taking all the necessary precautions. I would request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest. Please be safe and take care.Al-Qaeda outfit Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind's claim of Delhi bomb scare bogus: Delhi policeAl-Qaeda outfit Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind's claim of Delhi bomb scare bogus, says Delhi police. An unidentified bag carrying an IED was recovered from Ghazipur Flower Market area last week.J&K govt takes control of Kashmir Press Club, says it has ‘ceased to exist’The Kashmir Press Club has “ceased to exist”, the Jammu and Kashmir administration said on Monday as it took back the premises allotted to the largest journalists’ body in the Valley following “dissensions” between two factions, one of which had tacit support from the government.Pulwama gets first RT-PCR testing lab amidst 3rd wave of Covid pandemicPulwama received its first RT-PCR testing lab amidst the third wave of COVID pandemic."Earlier, we had to send samples to Srinagar and reports would come after two days. Now, people can get their test report within a day," an official of the health department said on Monday.Multi-layer security cover, facial recognition systems in place across Delhi for R-Day celebrationAfter the improvised explosive device (IED) was found at Ghazipur Flower Market ahead of the Republic Day and later diffused, the Delhi Police have fortified areas in and around Rajpath with multi-layer security cover, installed facial recognition systems (FRS) and over 300 CCTVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-18-2022-101642465785753.html
18-01-2022||India||No one can be forced to get inoculated: Govt||Vaccination against Covid-19 is of larger public interest amid the ongoing pandemic and no person can be forced to be inoculated against their wishes, the Centre has informed the Supreme Court.“The directions and guidelines released by the government of India and ministry of health and family welfare do not envisage any forcible vaccination without consent of the concerned individual,” the Union government said in an affidavit submitted in the top court.The affidavit was in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by NGO Evara Foundation seeking measures, such as door-to-door vaccinations, for disabled people. Among the suggestions made by the NGO was prior consent of disabled persons, which included those suffering from mental and intellectual disabilities. “Vaccination should not be made mandatory for persons with disabilities and obtaining consent of all the persons with disabilities before the vaccination should be compulsory,” the plea filed through counsel Pankaj Sinha and Shashank Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-can-be-forced-to-get-inoculated-govt-101642460782961.html
18-01-2022||India||200 security personnel infected with coronavirus in Maoist-affected Bastar||RAIPUR: At least 200 security personnel have been infected with the coronavirus disease in four districts of Maoist-affected Bastar division, officials said on Monday. Senior officials said that attempts are being taken to contain the spread of the infection and there are no serious concerns in the security camps of the division. “In the last couple of weeks, there has been spike in Covid cases throughout the state. Similarly, around 200 security personnel have been so far identified with Covid-19 infection. Even after strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol, there has been spread of the infection in camps because the security personnel have to come out to perform their duties, commute for administrative/operational/personal reasons,” inspector general of police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P said.Sukma district, where 160 security personnel are infected with the virus, has reported the highest number of cases , followed by Narayanpur where 30 cases were recorded. “Since all security personnel are double vaccinated, there are no serious concerns in the camps. All the infected personnel are recovering ...But still we would ensure strict adherence to the protocol like isolation and observation of personnel returning back from leave or out station visits,” the I-G added. Chhattisgarh added 3,963 cases to its tally of active cases on Sunday. The state’s positivity rate, the number of positive cases detected per 100 tests, stood at 12.17% . The state has a total of 32,792 active cases. 
18-01-2022||India||SC dismissal of Devas plea to help India in global arbitration||The Supreme Court’s dismissal on Monday of the appeal filed by Devas Multimedia against the decision of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), which had upheld the National Company Law Tribunal’s decision to wind up the company, has significant political and economic ramifications -- and it is likely India will use it while fighting against an international arbitration award won by Devas, whose enforcement the company has been pushing for in some geographies.Recently, a Canadian court ordered the attachments of assets owned in that country by Air India as part of this. The judgment, delivered by a bench comprising justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian dismissed Devas’s and its minority shareholder Devas Employees Mauritius Private Ltd’s appeal, upholding the order passed by NCLAT, which stated that Devas was incorporated with a fraudulent motive to collude and connive with some officials of Antrix Corporation, the commercial arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).The judgment is the latest chapter in a controversial deal during the previous UPA regime, when, in 2005, Devas entered into an agreement with Antrix, the private sector arm of ISRO to provide high-speed data services using S-band satellite spectrum from Antrix.The deal was terminated amid allegations of corruption by the Manmohan Singh government in 2011.This resulted in commercial arbitration before an ICC Tribunal in the Netherlands and investment arbitration under the India-Mauritius and India-Germany bilateral investment treaty. Each of these proceedings have led to adverse awards against the Union of India.Today’s judgment in favour of the Union of India bolsters its case against Devas internationally, especially against the arbitration award for Devas that is under consideration with the judiciary of the Netherlands. This may also help the Modi government in limiting the enforcement proceedings globally on grounds of fraud. The apex court’s order also embarrasses the previous regime ahead of state elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab.The decision to file a petition seeing the winding up of Devas Multimedia Ltd on grounds of fraudulent conduct of affairs was taken in January 2021, and a decision provisionally approving it was passed by NCLT the same month. Shareholders of Devas approached NCLAT seeking to prevent the winding-up petition in February, but the appellate tribunal dismissed their suit.The shareholders later impleaded themselves as part of the winding up petition. In March, they challenged the constitutionality of the winding up petition in the Karnataka high court, but this suit too was dismissed.On May 25, NCLT approved the winding up of Devas Multimedia. This order was challenged by Devas shareholders and the company’s former directors before NCLAT, which dismissed their appeal on September 8.The shareholders and the former directors appealed to the Supreme Court, which delivered its decision on Monday.“If the seeds of the commercial relationship, between Antrix and Devas were a product of the fraud perpetrated by Devas, every part of the plant that grew out of these seeds, such as the agreement, the disputes, arbitral awards, etc are infected with the poison of fraud,” the Supreme Court said in its judgement.The order further added that “allowing Devas and its shareholders to reap the benefit of their fraudulent action, may nevertheless send the wrong message...”It is very likely that India will be using these points while challenging the arbitral awards.Interestingly, Antrix’s deal with Devas in 2005 was signed without the Space Commission , which is the apex policymaking body on all matters related to space.The deal was cancelled in 2011, when inconvenient questions were asked about it, and in the wake of the 2G scam. The government did not even invoke the national security clause.Still, two questions remain unanswered: one, why was the agreement with Devas executed without any due diligence? And two, if the winding up was on grounds of fraudulent conduct, why did the then government use that reason to scrap the deal?After all, by 2009, questions were already being asked about the deal.In 2015, the Narendra Modi government asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to look into the agreement. The Enforcement Directorate is also involved in the investigations that are still on.Analysts also point to three missteps by the UPA that went against India in the arbitration proceedings: one, not invoking the national security issue while scrapping the deal; two, not focusing on the fraud; and three, being lax in responding to the arbitration panel.Nor did it do anything to ring-fence the S-band spectrum (which has military use) till 2013.While the UPA government at the time claimed that no decision was taken to allocate space segments using S-Band spectrum to Antrix or Devas, the 2005 agreement clearly states the contrary.It reads: “…agreed to the request of Devas and has decided to make available to Devas, on lease basis, part of a space segment capacity on Primary Satellite 1 or PS1 and an option to gain additional capacity on Primary Satellite 2 or PS2 to be manufactured for similar services without any immediate back-up in the S-band, for such purpose under appropriate terms and conditions.”There is documentary evidence to indicate that the UPA government was advised to annul the agreement in July 2010, but for inexplicable reasons waited for nearly a year to scrap the deal.
18-01-2022||India||Russia starts manufacturing reactor for Kudankulam nuclear power plant||NEW DELHI: Russia’s state atomic energy corporation has started manufacturing the nuclear reactor and steam generators for the sixth unit of Tamil Nadu’s Kudankulam nuclear power plant.Rosatom is currently building the 6,000-MW project at Kudankulam, which will have six VVER-1000 nuclear reactors, and is in talks with India to construct six more reactors at a new site that is yet to be identified.The reactor and steam generator shells for the sixth unit have passed an incoming inspection and are currently in the “initial operations of the manufacturing cycle”, Rosatom said on Monday.As part of a framework agreement signed by the Indian government and Rosatom in 2017 for the fifth and sixth power units at Kudankulam, JSC AEM-Technologies – a part of the machine-building division of Rosatom – will manufacture and supply two nuclear reactors, two sets of steam generators, reactor coolant pump set bodies, the main circulation piping, emergency core cooling system tanks, passive core flooding system tanks and two pressurisers.The total weight of the items is almost 6,000 tonnes. “The reactor is an item of first safety class. It is a vertical cylindrical body with an elliptical bottom. The core and internals are located inside the vessel,” Rosatom said.The steam generators are heat exchangers and part of a steam generating unit. Each steam generator has a diameter of more than four metres, its length is about 14 metres, and the weight is 340 tonnes. The first power unit of the Kudankulam plant has been steadily operating at the design capacity level of 1,000 MW since February 2016. The second was included in India’s national electricity grid in August 2016.The master framework agreement with Rosatom for the construction of the third and fourth units was signed in 2014, while the engineering division of Rosatom and India’s Atomic Energy Corporation signed the pact for the third stage with the fifth and sixth power units in June 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-starts-manufacturing-reactor-for-kudankulam-nuclear-power-plant-101642458342733.html
18-01-2022||India||J&K govt cancels building, land allotted to Srinagar’s Kashmir Press Club||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday cancelled the allotment of building and land which housed Srinagar’s Kashmir Press Club, two days after it was taken over by a small group of journalists flanked by the police. The government said that it wanted to avoid a law and order situation after “rival groups levelled various allegations against each other”. The premises have been handed over back to the estates department.The government had faced criticism after the forcible takeover of the KPC premises by a group of journalists led by M Salim Pandit and accompanied by armed policemen on Saturday. The Editors Guild of India termed the forcible takeover by the group a ‘coup’ while former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti went on to tag it as a “state-sponsored coup”.“…The rival groups have been levelling various allegations against each other also with regard to the use of the premises belonging to the estates department that was being used for the legitimate use of the members of the journalistic fraternity. In view of this aspect of the dispute and in view of the reports in social media and other sources indicating a potential law and order situation, including a threat of breach of peace and the safety of bona fide journalists, the intervention has become necessary,” the government said in a statement issued through the information department.Although the two-year term of the 11-member executive and management body of the 300-member strong club, which was elected in 2019, had ended last year in July, they said they could not conduct fresh elections immediately owing to mandatory re-registration of the club which was asked by the authorities.The takeover by the ‘disgruntled’ group, alleged to be supported by the local administration, had come a day after the administration suspended the KPC’s re-registration certificate - which had been issued by the authorities after seven months on December 29. Nine journalists’ bodies of Kashmir, including the elected Kashmir Press Club body, had termed the takeover as “illegal and arbitrary”. The government statement said the KPC as a registered body has ceased to exist and its managing body, too, has come to a legal closure on July 14, 2021, the date on which its tenure came to an end. It said in view of the “dissensions between various groups of journalists, it has been decided that the allotment of the premises at Polo View in view of the now deregistered Kashmir Press Club be cancelled and control of land and buildings situated at Polo View, Srinagar, which belongs to the estates department be reverted to the said department”.“The government is committed to a free and fair press…and also hopes that a duly registered bona fide society of all journalists shall be constituted as soon as possible and the same shall be able to approach the government for reallocation of the premises,” the statement said.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said in a tweet: “It seems that the coup and its aftermath was entirely orchestrated to shut down another outlet that served as a medium for journalists to debate and discuss their opinions freely. With every passing day, all the safety valves to express dissent are being muzzled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-government-cancels-building-land-allotted-to-srinagar-s-kashmir-press-club-101642448862019.html
18-01-2022||India||Punjab elections: AAP to name CM face today, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister and AAP’s national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said his party’s chief ministerial candidate for the Punjab Assembly polls will be announced on Tuesday. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has received around 22 lakh responses under its campaign to elect its CM face for the Assembly polls, a party leader said. Kejriwal had on January 13 asked the people of Punjab to suggest names of their preferred chief ministerial candidates and launched a mobile number for the purpose. Kejriwal then said though he had wanted party’s state unit chief Bhagwant Mann’s name to be declared as the chief ministerial candidate, the Sangrur MP insisted that people should make the decision. Kejriwal had also ruled himself out of the race. “The name of the party’s chief ministerial candidate for Punjab Assembly elections will be announced tomorrow at 12 noon,” Kejriwal told reporters on the sidelines of an event in Delhi. Later in the day, AAP leader and Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said, “Till 5 pm on January 17, around 22 lakh people expressed their opinion and named their favourite chief minister on the number released by the party.” AAP leader Raghav Chadha in Chandigarh said the party received responses through SMS, voice calls, WhatsApp messages. AAP’s IT team is scrutinising each message and tomorrow Kejriwal will disclose the results, he said. Chadha said it will be only AAP which will go to the state Assembly polls with the chief ministerial face. He said none of the other political parties, including the ruling Congress, announced the name of their chief ministerial candidate. Replying to a question, Chadha said the next list of candidates will be announced soon. So far, the party has announced 112 candidates. Voting for Punjab’s 117 Assembly seats is scheduled for February 20 and the counting will take place on March 10. Accepting the demand of political parties, the Election Commission on Monday decided to hold the single-phase Assembly polls in Punjab on February 20 instead of February 14 in view of Guru Ravidas Jayanti. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and political parties in the state had urged the poll panel to postpone the date of voting as lakhs of followers of Guru Ravidas travel to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to celebrate his birth anniversary on February 16. Channi had said as members of the Scheduled Castes community are likely to visit Varanasi from February 10 to 16, they won’t be able to vote in the elections. PTI PK VIT CHS VSD SMN RDK RDK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-elections-aap-to-name-cm-face-today-says-kejriwal-101642447841991.html
18-01-2022||India||Uttarakhand elections: BJP core committee discusses candidates||After releasing the candidate list for 105 Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday held discussions on all 70 seats of the Uttarakhand assembly polls.Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president JP Nadda, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, Uttarakhand BJP president Madan Kaushik, election in-charge Prahlad Joshi, in-charge Dushyant Gautam, co-in-charges RP Singh and Locket Chatterjee were present in the meeting.The meeting, which started at 6 pm in the BJP office went on till 10 pm.A panel of three names was sent to Delhi, which was discussed in the core group meeting today. The 70 seats which have been discussed today would be taken forward in the CEC meeting to be held on January 19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also be part of the meeting.As per sources, by January 20 to 21 the list of 70 candidates will be released for Uttarakhand.At present, the BJP has 57 assembly constituencies in Uttarakhand’s 70-seated assembly. This time the party has given the slogan ‘Abki Baar 60 Paar’.Earlier in the afternoon, the party discussed the 40 seats for the Goa Legislative Assembly. Goa CM Pramod Sawant, election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis, G Kishan Reddy along with organization ministers were present.Sources say that the Bharatiya Janata Party is going to contest 38 out of the 40 assembly seats in Goa this time. The party has decided not to field its candidates in 2 Christian majority seats. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-elections-bjp-core-committee-discusses-candidates-101642447544623.html
18-01-2022||India||Aspirational districts get exemption from new engineering college moratorium||Aspirational districts that have no access to technical education and philanthropic organisations holding credible records in the education sector will be exempted from the extended two-year moratorium on setting up of new engineering colleges across the country, officials said.“It has been decided that only aspirational districts that have no engineering colleges or polytechnics will be exempted from the ban. There are still 30-40 remote districts in the country where there are no engineering colleges and the people there cannot afford to go to big cities for higher education. If the concerned state governments want to start engineering colleges in such districts, then they will be permitted. But we will ask them to focus on job-oriented programmes,” All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) chairperson Anil Sahasrabuddh said.“Besides, if any philanthropic organisation or society, having a proven track record particularly in the field of education, would want to start a technical education institution, then they will be provided the approval with some restrictions,” he added.Sahasrabuddh also said that the council has accepted the recommendation to continue with the ban on setting up new colleges, till 2024, by a committee that was set up to look for ways to overhaul engineering education in the country in 2018.In 2019, the committee, headed by BVR Mohan Reddy, chairman of IIT-Hyderabad, had advised the government to put a moratorium on granting approvals to new engineering colleges for two years, starting 2020. Following a fresh review, the committee in its report to the education ministry in December last year suggested that the ban be extended by another two years.
18-01-2022||India||Debar parties that do not give candidates’ criminal case details: Plea in SC||A petition has been filed before the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Election Commission of India to deregister political parties that do not disclose details pertaining to criminal cases of election candidates along with the reason for their selection.The plea, filed by advocate and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, referred to a decision of the Samajwadi Party, which is a registered and recognised political party, to field alleged gangster Nahid Hasan from Uttar Pradesh’s Kairana assembly seat for next month’s elections. Upadhyay claimed that Hasan filed his nomination even as the party did not disclose about his criminal antecedents either on its website or through print or social media. Upadhyay referred to a February 13, 2020 order of the top court which made it mandatory for political parties to disclose the list of candidates with criminal antecedents along with the reasons for their selection within 48 hours of fielding them or two weeks prior to the date of filing nomination. In case of non-compliance of the above order, the EC should have the power to denotify the concerned political party, the petitioner said. While the 2020 order allows the poll body to file a contempt petition before the top court, it does not provide deregistration of political parties. “Permitting criminals to become legislator interferes with the purity and integrity of the electoral process; violates the right to choose freely the candidate and therefore, the freedom of expression of the voter under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, amounts to a subversion of democracy, which is part of the basic structure; and, finally, is antithetical to the rule of law which is at the core of Article 14 (right to equality) of the Constitution,” the petitioner said. The petition is yet to come up for hearing before the top court. “We will follow every direction and norm of the EC. The party has started publishing the criminal antecedents of our candidates on its website,” national spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said. Hasan, meanwhile, was on Sunday arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police under the Gangsters Act and sent to 14-day judicial custody in connection with a case registered against him under Uttar Pradesh Gangsters Act in Kairana police station in February last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/debar-parties-that-do-not-share-election-candidates-criminal-background-plea-in-sc-101642446884272.html
18-01-2022||India||Maharashtra challenges Supreme Court order on OBC quota in local polls||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear on January 19 a plea by the Maharashtra government seeking a recall of its December 15 order that stayed 27 per cent reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local body elections.A three-judge bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar agreed to hear the matter and directed the state government to supply to the state election commission (SEC) a copy of the application, which claimed that its order to notify the reserved seats under the general category was against the constitutional scheme. In its application filed electronically through advocate Sachin Patil, the state government pointed out that elections to 34 out of 37 zilla parishads, 313 out of 351 panchayat samitis and 9,000 village panchayats are due up to March this year. “The OBC candidates will not get representation in the local bodies in the state for the next five years,” it said. The state also suggested the appointment of administrators till the elections to these seats are held. On December 15, the Supreme Court had directed the state poll panel to notify 27 per cent seats in the local bodies, which were earlier reserved for OBCs, as general category seats.Prior to this, on December 6, the apex court had stayed the local body polls in Maharashtra on the seats reserved for the OBCs till further orders and made it clear that the poll process for the other seats would continue.The court also found that the state had not fulfilled the mandatory criteria of the “triple tests” laid down by it before providing such reservation. The “triple tests” guidelines formed by the top court in 2010 seeks the appointment of an independent commission, collection of empirical data on the nature and extent of backwardness of OBCs and application of the data to seats in a manner such that reservation does not exceed 50%, as per the ceiling imposed by the top court in its 1992 landmark Indra Sawhney decision, in such matters. In its plea, the Maharashtra government claimed that the top court’s December order would result in two adverse effects. “The persons belonging to OBC are deprived of an opportunity to be elected to the elected positions through democratic process and fulfill the aspirations of not only the residents of the OBC community but everyone else, which helps in the development of leadership quality in such communities,” the application said.“Second, such inadequate representation or non-representation of OBCs is strictly contrary to the object, intent and purpose of the Constitutional scheme,” it added. The state also claimed that it had already complied with two of the three-fold test guidelines by appointing a commission and gathering data.“The reservation in various districts of Maharashtra is based on the proportion of population of OBCs in the respective districts and is not a blanket reservation of 27% in all the districts in the entire state of Maharashtra,” it said, adding that the quota will not be applicable in the districts of Nandurbar, Palghar and Gadchiroli which have a substantial population of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes. “As per data available on the Saral portal, the population of OBC of citizens is tentatively available with the state… This data was available for some time but has been recently analyzed to reveal the population of the backward class of citizens,” the application for recall said. As an intermediate measure to justify the 27% OBC quota in local bodies, the state referred to a sample survey, conducted by Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, which said that the distribution of OBCs in the sample size was found to be 48.6%.Former state minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, a senior OBC leader in the Bharatiya Janata Party, said the state should have filed its application earlier. “The recall application made on Monday could have been done earlier. The Maharashtra government is not serious over the issue of reservation to OBCs. The state BJP unit and even the Centre has been supporting the state government’s stand of availing empirical data within three months, but we expect it to be honest in its intention,” he said.Maharashtra is not the only state where OBC reservation in local bodies has been stayed. On December 17, the top court passed a similar order for the Madhya Pradesh government, directing the OBC seats to be notified as general category for failing to comply with the three-test criteria. The Centre has already approached the court, seeking a recall of the order. Likewise, the Madhya Pradesh government has filed a similar application, claiming to have 51% OBC population in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-challenges-supreme-court-order-on-obc-quota-in-local-polls-101642446583466.html
18-01-2022||India||4 Mumbai cops served notice over Param Bir Singh-Sachin Vaze meeting||A show-cause notice has been issued to four police personnel on Monday in connection with the alleged private meeting between former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze on November 29, 2021. The four have been given 15 days to reply to the notice, said Bipin Kumar Singh, Navi Mumbai police commissioner.Both Deshmukh and Vaze are in judicial custody in separate cases of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), respectively.According to the police, Param Bir Singh and Vaze met for about an hour at the Old Secretariat Building in Mumbai from where the justice K U Chandiwal commission is conducting enquiry proceedings. An enquiry was then conducted against a sub-inspector and three constables of Vaze’s escort.“After receiving a report from Mumbai Police, Deputy Commissioner of Police from Head Quarters, Navi Mumbai, was asked to conduct an enquiry. Based on the enquiry report, a show cause notice has been sent to all four, asking them on why an action should not be taken against them for breaking the protocol of allowing Parambir Singh to speak to Sachin Waze. Depending on the reply that they send, further course of action would be decided. It was a technical violation on the part of the staff and it will be dealt with as per the protocol.”Justice KU Chandiwal Committee was formed by the Maharashtra government to investigate Param Bir Singh’s extortion allegation against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in March last year, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh was involved in several wrongdoings, including asking Vaze to collect ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-mumbai-cops-served-notice-over-param-bir-singh-sachin-vaze-meeting-101642446162215.html
18-01-2022||India||Goa elections: Miffed Congress hesitant to accept TMC’s offer of poll pact||Trinamool Congress (TMC) party’s offer for a poll pact in the Goa assembly elections has found little favour with the Congress, whose high command is miffed with TMC brass for its recent anti-Congress rants that led a war of words on social media.Initial discussions were held between top leaders of the two parties, and Trinamool wanted a seat arrangement with the Congress for the state polls due on February 14, key functionaries from both parties maintained.“We were ready to give the Congress even up to 16-18 seats in Goa,” a senior TMC leader said. “Our poll partner Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) had announced candidates in nine seats, and the Congress told us that it is in a strong position in one of MGP’s seats. We even assured them that we would talk MGP to give up that seat for the Congress.”The talks also involved a possible seat-sharing agreement in which the TMC, keen on a pact to take on the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party, were ready to give the Congress the majority of seats.“We initially maintained that both Congress and TMC have nearly same tally in Goa assembly and both sides can fight in equal number of seats,” the TMC leader said. “But then we have communicated that given the Congress’ long presence in Goa, we are ready to give more seats. But they didn’t show any further interest.”Two senior Congress leaders underlined several factors behind the party’s unwillingness to do business with TMC in Goa. “We are the principal opposition party in Goa, while TMC as a new entrant doesn’t have much to offer us. We are also not sure about TMC’s equation with the AAP (another new entrant) in Goa,” a Congress leader said.Another pointed out that the Congress brass is miffed with the TMC’s top leadership for its unwarranted attacks on the Congress.A third senior Congress strategist claimed that party president Sonia Gandhi was “extremely upset” to see TMC poaching Congress lawmakers and making anti-Congress statements. “Trinamool’s existence in Goa is based on MLAs poached from our party,” he said. “And it’s strange that they want to do a pact with us.”On Monday, former finance minister P Chidambaram, Congress’ in-charge for the Goa polls, posted a series of tweets explaining the party’s stand vis-à-vis TMC.“My assessment that the AAP (and the TMC) will only fracture the non-BJP vote in Goa has been confirmed by Mr Arvind Kejriwal. The contest in Goa is between Congress and BJP. Those who want a regime change (after 10 years of misrule) will vote for the Congress. Those who want the regime to continue will vote for the BJP,” Chidambaram tweeted.The Congress’ response came two days after TMC’s Goa in-charge Mahua Moitra tweeted: “AITC serious about defeating BJP. Uninformed false bravado no substitute for rational thinking & maturity. Definitive offer between principals on table - waiting for revert. No desire to engage in further Twitter shadow boxing with various INC functionaries.”
18-01-2022||India||Karnataka reports 27,156 new Covid cases, including 287 Omicron||Omicron tally in Karnataka saw a steep spike as 287 new cases were detected in the state. K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said: “287 new Omicron cases confirmed in Bengaluru today (Monday) taking the overall tally in the state to 766.” The state on Monday reported 27,156 fresh infections and 14 deaths taking the total caseload and fatalities in the state to 32,47,243 and 38,445 respectively, the health department said in a statement. Bengaluru Urban district led the spike in cases with 15,947 infections. The spike comes at a time when the southern state is experiencing a steady rise in new infections, adding to challenges to contain the impact of the Covid- 19 pandemic, especially on livelihoods over fears of more restrictions. While the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has ruled out the possibility of another lockdown, local TV channels continue to run the probability on loop, adding to apprehensions of the population. Bommai on Monday held a meeting on Covid-19 with members of his cabinet and senior government officials. “Increase home isolation calls. The comorbidities cases should be contacted at least once in a day and enquire about their health to instil a sense of confidence in them,” Bommai instructed officials in the state. He said precautionary measures should be taken to ensure that it does not spread to other members of the family and medicinal kits should be effectively delivered to home isolated cases. He said negative attitudes should be allayed with the help of voluntary service organizations. “Infected children, especially in rural areas should get top priority, parents should be counselled and medical kits should be distributed. Separate medical kits should be prepared for children,” according to the chief minister’s instructions. The state government is trying not to repeat the mistakes it committed in the first and second waves which led to uncertainty, adding to apprehensions and fears. The government has even asked the union government for assistance to set up more hospital beds should the need arise. “Medicines should be procured immediately and they should be reached to hospitals well in time. Spread awareness among the people about Covid appropriate behaviour through the media,” the chief minister said. Bommai had tested positive last week and has since recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-27-156-new-covid-cases-including-287-omicron-101642445861686.html
18-01-2022||India||Bengaluru reports warm evenings in January||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials have said Bengaluru has been witnessing warm January evenings, with one of the warmest days in the last decade reported in this January. IMD officials attribute the increase in temperature to the cloudy sky at night, excess moisture in the wind and increased humidity. As per the climatological table for the city from 1981 to 2010, the average daily maximum temperature for January is 27.9 degrees Celsius, and the minimum 15.8 degrees Celsius. According to IMD officials, the warmest January day was reported on January 31, 2020, at 33.4 degrees Celsius and on Saturday the city recorded 30.2 degrees Celsius, which is one of the highest in the recent past. The temperature on Saturday was 3 degrees above normal for this time of the year and the minimum temperature was 17.4 degree Celsius, 2 degrees above normal. The IMD officials said northerly and north easterly winds bring in winter. But due to a change in the wind patterns, northerly wind has been cut off. The easterly wind is prevailing over the state and is known to pick up moisture and cause rainfall or increase humidity, they added. A study by the Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy projected that over the next three decades, Karnataka is likely to experience warmer weather and an increase in heavy rainfall events. According to the study, in the past three decades (1991–2019), there has been an increase in maximum temperature by 0.18 degrees Celsius to 0.61 degrees Celsius in summer and the winter minimum temperature by 0.3 degrees Celsius to 0.65 degrees Celsius in Karnataka. “Climate change projections using an ensemble of models for the next 30 years (2021–2050) under moderate emissions and high emissions scenarios indicate a much warmer and wetter future for Karnataka. An increase in summer maximum temperature by 0.5 degrees Celsius to 1.5 degrees Celsius with a majority of the districts projected to warm by 1 degree Celsius to 1.5 degrees Celsius, particularly under the high emissions scenario,” the study reported. Weather change owing has raised concerns over a spike in cases of common cold, cough and fever, which are Covid-19 symptoms as well. Doctors have warned against ignoring them and advised people to get tested. “This is not the time to ignore typical symptoms of Covid unless proven otherwise. One must get tested in such cases and self-isolate first. One should not take the symptoms saying it is due to the weather change,” said Vikas Bhalla, a city-based internal medicine expert. The state government has said with more people reporting symptoms of Covid-19 since January, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) – the civic body - will increase testing. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta said despite the new testing advisory from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the testing pattern in the city will not change. The ICMR on Monday said contacts of Covid-19 patients do not need to be tested unless identified as high-risk based on age or comorbidities. Gupta told HT that the state government had decided to continue with the current testing patterns, and he said in view of the rising cases, testing will be increased in the state. “We will continue to test contacts of Covid-19 patients and all other categories we have been testing so far. In fact, we will increase testing in the coming days. We will also identify high-risk groups such as delivery boys and other professionals and conduct random testing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-reports-warm-evenings-in-january-101642445742550.html
18-01-2022||India||MBBS student’s photo morphed, police file FIR||A case was registered after morphed photos of a third-year MBBS student in Mangaluru were circulated on social media platforms, said police on Monday.In her police complaint, the student has alleged that the photos were morphed with the intention of causing communal tensions, and to defame her and her family. The complainant had reportedly participated in a college fest on November 27,last year. At the fest, she had taken several pictures with her friends and posted the same on her social media. She told the police that the miscreants had singled out her in a photo and, posted it with a caption indicating that she was involved with a person from a different religion, with an intent to create communal tension. The photo was posted under the name @jjt_bkp, but the account has been deleted now, said police. A case has been registered against unidentified people in the Women’s Police station, Mangaluru, under Sections 354(D) (stalking), 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). This incident comes on the heels of another controversy in the coastal region of the state, where a group of eight students from Udupi’s Government Pre-university College were barred from attending classes for wearing a hijab (headscarf) to class. The college has a designated uniform, however, the students said that they started wearing the hijab in the classroom from December only. Previously, students were using the hijab on campus, outside the classroom. A few students even claimed that their seniors were allowed to wear the hijab inside the classroom, but principal, Rudre Gowda, said that the decision to bar the students was taken to maintain uniformity. This is the second college in Karnataka where such a protest was staged. Previously, a similar protest was held at a government college in Balagadi Chikkamagaluru. 
18-01-2022||India||Centre lists districts vulnerable to climate crisis in India’s first weather hazard atlas||The Sunderbans in West Bengal, neighbouring districts of Odisha, and Ramanathapuram, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu are the most vulnerable to high storm surges of as much as 8.5 to 13.7 metres that are induced by cyclones, according to the Climate Hazards and Vulnerability Atlas of India released by the ministry of earth sciences.The atlas, the first of its kind, will aid in disaster preparedness as extreme weather events rise in the wake of the climate crisis, scientists said. The maximum heights of storm surges in the atlas provides data for all coastal districts in India.Also read | Spectre of child marriage, trafficking looms large in SunderbansPrakasam, Guntur and Krishna districts of Andhra Pradesh, and Kachchh and Bhavnagar in Gujarat, besides all coastal regions of the west coast are also vulnerable to storm surges, but to a lesser degree of 4 to 6 metres, said the atlas released last week.The maximum probable rainfall associated with severe cyclones in the 50-60 cm range is likely over Prakasam, East Godavari, Krishna, West Godavari on the east coast, and Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, south Goa and Uttara Kannada on the west coast.Several districts of Jharkhand, West Bengal, Telangana and Tamil Nadu are vulnerable to extreme rainfall of 35 to 50 cm that cyclones bring with them.Severe cyclones are returning every two to four years for almost all of east coast, starting from Cuddalore in Tamil Nadu to South 24 Parganas in West Bengal. Kannur, Kozhikode, Thrissur and Ernakulam districts in Kerala, north and south Goa, and Kachchh, Devbhoomi, Junagadh and Porbandar in Gujarat see recurring severe cyclones every four to 10 years.“Over the past decade or so, we have started seeing changes in the hazard-prone areas. For example, central India has started recording heavy to extremely heavy rainfall events associated with movement of low pressure areas. This was not the case earlier,” said DS Pai, head of India Meteorological Department’s climate research and services department in Pune.“There is no change in the number of cyclones affecting the west coast, but the severity of cyclones developing over the Arabian Sea has increased,” Pai said. “These have been captured in our maps.”The atlas is expected to mitigate the effects of 13 most hazardous meteorological events – cold wave, heat wave, thunderstorms, flood, drought, fog, wind hazard, dust storm, snowfall, hail storm, lightning, extreme rainfall and cyclone – that can cause extensive damage. There are 640 climate vulnerability maps in the atlas.For a visual display of the climate vulnerability maps, the weather bureau has used geographic information system tools at the office of climate research and services office in Pune.“The atlas will have two uses. First, it will act as a reference for impact-based warnings that we issue for various regions. People can also see the atlas to understand what is the impact of certain extreme weather events in their region,” said M Mohapatra, director general of the Met department. “Second, it can be used to plan climate-resilient infrastructure. For example, if a construction is coming up in a coastal area, the atlas can give crucial information on what kind of disasters are probable in that area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-lists-districts-vulnerable-to-climate-crisis-in-india-s-first-weather-hazard-atlas-101642444901702.html
18-01-2022||India||Karnataka:Curtains down for single-screen theatres||Watching a movie in a single-screen theatre is more than an experience, it is a community event. Unlike the multiplexes where a conversation is frowned upon, at the single screens, it is all about claps and cheers.Whether is a Rajinikanth latest or a new spiderman movie, whistles or loud cheers are mandatory when the hero appears on the screen.A single-screen devotee, Krishne Gowda, who runs a textile store in Gandhi Nagar, is quick to list out his favourites, including Majestic, Tribhuvan, Geetha, Kempegowda, Himalaya, Kalpana, Alankar, Prabhat and Geeta Sagar, Kapali. But all these movie theatres, which were located in Bengaluru’s Majestic area vanished over the years. The Kempe Gowda Road-Gandhi Nagar stretch in the heart of Bengaluru was considered ‘Broadway’ for Kannada movies. The area had over 20 single-screen theatres, only four of them remain now. The latest to shut down is Everest theatre in Frazer Town. Following the second wave of Covid-19, a “for sale” board appeared before the theatre. This landmark was built in the late 1930s by civil contractor Maistry Chowriappa. Thirty years later, it was bought by Madanlal Kshatriya and his family had been running the theatre since. Cooke Town resident Peter Rozario, still has fond memories of the theatre well, particularly the balcony. “It had an enclosure in the balcony area, which means you get some privacy. We used to save to buy the expensive balcony ticket,” he says with a laugh. “I have seen some of the best Tamil, Hindi and English movies of my time in this theatre. It is sad to see the theatre shut down, but its understandable due to the situation of the owners,” he added. The inconspicuous death of the single screen theatres in Bengaluru began way before the pandemic and with the arrival of multiplexes in the late 2000s. In 2002, Galaxy Theatre was shut down to make way for a commercial space, Plaza was razed in 2005 for the metro rail, Symphony is now Fame Shankarnag, a multiplex, and Lido has become INOX.Rex Theatre, which was a landmark on Brigade Road was bought by a business group to build a multiplex. In 2016, Kapali Theatre, the largest single-screen theatre in Asia with 1,400 seats, closed its operations, leaving behind a 49-year-old legacy of entertaining Bengaluru. The theatre was not able to make ends meet with the screening alone and agreed to bring down the building to construct a multiplex in a joint venture. It was a similar story in Mysuru, which had 21 single-screen theatres at one point and now less than eight remain. “They were struggling for 10 years, and corona accelerated the problem. There has been zero income during the lockdown,” said Rajaram, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Federation vice-president. With no new movies available, the theatre owners in Bengaluru are a concerned lot despite the state government allowing them to operate at 50% capacity. “The government’s decision to reopen theatres was a relief but we have not received any word from the producers,” said Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association president KV Chandrasekhar. “The single-screen theatres here depend a lot on Kannada movies but there has been no movie announcements for next few weeks. So, many theatres still remain shut,” he said. According to the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, Karnataka has around 630 single-screen theatres and around 260 multiplex theatres. Over 12 lakh employees work at these establishments. Chandrashekar said most of the theatres have been paying their employees half salaries during the lockdown. “The minimum salary of an employee at a single screen theatre is around ₹13,000 to ₹14,000. With no movies running and without a clear picture about when the big movies will release, these theatre owners are running into losses,” he said. An office-bearer of the Kannada Film Producers Association (KFPA), pleading anonymity, said the film producers were facing their own problems. “We are still unsure if people will come to theatres amid the fear of third wave. From an exhibitor’s view, if people don’t come to theatres, they won’t make any money either,” said the official. 
18-01-2022||India||In Hyderabad, 70 medical staff in state-run hospital test positive for Covid-19||Nearly 70 medical personnel, including doctors, nurses, post-graduate medicos, house surgeons and other staff members of the Telangana government-run Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr M Raja Rao said all the medical staff were kept under isolation in a special ward and were being treated. Besides, there were 199 other Covid-19 patients, including 35 pregnant women, undergoing treatment at the hospital, he said.In the state-run Institute of Mental Health at Erragadda in Hyderabad, as many as 57 in-patients, apart from nine doctors, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. “Since the affected are mostly mentally-challenged patients, enough care is being taken for providing treatment to them. Those having serious symptoms have been kept in separate isolation wards,” hospital superintendent Uma Shankar said.On Monday, the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, discussed in detail the Covid-19 situation in the state. State health minister T Harish Rao said the situation was under control, though the daily positive cases were still above the 2,000-mark.Telangana on Monday reported 2,447 positive cases in the last 24 hours and the active number of cases in the state climbed to 22,197. There were three deaths during this period.Rao briefed the cabinet that the state had completed more than five crore vaccination doses till date. “The vaccination programme is going on at a rapid pace and we shall cover all eligible persons completely in a short time,” he said.The Telangana state high court directed that the state government conduct one lakh Covid-19 tests and strictly follow all guidelines issued by the Centre.Acting on a batch of public interest litigation petitions, a division bench comprising chief justice Satish Chandra Sharma and justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili asked the government to submit its report on the Covid-19 containing measures on January 24.The bench also announced that all courts in the state would shift to virtual mode of hearing from Tuesday till February 4.In Andhra Pradesh, the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government rejected the demand of the opposition parties for closure of all educational institutions till January 30 in view of the increasing Covid-19 positive cases. The institutions reopened on Monday after Sankranti vacations.State education minister Adimulapu Suresh said there was no question of extending holidays for the schools and colleges due to Covid-19. “There is absolutely no connection with the schools and spread of Coronavirus. We are taking all precautions to see that students are not affected by the pandemic,” he said.He reminded that the government could not conduct examinations for the last two years for the students and this year, the government won’t allow such a situation to happen. “We have already conducted classes for 150 days till now and we shall continue this trend for the coming months,” he said.
18-01-2022||India||Stalin orders CB-CID probe into ‘custodial death’ of differently-abled dalit man||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Monday ordered a crime branch-criminal investigation department (CB-CID) probe into the alleged custodial death of a 45-year-old differently-abled dalit man, who died on January 12. Three policemen have been suspended in connection with the case. P Hamsala, 32, the wife of the deceased, A Prabhakaran, has alleged that they were picked up on January 8 by the police from their residence in Salem on suspicion of theft. Speaking from her home, Hamsala said that around 3pm on January 8, Prabhakaran and her were working in their house when four plainclothes police officers, including a woman, barged in. “The woman police hit me while the men hit my husband. But at that time, we didn’t even know that they were police officials. My husband kept screaming for help and neighbours began to come,” Hamsala said, adding that their 12-year-son began filming the incident but the police snatched away his phone.Prabhakaran was immobile from the waist down due to recent health complications, she said.According to Hamsala, the couple were them taken in a taxi to the Sendamangalam police quarters in Namakkal district and that’s when they realised that those present were police personnel. “We were neither taken to jail, nor to court. The cops told us that they will buy food for us and take care of us if we do as they say,” said Hamsala. She said they were beaten to accept the theft of 120 sovereigns of gold. “My husband cannot move without my help. For three days, the police have watched me feed him, assist him when he had to use the restroom. How are we capable of any crime,” asked Hamsala. “For three days, they gave us food and continuously beat us. But they were careful that our wounds shouldn’t show so they hit us both in our palms and heels so that there is no swelling and no cuts and blood,” she added. The police produced the couple in a local court on January 11. Hamsala said when the magistrate asked if their families were informed that they are in custody, the police replied in the affirmative and when asked if they were beaten, they had denied it. “They didn’t let us speak. After that they took me to the Salem prison for women. I had no clue about my husband,” Hamsala said.Hamsala said she was chased out of the jail by officials the next day and learnt of Prabhakaran’s death. “Suddenly that morning, they chased me out of the jail and my younger brother was waiting outside for me and he told me,” she said. “I still cannot believe that they did this to us. My husband is fully disabled. How could they torture him like that? And he’s innocent.” Hamsala said. Following news of Prabhakaran’s death, the family and local cadre of DMK ally Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK- formerly known as the Dalit Panthers of India) began protests demanding action against the police. “If the police had suspected the deceased of committing a theft, they should have conducted investigations in a proper manner. How can they be so brutal?” said S Namburajan, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC). On January 15, DIG (Salem range) Praveen Kumar Abinapu suspended three police officers– sub-inspector of Sendamangalam, A Chandran, sub-inspector of Puduchatram police station L Poonkodi and a cop named Kulanthaivel from Tiruchengode rural police station. A post-mortem was conducted on Prabhakaran the same day. “We demand that the accused police be booked under provisions of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989 and for murder under the IPC,” said Namburajan.On Monday, political leaders from the AIADMK, BJP and CPI (M) hit out at the state government questioning the use of excess force by police. In a statement on Monday, chief minister Stalin said the deceased was being treated in the ICU of the neurology department in Salem where he died on January 12 at 11.40pm. Expressing pain over the death, Stalin said,“I’ve ordered for this case to be probed by the CB-CID.” He also ordered a solatium of ₹10 lakh to be paid to the family. “I still cannot believe this is real,” said Hamsala hoping she gets justice. “My son and I, are the only eyewitnesses,” she said. 
18-01-2022||India||Mumbai reports 5.9k Covid cases, officials say do not lower guard||Mumbai continued to register a drop in daily coronavirus disease cases (Covid-19), recording less than 6,000 cases for the first time in 16 days as it logged 5,956 fresh infections on Monday, with a positivity rate of 12.51%, according to official data. Government officials said they might consider easing the curbs if the Maharashtra capital continued to see a drop in daily infections but advised people against lowering their guard. “There is no doubt that the cases are going down and the hospitalisation rate is also going down, but we will have to monitor the situation till Wednesday. If the trend continues till then, we might put the city in the safe zone. But we will have to remain alert and take all necessary precautions,” BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. Mumbai reported 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the overall toll to 16,469. Experts said that genome sequencing should be scaled up in order to help them ascertain which variant is leading to deaths or critical ailment. Dr Madhav Satthe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital said, “We need to find out if it is Delta variant or Omicron variant that is causing deaths in critical patients. Hence, positive samples of patients on ventilators or ICU should be sent for genome sequencing.” According to the state health department data, the city’s recovery rate is 93.04% with 935,302 recoveries and the mortality rate is 1.63%. There are 50,757 active cases in the city and four Omicron variant Covid-19 cases have been reported on Monday. Further, the hospitalisation rate in the city has come down from 21% (10 days ago) to 14.7% (on Monday). Out of the total 38,140 beds in the city, 5,628 are occupied. “We will continue to conduct around 50,000 to 60,000 tests in the coming days to ensure that testing is not falling drastically in the city,” said the BMC additional municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-5-9k-covid-cases-officials-say-do-not-lower-guard-101642444604212.html
18-01-2022||India||Telangana BJP appoints a committee to poach leaders from other parties||HyderabadThe Telangana unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party has constituted a committee exclusively to poach potential leaders from other political parties who can bolster the party’s winning chances in the next assembly elections in 2023, party leaders said.The committee, named ‘Joining and coordination committee”, will be headed by Nallu Indrasena Reddy, former MP and BJP ex-president in combined Andhra Pradesh. Former Telangana state legislative council chairman Swamy Goud, former ministers A Chandrasekhar and D Ravindra Naik, former MLC N Ramachandra Rao, former MLA Rajeshwar Rao and former Mahila Morcha president of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Bandari Radhika will be its members.BJP state general secretary G Premender Reddy said several MLAs, MPs, former ministers, former MLAs and prominent leaders of various parties at the district and state level were keen on joining the BJP.“Besides, several intellectuals, educated youth and industrialists are also showing enthusiasm on joining the BJP in Telangana. The joining and coordination committee will examine their credentials and commitment towards the party’s ideology and principles, before recommending to the party for admitting them,” Reddy said.The committee would also see that the entry of new leaders would not affect the interests of the existing BJP leaders in their respective constituencies. “It will coordinate with the existing party leaders and the new comers so that the party would be strengthened at all levels,” the BJP general secretary said.Another senior BJP leader, who preferred anonymity, said the committee would primarily focus on attracting strong leaders from other parties, who have the potential to win the next elections.“Though many people are interested in joining the BJP, there is no point in taking all and sundry into the party. We are looking at such candidates, who have a strong cadre base in their respective constituencies and can influence the local electorate,” he said.The coordination committee would identify such leaders belonging to the TRS and the Congress and poach them by offering posts. “As the elections approach, we would be able to find more such leaders,” the BJP leader said.The BJP is also focusing on the assembly and Lok Sabha constituencies reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in Telangana. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay appointed separate coordination committees for constituencies reserved for SCs and STs.While former parliament member A P Jitender Reddy has been appointed as the chairman of the coordination committee for SC-reserved constituencies, former MP Garikapati Mohan Rao would head the coordination committee for ST-reserved constituencies. The two committees comprise former MPs and former MLAs, besides other senior leaders of the party.“The party is concentrating on grabbing all the assembly constituencies reserved for SCs and STs in the next assembly constituencies by adopting innovative strategies. The committees would extensively tour these reserved constituencies, strengthen the party committees from polling booth level to the constituency level, and coordinate their activities at the state level,” the BJP general secretary said.The committees would work out the action plan in these constituencies by studying the issues at the grassroots level and submit a report to the state committee, Reddy added.
18-01-2022||India||States have duty to rehabilitate street kids: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said states have a constitutional duty to rehabilitate children living on streets after it found efforts lacking on part of states and union territories to identify and rehabilitate children forced to beg on streets to eke out a living.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BV Nagarathna said, “These are marginalized sections of the society. You (states) have a constitutional duty, take it seriously. If states do not act promptly how will relief reach to these children? Imagine these children who have nobody to care for and they are living on the streets. The immediate needs of these children cannot wait any further.” Considering extreme winters in some states, the Court directed the respective states, including Delhi to consider housing such children in shelter homes on an urgent basis. The Court directed the district magistrates in every state to rope in the special juvenile police units, district legal service authorities (DLSA) and other voluntary organization to identify the children who are living on streets either with or without families and those that beg during the day but at night return to the nearby slums. The Court further directed the states to evolve the procedure to be followed for rehabilitating such children upon identification.The Court order came in a suo moto proceeding where the Court had sought data from the national commission for protection of child rights (NCPCR) on the ground situation with regard to children living in street condition (CISS).On Monday, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) KM Nataraj appearing for NCPCR said, “On supplying data of street children on a dedicated portal maintained by NCPCR, all states have failed to act.” He supported his statement with statistics showing details of 9,945 street children uploaded by various states. Although a standard operating procedure in relation to street children, when NCPCR contacted states to report compliance, many states/UTs did not take part in the meeting.The bench noted in its order, “The data of CISS uploaded on Bal Swaraj-CISS portal till January 11 discloses 9,945 CISS. A rough estimate of such children, according to NCPCR will be around 1.5 million. However, only one-tenth of these children have been identified. This shows suitable action is not being taken by states/UTs….It is high time that authorities who have not acted under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act are taken to task. We do not want to exercise such powers at present.”ASG Nataraj said that NCPCR was in the process of framing a uniform policy to be adopted by states/UTs in regard to street children. However, amicus curiae and advocate Gaurav Agrawal suggested that the problem was about lack of a rehabilitation policy to deal with such children. While directing states to keep uploading data on CISS on the NCPCR portal, the bench directed the respective governments to come out with a rehabilitation policy and posted the matter for further hearing after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-have-duty-to-rehabilitate-street-kids-sc-101642443881353.html
18-01-2022||India||Centre revises its guidelines for adult Covid patients’ treatment||If cough persists for more than two-three weeks, investigate for tuberculosis and other conditions, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in its revised clinical guidelines for management of adult Covid-19 patients issued on Monday.TThe guidelines, drafted by experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research-Covid19 Task Force, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), and Directorate General of Health Services under health ministry, continue to not recommend medicines such as antibiotics doxycycline and azithromycin, and antiparasitic Ivermectin for mild cases of Covid-19.Mild diseases are those showing upper respiratory tract symptoms, with or without fever as long as there is no shortness of breath or hypoxia.While such patients showing mild symptoms have been advised to stay in touch with their physician, they are also directed to go for symptom management by including adequate fluids, using anti-pyretics (anti-fever) and anti-tussive (cough suppressants) medicines for relief from sore throat, fever, congestion and cough.Experts recommend monitoring fever and oxygen saturation at regular intervals.“Seek immediate medical attention if: Difficulty in breathing or SpO2 <93%; and high grade fever or severe cough, particularly if lasting for >5 days (a low threshold to be kept for those with any of the high-risk features),” they said.Among therapies at home based on low certainty of evidence, especially for those with high-risk of disease progression, the guidelines recommend inhalational budesonide (given via metered dose inhaler/dry powder inhaler) at a dose of 800 mcg BD (twice a day) for five days if symptoms (fever, and or, cough) persist more than five days.Among those at high risk for developing severe disease or mortality include people aged 60 and above; those suffering from cardiovascular disease, hypertension and coronary artery disease; diabetes and other immunocompromised states such as HIV; chronic lung, liver or kidney disease; active tuberculosis; cerebrovascular disease; or obesity.Among advanced medicines that have been granted emergency use authorisation based on limited available evidence, only injectibles remdesivir and tocilizumab have been included that too for select patients under strict medical supervision.Moderate and severe disease cases are to be treated in a hospital.Experts say in a pandemic, treatment protocols are modified frequently as data continuously evolves.“When the list of drugs is updated it is usually based on the current evidence that is available globally as well as locally. Normally, drug trials take years but in a pandemic situation there is not that much time at our disposal so many drugs are repurposed and used because they show some benefit initially. However, as time passes, more information gets available on the effect of the drug on treatment outcome, many a times it is found that there isn’t much benefit, or risks far outweigh the benefits; therefore treatment protocol is modified accordingly,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director, respiratory medicine department, Fortis Healthcare.
18-01-2022||India||SC asks Bengal Speaker to decide on Mukul Roy’s disqualification in 2 weeks||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Speaker of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly to decide on the disqualification petition against Trinamool Congress leader Mukul Roy in two weeks after the Speaker informed the top court that the petition filed by leader of opposition Suvendu Adhikari was progressing steadily.A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and BV Nagarathna said, “We will give you (Speaker) two weeks. Ensure that it is completed by then.” The Court posted the matter for hearing in the second week of February.The Speaker represented by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi submitted an affidavit indicating steps taken pursuant to the Court’s November 22 order where the Court took serious exception to the delay in deciding the petition against Roy. The petition against him was filed by Adhikari in June 2021 within days after Roy left the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and returned to the Trinamool Congress, which he had left in 2017.Singhvi was appearing in an appeal filed by the Speaker challenging an order of the Calcutta high court passed on September 28 asking him to produce the decision taken on Adhikari’s petition. The HC order came on a petition filed by another BJP MLA Ambika Roy who challenged Roy’s nomination as chairman of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) on July 9.Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade appearing for Ambika Roy told the top court that three months as prescribed by a SC judgment in 2020 were over and no further time should be given. Singhvi had requested for an additional week’s time but was refused.In November, the SC expressed dismay over the inordinate delay in disposing the disqualification petition as it asked the Speaker to quickly decide on the plea against Roy. Speaker Biman Banerjee informed the Court that pursuant to SC order, the hearing was preponed from December 21 to December 9, following which the matter was taken up on three subsequent dates.“The petitioner is making all possible efforts to hear and decide the disqualification petition as expeditiously as possible despite the disruption caused by the prevailing third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the affidavit said, adding that Adhikari had concluded argument and now Roy’s arguments remained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-bengal-speaker-to-decide-on-mukul-roy-s-disqualification-in-2-weeks-101642443281201.html
18-01-2022||India||No-vax? What the sceptics get wrong||In Serbian tennis star Novak Djokovic’s 2010 book, Serve to Win, he writes about how he improved his performance by removing gluten from his diet. Indeed, many do not take well to gluten, a chemical common in wheat, and benefit from a diet without it. But it is how Djokovic discovered his gluten intolerance that is of relevance today. He realised the gluten problem when he held a piece of bread to his stomach with one hand, and found that he lost strength in the other arm at the same time, Djokovic wrote in his book. How is this relevant to the pandemic or the Omicron variant? The answer lies in why Djokovic was in the limelight over the past week as he attempted to fight Australia on its mandatory vaccination rule – Djokovic has opposed vaccines and has not disclosed whether he has taken a shot -- to defend his Australian Open title. The bread-and-gluten sensitivity tale in his book is an apt analogy on how vaccine sceptics like him have been wrong, relying on false equivalences instead of scientific process. Such positions were what drove the early phase of vaccine scepticism when the pandemic began. It ebbed to a large degree when the Delta variant became an undeniably serious threat.But now, after the low real-world virulence of the Omicron variant, vaccine scepticism and Covid denial has gained new urgency. The ill-informed premise ranges from seeing Omicron as “the nature’s own vaccine because it will leave everyone with immunity”, to “variant proves vaccines were but a conspiracy by Big Pharma for people to spend money”. These contentions, particularly those that have arisen after the Omicron outbreak, ignore a simple fact: a big, and mostly likely the biggest, reason why the variant is leading to less severe disease is because vaccines have helped people build a wall of immunity. Several papers, including some now peer-reviewed, have shown how the T cell immunity elicited by vaccines has been adequately retained even when the virus has mutated so significantly from the version that first spread in Wuhan in 2019. The protection against death that vaccines continue to offer against Omicron is a testament to their utility, and most starkly visible in how ICU admissions are now soaring in the US, a country with a big hesitancy problem, while remaining nearly flat in the UK, which has one of the widest dose coverages.It is also a folly at this stage to believe the Omicron variant heralds the beginning of what many predict will lead to an eventual endemicity of the coronavirus. The contention among this theory’s believers is that the variant spreads quickly but sickens mildly, thereby leaving people with a baseline immunity that will make future variants no worse than a common cold. Indeed, there is a strong likelihood this may happen someday, but there is no evidence that day is here. This too has been demonstrated by recent scientific evidence. Viruses recombine, and can evolve in hosts of different species. The Sars-CoV-2 virus can evolve or recombine to become as endemic as the OC43, a common cold coronavirus, or it can take the evolutionary crossroads to arrive where Mers is – a coronavirus with a high fatality rate. Only time can tell the evolutionary pathways the coronavirus will follow, but what science tells us today is that vaccines work and they save lives. And behind the development of each of these shots is decades of research, which has made the odds of a vaccine being fatal far smaller than that of being hit by lightning.
18-01-2022||India||Punjab polling date postponed to Feb 20||The Election Commission of India on Monday rescheduled polling in Punjab to February 20 from February 14, following demands from almost all key political parties of Punjab seeking a change on account of Guru Ravi Das Jayanti, which falls on February 16.The results will be announced on March 10 as previously scheduled.Giving details of the fresh plan, chief electoral officer, Punjab, S Karuna Raju said the notification for polls will be issued on January 25, the last date of filing nominations by candidates will be February 1, the date of scrutiny of nominations will be February 2 and the date of withdrawal February 4.Seeking a postponement in the elections, political parties, candidates and different social bodies reasoned that many people from the state, mostly those belonging to the scheduled castes that account for about 31% of the state’s population, visit Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh for weeklong celebrations to mark the birth anniversary of the Bhakti movement saint born near Varanasi.Campaigning, even voting could suffer as a result, the parties said.Reacting to the postponement, political parties in the state welcomed the ECI’s decision, saying that the move will enable Guru Ravi Das’s followers to visit Varanasi.Bahujan Samaj Party’s Punjab chief Jasvir Singh Garhi was the first to demand postponement of the polling, followed by state chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Other parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party, and various regional parties also raised the demand.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said, “We urged the ECI to postpone the date and we welcome the decision”. The SAD is contesting next month’s polls in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu also welcomed the decision.Union minister and BJP leader Som Prakash said his party urged the poll panel to postpone the voting date and it welcomed the decision.The Aam Aadmi Party’s senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema, who is leader of the Opposition in Punjab, said, “AAP demanded that the election date should be postponed and we are happy that ECI has taken this decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-polling-date-postponed-to-feb-20-101642443041089.html
18-01-2022||India||Man held for raping minor daughter: Rajasthan police||A 37-year-old man was arrested in Udaipur district for allegedly raping his daughter, police said on Monday.The accused was arrested based on a complaint by the victim’s mother on Sunday, the SHO of the police station where the case was filed said. The man was arrested the same day and booked under relevant IPC sections as well as provisions of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and will be presented before the court, the officer said on Monday.According to the complaint, the victim, a student of class 9, complained of stomach pain and other health issues earlier in the week. On being questioned, the girl then narrated how the father raped her multiple times in the past year.The family has two houses in the village, one in the interior and the other on a main road. According to the complaint, the accused often sent his wife to the house in the interior after fighting with her and stayed at the house on the main road, where he committed the crime.11-year-old raped by relative in Bhilwara: PoliceIn another incident, an 11-year-old was allegedly raped by her relative in Bhilwara district, police said.According to the complaint filed by the girl’s father, the accused took her to the market on the pretext of buying vegetables and raped her at a secluded spot.The SHO of the police station where the case was filed said the matter came to the fore when the minor’s health started deteriorating. The officer said the victim’s medical examination has been conducted and the probe is on.
18-01-2022||India||Now is time to invest in India: Modi at WEF||Declaring that India has given a “bouquet of hope” to the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi listed a comprehensive set of economic reforms initiated by his government in recent years and called it the “best time” to invest in India.Addressing the annual gathering of the World Economic Forum virtually, on the state of the world today, Modi reiterated the country’s “100% commitment” to fighting the climate crisis despite being responsible for only five per cent of global emissions, and claimed that Indians have “unbreakable trust” in their democracy. The PM also called for a reform in global governance structures to deal with contemporary policy challenges, including developing a uniform view on cryptocurrency.“This bouquet of hope includes the unbreakable trust that Indians have in democracy; it includes technology which will empower the 21st century; it includes our temperament and talent. The multilingual and multicultural environment in which we live is a strength not just of India, but also of the world. This strength teaches us to work for humanity, not just for oneself,” he said.The PM focused on two broad elements in his speech – the steps undertaken by India even during a crisis such as the pandemic to advance its economic growth prospects and contribute to global good; and the need for reforms to make multilateralism more effective, given the interconnected nature of current day crises from supply chain disruptions to inflation to the climate crisis and the need to reflect contemporary realities.Also read | Global throwaway culture to investing in India: Highlights of PM Modi’s Davos addressExperts said that while the PM deserved credit for his reformist commitment, India needed to do more in addressing critical gaps.Stating that India was battling the current wave of Covid-19 infections with “caution and alertness”, the PM focused on India’s contribution during the pandemic in contributing to global needs – be it through provision of vaccines and medicines to other countries, its role as the “pharmacy of the world”, the contribution of its health care professionals whose “sensitivity and expertise” stood out, the role of Indian software developers, in India and elsewhere, in saving lives, and the development of innovative digital platforms such as Aarogya Setu and Cowin which, he said, has drawn the attention of the world. This, the PM said, was a part of India’s vision of “one earth, one health”.The PM, in a clear message to both foreign governments and global investors, who pay close to attention to the annual Davos forum, then turned to how India used this period of distress to focus on “deep economic reforms”. “There was a time when India was associated with license raj. The government controlled many areas. I understand the challenges that existed for businesses in India. We are continuously working towards removing all these obstacles. India is encouraging the ease of doing business and minimising government interference.” In this regard, the PM focused on steps taken to ease the regulatory environment, encourage investment, focus on productivity, and participate in global supply chains.He mentioned the simplification of corporate taxes to make India’s tax regime the “most competitive” in the world; the reduction of 25,000 regulatory compliances in the past year itself; the resolution of issues such as retrospective taxation as a signal to the business community; the deregulation of sectors such as drones, space and geospatial mapping; and reforms in outdated telecom regulations related to information technology and business process outsourcing sectors. The PM also spoke of the modernisation of both physical and digital infrastructure – this includes the effort to connect 600,000 villages with optical fibre network; the planned $1.3 trillion investment in infrastructure; asset monetisation as an innovative financing instrument to raise $80 billion; and the Gatishakti national master plan to ensure seamless integration between planning, development and implementation of infrastructure.Referring to the production-linked incentive scheme of the government in 14 sectors, to the tune of $26 billion, the PM added, “India’s focus is not just in easing processes, but also incentivising production and investment.” He spoke of telecom, insurance, aerospace, and semiconductors as sectors with possibilities in the country. At a time when there has been speculation about India’s future approach to trade, the PM spoke of India’s commitment to being a reliable partner in global supply chains, and its preparation to sign free trade agreements with other countries.“India’s ability to innovate and adapt to technology, and the spirit of entrepreneurship, will give new energy to our global partners. This is why it is the best time to invest in India.” He cited the example of start-ups to point to the entrepreneurship of young Indians, claiming that in 2014, there were a 100-odd start-ups; this number is now 60,000, with more than 80 unicorns, out of which 40 reached that position (a valuation in excess of $1 billion) in 2021 itself.Richard M Rossow of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington DC said that the government had recommitted to key reforms over the past year. “The government has pursued important domestic de-regulations in areas such as port operations and labor and relaxed foreign investment regulations in sensitive sectors like defence, insurance, and telecommunications. Though the pushback has been strong, as seen with the withdrawn agriculture reforms, and the inability so far to pass the important Electricity Act amendments.”Looking ahead, Rossow said that two things were critical. “One, the government must re-commit to holding Indian states accountable for their business environments. Ultimately, states play the larger role in India’s business environment. And second, the government must continue to improve legal recourse for business disputes. This remains one of the weakest areas of India’s business environment. But promoting digital courts, arbitration, and other such steps can help reduce the backlog and improve business confidence.”But while focusing on India’s growth potential, the PM reiterated the country’s commitment to a net-zero emissions by 2070 – an announcement he first made at COP26 in Glasgow. “Our growth will be green, clean, sustainable, and reliable,” he said, citing the example of how India was well ahead of its timeline in meeting its Paris commitments.The PM concluded his speech by pointing out that amid changes in the global order, the only way to deal with global challenges was through “collective and synchronised action”, mentioning cryptocurrency as an example. “Given the kind of technology associated with it, a decision taken by only one country will be inadequate in meeting the challenges posed by it. We will have to develop a common thinking.” Reiterating a point made by India repeatedly over the years, the PM asked if multilateral organisations had the capability to deal with these challenges without reforms within these organisations to reflect current global realities.
18-01-2022||India||R-Day fly past to bring alive glorious history of ’71 victory||The military fly past at the Republic Day parade will feature formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna operation, apart from showcasing the Indian Air Force’s combat capabilities, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday.As many as 75 different aircraft from the IAF, army and navy will take part in the January 26 flying display, including Rafales, Sukhoi-30s, Jaguars, C-130J special operations aircraft, Mi-35 gunships, MiG-29K maritime fighters and P-8I maritime surveillance aircraft, IAF officials said at a press preview of the fly past.“It will be the largest and grandest display,” an official said. The flying display is the highlight of India’s biggest ceremonial parade. India is celebrating the 75th year of its Independence this year.The indigenous Tejas light combat aircraft and the Mirage 2000 jets are not taking part in the parade as single-engine aircraft are normally not permitted to fly over Rajpath though Tejas made its debut at the 2017 parade.The Tangail formation will feature a vintage Dakota aircraft along with two Dornier 228 aircraft, the officials said. The Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka – the biggest airborne operation mounted by Indian paratroopers – set the stage for surrender by the Pakistani army.The aim of the operation was to capture the Poongli bridge on Jamalpur-Tangail-Dhaka road and the ferry site on Louhajang river to intercept the Pakistani army’s 93 Brigade that was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka. Around 750 men of the 2nd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment were involved in the successful mission.The paratroopers defeated a force three times superior and shattered the will of the Pakistani army to defend Dhaka.The Meghna formation to commemorate a critical heli-borne operation during the 1971 war will involve a CH-47F Chinook helicopter and four Mi-171V choppers, the officials said. IAF helicopters played a critical role in moving troops across the Meghna river in erstwhile East Pakistan.The IAF tableau at the parade will display fighter planes attacking the Governor House in Dhaka and a model of the Gnat fighter that played an important role in the 1971 war.The 1971 war, which ended with the liberation of Bangladesh, gave India a new generation of heroes, including Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon. Then 26, he is the first and only person in the IAF to be decorated with the Param Vir Chakra, the country’s highest wartime military honour. He was awarded posthumously.His moment of glory came on December 14, 1971, when the Srinagar airfield faced a furious attack by at least six Sabre aircraft of the Pakistan Air Force. In the midst of the strafing of the airfield by the enemy aircraft that presented grave danger to his own safety, Sekhon took off in his Gnat, heroically engaged a pair of Sabres, shot them down and forced the Pakistani fighters to retreat, before his own aircraft was hit and exploded into a fireball.In December, India observed the Swarnim Vijay Parv at India Gate to mark the culmination of yearlong celebrations organised across the country to commemorate the 50th anniversary of victory in the 1971 war.The 13-day war ended on December 16, 1971, with the Indian Army taking 93,000 Pakistanis as prisoners of war.The Republic Day fly past will end with 17 Jaguar fighters flying in a formation to commemorate the 75th year of the country’s Independence.The formations being flown to commemorate the victory in the 1971 war in the 75th year of India’s Independence are extremely significant, former Air Chief Marshal Fali Major said.“The Tangail airdrop and the Meghna heli-borne operation were among the events that changed the course of the war,” the retired air force chief said. “The actions speeded up the capture of Dhaka without any problems and led to the birth of a new nation.”
18-01-2022||India||32-year-old man kills wife’s suspected rapist using explosives: Police||A 32-year-old man was arrested for killing a person with explosives, as part of a plot to avenge the alleged gang rape of his wife in Ratlam district, police said on Monday.Two other villagers, Bhanwar Lal and Dinesh, were also arrested in connection with the gang rape case, police said.Ratlam superintendent of police Gaurav Tiwari said, “On January 4, villager Lal Singh was killed in an explosion which had taken place near a tube well on his agricultural land. The forensic science expert informed that the explosion took place due to gelatin rods and detonator. In the investigation, it was found that a similar kind of explosion took place in August at the tube well of former sarpanch Bhanwar Lal, but he sustained minor injuries in the incident.”“Police found a family missing from the village after the incident (blast that killed Lal Singh). Police detained the man and his family members from Mandsaur on January 7. During interrogation, the man confessed his crime and also informed that he was taking revenge of gang rape of his wife,” he added.In a statement registered with police, the accused said, “In July this year, Lal Singh, Bhawarlal and Dinesh entered his house and raped his wife. He tried to stop them but they beat him up. Later, the accused threatened him with dire consequences. The man didn’t report the matter to the police but decided to take revenge.”According to SP Tiwari, the accused learnt how to assemble the bomb from the internet. “... He first used the technique on the tube well of Bhanwarlal but he sustained minor injuries in the explosion. Later, he used more gelatin rod to attack Lal Singh,” said the accused to the police.Police are also checking the role of the gang-rape victim in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32yearold-man-kills-wife-s-suspected-rapist-using-explosives-police-101642442860931.html
18-01-2022||India||TN tableau rejected: Stalin writes to PM, calls it ‘matter of grave concern’||After Kerala and West Bengal, Tamil Nadu chief minister (CM) M K Stalin on Monday expressed disappointment over Centre rejecting the state tableau for the Republic Day celebrations and sought Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention in the matter.A central government spokesperson, however, said it is a “wrong precedent” adopted by the chief ministers, who don’t have any “positive” agenda and is aimed at creating “flash point” between the Centre and the states.He said, Kerala, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu’s tableau were selected for previous parades using the same criteria and therefore, the question of discrimination against opposition states, as alleged, does not arise.In a letter to the PM, the chief minister said, “Excluding the tableau will deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu.”“That the expert committee chooses to ignore and reject all the seven designs shown to it as per the modifications suggested by its members is unacceptable,” the CM said, alleging that Tamil Nadu was not called for the fourth round of meeting.Stating that this was a “matter of grave concern to Tamil Nadu and its people,” he sought the PM’s “urgent intervention to arrange to include the tableau of Tamil Nadu.”Following the Republic Day parade’s theme this year — India@75 — the state had submitted sketches depicting contribution of renowned Tamil Nadu freedom fighters in the freedom struggle. It included renowned freedom fighters, including V O Chidambaranar (VOC); Subramania Bharathi, popularly known as Maha Kavi Bharathiar, and Rani Velu Nachiyar with other women soldiers.Also read | Mamata writes to PM Modi over R-Day tableau rejection, says ‘profoundly shocked’On Sunday, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee had written to PM Modi urging him to reconsider the decision of excluding the state’s proposed tableau from the parade. “It is even more baffling that the tableau was rejected without any justification,” Mamata wrote, adding, that she was shocked and hurt by the decision.The proposed tableau was to commemorate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Indian National Army on Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. The tableau would have carried portraits of Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Vivekananda, Chittaranjan Das, Sri Aurobindo, Matangini Hazra, Birsa Munda, Nazrul Islam, Mamata wrote.“Bengal was at the forefront of the Indian freedom struggle and paid heaviest price for the country’s Independence through the partition. People of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the central government,” Mamata added. However, the central government spokesperson said,“This year’s tableau of CPWD includes Netaji Subhaschandra Bose, so the question of his insult does not arise.”Kerala CM Pinayari Vijayan on January 13 had also sought PM’s intervention after the state’s proposal for the tableau of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and Jatayu Park monument was rejected and the Centre instead changed it to Adi Shankara, which the state rejected. “We have no idea why the Centre is against the social reformer. The float was avoided at the eleventh hour and the government owes an explanation to the state,” state education minister V Sivankutty had said then.Meanwhile, reacting to the controversy, a central government spokesperson said, “Perhaps the CMs have no positive agenda of their own and have to resort to the same old trick of using misinformation year after year.”The spokesperson said the tableaux proposals are selected by a Subject Expert Committee, comprising of eminent people from different fields. “For the parade, a total of 56 proposals were received. Out of these, 21 were shortlisted. It is natural for more proposals to be rejected than the ones being accepted, given the paucity of time,” he added.Tableaux proposals of Kerala were accepted through the same process in 2018 and 2021. Similarly the tableaux proposals of Tamil Nadu were accepted in 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021. For West Bengal, the tableaux proposals were accepted in 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-tableau-rejected-now-stalin-writes-to-pm-calls-it-matter-of-grave-concern-101642442503011.html
18-01-2022||India||Frame ‘model builder-buyer’ agreement, top court tells govt||The country should have a “national model builder-buyer agreement” to ensure homebuyers are not left at the mercy of whimsical clauses included by real estate developers in their contracts, the Supreme Court said on Monday as it implored the Union government to contemplate framing a standard form housing agreement.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant underscored the “helplessness” of the people, especially middle-class homebuyers, while urging the Centre to examine the pertinent provisions of the Real Estate Regulation and Development (RERA) Act to consider framing a model agreement.“This issue is very important. We want a national model builder-buyer agreement to be framed by the Union government. At present, across the states, builders can put any term and exploit unwitting buyers. We want the Union to intervene instead of states having their own regulations,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the central government.The bench added that it is examining the petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay in the larger public interest. “Forget what has been said in the petition... we are on larger public interest, especially for the middle-class homebuyers who are fleeced by the builders,” the court told the S-G.It pointed out that the national model agreement should ideally contain certain standard stipulations binding on all builders. “There must be some essential terms which cannot be deviated from... which must be non-negotiable in the interest of the buyers,” the bench added.It emphasised that RERA is a central legislation and therefore, the central advisory committee, appointed under RERA, should consider framing the standard agreement.Mehta, on his part, acknowledged the court’s concerns, saying he would examine the provisions of the RERA and would also have a deliberation with the officials concerned to explore the feasibility of a national model builder-buyer agreement.The court deferred the hearing on Upadhyay’s petition by two weeks to enable the law officer to come back with instructions on the matter. The lead petition in the case has been filed as a public interest litigation (PIL) by lawyer Upadhyay, followed by three other petitions by individual homebuyers challenging inaction by the respective builders in completion of several amenities promised by them in the brochure provided while booking flats.In October 2021, the bench had issued notices to the Centre, states and Union territories and the Law Commission of India on the clutch of petitions. In its order, the court had referred to sections 41 and 42 of RERA, under which the central advisory council has been obligated to make recommendations to the Centre for framing standard rules to subserve public interest in ensuring that buyers of real estate are not exploited.Responding to the court notice, the central government filed its affidavit in November 2021, stating that a draft “agreement for sale” was shared with all the states and Union territories in 2016 itself after the implementation of RERA. The Centre put it on the state governments to enforce the terms of any standard form agreement after notifying the rules.On Monday, Upadhyay and senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, who was appearing for the homebuyers of a Karnataka residential project, expressed dissatisfaction over the Centre’s response and argued that the Union government must consider invoking its authority under sections 41 and 42 to frame a model builder-buyer agreement and then circulate it to all states and UTs.Upadhyay contended that there should be some uniformity in quality of raw materials to be used in construction of a building, besides ensuring that agreements should also be in Hindi and other regional languages.Guruswamy argued that the S-G should take instructions specifically on the Centre invoking its powers under RERA to frame a model builder-buyer agreement.Upadhyay has highlighted in his plea that in many cases, the amenities promised in the brochure at the time of sale do not form part of the registered plan and residents are left in the lurch to pursue remedies against developers and authorities. This happens as many developers go for “pre-launch” or “soft launch” of a project without securing requisite approvals from authorities, he added.“The petition is seeking direction to all states to enforce model builder-buyer agreement and model agent-buyer agreement to avoid mental, physical and financial injury, ensure accountability, develop mechanism to weed out criminal conspiracy for wrongful gain, criminal breach of trust, and dishonest misappropriation of buyers’ money by promoters, builders and agents,” Upadhyay’s petition stated.Under RERA, the Centre has left it to the states to frame appropriate rules within six months under Section 84 of the Act for implementing the law. Singh said, “In some states, builders get their way and agreements are one-sided. There is no transparency or fair play to restrain builders from indulging in frauds and delays and to protect the flat purchasers from getting duped.”The petition also demanded that homebuyers should be compensated for the losses incurred due to inordinate delays on the part of builders and promoters.
18-01-2022||India||DCGI needs more safety data for Covaxin nod for under 12||Although India’s drugs regulator allowed Covaxin jabs for restricted emergency use in children aged 12-18 years, it did not do so for younger children despite a recommendation of an expert panel because it wanted to be absolutely sure of the safety aspects, according to people familiar with the matter.“Safety data is of paramount importance, and the regulator has to be convinced about the data,” a person aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity. “The safety and other related data that the regulator needed in children, also for a particular time period, he got it in the age group in which the approval was finally granted.”“In this particular age group (children below 12 years) organs are developing and its impact on that has to be considered,” the person pointed out. “The safety data was taken for longer period as compared to adults; at least for two-three months more.”The approval on December 25 from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) came nearly 10 weeks after the subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended Covaxin’s use in children on October 12 last year.The panel’s job is to make recommendations to CDSCO, but the final call is taken by DCGI.“In children and pregnant women, the drugs regulator is taking extreme precaution, which does not mean that in other population groups precaution has not been taken,” the person said. “It is just that when it comes to children, one has to tread even more cautiously. Also, the movement of children is more in this particular age group for which approval has been granted.”Also read | Govt seeks more data for full market clearance to Covishield, CovaxinDays after the government allowed the use of Covaxin among the 15 to 18 age cohort, Covaxin’s maker Bharat Biotech said in a statement that its vaccine was found to be “safe, well-tolerated, and immunogenic” in the age group of 2-18 years in phase II and III studies.Neutralizing antibodies in children on average were found to be 1.7 times higher than in adults, the Hyderabad-based firm said. No serious adverse events were reported during the clinical trials, it added.“Covaxin clinical trial data from the paediatric population is very encouraging. Safety of the vaccine is critical for children, and we are glad to share that Covaxin has now proven data for safety and immunogenicity in children,” Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech, said on December 30. “We have now achieved our goal of developing a safe and efficacious Covid-19 vaccine for adults and children.”As part of the firm’s phase II and III clinical trials and multicentre studies, 374 subjects in the relevant age group were inoculated with two 0.5 ml doses of Covaxin, the same formulation used in adults. The trials in the paediatric population were conducted between June and September last year.Researchers involved in the trial have said that the report presented data obtained up to four weeks after the second of two vaccinations, but the study was ongoing to collect data up to six months after the last vaccination, which will be reported separately.The data was submitted to CDSCO in October, and received emergency use nod for children aged 12-18 from the drugs controller on December 25.
18-01-2022||India||A realpolitik appraisal of the ‘Mandal-Kamandal’ fight in UP||The Uttar Pradesh elections seem to be resurrecting the past memories of Mandal versus Kamandal contest only at the level of polemics. After chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Yogi Adityanath’s claim of the polls being an 80% versus 20% (read Hindu versus Muslim) contest, Yogi’s former cabinet colleague Swami Prasad Maurya, who deserted the BJP to join the Samajwadi party (SP), claimed the election was actually a fight between 85% versus 15% (read non-upper caste Hindus and Muslims versus upper castes). The Mandal-Kamandal binary and its various mutations have defined politics in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for three decades now.The underlying logic, at least at the level of rhetoric, is simple. The votaries of Mandal claim that due to India’s feudal past, upper castes have historically exploited the other backward classes (OBCs), scheduled castes (SCs), scheduled tribes (STs) and the majority of Muslims in India, and the only way to undo this injustice was to capture political power, a project eminently possible thanks to India’s universal franchise system. OBCs, SCs, STs and Muslims together vastly outnumber upper-caste Hindus.The BJP, on the other hand, has always claimed that Mandal-based parties such as the SP have only helped their own causes (for instance, the Yadavs in both Bihar and UP) in the name of social emancipation after capturing power. It is only when the BJP is brought to power that true development, welfare and emancipation takes place, the party argued.But polemics in politics need not always confirm to reality. Does this hold for the Mandal-Kamandal binary as well? Here are three charts that try to answer this question.Only rich contest the elections and the richer manage to winThe average assets of a candidate who contested the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh was ₹1.9 crore, according to a report by the not-for-profit political party watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). Average assets per MLA elected in 2017 was ₹5.9 crore. ADR collects these values from election affidavits filed by the candidates.“Among major parties, the average assets per MLA for 312 BJP MLAs analysed is ₹5.07 crores, 46 SP MLAs have average assets of ₹5.84 crores, 19 BSP MLAs have average assets of ₹17.84 crores and 7 INC MLAs have average assets worth of ₹10.06 crores” the ADR report said. These numbers suggest that among all major parties, only the super rich contest elections. Uttar Pradesh had a per capita income of ₹64,120 in 2017-18 and the average asset holdings of the top 10% of the state’s population were worth ₹97.5 lakh, according to the 2019 All India Debt and Investment Survey of the National Statistical Office.Ticket distribution pattern does not endorse either 80-20 or 85-15 contestPolemics about the elections being an 80-20 or 85-15 contest suggest the larger cohort, which the parties claim to represent, is united behind them. The least one would expect is that the party in question tries to mobilize the groups it is targeting. Data on caste background of candidates, sourced from the database of the Trivedi Centre for Political Data (TCPD), does not support such claims.If the BJP were really serious about consolidating all Hindu votes, it would make an equal distribution of tickets among them. That is not the case. Almost half of the BJP’s candidates in the 2017 elections were upper castes. It was far greater than their share in population. The BJP also fielded a lower share of Yadavs, who are the core support base of the SP in the state. Yadavs and Jatavs, the core support base of the SP and BSP, respectively, have a higher share among the candidates of the parties, but their share is not too disproportionate. Similarly, the SP and BSP fielded a significant share of upper caste candidates, something that goes against the clichéd Mandal rhetoric. In other words, parties are more pragmatic when it comes to distributing tickets on the ground than what their political polemics would suggest.Political power is key to upward mobility of the social eliteIf it is only the super rich who contest elections, and all political parties make social compromises against what their political rhetoric suggests, why do people fall for such rhetoric? The newfound assertion of the non-domiant castes in Indian politics can be thought of as the relatively less privileged social elite leveraging their social group’s electoral strength to make stronger bargains from the socioeconomically dominant communities in the political system.The communities currently enjoying a dominant economic position would not be where they are had they not had political power. This is best seen in a comparison of average asset levels of candidates and MLAs in the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. It uses a caste-wise database of candidates compiled by TCPD that the centre matched with candidate-wise asset database from ADR at HT’s request.The comparison showed Yadav candidates were not far from the average asset level of upper-caste candidates, whereas SC and ST candidates are almost at the same asset level as non-dominant OBCs. It will not be wrong to say that every community wants to move to the right hand side on the chart, and the ones already on the right cannot retain power unless they do business with the ones on the left.With the Indian economy having lost higher growth momentum of the past decade, and given the shrinking footprint of the state in the economy, it will become even more difficult for the entrenched sociopolitical elite to accommodate the aspirations of their strategic allies from non-dominant social groups. It means that political conflict and perhaps the revolving doors for non-dominant caste allies are unlikely to end anytime soon in India.
18-01-2022||India||Doyen of India’s culture, he left a mark across the world: Tributes pour in for Birju Maharaj||Legendary dancer Birju Maharaj, who popularised the classical Kathak dance form around the world and became its most celebrated exponent by expanding its footprint from international festivals to Bollywood blockbusters, died in New Delhi on Monday. He was 83.Born Brijmohan Nath Mishra in 1938 in Lucknow, Maharaj won a bouquet of national and global accolades, including the Padma Vibhushan in 1986, and became synonymous with Kathak in a career spanning nearly six decades. He is survived by five children, three daughters and two sons, and five grandchildren.Maharaj-ji, as he was popularly known, died in the early hours of Monday in his New Delhi home, surrounded by his family and disciples, his daughter Ragini Maharaj said.“He had his dinner and we were playing antakshari because he loved old music. He was lying down… and suddenly, his breathing became uneven. We think it was a cardiac arrest as he was also a heart patient,” said Ragini, also a Kathak dancer.“This happened between 12.15 am and 12.30 am. We rushed to the hospital, but unfortunately, we could not save him,” she said. Maharaj died just two weeks shy of his 84th birthday.President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the country in paying tributes to one of its most famous sons.“Deeply saddened by the demise of Pandit Birju Maharaj ji, who gave Indian dance a special recognition world over,” Modi said.“The demise of legendary Pandit Birju Maharaj marks the end of an era. It leaves a deep void in the Indian music and cultural space,” Kovind tweeted.Maharaj was born in a Hindu Brahmin family with a long line of iconic artists who comprised the Kalka-Bindadin gharana. His grandfather, Bindadin Maharaj, wrote and composed around 5,000 thumris and bhajans, many of which Maharaj later re-documented from the memory of his mother and other students.He trained under his father and guru Acchan Maharaj and gave his first public performance at the age of seven. In a form where artists use dance and facial expressions to tell a story, especially mythological epics, the young Maharaj drew quick praise for his animated facial expressions and lightfooted movements.In later interviews, he repeatedly mentioned how the early years in his ancestral home moulded his craft. “It was like a sea of rhythm and beat, and for seven generations that was the only topic of discussion back home. Laya, swar, taal, bhangima, saundarya, aur nritya (rhythm, tone, beat, pose, beauty, and dance), that was all we talked about,” Maharaj told PTI in his last interview.As a young boy, Maharaj began accompanying his father to places such as Kanpur, Allahabad and Gorakhpur, and then on to far off places, including Kolkata and Mumbai, where he shared the stage with him.Tragedy struck when he was nine. His father died and the young Maharaj moved to Delhi and later started teaching Kathak at the Sangeet Bharti to support his family. He also taught at the Bharatiya Kala Kendra in Delhi, and at the Kathak Kendra (a unit of the Sangeet Natak Akademi), where he was head of faculty and director, retiring in 1998. Birju Maharaj later opened his own dance school Kalashram, also in Delhi.“Although he was a great dancer, not many know that he could sing and play the tabla really well,” said flautist Hariprasad Chaurasia. “I wish God could send back people like Birju, who have spent so much time mastering their craft, to wander the planet for at least two months each year, to teach people what it truly means to learn an art form.”He was a poet – who wrote under the pseudonym Brijshyam – and a masterful thumri singer, who voiced a song for Satyajit Ray’s 1977 classic Shatranj Ke Khiladi, a film for which he also choreographed sequences.He won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, Sangam Kala Award, Andra Ratna, Soviet Land Nehru Award and Rajiv Gandhi Sadbhavana Award. In his decades-long career, Maharaj performed and taught Kathak – with images of his grace and poise beamed into millions of homes through televised performances. His abhinaya (expressions) and footwork became the gold standard in Indian classical dance.He was a lifelong guru, said student and Kathak exponent Shovana Narayan, “He was painstakingly detailed. It was the spirit and ethos of dance, of Kathak that he gave me along with the technical skill and virtuosity and everything. He would come to my house for eight long years to teach me in the 1960s and never charged a single penny,” she said.In his personal life, Maharaj also shattered rigid notions held in his family that barred women from dancing in public, and provided equal opportunities to his children as well as his students, without any gender bias.“Even though he was the greatest legend of dance, he was so humble and modest and down to earth, that people would find it hard to imagine he could be so accessible,” said Saswati Sen, a senior disciple of Pandit Birju Maharaj.Later in his life, he taught several top Indian actors, including Madhuri Dixit-Nene and Kamal Haasan. Dixit-Nene, who trained under Maharaj and most memorably performed a song in the 2002 hit Devdas, said the exponent had a childlike innocence who never failed to make his students laugh. “There never was anyone like you guruji and there will never be,” she said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doyen-of-india-s-culture-he-left-a-mark-across-the-world-tributes-pour-in-for-birju-maharaj-101642440765475.html
18-01-2022||India||3 die, several hurt in explosion onboard INS Ranvir at Mumbai Dockyard, probe ordered||At least three naval personnel died in a blast onboard Indian Navy destroyer INS Ranvir on Tuesday. According to available inputs, several others were injured in the incident that happened at the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai. According to an ANI input, 11 injured sailors are undergoing treatment at the local naval hospital. The explosion reportedly happened in an internal compartment onboard the warship. Responding immediately, the ship's crew brought the situation under control. There is no report of major material damage."In an unfortunate incident today at Naval Dockyard Mumbai, three naval personnel succumbed to injuries caused by an explosion in an internal compartment onboard INS Ranvir," a statement from the Indian Navy read.The warship was on cross-coast operational deployment from the Eastern Naval Command and was due to return to base port shortly, the statement said, adding a board of inquiry has been ordered to investigate into the cause of the explosion.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-sailors-killed-in-explosion-onboard-ins-ranvir-at-mumbai-s-naval-dockyard-101642521018117.html
18-01-2022||India||Experts object to removal of cap on construction in NCR conservation zones||NEW DELHI: Over 3,000 people, including environmentalists, have objected to the removal of a clause limiting constructions in the natural conservation zones of the National Capital Region (NCR) to 0.5% of the area in the draft NCR Regional Plan 2041.HT on December 28 reported the draft does not mention the Aravalli and tributaries of the Yamuna and Ganga in “natural zones”, triggering concerns among experts, who say that such a move will let states be selective about the areas they want to conserve. The draft says a “natural zone” is an area with features such as mountains, hills, rivers, and water bodies.Experts have also pointed out that the cap on construction in natural conservation zones has also been done away with.The NCR Regional Plan 2021 allowed agriculture, horticulture, pisciculture, social forestry/plantations including afforestation and regional recreational activities with no construction exceeding 0.5% of the area with the permission of the competent authority.“However, in the draft Regional Plan-2041, this zoning regulation has been deleted. We object to this deletion. It may also be pointed out that a similar attempt was made to remove this limit on construction in 2013-14, and was objected to by the MoEFCC [Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change], which stated in their letter dated April 25, 2014, that ‘in the paragraph stipulating permissible activities for part of the Natural Conservation zone (other than Forests and Protected Area), provisions for Regional Recreational Activities may be restored as ‘Regional Recreational Activities with no construction exceeding 0.50% of the area that too with the permission of competent authority under the environmental laws’. This should be adhered to in the RP 2041,” said a document of comments to Drat Regional Plan 2041.Also Read | Experts concerned as NCR draft regional plan 2041 doesn’t mention Aravalli rangeFormer Delhi Urban Arts Commission chairman K T Ravindran, retired Indian Forest Service officer Manoj Misra, Yamuna Jiya Abhiyan convenor Manu Bhatnagar, conservational biologist Neha Sinha, and independent forest analyst Chetan Agarwal have submitted the document.The experts pointed out the area under forests has declined from 4.02% (reported in Regional Plan 2021) to 3.27% (as per the draft Regional Plan 2041). “Despite this drop, the protection for forest has been further diluted. Further, the target of total forest cover proposed to be 10% of the total area of the region in RP2021 has been dropped from the draft RP2041. This is a retrograde step that is contrary to the need to maintain and enhance forest cover so as to maintain quality of life in the NCR,” the document added.Around 3,300 people have sent their objections to the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) against the dilutions to the natural conservation zones in NCR, which includes the Aravalli.Aravalli Bachao Group, a citizen’s movement, has also sent a mail with comments on several sections of the draft and pointed out that it replaces “natural conservation zone” with only “natural zones”.“The replacement of the ‘Natural Conservation Zone’ under the 2021 Regional Plan with ‘Natural Zone’ in the Draft Regional Plan 2041, by dropping the term Conservation’, is a regressive step as it signals that conservation is no longer important in the NCR Regional Plan,” the group said.The term Aravalli was in Regional Plan 2021 and part of the Natural Conservation Zone but has been excluded from the draft.The group has sought the restoration of the term Aravalli. It added it should be included as an important zone for conservation in the draft. It added the term uncultivable hilly areas must be included in the draft as it is one of the terms that covers Aravalli in the revenue records in Delhi, Haryana, and Rajasthan.NCRPB officials said they will take a call on these objections at the next board meeting. Union urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri will chair the meeting. “These decisions will have to be taken at the highest level,” an NCRPB official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-object-to-removal-of-cap-on-construction-in-ncr-conservation-zones-101642485104692.html
18-01-2022||India||Telangana cabinet decides to make English medium compulsory in all govt schools from coming academic year||The Telangana government will introduce English medium compulsorily in all government schools from the coming academic year 2022-23.A decision to this effect was taken at the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday.An official note from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the cabinet decided that a legislation on making English medium compulsory in all the government schools be enacted in the forthcoming budget session of the state assembly, likely to be held next month.The chief minister constituted a cabinet sub-committee headed by state education minister Sabita Indra Reddy to study the proposal on English medium and work out the modalities on its implementation.The sub-committee would comprise other cabinet colleagues including K T Rama Rao, Koppula Eshwar, Talasani Srinivasa Yadav, S Niranjan Reddy, V Srinivas Goud, G Jagadish Reddy, T Harish Rao, Prashant Reddy, Puvvada Ajay Kumar and Errabelli Dayakar Rao.The sub-committee would go into the legalities of the move, before finalising the draft legislation. It would be discussed in the next cabinet meeting before being introduced in the state assembly.In January 2020, the Andhra Pradesh government headed by Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy also enacted a similar legislation introducing English medium in all the government schools in a phased manner. However, the law was struck down by the state high court in April 2020.The Jagan government moved the Supreme Court in the same month, challenging the high court order, but the apex court refused to grant a stay. The matter is still pending in the Supreme Court.The Telangana cabinet also decided to enact yet another legislation to regulate fixation of tuition fees in schools and colleges in the state. The cabinet sub-committee headed by the education minister would also study this issue and finalise the draft legislation.The cabinet also approved another scheme “Mana Ooru-Mana Badi,” aimed at enhancing the quality of education and improve the basic infrastructure in the government schools. The scheme would be implemented at a cost of ₹7,289 crore in the next one year.The cabinet approved the proposals for setting up an exclusive university for women and also a “forest university” in the state. The chief minister asked chief secretary Somesh Kumar and also the forest department authorities to come up with detailed project reports on the two universities and submit the same to the next cabinet.The cabinet discussed the ongoing procurement of paddy cultivated during the Kharif season. The officials told the cabinet that the procurement exercise was more or less completed, but since paddy was still being harvested in some places, the cabinet directed that the procurement centres be continued till the entire quantity of paddy is procured.
