19-01-2022||India||Anurag Thakur warns of blocking sites, YouTube channels ‘conspiring against India’||Union minister Anurag Thakur said on Wednesday any website or YouTube channel that is found to “conspire against India” will be blocked.The information and broadcasting minister’s statement came while talking about action initiated against 20 YouTube channels and two websites for allegedly spreading anti-India propaganda and fake news.Thakur said the government will continue to take such action against those "hatching conspiracy” against the country.“I had ordered action against them… I am happy that many big countries took cognisance of it. YouTube also came forward and took action to block them,” Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.In December last year, the I&B ministry in a "closely coordinated" effort with intelligence agencies, had ordered the blocking of the channels and two websites.In a statement, the ministry had said these outlets belonged to “a coordinated disinformation network” operating from Pakistan and spreading fake news about various “sensitive subjects related to India".The channels were used to post "divisive content in a coordinated manner on topics like Kashmir, Indian army, minority communities in India, Ram Mandir, General Bipin Rawat, etc", it had said.“In future too, action will be taken to block any such account hatching conspiracy against India, spreading lies and dividing society,” Thakur said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-warns-of-blocking-sites-youtube-channels-conspiring-against-india-101642611681319.html
19-01-2022||India||New species among lakhs of migratory birds bring cheers in Kashmir||SRINAGAR: Lakhs of migratory birds have arrived in the wetlands and lakes of Kashmir including some 10-20 new or rare species bringing cheer among the wildlife experts and bird watchers. The valley received widespread snowfall in December and January attracting the winged guests from Europe and Central Asia who keep their date with the Himalayan region by and large every winter. Wildlife warden, wetlands, Ifshan Dewan said that more than 3.5 lakh birds are currently present at Srinagar’s biggest wetland, Hokersar while the number will be 2.5 lakh at Hygam wetland in north Kashmir’s Baramulla. Last winter the water level at Hokersar reduced to alarming levels owing to excavation of a flood channel drying up a large part of the wetland. “Last year the arrival of birds was affected owing to lower water level at Hokersar but this year we made timely intervention by doing necessary work on bunding and breaches which helped in retention of water,” Dewan said. Kashmir has some 400 water bodies, out of which the officials and avian watchers observe birds in some 25 big and notified water bodies. Presently, the valley has nine wetlands out of the total 13 in Jammu and Kashmir. Shalbough, located in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district, is the biggest wetland spread over 16 sq km while Hokersar on the city outskirts is around 13.5km and Hygam wetland in north Kashmir is spread across 9km. Chatlam wetland is in south Kashmir’s Pampore. Dewan said that the water level at Shalboug was good but the number of birds arriving was less so far. “The birds have a habit of arriving late at Shalbough, mostly by January end and February. In Pampore also, the number of birds is good,” she said. The birds traverse from the colder areas of the world flying over continents in flocks. They come from Europe, Central Asia, China and Japan to spend the winter in the waters of the Himalayan valley. Mostly the birds which arrive here every year are Mallards, Greylag Geese, Pochards, Common tails, Shovellers, Pintails and Gharwals which visit the region between October and April. Dewan said that they have sighted some new species this year. “This year we have reports of sightings of some 10-20 new species especially Whooper Swan and Waders. Last year also we had some new species,” she said. “These would be sighted very rarely here,” she said. She said that the department is going for a census by the end of February. “We are going for the annual waterfowl census in February to determine the exact type and number of birds. That will clear the picture,” she said. For the past two years the department’s census reports are pegging the number of birds at 8-10 lakhs who arrive here annually. The wetlands in Kashmir witnessed large scale encroachment and poaching of migratory birds during the early years of militancy but now the vigilance has been stepped up and the encroachments have also come down to a large extent. Dewan said that they have established control rooms in various lakes to stop poaching of birds. “Poaching does happen but we have established control rooms at Hokersar, Wular, Dal and Shalbough which work 24 × 7. There is constant patrolling and whenever we get information of any poaching incident, our teams reach the spot,” she said. “The birds don’t stick to wetlands only, they keep on moving from one water body to another,” she said. The official wants people in Kashmir to prove their hospitality to these birds like they are famous for their behavior towards tourists and visitors. “These migratory birds are also our guests and we should respect them as well as we are known for hospitality towards humans. We tend to throw our solid wastes in these water bodies making it difficult for the birds as well as the caretakers to clean the mess,” she said. “These are our assets and should be protected for our future generation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-species-among-lakhs-of-migratory-birds-bring-cheers-in-kashmir-101642610904142.html
19-01-2022||India||SEC recommends Covaxin, Covishield for full market authorisation: Report||The subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Wednesday recommended regular market approval for Covaxin and Covishield, the two most widely used jabs in the national vaccination drive against Covid-19, news agency PTI has reported, citing official sources.Also Read | Serum Institute of India applies for full approval of Covishield Covid vaccineThe development comes just days after the SEC, on January 14, sought more data from the two manufacturers--Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech (Covaxin) and Pune-based Serum Institute of India (Covishield)--for approval for full market authorisation.Also Read | Govt seeks more data for full market clearance to Covishield, CovaxinA full market authorisation is granted when a vaccine is deemed safe and effective for most people who are inoculated with it. Such an approval is authorised after submission and review of full data from phase 1, 2 and 3 trials of the jab.On the other hand, an emergency use authorisation (EUA) is given after studying data from phase 1 and 2, when regulators conclude that benefits of a vaccine far outweigh risks. All Covid-19 vaccines currently in use in India, including Covaxin and Covishield, have emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).On January 3 last year, both jabs received EUA; the nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is India's first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19, while Serum Institute locally manufactures Britain's AstraZeneca-Oxford jab as ‘Covishield.’More than 1.58 billion (158 crore) doses have been administered nationally thus far, of which, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard, more than 7.6 million were administered in the last 24 hours. The vaccination drive, for the most part, was open for those aged 18 and above; however, on January 3 this year, it was expanded to include the 15-18 age group as well.From January 10, healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities became eligible for a ‘precautionary’ or booster shot.Also Read | Home vaccinations for teens, third dose beneficiaries soon: CentreBoth announcements were made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an address to the nation last Christmas Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-covishield-recommended-for-full-market-authorisation-report-101642608678718.html
19-01-2022||India||The near-miss at Bengaluru airport: All you need to know||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has initiated a probe into the near-miss that took place at Bengaluru's Kempegowda International Airport on January 7. The incident involved two flights of the same carrier, the Gurguram-headquartered IndiGo, with one leaving for Kolkata, and the other departing for Bhubaneswar.Here's all you need to know:(1.) According to DGCA officials, Indigo's flight 6E455 to Kolkata and 6E246 to Bhubaneswar were given all-clear to take off at the same time. The aviation regulator has attributed this to a possible miscommunication between air traffic controllers (ATCos).(2.) The DGCA noted that the airport's South runway, which was being used for landings, was closed at some point during the day. This meant that the North runway, which runs parallel to the South, from where departures were taking place, was now handling arrivals as well.(3.) This closure of the South runway was not communicated to the air traffic controllers, leading to the two planes being cleared to take off at the same time, the body said in its preliminary report.(4.) An approach radar controller noted the two flights moving towards each other and immediately conveyed this to pilots on each plane. The pilots diverged at the last minute, thus preventing the collision. (5.) According to an NDTV report, the two aircraft were at an altitude of 3000 feet. The same report said as many as 238 passengers and six crew were onboard the Bhubaneswar-bound flight, while the Bengaluru flight was carrying 176 passengers and six crew. It identified the approach radar controller as forty-two year old Lokendra Singh.(6.) The DGCA further said the incident was not recorded in any logbook, nor was it reported by the Airports Authority of India (AAI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-near-mishap-at-bengaluru-airport-all-you-need-to-know-101642604860714.html
19-01-2022||India||Hindu families in MP village threaten to migrate due to alleged harassment||BHOPAL/RATLAM: Two days after a fight between two villagers, more than 25 families of Surana village in Ratlam district threatened to migrate from the village as they alleged harassment by members of a community for the past two-and-a-half years. Biplank police registered cross FIRs against two villagers Mukesh Jat, who is also claimed to be a coordinator of a Hindu outfit, and Mayur Khan for abusing and beating each other on January 16. Upset with cross FIRs, the families who belong to Jat community wrote on the walls of their houses that these houses are on sale as they are posing a security threat and want to migrate from the village, locals said. “They played objectionable music and took out rallies. Women didn’t feel safe due to them. They are harassing us mentally and when we go to the police station, police officers don’t take any action. On January 16, Mayur Khan with more than 100 people came to my house and abused me. He threatened me and asked me to leave the village,” said Mukesh Jat. “When I filed FIR, the police registered a case against me too. We don’t feel safe here in the village,” he added. Another villager, Omprakash Patel said, “A few members of Muslim community are harassing us. They mock us and scare us and shout abusive words to us. They throw garbage near our houses and spit in front of houses. They are terrorising our children.” A group of representatives met district collector Kumar Purshottam and asked for allocating a piece of land in some other village because they feel unsafe in the village and can’t live here. However, the Muslim community members said a group of people especially Mukesh Jat is trying to communalise every trivial issue. “For the past two years, Mukesh Jat with a few others is trying to create communal tension in the village. He filed at least half a dozen complaints against Muslim community members. On January 16 too, he fought with me and later filed a fake complaint against me,” said Mayur Khan. After the matter came to light, home minister Narottam Mishra took cognizance and said, “It is our duty to maintain peace and harmony in our state. The issue of Surana village is serious and nobody needs to feel scared. The administration will resolve this matter.” After the home minister’s order, Ratlam district collector Kumar Purshottam and superintendent of police Gaurav Tiwari held a meeting with villagers. District collector Purshottam said, “Distrust has been increased among villagers towards each other due to some small issues. We are trying to resolve it.” “The villagers said they feel unsafe due to regular fight and harassment so we have decided to form a committee of six members that include Sub-divisional magistrate and sub-divisional officer of police with two members of each community. They also said that people are encroaching upon their land so the encroachment will be cleared within a month,” said the collector. SP Gaurav Tiwari said, “A police outpost will be set up in the village where 10 police personnel will be present always to maintain law and order.” “The village doesn’t have any history of communal tension but for the past few months some anti-social elements are creating trouble so we are also taking action under National Security Act (NSA) against criminals,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-families-in-mp-village-threaten-to-migrate-due-to-alleged-harassment-101642607424347.html
19-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: BJP wins 384 seats in Maharashtra local body elections, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP wins 384 seats in nagar panchayat polls, jabs Uddhav Thackeray over Sena tallyThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday ended up with the maximum number of seats in Maharashtra’s local body elections in semi-urban and rural areas. Read moreDelhi woman, her 4 kids die after choking on toxic fumes from stoveAccording to a senior police official, the place where the incident occurred was a rented accommodation inhabited by one Mohit Kalia (35), his wife Radha and their four children – two daughters and two sons. Read moreIn marginal dip, Karnataka sees over 40,000 new Covid-19 cases; positivity rate nears 19%Daily Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, as well as its capital Bengaluru, declined marginally on Tuesday, with the state logging 40,499 fresh infections, including 24,135 in the city. Read moreVirat Kohli breaks Sachin Tendulkar's record for massive Indian feat; surpasses Ganguly, Dravid to go 2nd in elite listKohli, playing in his first ODI since being succeeded by Rohit Sharma as the full-time captain of the limited-overs side, went past Sachin Tendulkar as well as skippers Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid for two incredible records. Read moreWhen Rajinikanth praised Dhanush as a 'good son-in-law', said he ‘takes good care of his wife’A video of Rajinikanth praising his son-in-law Dhanush is being shared online. Dhanush and Aishwaryaa Rajinikanth announced their separation on Monday night. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-wins-384-seats-in-maharashtra-local-body-elections-and-all-the-latest-news-101642600261326.html
19-01-2022||India||Cabinet approves tenure extension of National Commission for Safai Karamcharis||NEW DELHI: The union cabinet on Wednesday approved the extension of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) for three years with effect from April 1, 2022. Union minister Anurag Thakur while announcing the cabinet decisions said, “The union cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, on Wednesday has approved the extension of the tenure of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis for three years from April 1, 2022. Now it will remain in effect till March 31, 2025.” “The commission is responsible for giving recommendations to the government regarding specific programmes for welfare of Safai Karamcharis, study and evaluate the existing welfare programmes for Safai Karamcharis, investigate cases of specific grievances etc. Modi government is determined to work for the welfare of safai karamcharis,” he said. The commission was established in 1993 as per the provisions of the NCSK Act initially for the period upto March 31,1997. Later the validity of the Act was extended for five years and then again for two years i.e up to February 29, 2004. After that it was lapsed and the tenure of the commission was extended as a non-statutory body under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The tenure of the Commission was being extended from time to time through government resolutions. The present tenure is valid upto March 31, 2022. “The total implication of the extension for three years will be approximately Rs.43.68 crore,” the government said in a statement. The major beneficiaries under the commission are the Safai Karamcharis and identified manual scavengers in the country. According to the government data, there were 58,098 manual scavengers identitied in the country as on December 31, 2021. “Though the government has taken many steps for the upliftment of the Safai Karamcharis, the deprivation suffered by them in socio-economic and educational terms is still far from being eliminated. Although manual scavenging has been almost eradicated, sporadic instances do occur. Hazardous cleaning of sewer/septic tanks continues to be an area of the highest priority for the government. Hence, the Government feels that there is a continued need to monitor the various interventions and initiatives of the government for welfare of Safai Karamcharis and to achieve the goal of complete mechanization of sewer/septic tanks cleaning in the country and rehabilitation of manual scavengers,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-tenure-extension-of-national-commission-for-safai-karamcharis-101642602862543.html
19-01-2022||India||Shiv Sena-NCP announce alliance for Goa polls 2022||PANAJI: The Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) who are partners in Maharashtra government have announced a pre-poll alliance for the Goa assembly elections. Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut and NCP’s Praful Patel said that the two parties will go without the Congress and hope for post-poll arrangements with non-BJP parties. “We had thought that we should extend the MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) from Maharashtra to Goa. Congress should play the major role and we (NCP and Shiv Sena) would contest some seats,” Patel said. The two parties are looking at contesting around a dozen of the 40 seats. “In Goa there is a lot of confusion on the ground. There are BJP, Congress, TMC, AAP and other parties and in this overall confusion, NCP and Shiv Sena, though we may not be in a position to form a government, will have a respectable number of seats where we will have an important role to play in formation of a like-minded government,” Raut said. The Goa state NCP leadership was hopeful of an alliance with the Congress. Local leader José D’Souza claimed that talks stalled after initial progress was made. The NCP and the Congress had an alliance for the 2017 and 2012 assembly polls. Since then the NCP’s presence has been reduced to zero seats in the Goa legislative assembly. It won one seat in 2017, but the MLA Churchill Alemão switched to the Trinamool Congress. The Shiv Sena has never won a seat in Goa despite contesting successive elections either as independents or through alliance arrangements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-ncp-announce-alliance-for-goa-polls-2022-101642602561484.html
19-01-2022||India||Eye on Uttarakhand polls, late CDS Gen Bipin Rawat's brother Vijay Rawat joins BJP||Colonel (retd) Vijay Rawat, brother of India's late Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, on Wednesday, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi in the presence of Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and other senior party functionaries.The development comes hours after the retired colonel met the Uttarakhand chief minister in Delhi, and triggered a buzz over him joining the saffron camp ahead of the upcoming Assembly polls in the hill state.“In case they ask me, I will serve the people of Uttarakhand,” colonel (retd) Rawat had said when asked about his joining the BJP.After formally being inducted into the party, Rawat said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's “vision and far-reaching thought process” inspired him and others into working hard for the nation.Late Chief of Defence Staff (CSD) General Bipin Rawat's brother retired Colonel Vijay Rawat joins BJP at party headquarters in New Delhi. https://t.co/lUTFq4b5S9“I am grateful to have been given the opportunity to join the BJP,” said the retired colonel, addressing a press conference. “My father was with the BJP after retiring and now I have received a chance to do the same.”He had also said Dhami's vision for the state “matches with what my brother (the late CDS) had in his mind”.CDS Rawat, who hailed from Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, died in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8 along with 13 others, including his wife Madhulika.Election to the 70-member Uttarakhand assembly is scheduled to be held on February 14. The counting of votes will be done on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-uttarakhand-polls-late-cds-gen-bipin-rawat-s-brother-vijay-rawat-joins-bjp-101642594251255.html
19-01-2022||India||SC to consider hearing PIL against EVMs, lawyer wants ballot papers back for state polls||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to consider hearing an application challenging the Constitutional validity of the usage of electronic voting machines (EVMs) in place of ballot papers for elections across the country.A petition was filed in the top court by a lawyer in his personal capacity challenging a provision of the Representation of People Act that had led to the introduction of EVMS.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, heard the submissions of lawyer M L Sharma, that the public interest litigation (PIL) required hearing in view of upcoming assembly elections in the five states of Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Punjab, Manipur and Uttarakhand. The lawyer further demanded that the elections be held through ballot papers.“We will see it... I may list it before some other bench as well,” the CJI was quoted as saying.According to a PTI report, Sharma said Section 61A of the Representation of People Act, which permitted the use of EVMs, was not passed by Parliament and, hence, cannot be imposed.“I have filed the petition which is supported with the evidence on the record. A judicial note can be taken note of the case...let the election be held through ballot papers,” the lawyer said.The plea, which made the Union Law ministry a party, sought declaration of the provision as “void, illegal and unconstitutional” as there was no provision of EVM.The upcoming assembly polls are scheduled to be held between February 10 and March 10.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-consider-hearing-pil-against-electronic-voting-machines-101642593891993.html
19-01-2022||India||Blast in AC compartment of INS Ranvir led to death of 3 sailors: Officials||NEW DELHI: The blast onboard Indian Navy destroyer INS Ranvir that killed three sailors and left 11 injured on Tuesday took place in the ship’s air conditioning compartment and was possibly linked to Freon gas leak, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. The three men who perished were in an adjacent compartment when the explosion took place on Tuesday evening, the officials said. In a statement, the Indian Navy on Wednesday identified the deceased men as Master Chief Petty Officer (MCPO) I Krishan Kumar, MCPO II Surinder Kumar and MCPO II AK Singh. An MCPO I is equivalent to a Subedar Major in the army, while an MCPO II is equivalent to a Subedar. Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar and all personnel of the Indian Navy extended their condolences to the families of the three men. “We fully stand by with the families in this difficult time,” the Navy’s statement added. The incident took place at the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai. The ship’s crew responded immediately and quickly brought the situation under control, the navy said on Tuesday, adding that no major material damage to the destroyer was reported. INS Ranvir was on a cross-coast operational deployment from the Visakhapatnam-based Eastern Naval Command since November 2021 and was due to return to its base port, officials said. The navy has instituted a board of inquiry to investigate the cause of the accident. Manned by a crew of 30 officers and 310 sailors, INS Ranvir was commissioned into the Indian Navy in April 1986. The destroyer, built in erstwhile Soviet Union, has a displacement of 5,000 tonnes, length of 146 metres, beam of 15.8 metres and top speed of 30 knots. It is armed with a variety of weapons including surface-to-surface missiles, surface-to-air missiles, anti-aircraft guns and torpedoes. INS Ranvir is among the warships commanded by Admiral Kumar in his 38-year military career.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-in-ac-compartment-of-ins-ranvir-led-to-death-of-3-sailors-officials-101642593740732.html
19-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Covid cases in Mumbai under control, BMC tells HC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 infections in Mumbai under control, BMC tells Bombay high courtThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday told the Bombay high court that the Covid situation in Mumbai and surrounding areas is under control as the daily count of new Covid-19 infections has gone down from around 20,000 just 10 days back to 7,000 on Tuesday, and that there is no need to panic. Read more‘What if Channi’s premises were…’: AAP on ED raids on Punjab CM’s nephewThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday took a jibe at Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over the raids carried out by the Enforcement Directorate on the premises of his nephew Bhupinder Singh alias Honey. Read moreSC dismisses Rajgir landowners’ petition seeking revised compensationThe Supreme Court has dismissed the special leave petitions (SLPs) on merit﻿ and disposed of pending applications of land owners against the April 22, 2019 Patna high court order related to landowners’ claim of higher compensation for their land acquired in Rajgir. Read more2021 was among the seven hottest years on record, says UN bodyLast year was one of the seven hottest years on record, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), a United Nations body, said on Wednesday. Read moreEar infections on rise during winters; expert tips to followApart from the many health issues triggered by winter season, ear infections in people of all age groups is on rise these days. Many people are being diagnosed with middle and inner ear infections which are generally caused by inflammation from a bacteria or virus. Read moreBoss’ comment on her tattoos leaves woman ‘shocked’ but in a good wayTattoos, despite being a very commonly used form of body modification, have a lot of stereotypes associated with them. People also often take to social media to share their stories regarding the same. Read moreMahindra joins hands with Hero Electric to manufacture electric two-wheelersElectric two-wheeler manufacturer Hero Electric has announced a joint venture with the Mahindra Group today to manufacture electric vehicles for India together. Read moreFardeen Khan tests positive for Covid-19: ‘Fortunately I am asymptomatic’; fans wish for his ‘speedy recovery’Actor Fardeen Khan revealed on Wednesday that he has tested positive for Covid-19. The actor also added that he is asymptomatic. Read moreIND vs SA: Jasprit Bumrah ends 925-day wait with wicket of Janneman Malan in Paarl ODIJasprit Bumrah gave his team the perfect start with the wicket of Janneman Malan in the third over of the first ODI between India and South Africa in Paarl. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-cases-in-mumbai-under-control-bmc-tells-hc-101642591987592.html
19-01-2022||India||Mulayam Singh Yadav’s daughter-in-law joins BJP||LUCKNOW: Ending days of speculation, Aparna Yadav, the younger daughter-in-law of Samajwadi Party (SP) patron Mulayam Singh Yadav, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi on Wednesday. She was inducted into the party in presence of deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev.“Aparna ji ka bhajapa parivar main swagat hai (Aparna, welcome to the BJP family),” tweeted chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Aparna Yadav praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said she was drawn to the BJP’s “India first” ideology and would commit herself to “worship of the nation”.She was inducted into the party days after 14 important leaders, mainly from Other Backward Classes (OBCs), defected from the BJP to the SP.While welcoming her into the party, BJP leaders repeatedly referred to Aparna Yadav as “honourable leader Mulayam Singh’s daughter-in-law”.In Lucknow, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said his father spoke to Aparna Yadav and attempted to stop her from joining the BJP. He wished her well.Aparna Yadav said the BJP leadership would take a call on from where she would contest and the regions, she may be sent for campaigning for the Uttar Pradesh polls.Maurya said Akhilesh Yadav “is not successful even in his family” while Dev said Aparna Yadav’s joined the BJP as she knew the party cared about the safety of women.Aparna Yadav is the wife of Prateek Yadav, Akhilesh Yadav’s half-brother. In 2017, she contested the elections from Lucknow Cantt seat as SP candidate but lost to BJP’s Rita Bahuguna Joshi.BJP leader Daya Shankar Singh, who accompanied Aparna Yadav to Delhi, said her joining was in the works for almost a month.Aparna Yadav met BJP chief JP Nadda and Adityanath after joining the party.
19-01-2022||India||Kerala vlogger Sreekanth Vettiyar booked for rape||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala police on Tuesday filed a rape case against Malayalam vlogger Sreekanth Vettiyar.The survivor, a resident of Pathanamthitta, posted about the incident on social media and a week later she formally filed a complaint against him at a police station in Kochi. Police said Vettiyar, also a comedian, is missing after the case was registered. In her social media post, the woman said she was known to him for many years and he invited her to a flat in Kochi on the pretext of celebrating his birthday and she was raped brutally. She said he later promised to marry her but was incommunicado later. She said after she posted her bitter experience on social media, a couple of other women also shared similar experience and she thought it fit to approach the police. “He manipulated me several times to ensure that I will not open up about the crime. The mental trauma I faced in the last couple of months was unexplainable. The criminal involved in the crime is roaming around freely and he gives lengthy lectures on liberalism and modern attitude,” said the woman in her post in Malayalam. She alleged that he also extracted money from her a couple of times. A senior officer of the central police station in Ernakulam said he was booked under Section 376 (2) of the Indian Penal Code (rape) and investigation was on. Police said the survivor’s statement will be recorded before a court later and they will move an application for this. They are also planning to approach other victims as well. Vettiyar is a content creator and his social media page “Vettiyar Trolls” has wide viewership. There are reports that he allegedly tricked other women offering role in one of the movies he was planning to make.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-vlogger-sreekanth-vettiyar-booked-for-rape-101642591460433.html
19-01-2022||India||Dozens of trainee IAS officers test positive for Covid-19||MUSSOORIE: At least 85 trainee Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers and faculty members tested positive for Covid-19 at Mussoorie’s Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNA) on Wednesday.Rajiv Dikshit, nodal health officer, Dehradun, said the number could rise and that the trainees were tested after arriving at the academy via Dehradun on Sunday.The administration has created a containment zone on the academy campus.As many as 489 civil services officers of the 96th foundation course and faculty members were part of a field study and research programme that began on December 27. IAS trainees visited villages near international borders across the country before getting infected. They have been directed to home isolate and seek necessary medication.Earlier, 54 Covid-19 cases were reported at the academy in November 2020.Apart from the cases at the academy, the situation is under control in Mussoorie. At least 50 Covid-19 cases have been reported over the past two days and all of the infected persons have been advised to stay quarantined at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dozens-of-trainee-ias-officers-test-positive-for-covid19-101642590740603.html
19-01-2022||India||SC dismisses Rajgir landowners’ petition seeking revised compensation||PATNA: The Supreme Court has dismissed the special leave petitions (SLPs) on merit﻿ and disposed of pending applications of land owners against the April 22, 2019 Patna high court order related to landowners’ claim of higher compensation for their land acquired in Rajgir. The apex court order earlier this month has saved over ₹3000-crore of the central and Bihar governments, as it has set at rest the controversy over claim of huge amount as enhanced compensation for land by the landowners of Rajgir. A number of land owners at Rajgir whose lands were acquired by the district authorities of Nalanda for construction of the ordinance factory under Ministry of Defence filed several writ petitions, claiming higher compensation. “As a result of this, the Bihar Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authority/ Tribunal, Patna, headed by a district judge, had earlier passed the Award in the year 2018 for payment of more than four times the value of land with interest for around more than one thousand acres of land and started recovery proceedings against the State Government and Central Government under which more than Rs. 3000 Crores was required to be paid,” said former additional solicitor general (ASG) of India SD Sanjay. The then ASG, Sanjay advised the Defence Ministry to file an appeal before the division bench of the Patna high court even though there was more than three years of delay. “I was convinced that since the acquisition was completed before coming into force of the new land acquisition Act, the earlier order of the single-judge was not appropriate and consequently the Award passed by the Land Tribunal suffered from error of law,” he added. The Division Bench of Patna high court presided by the then Chief Justice AP Sahi and Justice Anjana Mishra vide its detailed judgment on April 22, 2019 allowed the appeal of Union of India and set aside not only the judgment of single judge but also the award wrongly enhancing the compensation many times the value of the land which in all would have been more than ₹3000 Crores to be shared by the central and the state governments. “Thereafter the land owners preferred appeal before the Supreme Court which was heard by a bench presided over by Justice AN Khanwilkar and Justice CT Ravi Kumar, which after considering the judgment of Patna high court, dismissed the appeal on merits,” Sanjay said. 
19-01-2022||India||CDS Rawat's brother to join BJP? Here's what he said on meeting Uttarakhand CM||Colonel (retd) Vijay Rawat, brother of India's late Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, on Wednesday, met Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami leading to speculation that he might join the ruling the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in the hill state.The retired colonel met the Uttarakhand chief minister in Delhi, following which he said, “I like his (Dhami's) vision for the state. It matches with what my brother (the late CDS) had in his mind.”When asked about his joining the saffron camp, he said, “In case they ask me, I will serve the people of Uttarakhand.”I like his (Uttarakhand CM) vision for State. It matches what my brother (late CDS Bipin Rawat) had in his mind. BJP has same mindset. In case they ask me, I'll serve people of Uttarakhand (will you join BJP?): Late CDS Gen Bipin Rawat’s brother Colonel Vijay Rawat (retired) https://t.co/6U7uBLWphRThe Uttarakhand chief minister, too, took to his personal handle on Twitter to salute the service to the nation done by the Rawat family.“Today in Delhi, met Col. Vijay Rawat ji, brother of the first CDS of the country and the pride of Uttarakhand Late Bipin Rawat ji,” wrote Dhami on Twitter. “We salute the service to the nation done by Bipin Rawat ji and his family. I will always work to transform Uttarakhand according to their dreams.”आज दिल्ली में देश के प्रथम CDS और उत्तराखण्ड के अभिमान स्वर्गीय श्री बिपिन रावत जी के भाई कर्नल विजय रावत जी से भेंट की। बिपिन रावत जी व उनके परिवार द्वारा की गई राष्ट्रसेवा को हमारा नमन है। मैं सदैव उनके सपनों के अनुरूप उत्तराखण्ड बनाने हेतु कार्य करता रहूंगा। pic.twitter.com/iACim4sNqGCDS Rawat, who hailed from Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, died in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8 along with 13 others, including his wife Madhulika.In the days following his death, it was revealed that the four-star general of the Indian Army had a bunch of unfulfilled plans in service to the nation, including the setting up of more than a few ‘sainik schools’ across India to help underprivileged students prepare themselves for the armed forces.Remembering the late CDS, Dhami said, “On the strength of his (General Rawat's) extraordinary talent, hard work, and indomitable courage and bravery, he rose to the highest post of the army and gave a new direction to the security systems of the country and the Indian Army. Uttarakhand has also suffered a great loss due to his sudden demise. We all will always be proud of this great son of ours.”Now, the potential inclusion of the late CDS’ brother into the BJP fold ahead of the forthcoming assembly elections is likely to provide the party with an additional electoral edge.Polls to elect the 70-member Uttarakhand assembly are scheduled to be held on February 14. The counting of votes will be done on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-rawat-s-brother-to-join-bjp-here-s-what-he-said-on-meeting-uttarakhand-cm-101642587756205.html
19-01-2022||India||Odisha begins trial run of OmiSure test kit for fast detection of Omicron variant of Covid||Odisha on Wednesday started the trial run of ‘OmiSure’ RT-PCR test kits for early detection of the Omicron variant of Covid-19. OmiSure is developed by Tata Medical and Diagnostics Ltd in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).On January 10, Odisha had placed an order to procure 5 lakh ‘OmiSure’ kits, becoming the first-ever state in India to buy the kit that would detect the fast-spreading variant. In the first phase, the state has received 30,000 kits.Officials said the OmiSure kit can detect Omicron in nasopharyngeal/oropharyngeal specimens during the RT-PCR tests. It is compatible with all standard RT-PCR machines.“The trial run of the OmiSure kits were in progress. It will be first used for internal study and the kits will then be dispatched to districts reporting a higher number of cases,” Bijay Mohapatra, the state’s director of health services, told news agency PTI.Mohapatra said OmiSure will be first used in Berhampur, Cuttack, Rourkela and Bhubaneswar cities of Odisha, besides districts recording a high Covid-19 positivity rate. As per official data on Tuesday, Sundargarh had recorded the highest test positivity rate (TPR) of 36.1 per cent, followed by Khurda at 31.1 per cent. Twenty-five districts in Odisha are in the red zone with TPR above 7.5 per cent, PTI further reported.Odisha has, so far, reported 202 Omicron cases since the variant was detected in the country in December last year. On January 7, the state reported its first death due to Omicron which was also the second death across India.Meanwhile, the daily Covid-19 tally in the state continued an upward trend with 11,607 infections recorded on Tuesday, pushing the caseload to 11,67,094. Six more patients died and the toll climbed to 8,494. Tuesday’s fatality count has been the highest in more than three months.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-begins-trial-run-of-omisure-test-kit-for-fast-detection-of-omicron-101642580857937.html
19-01-2022||India||PM Modi to host first ever India-Central Asia Summit in virtual format on Jan 27||NEW DELHI: India on Wednesday announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host the first India-Central Asia Summit in a virtual format on January 27 as part of the country’s engagement with the extended neighbourhood. The development follows the government’s decision to go ahead with Republic Day celebrations on January 26 without any foreign leader as chief guest because of a surge in Covid-19 infections. The Indian side had earlier invited the leaders of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to be chief guests, though no formal announcement was made by any of the countries. The external affairs ministry said the presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan will participate in the virtual summit, described as the “first engagement of its kind between India and the Central Asian countries at the level of leaders”. The summit reflects New Delhi’s growing engagement with the Central Asian states, part of India’s “extended neighbourhood”, and is symbolic of the importance attached by leaders of India and Central Asia to a comprehensive and enduring partnership, the ministry said. At the summit, the leaders are expected to discuss steps to take India-Central Asia relations to newer heights, and exchange views on regional and international issues, “especially the evolving regional security situation”, the ministry said. Watch: Indian Navy personnel groove to music at Republic Day rehearsalModi had visited all the Central Asian states in 2015, and there have been exchanges at high levels at bilateral and multilateral forums. The India-Central Asia Dialogue at the level of foreign ministers, the third meeting of which was held in New Delhi in December, has given impetus to relations between the two sides. “The participation of the secretaries of national security councils of Central Asian countries in the Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan held in New Delhi on November 10, 2021 outlined a common regional approach on Afghanistan,” the external affairs ministry said. This is the second year in a row that the Republic Day celebrations have been affected by the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic. The rapid spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in the past few weeks and recent violent protests in Kazakhstan, which resulted in the death of more than 220 people, were factors that went against the participation of the Central Asian leaders, people familiar with the matter. Last year, India went ahead with truncated Republic Day celebrations without a chief guest after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called off his visit at the last minute because of the rapid spread of a strain of the coronavirus in Britain. It is extremely rare for the Republic Day celebrations, seen as a high point in the country’s diplomatic calendar, not to have a chief guest.
19-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave: Another 2-3 weeks? 10 things SBI report on pandemic reveals||The SBI (State Bank of India) Research report on the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic says the ongoing wave is likely to stretch another three weeks maximum. The optimism comes from the massive decline in new caseloads in the top 15 districts which had the maximum infections, the report published on Tuesday said. India on Wednesday over 2.82 lakh new infections taking the number of active cases to 18,31,000, the highest in 232 days.Here are 10 points the SBI report says about Covid third wave in India1. Mumbai reached its peak on January 7 when it reported 20,971 cases, the report said.2. Pune and Bengaluru are still showing an increase in daily new numbers. If other districts also implement strict measures and control the spread, then the national peak may come within 2-3 weeks after the Mumbai peak.Covid 3rd wave: India unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases per day, scientists project3. New cases in the top 15 districts, including 10 major cities, have declined to 37.4 in January 2022 from 67.9 in December 2021. 4. This decline is complemented by the increase of new cases being reported from districts. The overall share of rural districts in new cases has increased to 32.6% in January 2022 from the 14.4% in December 2021.5. The rural share of these new cases are coming from Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha and Rajasthan.6. On the vaccination front, the SBI report said Andra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Uttarakhand have already vaccinated more than 70% of their eligible population with double doses. Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand are still lagging. 7. In other countries, the peak of a wave arrived within 54 days after cases started to increase, in general. Present peak time cases on an average are 3.3 times higher than the previous peak, the report said.8. Among the top 15 districts, which contributed majorly to India's daily caseload, Delhi, North 24 Parganas and Mumbai reached their peak, the report said.9. During the second wave of the pandemic in April-May 2021, the peak came at different dates. Mumbai had reached the peak of the 2nd wave first, 26 days before the national peak.10. According to the SBI Research report, Delhi reached the 3rd wave peak on January 13 the day on which it reported over 28,000 cases. During the 2nd wave, Delhi had reached its peak 16 days before the national peak.The trend of metro cities reaching the peak before districts continues in the third wave too, the report indicated. Peak refers to the worst Covid-19 situation in a state or a city after which the daily number of cases, positivity rates etc start going down. This can happen when the spread can be contained by maintaining Covid appropriate behaviour, restrictions on movement, vaccination etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-another-2-3-weeks-10-things-sbi-report-on-pandemic-reveals-101642578733626.html
19-01-2022||India||Suspension of regular international commercial flights extended till Feb 28||NEW DELHI: The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday extended the suspension of regular international commercial flights till February 28. “The competent authority has decided to extend the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs IST of February 28, 2022,” said a DGCA circular stated. It added the restriction will not apply to international cargo operations and other flights the DGCA has approved.The Covid-19 pandemic prompted the suspension of passenger flights in March 2020. International commercial flights resumed from July 2020 under air bubble arrangements, which India has with over two dozen countries. “Flights under air bubble arrangement will not be affected,” said the DGCA circular. The full resumption of flights was postponed last month after several countries reimposed travel bans in view of the threat from the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The flights were earlier scheduled to fully resume from December 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-of-regular-international-commercial-flights-extended-till-feb-28-101642579879339.html
19-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Around 207 million estimated to be unemployed in 2022, says report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.52 million job deficit, 21 million more unemployed in 2022: ReportA return to the pre-pandemic performance of the global labour market is likely to remain elusive for much of the world in the coming years, the International Labour Organization (ILO) has said. Read morePalanquins carry women to hospital from remote, hilly Bengal villagesPasalam Dukpa, 22, a resident of a remote village in the Buxa Tiger Reserve in West Bengal’s Alipurduar, was lucky to have reached a local hospital on January 14 to give birth to a girl. Read moreWe fully stand by with kin: Navy chief condoles of lives in INS Ranvir blastChief of Naval Staff Admiral R Hari Kumar on Wednesday condoled the loss of three navy personnel who were killed onboard INS Ranvir on Tuesday evening. Read moreBeijing adds 3 more Covid-19 cases weeks ahead of Winter OlympicsChina's capital Beijing has reported three more Covid-19 cases since Monday, weeks before the Winter Olympics are scheduled to kick off in the capital on February 4. Read more'In T20 WC they failed to make early inroads': Salman Butt makes big prediction on two India bowlers for SA ODIsTeam India will return to the ODI action on Wednesday when the side takes on South Africa in the first of the three-match series in Paarl. Read moreTata Tiago CNG, Tigor CNG launched. Price, specs and mileage details hereTata Motors on Wednesday has launched CNG variants of Tiago and Tigor. Tata Tiago CNG price starts at ₹6.09 lakh (ex-showroom), while the Tata Tigor CNG price starts at ₹7.69 lakh (ex-showroom). Read moreWoman stands atop Burj Khalifa again in new Emirates ad. Video ends with a twistIf you are a regular user of the Internet, chances are you have seen the advertisement by Dubai-based airlines Emirates involving Burj Khalifa that went crazy viral online. Read moreBharti Singh calls herself 'India's first pregnant anchor', says Colors is making two people work but paying for oneComedian-host Bharti Singh is feeling proud to be able to work in her pregnancy and calling herself ‘India’s first pregnant anchor'. She will be seen hosting the new reality show Hunarbaaz Desh Ki Shaan, along with husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa. Read moreWatch| Indian Navy personnel groove to music at Republic Day rehearsal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-around-207-million-estimated-to-be-unemployed-in-2022-101642576628173.html
19-01-2022||India||Scheduled international flights to remain suspended till February 28||Scheduled international commercial flights to and from India will remain suspended till February 28, Director General of Civil Aviation said in a fresh order on Wednesday. Flights under air bubble arrangements will not be affected, the DGCA said. The decision comes as the world is braving a fresh wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, driven by Omicron, the latest variant of the SARS-CoV-2.In November 2021, the Centre decided to resume scheduled international flight operations from December 15. The emergence of Omicron threw a spanner in the plan and the government withdrew the decision to resume scheduled international flights days before January 15.Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India from March 23, 2020, two days before a nationwide lockdown was imposed in the country. The suspension was extended every month allowing emergency international travel under the air bubble agreements.India reports 2,82,970 new Covid cases, active cases highest in over 7 monthsIndia has air transport bubbles with Afghanistan, Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Canada, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal, Netherlands, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Russia, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Tanzania, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, US and Uzbekistan. The agreements allow both-way air travel under some terms and conditions. No direct air travel is allowed to countries not covered under air travel bubble agreements. International air travel has come on the radar as Omicron, the variant first detected in South Africa on November 24, 2021, travelled to India through international travellers. The first Omicron cases were international travellers which prompted Delhi, West Bengal to raise demand for banning international flights from countries worst-affected by Omicron. Flights under the air bubble agreement were not banned but India identified some countries as 'at-risk'. The list includes all countries of Europe, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, Israel, Congo, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Nigeria, Tunisia and Zambia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scheduled-international-flights-to-remain-suspended-till-february-28-101642576249777.html
19-01-2022||India||Muzaffarabad-Yarkand road makes Siachen demilitarization unworkable||On January 12, three days before the Army Day, Chief of Army Staff Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane replying to a question on his views on the demilitarization of Siachen Glacier said that the Indian Army was not averse to it but the precondition for that was that Pakistan accepted the 110 km actual ground position line north of NJ 9842. The Army chief was responding to questions which were submitted in advance.Gen Naravane said, “We are not averse to the demilitarization of the glacier but the pre-condition for that is to accept the AGPL. Pakistan has to accept what are their positions and what are ours, and both of us have to sign on the dotted line before any kind of disengagement takes place. What is happening in eastern Ladakh is quite similar…first disengagement, then de-induction and de-escalation, which is another way of saying demilitarization.While Gen Naravane spelt out the Indian Army’s position on the issue, the matter has become far more complicated for national security planners with Pakistan and China proposing a road connecting Yarkand in Sinkiang to Muzaffarabad in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir through Shaksgam Valley, a 5193-square-kilometres territory that Pakistan illegally ceded to China in 1963. The Shaksgam Valley lies in the trans-Karakoram range watershed.Area maps clearly show that Rimo Glacier, Teram Shehr Glacier and the Siachen Glacier are located within the Indian union territory of Ladakh. The adjoining areas of these glaciers are PLA dominated territories like Shaksgam Valley and Yarkand Valley in the north and PoK in the west in addition to the warlike deployments by the PLA in Aksai Chin opposite Daulet Beg Oldi sector in the east. The PLA has a history of aggressive transgressions into what the Army calls sub-sector north and it is adamant in blocking the Indian Army patrols in Depsang Bulge south of DBO with massive brigade-level deployments at Tein Wein Dein (TWD) across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) facing DBO Indian post. Although the Army Chief is in the knowledge of these facts, the proposed Muzaffarabad-Shaksgam-Yarkand Valley road will not only boost the military interoperability between two iron brothers but also pose a two-front threat to Indian forces in the sub-sector north.The Indian Army controls the Saltoro Ridge that provides ingress into Siachen Glacier since 1984 post-Operation Meghdoot. Siachen Glacier is located in the eastern Karakoram range, just northeast of NJ 9842, where the Line of Control between India and Pakistan ends. Teram Shehr and Rimo Glaciers are located East of Siachen glacier and south of Shaksgam and Yarkand Valley, where the PLA has deployed nuclear missiles. These glaciers under Indian control not only provide access to Shaksgam Valley and Yarkand Valley but also provide depth to defence of Siachen and DBO sector.The military situation in the area is quite precarious with China building all-weather access to Pakistan via Karakoram Pass, just 18 km from DBO plateau, and trying to militarily impose India rejected 1959 line on the LAC in Ladakh. All-weather friend of China, Pakistan is proposing the Muzaffarabad-Yarkand Valley road so that it can put pressure on the Indian positions on Siachen in the name of trade with China.Under the circumstances, it would be militarily prudent for Indian Army to put the demilitarization of Siachen on the back-burner till such time the Chinese PLA agrees to respect the Ladakh LAC and restores April 2020 status quo ante as well as allow India unhindered rights to patrol Depsang Bulge and Charding Nullah Junction (CNJ) in Demchok sector. Faced with a two front threat from iron brothers, demilitarization of Siachen at this point is an unworkable idea.(Disclaimer: The map used in the story is for representational purposes only)
19-01-2022||India||Crop residue burning contributes to secondary particulate matter: Study||NEW DELHI: Crop residue burning in October and November contributed to around 31% of PM 2.5 concentrations (in the range of 15% to 47%) in Delhi and around 21% in the range of 6% to 36% in Kanpur during those months in 2013 and 2014, according to a new research paper.The paper by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur scientists Pavan K Nagar and Mukesh Sharma was published in Elsevier journal on January 5. It used a Weather Research and Forecasting model coupled with Chemistry and another hybrid chemical transport model to study the impact of crop residue burning from October to November in 2013 and 2014. During the study period, the contribution of crop residue burning to PM 2.5 concentration was on an average 72 micrograms per cubic metres in Delhi and 48 micrograms per cubic metres in Kanpur. The average PM2.5 concentration was 246 micrograms per cubic metres (in the range of 117 to 375) in Delhi and 229 micrograms per cubic metres (in the range of 115 to 343) in Kanpur during October and November.Air quality monitoring for PM 2.5 was carried out at four sites (Rohini, Okhla, Dwarka, Vasant Kunj) in Delhi in November and December of 2013. In Kanpur, it was carried out at IIT during November–December (2013) and October to December in 2014.Delhi and Kanpur are among the cities directly affected by crop residue burning in places such as Punjab and HaryanaAlso Read | Farm minister says crop-burning to be decriminalised, farmers suspend Parliament march“One of the significant findings of this study is that crop residue burning contributes to secondary particulate matter. We found that vapours and gases like sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, non-methane hydrocarbons and non-methane volatile organic compounds convert to particulate matter through photochemical reactions as they travel through the Ganga basin. This is why their contribution to PM 2.5 concentrations is high. Normally we only account for primary particulate matter emissions from crop residue burning,” said Sharma. “The paper also highlights how the gases and particulate matter from crop residue burning can travel long distances up to Kanpur.”In India, the crop residue burning emissions decreased by 1.5% in 2015 and 3% in 2020 compared to 2010, according to a study referred to in the paper. Crop residue burning periods in India are April–May (Rabi crop) and October–November (Kharif crop).In Punjab and Haryana, paddy residue is burned during October and November and causes a dramatic increase in air pollution levels.“We also found during our analysis that contribution from crop stubble fires during October and November to PM 2.5 concentrations was 25 to 30%. But it varies a lot depending on weather conditions and number of fires,” said VK Soni, who heads India Meteorological Department’s environment and research centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crop-residue-burning-contributes-to-secondary-particulate-matter-study-101642571118252.html
19-01-2022||India||India reports 2,82,970 new Covid cases, active cases highest in over 7 months||India's daily coronavirus (Covid-19) infections jumped to 2,82,970 as the country saw a spike after a few days of marginal dip in daily tally. With this, the overall rally reached 3,79,01,241 including 8,961 cases of the Omicron variant, according to the data published on the Union health ministry's website. There has been an 0.79 per cent increase in Omicron cases since Tuesday, the ministry informed.The death toll reached 4,87,202 after over 400 people succumbed to the viral disease, the data also showed.As of Wednesday morning, the country has a total of 18,31,000 active cases, the highest in the last more than seven months. According to the data, the active cases currently account for 4.83 per cent of the total caseload.The national recovery rate stood at 93.88 per cent. Over the last 24 hours 1,88,157 people recuperated from the viral respiratory disease. Total recoveries now stand at 3,55,83,039.As per the data, the daily positivity rate is at 15.13 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate is at 15.53 per cent.On the vaccination front, the authorities have administered 158.88 crore doses under the nationwide vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-2-82-970-new-covid-cases-active-cases-highest-in-over-7-months-101642567103164.html
19-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Cold day conditions to abate in most of northwest India, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cold day conditions to abate in most parts of northwest IndiaCold conditions marked by significantly low day temperatures are likely to abate in most parts of northwest India and are expected to be followed by a two-day wet spell from January 21, said the India Meteorological Department. Read more…Russia can invade Ukraine at any moment, warns USIn a clear escalation of the tensions over Ukraine, the United States warned on Tuesday that Russia could, at any point, attack Ukraine. But while terming it an “extremely dangerous” situation, Washington kept the doors for diplomacy open with Moscow – with US secretary of state Antony Blinken speaking to his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, and both leaders agreeing to meet in Geneva this week. Read more…‘Mann is Senapati..': Raghav Chadha on why AAP’s move will help it clinch PunjabEnding weeks of speculation, Aam Aadmi Party became the first political party in Punjab to announce Bhagwant Mann as their chief ministerial candidate. It has ended, a 2-time MP from Sangrur – Bhagwant Mann’s 5-year wait. AAP’s Raghav Chadha in conversation with Hindustan Times’ Aditi Prasad revealed how Bhagwant Mann matured as a politician in Punjab and why he was an apt choice for Aam Aadmi Party in the state. Read more…‘Dravid remains composed, Kohli is aggressive’: Ex-PAK opener points ‘compatibility issue’ behind Virat's decisionVirat Kohli shocked the world when he announced to step down from Test captaincy via a post on social media. In a long emotional post, the 33-year-old expressed his gratitude towards BCCI, the former coach Ravi Shastri and MS Dhoni, bringing an end to a glorious seven-year-old chapter. Read more…Soha Ali Khan says dinner-table conversations with Saif Ali Khan, Kareena Kapoor and Kunal Kemmu are about ‘inheritance’Soha Ali Khan gave a witty answer when asked about the kind of conversations she has with her husband Kunal Kemmu, brother Saif Ali Khan and sister-in-law Kareena Kapoor when they get together for dinner. She joked that they discuss ‘inheritance’. Read more…Shruti Seth performs Downward Dog variation with a yoga chair. Video insideShruti Seth is back to her fitness routine in full form. The actor, who is a fitness enthusiast, keeps sharing snippets of her yoga routine on her Instagram profile on a regular basis. Shruti swears by high-intensity workouts and yoga and her Instagram profile is a plethora of glimpses of the same. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cold-day-conditions-to-abate-in-most-of-northwest-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101642561194729.html
19-01-2022||India||Mumbai blasts perpetrators given state protection in Pak; enjoyed 5-star hospitality: India at UN||India at the UN said on Tuesday that the crime syndicate responsible for the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts was not just given state protection but it also enjoyed a five-star hospitality, in a veiled reference to the D-company head Dawood Ibrahim believed to be hiding in Pakistan.India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told the International Counter Terrorism Conference 2022 organised by the Global Counter Terrorism Council that linkages between terrorism and transnational organised crime must be fully recognised and addressed vigorously.“We have seen the crime syndicate responsible for the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts not just given state protection but enjoying 5-star hospitality,” he said.Tirumurti’s remarks were a thinly-veiled reference to D-Company and its head Ibrahim, believed to be hiding in Pakistan.In August 2020, Pakistan had for the first time acknowledged the presence of Ibrahim on its soil after the government imposed sweeping sanctions on 88 banned terror groups and their leaders which also included the name of the underworld don wanted by India.Tirumurti said that the UN sanctions regimes, including the 1267 Al-Qaida Sanctions Committee, are pivotal to the international efforts in preventing terror-financing, terrorist-travel and access to arms by the terrorist organisations.He, however, voiced concern that the implementation of these measures remains challenging.“It is critical that all sanctions regimes established by the Council ensure due process in their working procedures and decision-making. The decision-making process and listing/delisting measures should be objective, swift, credible, evidence based and transparent, and not for political and religious considerations,” the Indian Ambassador said.He said that a recent report of the Monitoring Team (MT) on the asset freeze exemption procedures pursuant to resolution 2560 (2020) points to the lacunae of asset freeze measures by member states, partly due to deficiencies in the existing guidelines of the Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-blasts-perpetrators-given-state-protection-in-pak-enjoyed-5-star-hospitality-india-at-un-101642559850137.html
19-01-2022||India||Lok Sabha seeks reports on economic use of paper||NEW DELHI: The Lok Sabha secretariat last week asked its branches to furnish quarterly reports on the economic use of paper as Parliament seeks to go greener.“It is...brought to the notice of all concerned that the requisite quarterly reports for the last two quarters of 2021 are yet to be received from a large number of branches, sections, units thereby hindering follow-up action,” said a Lok Sabha circular.Officials said the reports are to be furnished by January 21 and then the reduction in the use of paper would be part of the annual report of the Lok Sabha secretariat.The Parliament complex has gone greener with the use of electric cars, battery-driven golf carts, and LED lamps.The use of paper is already restricted in Parliament as many notices, bulletins, and reports are now published online. A new app has been created for lawmakers to submit online notices and upload questions for the Question Hour, etc. Earlier, they had to fill up forms or submit written notices.The new Parliament building would also be greener with many eco-friendly features.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-seeks-reports-on-economic-use-of-paper-101642561517964.html
19-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave: India unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases per day, scientists project||The latest analysis of the Covid-19 situation by scientists reveals that the overall peak of the third wave in India will arrive on January 23 but the daily case is unlikely to cross 4 lakh. Delhi, Mumbai have already reached their peak earlier in the second week of January, the Sutra model of Covid tracker said.IIT professor Manindra Agrawal, one of the researchers of the Sutra consortium that has been working with Covid numbers since the beginning of the pandemic, said the trajectories have been changing across the country. There might be two reasons for that: One, the spread of Omicron among those with less immunity has slowed down as the population group is now exhausted. Finally India. Trajectory with data up to 11th indicates the peak on 23th Jan with nearly 7.2 lakh cases per day. Actual trajectory is already deviating significantly, and actual peak is unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases/day. pic.twitter.com/2aUdatnuhYGiving a statewise picture of the peak of the ongoing third wave, the model revealed that Mumbai reached its peak on January 12 and the numbers are now decreasing rapidly. Delhi peaked on January 16 and Kolkata on January 13. Bengaluru will reach its peak on January 22. According to the finding, Maharashtra, Gujarat and UP are predicted to peak on Jan 19, Assam on January 26.Also Read: What Omicron peak in India could look like in terms of daily cases, bed requirement, experts predict"Hospitalisations continue to be very low. Uttar Pradesh, I understand, has less than 1% reported cases needing hospitalisation," Prof Agrawal noted.India on Tuesday recorded 2.38 lakh cases continuing the decrease of the daily cases after reaching the highest of 2.6 lakh a few days ago.Delhi authorities have been hinting at the plateau as the national capital saw its daily cases stabilising. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 11,684 new infections and on Monday, the 24-hour tally was 12,527. On January 13, Delhi reported 28,867 Covid cases, the sharpest single-day spike.Covid 3rd wave peak in these states and cities:Assam: January 26Bihar: January 17Uttar Pradesh: January 19Haryana: January 20Gujarat: January 19Maharashtra: January 19Karnataka: January 23Andhra Pradesh: January 30Tamil Nadu: January 25Bengaluru: January 22Kolkata: January 13Delhi: January 16Mumbai: January 12This is a mathematical projection by the Sutra consortium calculated based on Covid data. The Covid situation on the ground is evolving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-india-unlikely-to-cross-4-lakh-cases-per-day-scientists-project-101642552674894.html
19-01-2022||NA||Breaking highlights: 12 more Mumbai Police personnel test positive for Covid-19||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:12 more policemen test Covid-19 positive in Mumbai12 policemen tested Covid-19 positive in Mumbai in the last 24 hours. Active cases 1246; thus far, a total of 10,678 policemen have tested positive, while 127 have died in the city: Mumbai PolicePM Modi to address Brahma Kumaris' programme tomorrowAt 10:30am tomorrow, 20th January, will be joining a programme of the Brahma Kumaris where they will start their Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. Will also flag off various initiatives being organised by them: Narendra Modi, Prime Minister‘Bomb threat’ call received at CRPF HQs, say Delhi PoliceBomb threat call received at CRPF headquarters, this evening. Nothing suspicious was found, call declared as 'hoax', caller being searched: Delhi PoliceAfter 5 straight dips, Delhi sees rise in daily Covid-19 casesDelhi reports 13,785 new Covid-19 cases, 17.9% higher than yesterday's daily tally of 11,684, a health department bulletin shows.Lata Mangeshkar, Covid-19 positive, remains in ICULata Ji is still in ICU, we are trying our best to ensure she recovers soon. Pray for her recovery: Dr Pratit Samdani, Breach Candy Hospital, MumbaiMumbai logs 6032 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deathsMumbai reports 6032 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths and 18,241 recoveries, data shared by its civic body, the BMC, shows.Karnataka revises guidelines for testing, isolation and quarantineFor general population, patients in home isolation shall be released after at least 7 days have passed from testing positive and no fever for 3 preceding and successive days; no need for re-testing: Karnataka govt‘Most Covid-19 curbs to be lifted’: Boris JohnsonPrime Minister Boris Johnson announces UK is lifting most Covid-19 restrictions.Kerala logs over 34,000 new Covid-19 cases and 49 deathsKerala sees 34,199 new Covid-19 cases, 8193 recoveries and 49 related deaths. Active caseload at 168,383 and toll at 51,160.Ahead of U'khand polls, General Bipin Rawat's brother joins BJPColonel (retired) Vijay Rawat, brother of late CDS General Bipin Rawat, joins BJP ahead of next month's assembly polls in Uttarakhand.Over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh reports 10,057 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours; active caseload at 44,935.Andhra Pradesh revises rate for RT-PCR testing by pvt labsAndhra Pradesh government revises and fixes at ₹350 the rate for RT-PCR testing to be charged by private laboratories.Puducherry reports 1849 new Covid-19 cases and 3 deathsPuducherry reports 1849 new Covid-19 cases, 895 recoveries and 3 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases in UT at 11,344.Union Cabinet extends tenure of sanitation workers' bodyThe Union Cabinet has approved the extension of tenure of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis for three years beyond 31st March 2022: Anurag Thakur, I&B minister‘False alarm’: Delhi Police on bomb threat in TrilokpuriFalse alarm. The bags have personal items, and not IED or other explosives: Sagarpreet Hooda, Joint CP (eastern)2 ‘unidentified bags’ found in Delhi's Trilokpuri, say policeWe have received a call from the Trilokpuri area regarding two unidentified bags. The investigation is underway: Delhi PolicePM Modi to host 1st meeting of India-Central Asia SummitPrime Minister Narendra Modi will host the first meeting of the India-Central Asia Summit, with the participation of the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, in a virtual format on 27 January: MEA pic.twitter.com/NTZmb3zV68Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host the first meeting of the India-Central Asia Summit on January 27, the external affairs ministry said on Wednesday. According to an official statement, the interaction will be held virtually will see participation from Presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Will guarantee a corruption-free Goa, says AAP CM candidate PalekarI'm guaranteeing you a corruption-free Goa. We will get back Goa's lost glory, a Goa everyone dreamt of. I will keep every word that I have said and that is my guaranty: Amit Palekar, AAP CM candidate for Goa Assembly election, 2022 pic.twitter.com/lYQAQDiEesAmit Palekar, the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) candidated for Goa, said on Wednesday that he will guarantee a corruption-free state if the AAP is voted to power. Suspension of scheduled int'l flights to & from India extended till Feb 28pic.twitter.com/5KCcDlZHMXAAP names Amit Palekar as CM candidate for Goa assembly pollsThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced on Wednesday that Amit Palekar will be the party's chief ministerial candiate for the upcoming assembly elections in Goa. Daily Covid cases declining in Maharashtra, says health ministerMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are declining in the state, adding number of patients getting hospitalised are less. “We are using our full potential to increase testing and vaccination coverage,” Tope said while speaking to reporters. Antony Blinken arrives in Ukraine as US-Russia tensions escalateSecretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in Ukraine on Wednesday and will meet President Volodymyr Zelenskyy amid escalating tensions between the United States and Russia. SC summons Andhra Pradesh, Bihar for non-payment of ex-gratia to kin of Covid victimsThe Supreme Court on Wednesday summoned the chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh and Bihar for the non-payment of ex-gratia to the families of Covid-19 victims despite earlier orders, according to news agency ANI. The apex court has asked the chief secretaries of both states to be present in a virtual hearing at 2pm. Over 158.46 crore vaccine doses provided to states/UTs, says GovtMore than 158.46 crore #COVID19 vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs; over 12.84 crore balance & unutilized vaccine doses are still available with States/UTs to be administered: Union Health MinistryThe Union health ministry said on Wednesday that more 158.46 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs till now. Mulayam Singh's daughter-in-law Aparna joins BJPMulayam Singh Yadav's daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav on Wednesday joined the BJP, weeks ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar PradeshGermany's daily Covid-19 tally tops 1,00,000Daily cases in Germany crosses the 1,00,000 mark in the last 24 hours, news agency AFP reported on Wednesday citing the country's health authorities. India reports 2,82,970 new Covid cases, 441 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia reports 2,82,970 Covid cases and 441 deaths in the olast 24 hours. Active case: 18,31,000Daily positivity rate: 15.13%Lok Sabha seeks reports on economic use of paperThe Lok Sabha secretariat last week asked its branches to furnish quarterly reports on the economic use of paper as Parliament seeks to go greener. Read More28 Mumbai police personnel test positive for Covid-19 in last 24-hoursMumbai Police says 28 of its personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the number of active cases in the force to 1,273.China nears completion of key bridge across PangongA bridge being built by China across the Pangong lake in an area claimed by India is expected to be completed in a few months and will give the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) an edge in speedily moving troops between several locations. Read MoreCovid 3rd wave: India unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases per day, scientists projectThe latest analysis of the Covid-19 situation by scientists reveals that the overall peak of the third wave in India will arrive on January 23 but the daily case is unlikely to cross 4 lakh. Delhi, Mumbai have already reached their peak earlier in the second week of January, the Sutra model of Covid tracker said. Read MoreNo foreign chief guest at R-Day as Covid-19 surgesThe Republic Day celebrations on January 26 will go ahead without any foreign leader as a chief guest, the second year in a row that India’s signature event has been affected by the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-19-2021-101642551617682.html
19-01-2022||India||Air India curtails India-US operations from today. What is the 5G issue?||Air India on Tuesday announced that it has curtailed its operations to the US starting from January 19 in view of the deployment of the 5G communications by the US, which has already upset the schedules of many other airlines. According to reports, following the warning of the airlines, the US telecommunication giants have now decided to temporarily limit 5G services around some airports.The Air India flights which have been cancelled on January 19 are AI101/102 DEL/JFK/DEL, AI173/174 DEL/SFO/DEL, AI127/126 DEL/ORD/DEL, AI191/144 BOM/EWR/BOM, the airline tweeted on Tuesday.#FlyAI: Due to deployment of the 5G communications in USA,we will not be able to operate the following flights of 19th Jan'22:AI101/102 DEL/JFK/DELAI173/174 DEL/SFO/DELAI127/126 DEL/ORD/DELAI191/144 BOM/EWR/BOM Please standby for further updates.https://t.co/Cue4oHChwxWhat is the 5G issue?As US telecom giants have decided to rollout 5G technology providing fliers with faster internet access, the airline industry said it might have a catastrophic impact and the technology could interfere with sensitive airplane instruments. 5G should not be rolled out in the runways, the airlines said. US telecom companies AT&T and Verizon said their technology is safe and is being used in many other countries. But as the conflict could not be resolved, they said they would limit the rollout of the technology near certain airports.US aviation regulator Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had on January 14 said that “5G interference with the aircraft's radio altimeter could prevent engine and braking systems from transitioning to landing mode, which could prevent an aircraft from stopping on the runway”.Apart from Air India, Emirates, Japan's two major airlines, All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines said they would curtail Boeing 777 flights. British Airways opted to switch aircraft on some flights to Los Angeles to an Airbus A380 from the usual Boeing 777 service, Reuters reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-curtails-india-us-operations-from-today-what-is-the-5g-issue-101642550196315.html
19-01-2022||India||Karnataka govt warns medicos against spreading false Covid information||The Karnataka government on Tuesday sent out a stern message to all the medical practitioners against spreading any misinformation related to Covid-19 among public.“It has come to the notice of government, that a few medical practitioners, while communicating with public on various media platforms are giving incomplete, inaccurate and unsubstantiated information about Covid 19. Such information leads to confusion in public on the prevailing Covid scenario in the state and encourages them to deviate from well laid out guidelines issued by the health and revenue authorities,” the state government said in the statement.“Medical practitioners, being proficient in both clinical and public health fields, should exercise utmost care and caution while communicating with public on Covid 19,” the statement added.The government also said that any “misinformation or non-factual data” on Covid 19 shared on such any platforms would be deemed as an offence and necessary action would be initiated as per the Disaster Management and the Epidemics Act.Though the Basavaraj Bommai-led state government has tried to enforce strict rules for the common public, it has barely cracked down on the political class that continue to violate or issue statements contrary to Covid protocols.Recent remarks by senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and cabinet minister Umesh Katti — wearing of mask is a personal choice — also came under sharp criticism as people questioned why the authorities never took action against politicians holding events,including the recent foot march by Congress for Mekedatu and an MLA celebrating his birthday among events.The government has put in place night and weekend curfews along with other severe restrictions to minimise the movement of people and spread of the virus.In another notification released on Tuesday, the state government said that the respective district administrations should strictly implement containment measures. “Any person, group of people, society, association, organisation, institution, RWA, etc, violating containment measures and not complying with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be proceeded as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020 besides legal action under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and other legal provisions as applicable,” the notification stated.It also added that the officers who do not take action against violators of containment measures will also be liable for action. Meanwhile, chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai also held a meeting on Tuesday to review the progress of the vaccination drive in the state.“The CM instructed the DCs to raise the average vaccination coverage of the first and second dose to the level of state average by month end in the districts which are lagging below the state average,” read a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO), attributing it to Bommai. The meeting with heads of district administration also saw the chief minister emphasise on protecting family members from getting infected from any Covid positive person who may be in isolation at home.“Officials are instructed to test and treat those in home isolation. Identify those with comorbidities for immediate treatment as the positivity rate is high in all districts,” he said.“As the testing is high in Karnataka, the cases reported are also high. But still we have succeeded in managing the situation. If the precautionary measures are good then the third wave can be managed properly,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-warns-medicos-against-spreading-false-covid-information-101642535454016.html
19-01-2022||India||2 cops deputed for Karnataka CM’s security arrested for ‘peddling drugs’||Bengaluru police on Tuesday arrested two police constables deputed for Karnataka chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai for selling narcotics. The policemen identified as Shivakumar and Santhosh were attached to the Koramangala police station and were deputed as security officers at the R T Nagar residence of the CM. A police official privy to the matter said that the two constables were part of a drug racket and had been selling marijuana in the capital city.“The policemen used Dunzo, a parcel service, to procure the drugs. They used to find a location near the chief minister’s house to conduct sales so nobody would suspect them,” said a senior police officer pleading anonymity. The illegal business came to light when the two men got into a heated argument with a supplier, said police. “As the fight got louder, other policemen came to the location.Upon search, we found drugs on them. Later, they confessed that they had been purchasing drugs from a dealer,” said the officer. “The drug dealers working with the constables were identified as Amjad Khan and Akhil Raj. They have been taken into custody,” said police. The arrests come at a time when Bengaluru police have launched a massive crackdown against the drug dealers in the city. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Bengaluru had reported the highest number of cases related to narcotics in the country in 2020. In 2021, the Bengaluru police had arrested 5,644 drug peddlers in 4,275 cases and seized drugs worth around ₹59 crores. 
19-01-2022||India||Year after setting up office, Tesla struggling with import duty cut||Bengaluru: Many Indian states have invited Tesla to set up shop days after its billionaire founder Elon Musk said the electric car maker is still facing a lot of challenges with the federal government. “Still working through a lot of challenges with the government,” Musk said in a post on Twitter on January 13, responding to a request for an update on the company’s much anticipated launch in the country.It has been almost a year since Tesla established an office in Bengaluru. The Karnataka government has been in talks with the US firm but its entry into India depends on the central government. Although India wants Tesla to build a factory in the country, Musk wants import duties to be slashed so that his firm can first establish a market locally.Meanwhile, other states like Maharashtra, Telangana, West Bengal, Punjab and Tamil Nadu have offered space and attractive incentives so that Tesla invests in their respective regions, which not just promises jobs but also bragging rights and a platform to use it to attract more big brands.Tesla’s entry into India is expected to encourage higher adoption of green vehicle technologies to help bring down the carbon footprint. It would be in line with the climate-friendly policy goals of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government.The offers by other states was “just posturing” as the hurdles faced by the company like high customs and import duties can only be resolved by the government of India, an official in Karnataka told HT. “We had a meeting and they are struggling with the government of India,” the official said, requesting anonymity.The Karnataka government has tried to keep the proposed investment under wraps as they believed too much coverage on the issue would adversely impact any plans by the company.Tesla last year registered a subsidiary company in India, sending out a strong indication of the Cupertino-headquartered electric vehicle maker’s plans to corner a bigger slice of the largely untapped domestic sustainable automobile market last year.Much like most of his views, Musk’s tweets got the federal and provincial governments excited at the possibility.Then chief minister of Karnataka BS Yediyurappa was asked to take down a post on Twitter in which he had announced that Tesla would soon be making EVs in the state as it would add to the challenges of the proposed investments.“With over 400 R&D centres, 45+ EV startups & an EV cluster near Bengaluru, Karnataka has emerged as EV hub of India. Mr @elonmusk, Karnataka would be an ideal destination to set up @Tesla plant. Bengaluru is already Tesla’s maiden address in India,” Murugesh Nirani, Karnataka’s minister for large and medium industries said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday, following tweets by politicians of other states over the weekend inviting Tesla to set up shop in their respective regions. Tesla India Motors and Energy Private Limited is classified as a subsidiary of a foreign company, according to its filing in the Registrar of Companies. Its registered office is in Bengaluru’s upscale Lavelle Road. The subsidiary has a paid up capital of ₹1 lakh and an authorised capital of ₹15 lakh, according to the filings. Tesla has named Vaibhav Taneja, Venkatrangam Sreeram and David Jon Feinstein as the three directors for its new entity.While the Karnataka government had laid out the red carpet for Tesla for any kind of investment, people aware of the developments had said that it would possibly be the setting up of a research and development centre in Bengaluru initially.Officials later said that they would also be scouting for space to start sales of its vehicles in India, the fourth largest automobile market in the world. Several Bengaluru-based startups have made a huge play in the EV space, which include Ola, Uber, Bounce and Vogo, among others. They have announced ambitious targets to include more EVs into their fleets.Bengaluru-headquartered Ola has invested ₹2,400 crore to set up a two-million two-wheeler EV plant in the neighbouring state of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/year-after-setting-up-office-tesla-struggling-with-import-duty-cut-101642534915244.html
19-01-2022||India||Wearing mask is personal choice, says K’taka minister||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Karnataka cabinet minister, Umesh V Katti on Tuesday courted a controversy with his remarks. Katti said that wearing masks is not mandatory and it is a personal choice, while going against his own government’s guidelines to maintain Covid appropriate behaviour.“Yesterday night, the Prime Minister said that I will not make it mandatory and (people) should take up responsibility and wear masks. In that way, it is left to that person and in the same way, me as well. I felt like not wearing it and hence did not wear it and there is no problem,” Katti said, while not wearing a mask.Katti is Karnataka’s minister for forest, food, civil supplies and consumers affairs department.His statements come at a time when Karnataka has witnessed a sharp uptick in new Covid-19 infections that has taken the active caseload to over two lakh with the onset of the third wave in the southern state.The test positivity rate in Karnataka has breached the 22% mark, highest compared to all earlier waves since March 2020.Masks and social distancing have been described by many medical experts as the best way to keep safe as it reduces the risk significantly.Karnataka on Tuesday said that it registered 41,457 new infections in a 24-hour-period, the highest single day numbers that takes the active caseload to over 2.5 lakh with Bengaluru, the largest and most populous city in the entire state, accounting for nearly 1.80 lakh of these cases.As many as 20 deaths were reported, said Karnataka’s health minister Dr K Sudhakar. The statements by Katti come even as the BJP continues to blame the Congress, the principal Opposition in Karnataka, for the steep rise in cases after the latter undertook a 10-day padayatra for Mekedatu in which hundreds and thousands participated, defying prohibitory orders.Karnataka has also reported a total of 766 cases of the Omicron variant of the virus after 287 more tested positive for the new variant on Monday.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai who himself just recovered from a bout of Covid-19, has instructed all the district administrations to take appropriate action to contain the spread of the virus.The state government has also imposed night and weekend curfews as well as restrictions on business establishments and movement of people in the hope to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wearing-mask-is-personal-choice-says-k-taka-minister-101642534733982.html
19-01-2022||India||1 yr after doc’s death, engg student held on abetment charges||A year after 25-year-old Bengaluru-based doctor hanged himself, a 22-year-old engineering student from Bhopal was arrested on abetment to suicide charges, said police on Tuesday. The accused was identified as Sarthak Sathi, said the police. As per the railway police, the doctor’s body was found on August 13, last year with a suicide note. In the note, the doctor had alleged that he was cheated of ₹67,000 by an individual via social media platforms. “On examination of the deceased’s phone, it was discovered that the accused had posed as a woman online and befriended the doctor. During their conversations, the accused had sent provocative photos to the doctor and demanded the same in return. After the doctor shared his explicit photos, the accused started blackmailing him for money and threatened to leak the photos online if not paid ,” said the police.“Fearing social stigma, the doctor transferred money several times, but the accused continued to blackmail him, forcing the doctor to take the extreme step,” said the police while referring to his suicide note.“The investigation team lead by CPI & PSI Bangalore City Railway Police Station tracked the financial transactions to Bhopal and arrested the accused. He had created fake social media profiles to cheat people,” said the police. This is the second such incident reported in the city. In 2012, a resident of KR Puram in East Bengaluru, ended his life. Initially, the police and family members were clueless on the reason why he killed himself. The police said, days after the man hanged himself, miscreants contacted his elder sister on social media platform — without realising that the victim was dead — and demanded more money to ensure that the explicit video and photos are not posted online. The family lodged a police complaint. An investigation that followed resulted in the arrest of two men from Rajasthan. Meanwhile additional director general of police (ADGP), Railways, Bhaskar Rao cautioned the youth to be careful of online fraudsters. He tweeted, “Investigation of railway police revealed he was cyber blackmailed. To avoid shame, he killed himself. Accused is caught. The family is devastated. Don’t trust cyber friends.(sic)”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-yr-after-doc-s-death-engg-student-held-on-abetment-charges-101642534313032.html
19-01-2022||India||Mumbai: Three Navy personnel killed in blast at INS Ranvir||Three naval personnel were killed in a blast around 4:45 pm in the internal compartment of Indian Naval Ship INS Ranvir on Tuesday, a press release issued by the Indian Navy said. The ship is presently anchored at the naval dockyard in Mumbai.Around 11 other personnel have sustained injuries and were admitted to the Naval hospital, their condition are stable as of now, said Navy official.“The ships crew members responded immediately soon after the incident and situation was brought under control. No major material damage has been reported. It was an unfortunate incident and the naval personnel died due to injuries caused by explosion,” mentioned the press release.INS Ranvir was on cross-coast operational deployment from the Eastern Naval Command since November 2021 and was due to return to base port shortly. A Board of inquiry has been ordered to investigate into the cause, said a Navy official who did not want to be named. We cannot disclose the identity of the deceased personnel till the time their respective family members were informed about the incident, said the official. INS Ranvir is the fourth of the five Rajput class destroyer built for the Indian Navy and was commissioned in 1986.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-three-navy-personnel-killed-in-blast-at-ins-ranvir-101642533893779.html
19-01-2022||India||Leopardess, lion die in cage at Chennai zoo||A leopardess and a lion died in a cage at the zoo here due to health issues and the deaths occurred after veterinarians had taken samples from the animals to detect if they were infected by coronavirus, a senior official said on Tuesday.The leopardess named Jaya and aged 18, died due to difficulty in breathing while the five-year-old lion Vishnu died of esophageal problems, a senior zoo official told PTI. Arignar Anna Zoological Park, popularly known as the Vandalur Zoo is located in the city’s southern suburb. After nearly 70 staff of the zoo showed virus symptoms, they were quarantined and it was decided to draw samples from animals to ascertain if the infection had spread further. The deaths occurred on Monday after the veterinarians took samples from the animals. “Though the staff has already been quarantined, we suspected that the animals too would have been infected. So, we decided to perform swab test on the animals,” the senior official said. The big cats were shifted to a special cage, known as ‘squeeze cage,’ to facilitate insertion of nasal swabs to collect samples. Autopsy revealed that the female leopard died due to breathing related issues while the lion had died because of esophageal problems. The lion had not been keeping well of late and its food intake had decreased, the official said.To a question on health issues faced by animals, the official said, “animals too face health issues similar to humans. A lioness Kavitha (23), which was suspected to have died of coronavirus in June last year, died of cancer”, the official said. Samples collected from about 16 animals in the zoo as a precaution have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopardess-lion-die-in-cage-at-chennai-zoo-101642533833742.html
19-01-2022||India||File report on actor Dileep’s plea to prohibit media from reporting assault case details: Kerala HC to DGP||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the state police chief to file a report within two weeks on actor Dileep’s petition seeking an order to prohibit the media from publishing matters related to his trial in the actress sexual assault case.Justice Kauser Edappagath, while considering Dileep’s plea, directed the DGP to take appropriate action if there was any violation of the trial court’s order restricting the publication of matters pertaining to the case.“Police DGP shall conduct an inquiry and file a report and if any violation is committed as against the order of the sessions court, appropriate action shall be taken. Posted after two weeks,” the court said.In his petition, Dileep had stated that an “in camera trial” was mandated under 327 (2) of the Criminal Procedure Code for the offence charged against him and the printing and publishing of the proceedings were unlawful.“They (investigating and prosecuting agencies) have sponsored and resorted to media trials as the same has no accountability and can be easily sponsored especially in a period where fake news and forms of unethical journalism are prevalent and it is easy to choose a suitable media house and use their services to propagate falsehood about the trial of the case,” the petition said.Dileep in this petition also pointed out that the sessions court had earlier passed an order directing that “nobody should print or publish the proceedings in connection with the sexual assault case of an actor in 2017, except the matters permitted.The petition filed through advocate Philip T Varghese said there was a deliberate and concerted act of criminal contempt hindering the administration of justice by scandalizing the court and prejudicing the trial by publishing the proceedings of the trial conducted.The actor also submitted that not only the private tv channel but other media- including print, digital and social media are now printing and publishing matters which amounts to criminal contempt.The crime branch had on January 9 registered a case following a complaint by an investigating officer based on a purported audio clip of Dileep, which was released by a TV channel recently in which the actor was reportedly heard conspiring to attack the officials.The audio clips came out soon after a director, Balachandra Kumar, made some startling revelations against Dileep in the actress assault case through a TV channel.The victim -- an actor who worked in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam films -- was abducted and allegedly molested inside her car for two hours by some of the accused, who had forced their way into the vehicle on the night of February 17, 2017 and later escaped in a busy area.The entire act was filmed by some of the accused to blackmail the actress.There are ten accused in the case and initially, police arrested seven people. Dileep was arrested subsequently and let out on bail later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/file-report-on-actor-dileep-s-plea-to-prohibit-media-from-reporting-assault-case-details-kerala-hc-to-dgp-101642533715051.html
19-01-2022||India||Minorities sidelined in Congress leadership, says CPI (M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan||CPI(M) Kerala State secretary and senior politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Tuesday alleged that leaders belonging to minority communities were neglected and sidelined in the Congress in line with the party scion Rahul Gandhi’s speech in Jaipur calling for establishing what he called as a rule of Hindus in the country after ousting the “Hindutva” government at the Centre.Alleging that the Congress even sidelined its prominent minority faces, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Salman Khurshid and K V Thomas, from the national-level leadership as part of the party’s new policy, he claimed this issue was being discussed widely in the Congress organisation. Accusing the Congress of discontinuing the representation of people from minority communities in the Congress’s Kerala leadership, Balakrishnan sought to know whether the move was part of the new policy announced by Gandhi in Jaipur.“The question is whether minorities are being sidelined in the Kerala unit of the Congress as well. When K Karunakaran became the Chief Minister in 1982, veteran leader A L Jacob was made the KPCC president. When A K Antony became the Chief Minister, K Muraleedharan was elected president. When Oommen Chandy became the Chief Minister, Mullappally Ramachandran became the president”, the CPI(M) leader said and sought to know the reason for changing that norm.Slamming Balakrishnan’s statement, the Congress accused the CPI(M) of creating communal divide in society for political gains.The CPI(M) leader made the statement at a press conference here today two days after he told the CPI (M) Thiruvananthapuram district conference that the Congress which upholds secularism excluded minorities at the Kerala leadership of the party. Stating that the Congress had always appointed either KPCC chief or Leader of Opposition from minority communities, Balakrishnan had said the new changes were effected in that policy as part of Gandhi’s new version of politics. Referring to Gandhi’s Jaipur speech last month, Balakrishnan had alleged that the Congress was executing the agenda of the RSS that both the BJP and the Congress should work for Hindus. Addressing the rally against inflation in Jaipur, Rahul Gandhi had said India is a country of Hindus and not Hindutvadis who want to be in power at any cost. “I am a Hindu, not Hindutvadi,” he had said, adding that the Hindutvadis have to be ousted once again and the rule of Hindus have to be brought in the country. Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan hit out at Balakrishnan by calling him “pashanam varkey”, a character of a clever beggar in a popular Malayalam drama who exploits religious sentiments of people by carrying a board with the picture of a Christian saint on one side and that of a Hindu God on the other. Describing as sub-standard and third rate the statement of the CPI(M) leader, Satheesan said not a single leader in the State politics has ever made such an irresponsible communal statement in Kerala’s political history.Attacking Balakrishnan, he alleged that the CPI(M) has never appointed anyone from the minority communities as its national secretary or Kerala State secretary in its history. He alleged that Balakrishnan was seeking to drive a wedge between the leaders belonging to the majority and minority communities in the Congress and that it would not succeed.Satheesan claimed Rahul Gandhi effectively countered the RSS by exposing its Hindutva politics in the Jaipur rally. He alleged that Balakrishnan was trying to appease the Sangh Parivar by making misleading statements.The CPI(M) in Kerala is interfering in an irresponsible way in Kerala politics and their acts are worse than that of the Communal outfits, the Congress leader alleged. The Congress had effected changes in its Kerala leadership soon after it faced a rout in the Assembly polls held in April last. Removing senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala from the leadership, the Congress appointed K Sudhakaran as KPCC chief and Satheesan as Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minorities-sidelined-in-congress-leadership-says-cpi-m-leader-kodiyeri-balakrishnan-101642533533683.html
19-01-2022||India||TN tableau rejected by Centre will be displayed in Chennai: Stalin||With the union government rejecting Tamil Nadu’s tableau, chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday said the same will be displayed during the Republic Day celebration in Chennai and will be taken to other major cities in the state for public viewing.The controversy over the tableau has been going back and forth between the state and the union government for two days. After West Bengal and Kerala, Stalin on Monday expressed his disappointment to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Tamil Nadu’s tableau being rejected and sought his intervention.In response, defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote to Stalin on Tuesday explaining that Tamil Nadu was eliminated in round 3 of the expert committee’s selection process. Singh sought to remind him that Tamil Nadu’s tableaux was selected for the Republic Day parade in 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021.Following this, Stalin in a statement said they were not called for the fourth round of meeting and no reason was given for their rejection adding that Singh’s letter also did not mention any reason which he termed as shocking.Tamil Nadu had submitted a theme “Tamil Nadu in the Freedom Struggle” depicting the renowned freedom fighters from the state VO Chidambaranar and poet Subramania Bharathiyar. The rear of the tableau had been designed to showcase a statue of Rani Velu Nachiyar riding a horse with a sword in hand and with women soldiers.“Even before Jhansi Rani flung the sword, Tamil Nadu’s Rani Velu Nachiyar became the first queen who fought against the British,” Stalin said. “Tamil Nadu’s 250-year old contribution for India’s freedom struggle is no less than any other state,” Stalin said.He said the Vellore revolution which took place half a century ago before the 1857 Sepoy Mutiny is an important beginning against the British. “We designed our tableau in a way to commemorate their contributions,” Stalin said, adding this has affected sentiments and patriotic feelings of the state’s people.
19-01-2022||India||Amid growing opposition, Bihar considers relaxation in liquor prohibition law||Faced with continued opposition, frequent hooch tragedies and harsh comments from the Supreme Court due to mounting legal cases, the Bihar government is now contemplating a relaxation in some of the stringent provisions of the anti-liquor law to provide relief for non-habitual offenders, said a senior official of the prohibition and excise department.Additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad said the state government intends to insert new sub-sections in the Bihar prohibition and excise (amendment) Act, 2016, to scale down the penal provisions and introduce financial penalties. The amendments may be brought through an ordinance or the proposed Bihar Prohibition and Excise (amendment) Bill, 2022, during the next session of the state legislature.“Right now, inter-departmental consultations are on,” he added.The move comes after the Supreme Court dismissed the state’s batch of appeals challenging grant of anticipatory and regular bails to accused under the liquor law, saying “the prosecution of the case should be made in all earnestness to secure conviction and punishment”.“You know how much impact this law (The Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016 ) has created in the working of the Patna High Court and it is taking one year to get a matter listed there and all the courts are choked with the liquor bail matters,” chief justice of India N V Ramana had said during the hearing earlier this month.As per official statistics, nearly 25 % of the total pendency of cases in lower courts and 20% in the High Court is from prohibition related cases. In 2019, alarmed by the growing pendency, the Patna High Court had asked the state government to present a plan for how it plans to dispose these cases related to excise. Though special courts were mandated in the new law for trial of liquor related cases, they could not be set up. Later. the state cabinet cleared a proposal for setting up 74 special courts, but virtual hearing for the last two years further added to pendency and lack of production of witnesses.The proposed amendments, says the draft bill, offer to delete the section related to ‘non-compounding of offences’. Instead, it is intended to introduce a penalty, as may be notified by the state government, if anyone is found drunk at home or outside. Failure to pay penalty shall invite simple imprisonment of one month, but repeat offences may invite additional penalty or imprisonment or both. All offences shall be disposed of through summary trial by an executive magistrate not below the rank of deputy collector. All investigations in such offences will be conducted by an excise officer or a police officer not below the rank of assistant sub-inspector, says the draft bill. The proposed amendment also has a provision for release of vehicles/ animals used for carrying intoxicants or liquor by the collector upon payment of fixed penalty, failing which the collector shall proceed with confiscation proceedings.In July last year, the Patna High Court had directed that all proceedings related to confiscation of property under the prohibition law must be initiated and concluded within a period of 90 days from the date of appearance of the parties concerned and the appeal/revision, if any, be also decided within a period of 30 days from the date of initiation, failing which, the “things” (vehicle/property/ etc.) shall be deemed to have been released in terms of several orders passed by this Court in the pastThe amendments propose that any person arrested under the prohibition law shall be produced before the nearest judicial magistrate or the nearest executive magistrate within 24 hours either in person or through the medium of electronic video linkage. For seeking custody also, production of seizures will not be necessary and electronic evidence will suffice.As per the proposed amendments, all offences shall be tried by special court(s) which may be presided by a sessions judge, additional sessions judge, assistant sessions judge or judicial magistrate. The state government may, if considered necessary in the public interest and depending upon the workload of existing special courts, appoint in every district of the state, more special court(s) in consultation with the chief justice of the High Court. The state government may also, in consultation with the chief Justice, appoint retired judges to preside over the special courts.“In cases where offences are punishable with death or imprisonment for a term not less than l0 years, the report has to be filed within 90 days from the date of the registration of the case. In all other cases, the report needs to be filed within 60 davs from the date of the registration of the case,” the amendments state.Last year, the state cabinet had given its nod to the Bihar prohibition and excise rules, 2021, for greater clarity with regard to implementation of the stringent prohibition law and reduce growing number of litigations. Besides, it also made provision for permission to distilleries in the state for manufacturing of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) and ethanol. Bihar last year became the first state in the country to have its Ethanol Production Promotion Policy, 2021, which promotes new standalone ethanol manufacturing units by providing them additional capital subsidy at 15% of the cost of plant and machinery up to a maximum of ₹5 crore.
19-01-2022||India||PM to unveil statue of 11th century Vaishnavaite saint Ramanujacharya||Preparations are on full swing for the unveiling of “Statue of Equality,” the 216-ft statue of 11th century Vaishnavaite saint Sri Ramanujacharya on the 40-acre sprawling premises of Sri Chinna Jeeyar Swamy ashram at Muchintal village on the outskirts of Hyderabad on February 5.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has agreed in principle to unveil the statue as per the request of Chinna Jeeyar Swamy, who met him on September 20. The finer details of the Prime Minister’s visit are being worked out,” Jeeyar Education Trust official Suryanarayana Yellapragada told HT.President Ramnath Kovind, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and several other dignitaries from across the globe were also invited for the inaugural function, which would be presided over by Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. On Tuesday, Chinna Jeeyar Swamy met Tamil Nadu Governor RN Ravi and extended him an invite for the inaugural ceremony.Telangana tourism minister V Srinivas Goud, who inspected the arrangements for the statue unveiling ceremony at the Chinna Jeeyar ashram on Sunday, confirmed that the prime minister would be unveiling the statue of Vaishnavaite saint Ramanujacharya.“The works are going at a brisk pace. Internal roads are being laid and power infrastructure works are nearing completion. It is going to be a spiritual hub or the entire world and a major tourist destination for people across the world,” Goud said.According to Yellapragada, the Statue of Equality, is the second tallest in seated position depicting Saint Ramanujacharya and was built to commemorate the 1,000 years of his birth. The total cost of the project is around ₹1,000 crore.“The 11th century saint, who fought against discrimination of people in the name of caste, colour and creed, propounded the theory of Vishishtadvaitha (qualified dualism), which says the God exists in all living beings,” he said.The 216-ft panchaloha statue, made of five metals – gold, silver, copper, brass and tin – was erected in 2017 itself, but it took four years for the completion of works on the other constructions.According to chief sculptor DNV Prasad, the statue of Saint Ramanujacharya in the seated position has been positioned on a huge lotus built over a three-storied 54-ft structure called Bhadravedi. The ground floor comprising 63,444 square feet area will have a pictorial presentation providing glimpses of Ramanujacharya’s life and his philosophy.In the second floor, there is a temple of Ramanujacharya in nearly 300,000 sq ft area, where a 120 kg gold statue of him will be installed for daily worship. And on the last floor of 14,700 sq ft, there will be a Vedic digital library and research centre.Outside the Bhadravedi, the statue will be surrounded by 108 Divya Desa Kshetras (Vaishnavite temples located across the country) built in stone in a 34-acre land around the statue.To give the project a universal appeal, ashram authorities are also contemplating installation of flags belonging to all the countries in the world, including Islamic countries. “There is no discrimination of people based on their religion and region. We want to tell the entire world through this project that all human beings are equal, irrespective of the religions they practise and ways of life they lead,” Prasad said.
19-01-2022||India||Assam, Meghalaya plan ‘give and take’ formula to solve border dispute||The decades-old border dispute between Assam and Meghalaya could be resolved using a formula of “give and take” between the two neighbouring northeastern states, people involved in ongoing negotiations have indicated.On Tuesday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma held talks with various political parties and organisations, including student bodies, of the state to apprise them about the progress made by the two states to sort out the border issue amicably. Efforts are underway to finalise some deal soon, preferably before January 21, when Meghalaya celebrates its 50th statehood day. The CMs of both states are also expected to meet Union home minister Amit Shah sometime this week to resolve the issue.“Our efforts to resolve Assam-Meghalaya border row have started bearing fruits as 6 of the 12 areas of difference have been identified for resolution in the first phase. During an interaction, (I) briefed representatives of all political parties on the progress made so far,” Sarma tweeted on Tuesday.“The areas of difference taken up for final settlement are Hahim, Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra. A roadmap for amicable settlement has been prepared based on recommendations of 3 regional committees with representatives from both the states,” he added.Deliberations to end the border row have been taking place between the two states, including at chief ministers’ level, since last year and it was decided that in the first phase, six of the 12 disputed areas would be addressed. Recently, regional committees of both states submitted reports on these six areas. While Sarma expressed confidence of an early solution, opposition parties in Assam, including the Congress, said that more discussion on a wider scale was needed to find a solution. “During Tuesday’s meeting we were told that a give and take formula has been agreed upon by both states to sort the dispute in the 6 areas. As part of that Assam would get 18.51 sq km of area while Meghalaya would get 18.29 sq km,” said Md. Aminul Islam, organising secretary and legislator from All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), who attended the Tuesday’s meeting. “Border disputes between states can’t be sorted at chief-ministerial level. It should be done by the Centre. Meghalaya has been encroaching our land for years. Instead of a quick-fix solution, we want the issue to be discussed in the state assembly and a resolution adopted and forwarded to the Centre,” he added. Congress MLA and leader of opposition in the state assembly, Debabrata Saikia, also informed that both states have agreed on a “give and take” formula to sort out the dispute. “We have not agreed to the proposal as this issue is needed to be discussed in detail in the state assembly. Since this is a serious matter, I urge the state government to convene an assembly session to discuss it,” he said. President of Raijor Dal and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi, who missed the meeting after testing positive for Covid-19, issued a statement opposing handing over of Assam’s land to Meghalaya and urged CM Sarma to protect the state’s boundaries. “All states have boundaries decided by the constitution and CMs of two states can’t decide on realigning those borders through meetings. Any hasty decision taken on the issue could be detrimental to Assam’s interests. I urge the Assam CM take the people of the state into confidence before arriving at any solution,” Gogoi said in the statement. 
19-01-2022||India||Action against two policemen in Chennai after law student alleges ‘custodial torture’||Two policemen have been placed on a wait list after a law student in Chennai has complained that he was subject to custodial torture after he was arrested for not wearing a face mask while riding a bike. Pictures of student Abdul Rahim’s swollen face with stitches near his left eye and blood clots on his legs have been circulating on the social media with students in the city demanding justice with the hashtag #justiceforabdul. He was arrested last Friday. In a video clip, Rahim said he was admitted to a judicial hospital on Saturday for treatment and that on Sunday he was granted bail after the section under which he was booked was altered. “Now, I’m going home. Higher officials are being helpful and they have promised me that action will be taken against those responsible,” the student said. The two accused policemen – head constable Boominathan and a grade 1 officer Uthirakumar – have been transferred from Kodungaiyur police station to another police control room where they have been placed on a wait list. “An unfortunate incident of an alleged assault on a law college student over not wearing a mask was reported at the Kodungaiyur police station on January 14,” said a police officer. Joint commissioner of police (West Zone) S Rajeswari is conducting inquiries into the case. The student had reportedly complained that the two policemen urinated on him and assaulted him. But the preliminary inquiry has revealed that the allegations pertaining to urination were not true and that this was ascertained from the student during the course of the enquiry, say police. “In depth inquiry in this regard is being conducted,” the official said.Chennai police said there were several misleading posts regarding this incident that were being posted online. “Therefore, people are requested to desist from believing such rumours. Also posting such gross untruth with malicious intent may be liable to criminal action,” a statement from city police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/action-against-two-policemen-in-chennai-after-law-student-alleges-custodial-torture-101642532993542.html
19-01-2022||India||No starvation death reported in recent years, Centre tells SC||The Union government on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that no starvation death has been reported by any state or Union territory (UT) in the recent years, adding that the Centre cannot divert any additional funds to the states for running community kitchens. Making his submissions before a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, attorney general KK Venugopal emphasised that the Centre is already running 131 social welfare schemes and thus, it would not be possible for them to create a separate corpus for community kitchens. The A-G told the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli, that the onus has to lie with the states and their local bodies to provide for community kitchens out of their own resources. “We have a concern for funds. We have 131 schemes to run. There is already a huge funds going into those schemes...We can’t divert any money from the existing 131 schemes. States will have to find money themselves,” Venugopal added. The bench, however, replied that the court is not expecting the Centre to run a scheme for community kitchen but would instead want it to frame a model scheme and circulate it to all the states and UTs for their consideration. “Government of India should not take it as an adversarial issue. You must have a practical approach... Why don’t you think of some model scheme? It is difficult for us to frame a uniform scheme but the Centre could make a model scheme and leave it to the states to do the rest,” the bench asked the A-G.The top court was hearing a petition filed by Anun Dhawan and others, seeking subsidised canteens in all states and union territories to ensure food security, in the backdrop of the havoc wreaked by the pandemic.Advocate Ashima Mandla, representing the petitioner, urged the court to set up an expert committee to formulate schemes for community kitchens across the country. During the hearing, the court also referred to replies by some of the state governments, which were willing to run community kitchens if an additional 2-3% food grains were provided to them by the Centre. As Venugopal said that the issue of community kitchen may not be linked to starvation deaths in the country, the court asked if the law officer could adduce latest data to support the Centre’s affidavit that there have been no starvation deaths in recent years. “Why is it that Government of India is relying on data from 2015-16 on starvation deaths? We cannot look at this from the prism of data from six years ago. Are you willing to state that there is no starvation death except one recently reported in Tamil Nadu? What is the latest data?” it asked the A-G. A five-year-old boy reportedly died of starvation in Tamil Nadu in December 2021. The boy was found abandoned in a push cart. Venugopal had cited some news reports to point out that this was the only hunger death reported in the media but it is for the Tamil Nadu government to make categorical statements in this regard.The A—G added that states and UTs have to report deaths due to starvation and that the Centre’s affidavit was based on their reporting. “We have to depend on states for this data. They have not reported any death. Let the states file their affidavits on the latest data. We are not disputing that malnutrition exists but the question is of additional funding. Besides, the number of deaths will have to be accepted by all sides,” he added.To this, the bench asked all states and UTs to file the latest figures on starvation deaths, following which the Centre could collate the relevant information. It also urged the A-G to formulate in consultation with states and other stakeholders a ‘national model scheme’ to set up community kitchens. “We explained the AG on the intention of this court and positivity of exploring a solution. So far as logistics is concerned, it can be worked out with states. We adjourn this matter for three weeks and states can file additional affidavit on malnutrition, hunger and other issues,” stated the court in its order. 
19-01-2022||India||Telangana govt to revamp infrastructure, facilities at 26,065 schools||The Telangana government will be developing the state-run schools to make them on par with the working of corporate schools in terms of infrastructure and teaching facilities, said an official here on Tuesday.The programme – Mana Vooru, Mana Badi (Our village, our school) – was approved during the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday.An official familiar with the development said the programme would be implemented in 26,065 schools being run by the government and panchayat raj bodies in three phases at a total cost of ₹7,289.54 crore in a span of three years.“In the first phase, as many as 9,123 schools would be covered at a cost of ₹3,497.62 crore, for which allocation would be made in the coming budget. The schools in the first phase were chosen on the basis of enrolment of students, which was around 65%,” the official said.The cabinet approved a set of guidelines for the implementation of Mana Vooru-Mana Badi programme by the school education department. The programme would cover 12 areas of development, including digital education, modernised toilets, 100% electrification, furniture for teachers and students, building infrastructure like new classrooms, supply of safe drinking water, provision of compound walls, improved kitchens and dining halls etc.The official said district collectors have been designated to give administrative sanction for these works. In each revenue block, one agency will be chosen to do the infrastructure works. “School management committees will be formed to monitor and supervise the programme and conduct audits,” he said.“The finance department will be the nodal agency to provide funds for the programme. A social audit and accountability transparency institute will conduct the social audit on expenditure of funds,” he added.“The school premises would be kept clean and tidy, the mid-day meal programme would be improved. Focus would be laid on improving education by offering qualitative English medium education. The education department will work out an action plan in this regard,” the official said.
19-01-2022||India||ED raids Channi’s nephew in Punjab sand mining case, Congress hits out||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday raided 10 locations in poll-bound Punjab, including those linked to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Singh, in connection with probes into illegal sand mining in the state, officials familiar with the matter said. The raids triggered a strong reaction from Channi and the Congress party, which accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its government at the Centre of defaming “Punjab and Punjabiyat”. ED officials, accompanied by Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, conducted searches at various locations in Chandigarh, Rupnagar, Ludhiana, Pathankot and Mohali. An apartment belonging to Bhupinder Singh alias Honey was also raided by the agency in Mohali. Besides Honey, the central agency conducted raids on nine other people, including six mine owners and their associates. During the search, some property related documents and currency worth more than ₹6 crore was found, said the officials quoted above. “The amount of cash found at the residential premises of Bhupinder Singh in Ludhiana is around ₹4 crore and at the residential premises of Sandeep Kumar (Honey’s partner) in Ludhiana is around ₹2 crores,” said an official, requesting anonymity. The agency’s probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is based on a 2018 case registered by Punjab Police on alleged illegal sand mining in the border state. The central agency had lodged an ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report), a FIR, at its zonal office here in Jalandhar in November last year after taking over the probe.Channi condemned the raids and called it an attempt to put pressure on him ahead of elections. Punjab goes to the polls on February 20 and the Congress is looking to retain power. “It is based on a 2018 FIR, what is my connection with that, at that time I was not even chief minister. But somehow they have to target me and my ministers and attempt to put pressure, but let me say this that Punjabis never come under pressure,” Channi said. Sharing details of the case, a second ED official said that in the FIR relating to Channi’s nephew, a team comprising officials of the mining department, civil administration and Punjab Police conducted a surprise check on March 7, 2018 on the basis of a complaint received at the Rahon police station in SBS Nagar over illegal sand mining. After this, this official said it was found that several mines were excavated by various machines and mining was being carried out beyond the designated area. But the Congress rejected the charges. The chief minister referred to the ED raids on West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, Rujira, in connection with an alleged multi-crore coal smuggling fraud case before the assembly elections in February last year. “When there were polls in West Bengal, such attacks took place on Mamata Banerjee’s relatives. Now, in the same pattern in Punjab, ED is trying to put pressure, and give trouble. An attempt is being made to create all kinds of pressure,” he told reporters in Chandigarh. “Not just on the ministers, chief minister, but pressure is being created on every Congress worker. Such an atmosphere is not good for democracy. When elections are near, they thought about conducting ED raids. But we are ready to bear all pressure, all troubles,” he added. The Congress said the people of the state would give a befitting reply to the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections. “It is an assault on Punjab, Punjabiyat. The BJP is challenging the dignity of Punjab and Punjabis,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal alleged that the Punjab chief minister and his relatives were involved in sand mining. “It’s very sad to know that a raid is being conducted on the premises of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s relative in connection with a case of illegal sand mining. Punjab chief minister and his relatives are involved in illegal sand mining,” he told reporters in Mohali. Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat said: “As we know, Prime Minister Modi has zero tolerance policy for corruption. But Congress has given political colour to action against corruption and also national security. The Congress and the opposition parties were left red-faced whenever such action has reached a conclusion in the past. Let the agencies work freely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-channi-s-nephew-in-punjab-sand-mining-case-congress-hits-out-101642532633399.html
19-01-2022||India||Forces gun down 4 Maoists in two separate encounters in Telangana and Chhattisgarh||Four members, including two women, of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) were killed in two separate encounters with security forces in Telangana and Chhattisgarh on Tuesday morning, police said.In Telangana, three Maoists, including a woman, were killed in an exchange of fire with a team of Greyhounds (elite police force of Telangana engaged in anti-Maoist operations) at Karregutta forests, near Penugolu village of Peruru police station in Mulugu district. The area lies close to Semaldoddi village of Elmidi police station in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh.Though a top police official in Mulugu district initially said four Maoists were killed in the encounter, a statement from Mulugu superintendent of police, Sangram Singh Patil, later in the evening confirmed three bodies were recovered from the spot.Patil said the Greyhounds, along with teams of District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) from Bijapur were holding a combing operation in Peruru, Ilmidi and Usur forest areas, bordering Telangana and Chhattisgarh, when the encounter took place. The forces’ team had received inputs about the possible presence of 40-50 armed Maoists, including senior Maoist leader and divisional committee member of Venkatapuram, Sudhakar, in the area.“At around 7 am on Tuesday, the security forces came across the rebels following which an exchange of fire erupted between the two sides. After the encounter, the bodies of three Maoists, including a woman, were recovered from the spot,” the Mulugu SP said.The bodies are yet to be identified. Police also recovered a self-loading rifle (SLR), an INSAS rifle, a Single-Bore gun, 10 rocket launchers and a kit of various articles from the spot, he added. Confirming the same, inspector general of police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said one jawan was injured in the encounter.“A jawan belonging to Telangana Greyhounds was injured in the encounter and he was airlifted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital at Warangal for treatment. A search is underway in the vicinity of the incident site,” he said in a statement.Meanwhile, a woman Maoist was gunned down in another encounter at Marjum area of Sukma district. “The woman killed in the encounter in Sukma was identified as Munni, who was an area committee member of Maoists, carrying a reward of ₹5 lakh on her head,” the IG (Bastar) said in his statement.A senior Telangana police official said the joint operation comprising police forces from Mulugu and Bhadradri Kothagudem districts and those from Chhattisgarh has been going on for quite some time following a tip off about the movement of top Maoists heading Vajedu, Venkatapuram, Charla and Dummugudem area committees.“We have specific inputs about the movement of the top leaders. Our operation will continue till they are neutralised,” the official said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-gun-down-4-maoists-in-two-separate-encounters-in-telangana-and-chhattisgarh-101642532573695.html
19-01-2022||India||HT This Day Jan 19, 1952: Sucheta Kripalani Elected||CONGRESS CANDIDATE A CLOSE SECONDBy Our Special CorrespondentNEW DELHI- MRS SUCHETA KRIPALANI was today declared elected to the House of the People from the New Delhi constituency, being the third K.M.P.P. member returned to Parliament in the general election.The contest, in which six candidates took part, turned out to be mainly between one Congress and the K.M.P.P. Mrs Kripalni secured 47.735 votes as against Mrs Manmohini Sahgal 's 40.046 votes-a margin of 7.071 votes.The four other candidates, all independents, forfeited their deposits. They are Mr Durga Das (6,749). Mr Om Prakash Gupta (3.945), Mahant Raghbir Das (2.025) and Mr G. D. Joshi (1,657).The entire electoral strength of the New Delhi Parliamentary constituency is 184.534 votes. Of these 102.826 votes were polled: 651 were found invalid.The two-day vote-counting period saw several ups and downs in the chances of the K M.P.P. and Congress candidates Right from the polling day there were indications that Mrs K: pl ne: would w n. even Congressmen were doubtful about getting the important Parliamentary seat. But since last night. when it became known that the Congress candidate had bagged 21,000 votes in 100 of her 219 boxes, every body expected a close finish.At 1-30 p.m. today, when the counting of vote of Mrs Sahgal had finished and it was known that she had polled 40,064 votes, her victory was considered certain. A large number of Congressmen, who had collected where counting took place in Old Subzimandi, began to shout Congress jais and garlanded Mrs Sahgal to hail the Congress victory.The wrong deduction was based on the assumption, both in Congress and K.M.P P. camps, that the total poll did not exceed 85,000In this tense moment even Mrs Kripalani conceded victory to her Congress rival. She was preparing to leave the place, having taken her defeat for granted. But her election agents persuaded her to stay till the final count.BIG SURPRISEThe end of the count brought about a big surprise. The total polls exceeded the first day's calculations to which all were party, which gave the K M.P candidate her initially expected victory. It was now the turn of the large number of K.M.P.P. sympathizers and supporters to shout jais. Mrs Kripalani was garlanded and taken from Subzimandi in a big procession. As the procession moved it swelled and in Paharganj, which appears to have polled heavily in favour of Mrs Kripalani, enthusiastic scenes were witnessed. As Mrs Kripalani drove slowly in a car flowers and one-rupee currency notes rained on her. Mrs Kripalant was also taken out in procession in Rajendranagar and other areas.At night her house in New Delhi was illuminated with candlelights, and hundreds of people with garlands in ha as awaited her return." PEOPLE'S VICTORY "In an interview, Mrs Kripalani said her victory was really a people's victory and that she would strive her best to carry the people's voice into Parliament.Mrs Kripalani is leaving tomorrow for Faizabad to assist her husband, Acharya Kripalani, in his election campaign.The Chief Electoral Officer. Delhi State, today ordered resumption of counting of votes at 12-30 p.m. The counting was suspended last night when the paper-seal of one ballot-box of the Congress candidate was found broken.The Electoral Officer today examined the presiding officer and two polling officers of the booth concerned (Booth No. 184 in Mantola-Paharganj). He said he had satisfied himself that there was no deliberate tampering with the ballot-box.Counting of votes for the Parliamentary seat from Inner Delhi was postponed until tomorrow, for the electric lights in the counting hall failed this evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-19-1952-sucheta-kripalani-elected-101642532436804.html
19-01-2022||India||HT THIS DAY: January 19, 1952 --Sucheta Kripalani elected, Congress candidate a close second||NEW DELHI- MRS SUCHETA KRIPALANI was today declared elected to the House of the People from the New Delhi constituency, being the third K.M.P.P. member returned to Parliament in the general election.The contest, in which six candidates took part, turned out to be mainly between one Congress and the K.M.P.P. Mrs Kripalni secured 47.735 votes as against Mrs Manmohini Sahgal ‘s 40.046 votes-a margin of 7.071 votes. The four other candidates, all independents, forfeited their deposits. They are Mr Durga Das (6,749). Mr Om Prakash Gupta (3.945), Mahant Raghbir Das (2.025) and Mr G. D. Joshi (1,657). The entire electoral strength of the New Delhi Parliamentary constituency is 184.534 votes. Of these 102.826 votes were polled: 651 were found invalid. The two-day vote-counting period saw several ups and downs in the chances of the K M.P.P. and Congress candidates Right from the polling day there were indications that Mrs K: pl ne: would w n. even Congressmen were doubtful about getting the important Parliamentary seat. But since last night. when it became known that the Congress candidate had bagged 21,000 votes in 100 of her 219 boxes, every body expected a close finish. At 1-30 p.m. today, when the counting of vote of Mrs Sahgal had finished and it was known that she had polled 40,064 votes, her victory was considered certain. A large number of Congressmen, who had collected where counting took place in Old Subzimandi, began to shout Congress jais and garlanded Mrs Sahgal to hail the Congress victory. The wrong deduction was based on the assumption, both in Congress and K.M.P P. camps, that the total poll did not exceed 85,000 In this tense moment even Mrs Kripalani conceded victory to her Congress rival. She was preparing to leave the place, having taken her defeat for granted. But her election agents persuaded her to stay till the final count. BIG SURPRISE The end of the count brought about a big surprise. The total polls exceeded the first day’s calculations to which all were party, which gave the K M.P candidate her initially expected victory. It was now the turn of the large number of K.M.P.P. sympathizers and supporters to shout jais. Mrs Kripalani was garlanded and taken from Subzimandi in a big procession. As the procession moved it swelled and in Paharganj, which appears to have polled heavily in favour of Mrs Kripalani, enthusiastic scenes were witnessed. As Mrs Kripalani drove slowly in a car flowers and one-rupee currency notes rained on her. Mrs Kripalant was also taken out in procession in Rajendranagar and other areas. At night her house in New Delhi was illuminated with candlelights, and hundreds of people with garlands in ha as awaited her return. “ PEOPLE’S VICTORY “ In an interview, Mrs Kripalani said her victory was really a people’s victory and that she would strive her best to carry the people’s voice into Parliament. Mrs Kripalani is leaving tomorrow for Faizabad to assist her husband, Acharya Kripalani, in his election campaign. The Chief Electoral Officer. Delhi State, today ordered resumption of counting of votes at 12-30 p.m. The counting was suspended last night when the paper-seal of one ballot-box of the Congress candidate was found broken. The Electoral Officer today examined the presiding officer and two polling officers of the booth concerned (Booth No. 184 in Mantola-Paharganj). He said he had satisfied himself that there was no deliberate tampering with the ballot-box. Counting of votes for the Parliamentary seat from Inner Delhi was postponed until tomorrow, for the electric lights in the counting hall failed this evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-january-19-1952-sucheta-kripalani-elected-congress-candidate-a-close-second-101642532513816.html
19-01-2022||India||TMC, Cong, AAP release separate candidate lists for Goa; tie-up ruled out||The Congress, Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday announced separate lists of candidates for the Goa assembly elections, putting to rest speculation over a grand opposition alliance to fight the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress named nine candidates, TMC 11 and AAP five.The Congress party announced its third list of candidates for the polls that includes Michael Lobo, former minister in the Pramod Sawant led BJP government. Lobo will contest from the Calangute constituency that he has represented since 2012. The list also includes former MLA Prasad Gaonkar (Sanguem), who was elected as an independent in 2017 but resigned in recent weeks and joined the Congress, and Lavu Mamledar, a former lawmaker from the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) who joined the TMC but later quit the party and joined the Congress. Mamledar will contest from Marcaim against MGP supremo Ramkrishna “Sudin” Dhavalikar. Interestingly, the Congress has also announced a candidate (Anthony Fernandes) for the San André constituency, a seat that was being keenly eyed by its alliance partner the Goa Forward Party, whose candidate Jagdish Bhobe has already begun campaigning. Others on the list include Meghashyam Raut (Bicholim), Aman Lotlikar (Tivim), Vikash Prabhudessai (Porvorim), Dharmesh Saglani (Sanquelim), who will take on Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, and Janardan Bhandari (Canacona). So far, the party has declared candidates for 28 out of Goa’s 40 assembly seats. The party has conceded two seats to the Goa Forward Party, with the latter haggling with its ally for a third seat at San André. Besides Lobo, the names of his wife Delilah, who is keen on contesting the Siolim constituency, and his aide Kedar Naik from the Saligao constituency, are yet to feature in the party’s list of candidates. Several crucial constituencies remain to be announced, including capital Panaji and Aldona in north Goa, and Benaulim, Velim and Nuvem in south Goa, among others. “Let us work together to bring back @INCGoa Government in Goa. Let us work hand in hand to Protect Identity of Goa,” leader of opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted. The decision of the Congress to field its own candidate in the San André constituency has prompted Jagdish Bhobe to resign from the Goa Forward Party and join the TMC. By evening, Bhobe became the TMC’s candidate for the constituency as part of the first list of candidates declared. The TMC’s list includes former Goa chief ministers Churchill Alemão (Benaulim), and recently elected Rajya Sabha MP Luizinho Faleiro, who will contest against Goa Forward Party chief Vijai Sardesai. Alemão’s daughter Valanka will be the party’s candidate from Navelim that until recently was represented by Faleiro. Other names on the list include Sandeep Vazarkar (Porvorim), Kiran Kandolkar (Aldona), Samil Volvoikar (Cumbarjua), Ganpat Gaonkar (Poriem), Gilbert Rodrigues (Cortalim), José Cabral (Nuvem) and Jorson Fernandes (Cortalim). The party also announced the setting up of its state executive committee that will be headed by Kiran Kandolkar. The TMC was earlier angling for an alliance with the Congress, overtures that were rejected by the Congress.Besides the Congress and TMC, the AAP too announced its fourth list of candidates, taking the total number of its candidates to 30.The AAP announced the names of Lincoln Vaz (Margao), Nonu Naik (Priol), Gabriel Fernandes (Curchorem), Raul Pereira (Quepem) and Manoj Ghadi Amonkar (Sanquelim), while extending support to Chandrakant Shetye, a probable candidate who has been offered a ticket by both the Congress and the BJP.The party has announced that it will be going it alone in the polls, but that it was open to a post-poll alignment with non-BJP parties in the event that such an arrangement is necessitated after the results are declared.Goa goes to the polls on February 14 to elect members to its legislative assembly. The counting will be held on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-tmc-aap-congress-release-separate-list-of-candidates-alliance-ruled-out-101642532395531.html
19-01-2022||India||Supreme Court commutes death citing haste in trial judge decision||Not giving an accused a fair opportunity to defend himself amounts to travesty of justice, held the Supreme Court as it commuted the death sentence awarded to a man in Madhya Pradesh who raped and killed a minor girl in April 2017.Noting the haste with which the accused was convicted and sentenced on the same day by the trial judge, a bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao said, “It is travesty of justice as the appellant was not given a fair opportunity to defend himself. This is a classic case indicating the disturbing tendency of trial courts adjudicating criminal cases involving rape and murder in haste. It is trite law that an accused is entitled for a fair trial which is guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.”However, considering the barbaric and savage manner of the crime and the tender age of the victim who was suffocated to death, the bench directed the appellant to remain in jail for 30 years without remission.The incident took place in the intervening night of April 14-15, 2017 when the victim went missing while she was returning from a house function with her parents and two brothers. Her body was recovered the other day with severe injuries on her private parts and body. There were two persons who committed the ghastly crime but as the appeal was pending, one accused died leaving the appellant to pursue the appeal.The bench, also comprising of justices BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna, noted that both the trial court and Madhya Pradesh high court considered the gravity of the crime and sentenced the appellant to death without considering the mitigating circumstances and probability of reformation and rehabilitation, considered essential yardsticks while deciding punishment in offences carrying death sentence. In the present case, the appellant was charged with murder which is punishable with death. Besides, he was convicted for other provisions under the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO).“The appellant was aged 25 years on the date of commission of the offence and belongs to a scheduled tribe community, eking his livelihood by doing manual labour. No evidence has been placed by the prosecution on record to show that there is no probability of rehabilitation and reformation of the Appellant and the question of an alternative option to death sentence is foreclosed. The Appellant had no criminal antecedents before the commission of crime for which he has been convicted. There is nothing adverse that has been reported against his conduct in jail,” the top court said.“The death sentence requires to be commuted to life imprisonment. However, taking into account the barbaric and savage manner in which the offences of rape and murder were committed by the appellant on a hapless 11-year-old girl, the appellant is sentenced to life imprisonment for a period of 30 years during which he shall not be granted remission,” the judges ruled.The Court underlined the important of Section 235(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) which requires the accused to be given an opportunity to make representation against the sentence to be imposed on him. “A bifurcated hearing for convicting and sentencing is necessary to provide an effective opportunity to the accused. Adequate opportunity to produce relevant material on the question of death sentence shall be provided to the accused by the trial court,” said justice Rao, writing the judgment for the bench.In the present case, the Sessions Judge, Dindori convicted the accused and sentenced them to death on the same day in November 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-commutes-death-citing-haste-in-trial-judge-decision-101642532214740.html
19-01-2022||India||Mob beats up Muslim man for travelling with Hindu woman in Ujjain||Members of a right-wing organisation thrashed a Muslim man for travelling with a Hindu woman in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain, police said on Tuesday.According to the police, the incident took place on January 14 but came to light only on Tuesday after a video of the incident went viral on social media.In the video, one Pintu Kaushal, who claims to be a member of a right-wing organisation, along with a few others, was seen dragging a man out of a train and thrashing him at the Ujjain railway station. The woman, who was travelling with the victim, a resident of Mhow in Indore district, could be seen following the mob.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video.Kaushal later claimed that the married Hindu woman was “misguided” by the Muslim man, who is also married and has a child, and they were heading to Ajmer for marriage. “We received information and brought them out of the train. We handed them over to GRP, Ujjain for police action as it was a case of ‘Love Jihad’,” said Kaushal.However, GRP Ujjain superintendent of police Nivedita Gupta said, “The man and woman were family friends and the woman’s mother has confirmed the same. We allowed them to go.”However, she said the man didn’t file any complaint about being beaten by the mob. “As they didn’t file any complaint, we can’t take suo motu action,” the SP said.Retired IPS officer and social activist Arun Gurtoo termed the incident as the violation of human rights. “This act is morally wrong and legally violation of human rights. The police should take action to stop the recurrence of such activities because the saffron organisation or any other person doesn’t have a right to stop anyone randomly and harass publicly,” Gurtoo added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mob-beats-up-muslim-man-for-travelling-with-hindu-woman-in-ujjain-101642532034860.html
19-01-2022||India||Narayan Debnath, creator of iconic comic characters, dies at 97||Cartoonist Narayan Debnath, the creator of Bengali comic characters ‘Bantul The Great’, ‘Handa Bhonda’ and ‘Nonte Phonte, passed away after prolonged illness on Tuesday. He was 97.Debnath, who was handed the Padma Shri award while undergoing treatment at the hospital last week, died at 10.15 am, his family said.“He was admitted to the hospital on December 24 with kidney and lung problems,” his son, Tapas Debnath, said. The cartoonist was conferred with the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award in India, in 2021 but could not visit New Delhi to collect the award. State home secretary BP Gopalika and cooperative minister Arup Roy handed him the medal and certificate on his hospital bed on January 13. Debanth was also conferred with the Sahitya Akademi award in 2013 and the West Bengal government also honoured him with Banga Bibhushan the same year. The Rabindra Bharati University gave him an honorary D.Litt in 2015.Taking to Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Debnath brightened several lives through his works, cartoons and illustrations. “His works reflected his intellectual prowess. The characters he created will remain eternally popular. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” he posted on the micro-blogging site. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said Debnath’s passing away is an immeasurable loss. “Extremely sad that the noted litterateur, illustrator, cartoonist, and creator of some immortal characters for children’s world, Narayan Debnath is no more. He had created Bantul the Great, Handa-Bhonda, Nonte-Fonte, figures that have been etched in our hearts for decades,” she said. “We were proud to bestow upon him Bengal’s highest award Banga Bibhusan in 2013. His passing away is certainly an immeasurable loss to the world of literary creativity and comics,” she added. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who visited Debnath at his residence last month, said his death was a huge loss to the world of literary creativity and comics. “Sad at demise of Padma Shri #NarayanDebnath legendary cartoonist and creator of immortal characters Bantul the Great, Handa-Bhonda, Nonte-Fonte for children’s world. Huge loss to the world of literary creativity and comics. My thoughts are with his family, friends and fans,” he tweeted. Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim visited the hospital on receiving the news of Debnath’s death and paid tributes to him. His body was taken to his home in Shibpur before being consigned to flames at a nearby crematorium.“Legendary cartoonist Narayan Debnath; creator of immortal fictional characters like ‘Batul the Great’, ‘Handa Bhonda’ & ‘Nante Fante’ has passed away. His legacy will always be cherished by children and grown ups alike. Condolences to family and countless admirers. Om Shanti,” Suvendu Adhikari, leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly, tweeted. Debnath is survived by two sons and one daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narayan-debnath-creator-of-iconic-comic-characters-dies-at-97-101642532033487.html
19-01-2022||India||HT THIS DAY: January 20, 1956 -- India to nationalise life insurance business; govt take over management of companies||NEW DELHI- THE Government of India have decided to nationalize life insurance, it is officially announced. An Ordinance issued today vests in the Central Government, with immediate effect, the management of life insurance business, including Capital Redemption business and Annuity Certain business. The Ordinance applies also to the foreign business of Indian insurers and the business in India of foreign insurers. General insurance business is not affected and it will continue to be managed as at present. In the case of insurers carrying on only life insurance business and of provident fund societies, the entire management vests in the Government. In the case of composite companies, the management of the life insurance part alone vests in the Government. The Finance Minister, broadcasting from the Delhi station of A.I.R., assured “ reasonable compensation “ “ both in respect of the short period during which the management of the companies will vest in the Government and in respect of the ultimate assumption of the proprietorial rights over them.” The compensation, he promised, would be “ generally regarded as fair.” The Life Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance provides, in respect of the period during which the management is vested in the Government, for compensation to shareholders “ on an equitable basis which reflects the allocations to the shareholders in the past.” The Finance Minister said that a Bill for completing the process of nationalization will be brought before Parliament during the forthcoming budget session. Meanwhile, the Ordinance envisages the appointment, as soon as practicable, of Governments nominees to manage the business of insurers that has vested in the Government. Pending the appointment of these persons, who will be termed custodians, the existing managements would continue but as agents of the Government and they will have no authority to make investments. CUSTODIANS To the extent that it is possible to do so, says an official communique, it is the Governments intention to draw the custodians from the ranks of the employees of insurers. The Finance Minister, in his broadcast, assured policyholders that there would be no interruption in the normal processes of the existing managements continuing the payment of all claims of policyholders. He also asserted that “ policies will be as safe as they are today, if not safer “ as, on nationalization, they would have the full backing of the Government. Addressing himself “ to the staff at all levels,” Mr Deshmukh said that they had nothing to fear, but added: “ I cannot, of course, guarantee the continuance of sinecures.” Turning to “ industrialists and others,” the Finance Minister declared that it was not the Government’s intention to divert the available life funds to the public sector to a greater degree than under present arrangements.” DECISION DEFENDED In the course of an elaborate defence of the Governments decision, the Finance Minister tried to reply at length to arguments advanced in public discussions against the nationalization of life insurance. Mr Deshmukh pleaded that the nationalization of life insurance was a vital part of the process of widening and deepening all possible channels of public savings for the purposes of economic development. He described it as “ another mile-stone on the road the country has chosen in order -to reach its goal of a socialistic pattern of society.” In his view, nationalized life insurance was bound to give material assistance in the implementation of the second Five-Year Plan. TEXT OF BROADCAST The following is the text of the Finance Minister’s broadcast-This afternoon the Government have promulgated an Ordinance regarding life insurance. All life insurance companies, Indian as well as foreign, doing business in India come under Government management and control. This is the Brat and preparatory step towards the nationalization of life insurance It will be followed by the more elaborate action called for, and it is proposed to place before the next session of Parliament a Bill for the nationalization of this important sector of insurance business. Both in respect of the short period during which the management of the companies will vest in the Government and in respect of the ultimate assumption of the proprietorial rights over them, reasonable compensation will be paid by the Government. What is reasonable compensation is a matter on which there is room for difference of opinion; but I am confident that the basis adopted by the Government will be generally regarded as fair. In the course of their observations on the organization of the credit system of the country in connection with the first Five-Year Plan the Planning Commission drew attention to the necessity of fitting increasingly into the scheme of development visualized for the economy as a whole the banking system-and, in fact, the whole mechanism of finance, including ulsurance, stodk exchanges and other institutions connected with investment For, it is only thus, they said that the process of mobilizing savmgs and utilizing them to the best advantage becomes socially purposive. MOBILIZATION OF SAVINGSPrincipally with a view to ensuring the spread of banking and credit facilities to the rural areas, the Imperial Bank of India was nationalized last year. The nationalization of life insurance is a further step in the direction of more effective mobilization of the peoples’ sayings. It is a truism which nevertheless cannot too often be repeated, that a nation’s savings are the prime mover of its economic development. With a second Plan in the offing involving an accelerated rate of investment and development, the widening and deepening of all possible channels of public savings has become more than ever necessary. Of this process the nationalization of insurance is a vital part. Let me give you a few figures. Today, some 50 lakhs of policies are in force paying annually a premium of ₹55 crores. The life insurance assets amount to roughly ₹380 crores from which the companies derive annually a net income of approximately ₹12 crores. The total insurance in force exceeds a thousand crore that is a little over ₹25 per head Quite recently, it was claimed on behalf of private enterprise that the business in force could be increased to ₹8,000 crores and the per capita insurance to ₹200, I am in complete agreement. There can be no doubt as to the possibilities of life insurance in India and I mention these figures only to show how greatly we could increase our savings through insurance.I need scarcely say that the decision to nationalize has been taken after deep and careful consideration of all relevant factors: I rney indeed with justice claim also that we have done so with the certainty of the approval of the public and after full examination of the views expressed by the interests involved; for this matter has been the subject of public debate and discussion for several months past.COMPANIES’ OPPOSITION On the one hand, there has been , a very general demand for the nationalization of the entire insurance industry. On the other hand, the chairmen of a large number of insurance companies, life, general and composite, have set out in extenso all the arguments that could possibly be adduced against nationalization and have endeavoured to show that insurance of every form can flourish best only under private enterprise and with the stimulus of competition. It is obvious that in a short talk such as this, I cannot enter upon a discussion of these arguments and to explain why they have failed to satisfy us and why we have, in spite of them. come to the conclusion that nationalization of life insurance is essential for the implementation of our Plan and therefore required in the public interest. Ample opportunity will, of course, be provided for such detailed discussion in Parliament. I might. However, summarize the arguments that have been urged against nationalization and comment briefly on them. State schemes in other countries and in India, it is said, have not been successful, that several foreign countries which went into the question fully decided against it, that a State enterprise cannot possibly function with the same flexibility and efficiency that the private enterprise can and finally that the State-run life insurance cannot achieve the highest ideals of insurance. UNQUALIFIED SUCCESSI do not understand this last point and will, therefore, not comment on it. To us, on an objective appraisal, it appears that the only conclusion that can be drawn from the experience of other countries is that wherever there has been a whole-hearted attempt by the State, nationalization has been an unqualified success, even in the face of severe competition from the private sector, and failures, wherever they occurred, have been due to the half-hearted manner in which the experiments were tried. There is no reason why a nationalized industry cannot be run efficiently. It is our intention to see that those who are entrusted with the running of nationalized insurance have the discretion and freedom of action necessary to enable them to secure maximum efficiency. It has become almost axiomatic with some to maintain that State enterprise qua State enterprise must be inefficient. And yet, the fact is that far too much is claimed for the efficiency with which private enterprise is run. Thus, even in insurance, which is a type of business which ought never to fail if it is properly run, we find that during the last decade. as many as 25 life insurance companies went into liquidation and another 25 had so frittered away their resources that their business had to be transferred to other companies at a loss to the policyholders. Then again, though I do not wish unduly to emphasize this point, far too unhealthy an enterprise has been shown by a number of insurance companies in the investment of funds. Only recently, there was the case of the Bharat Insurance Company when some ₹2 crores were misapplied and there have been several other cases. The amount of capital required for starting or running an insurance company is extremely small as compared to the total life fund that it may come to control. Once, however, the control is secured. the tendency not infrequently has been to utilize the funds to meet the capital requirements of enterprises in which the managements are interested rather than those which are clearly in the interests of policyholders. GENERAL INSURANCE BUSINESSI would like also briefly to explain why we have decided not to bring the general insurance business into the public sector. The consideration which influenced us most is the basic feet that general insurance is part and parcel of the private sector of trade and industry and functions on a year to year basis. Errors of Omission and commission in the conduct of its business do not directly affect the individual citizen, Life insurance business, by contrast, directly concerns the individual citizen whose life savings so vitally needed for economic development, may be affected by any acts of folly or misfeasance on the part of those in control or be retarded by their lack of imaginative policy. My object in speaking to you tonight is strictly limited. I thought it desirable that I should myself give you some idea, however brief, of what we intend to do during this interim period and, in particular, to assure all those directly affected the policyholders, the management and the staff, both office and field -that the companies concerned will be able to continue to work uninterruptedly. The Ordinance is designed to ensure that the existing managements of the insurance companies are able to carry on exactly as before until such time as a custodian is appointed to look after the affairs of each company. The only difference will be that the management will function as agents of the Government, and that certain of its powers will be restricted. Thus, it cannot invest any of the funds of the company save in accordance with instructions given by the duly authorized officers of the Government; likewise while the payment of all claims of policyholders can be made by the existing management under its own authority, it must seek the authority of the authorized person if the payment of a claim is not in accordance with the normal practice. In other words, it will be our object to see that there is as little interference in the day-today management as is consistent with the attainment of our main objective, viz., the safeguarding of the funds of the policyholders, and to the extent they have a claim, the interests of the shareholders. Naturally, it will be our endeavour to put a stop to any malpractices that may come to our notice. ASSURANCE TO POLICYHOLDERTo the policyholders, I wish to give the assurance that their policies will be as safe as they are today, if not safer. Private insurers may fail, but the State cannot fail. To those intending to take our life policies, I would say that they should proceed with confidence in view of the proposed nationalization and indeed step up their proposals for, on nationalization, their policies will have the full backing of the Government and acquire a new element of absolute safety. To the staff at all levels, I would say that they have nothing to fear. I seek their loyalty and devoted work. I cannot, of course, guarantee the continuance of sinecures. I should also like to reassure the spokesmen of the private sector, industrialists and others that it is not Governments intention to divert the available funds to the public sector to a greater degree than under present arrangements. Indeed, it will be my endeavour to see that at least as much money as is today made available for investment in the private sector continues to be so made available, If there is a change, therefore, it will be only to ensure that there are no privileged sections in the private sector, or rather, that privil0ge, in the sense the priority, hereafter is made dependent upon the broad objectives assigned under the Plan to the private sector. The misuse of power, position and privilege that, we have reason to believe, occurs under existing conditions is one of the most compelling reasons that have influenced us in deciding to nationalize life insurance. To the members of the public, I would reiterate this step has been taken after long and mature consideration. I would appeal to them not to be led away by those who would oppose that step on purely dogmatic considerations, regarding State enterprise as invariably a failure and private enterprise as unerringly successful We are determined to see that the gospel of insurance is spread as far and wide as possible and so that we reach out beyond the more advanced urban areas well into the hitherto neglected rural areas. We have not been influenced by any doctrinaire dislike of private enterprise m reaching our decision. Were that so, we would not have left alone the other big sector, the general Insurance. Ours is a positive approach. I might even say in this case, a creative approach. We are convinced that out of the large number of individual units operating in life insurance, some good, some moderately good, and a large number not so good, or even positively bad, we can weld together a dynamic and vigorous organization, capable of taking insurance to every sector of people throughout the country and mobilizing their savings while affording to them complete security together with efficient service. The nationalization of life insurance will be another mile-stone on the road the country has chosen m order to reach its goal of a socialistic pattern of society. In the implementation of the second FiveYear Plan, it is bound to give material assistance. Into the lives of millions in the rural areas it will introduce a new sense of awareness of building for the future -in the spirit of calm confidence which insurance alone can give. It is a measure conceived in a genuine spirit of service to the people. It will be for the people to respond, confound the doubters and make it a resounding success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-january-20-1956-india-to-nationalise-life-insurance-business-govt-take-over-management-of-companies-101642531913605.html
19-01-2022||India||Use of PM’s photo, tricolour in PM-Cares as per law, says PMO||There is no restriction on the use of the Prime Minister’s photo as well as the image of the national flag and emblem for the PM CARES Fund, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) told the Bombay high court on Tuesday.In an affidavit filed before a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik, PMO under-secretary Pradeep Kumar Srivastava said the use of the national flag and national emblem in the PM CARES Fund is in conformity with the usage allowed by the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950 and Rules made under the enactment. The affidavit also said that the Prime Minister’s photograph, name and national emblem were also used in the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF).The affidavit was filed in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Congress’s councilor in Thane Municipal Corporation Vikrant Chavan, seeking deletion of the prime minister’s name and photograph from the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund. Claiming that PM CARES Fund was created as a non-government Trust and as amounts collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, the petition sought directions for removal of the image of the national flag and Emblem from the name of the Trust and its web portal.The PIL further stated that as the Trust was a private entity the use of the name and picture of the prime minister, flag and emblem violate the laws and rules governing the said symbols.The PMO affidavit said, “PM CARES fund and Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) are both chaired by the Prime Minister. As the name, photograph of the Prime Minister and National Emblem are being used for the PMNRF, they are also being used for the PM CARES Fund.”“Flag Code of India, 2002, which brings together all laws, conventions, practices and instructions regarding display of National Flag provided that there cannot restriction on display of National Flag by members of general public, private organizations, educational institutions etc, except to extend provided in the Emblems and Names Act, 1950,” the affidavit added.Advocate Sagar Joshi, appearing for the petitioner, had informed the court that as per the Trust Deed, which was executed on March 27, 2020, the PM was the chairperson and all trustees, including Union ministers, were appointed in their personal capacity but the trust did not discharge any sovereign functions.The bench was informed that the trust has collected over ₹3,000 crore for relief work using the name and photograph of the prime minister, national flag and emblem thus flouting the relevant laws and rules governing such national signs and symbols.The bench had then directed additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union government to file an affidavit in reply to the petition.On Tuesday, the PMO in its affidavit denied the claims of the petitioner and challenged the correctness of the contentions.The affidavit said the prime minister is chairperson (ex-officio) of the PM CARES Fund and various ministers are ex-officio trustees of the fund and all of them are in pro bono capacity. The composition of the Board of Trustees consisting of holders of public office ex officio is merely for administrative convenience and for smooth succession of trusteeship.Srivastava has concluded the affidavit stating that the petitioner approached HC without exhausting the administrative remedies available under the concerned laws and rules and hence the petition deserves to be dismissed.After perusing the affidavit, the bench granted 15-day time for the petitioner to file a rejoinder and posted further hearing after three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-of-pm-s-photo-tricolour-in-pm-cares-as-per-law-says-pmo-101642531854688.html
19-01-2022||India||New startups exempted from Haryana private job quota for two years: Dushyant Chautala||Startups and IT/ITES companies setting up fresh base in Haryana will be exempt for two years from provisions of the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, which mandates 75% reservation for locals in new jobs with salary less than ₹30,000 a month, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said during a press conference in Chandigarh.In addition, short-term work and employment of less than 45 days will also be exempt from the local job reservation act, he added.The law came into effect on 15 January.Providing details of the exemptions under the law, Chaultala said that in addition to sowing of crops, embroidery, primary work related to fruits, vegetables, tea leaves, coffee, fish, animals etc. are also exempted. Exemptions have also been given to domestic help and those industries for which skilled workers are not available, he added.The law was championed by Chautala, and was actually part of the poll promise of his Jannayak Janata Party, which is a partner of the BJP in the state’s coalition government. The law will be valid for 10 years.Those companies flouting the law could face penalties from ₹50,000 to ₹2 lakh, Chautala said. “We had a discussion with the stakeholders and after considering the demand of the IT and ITES sector it was decided to give exemption to new companies (facilities) for two years. It was also decided to exempt short term work from this law,” said Chautala.According to the state’s labour department, private firms and companies are registering themselves on the portal of the Labour Department as required under the law. Since the opening of registration on January 15, around 22,000 companies and 3,280 youth have registered , said officials. The companies have to provide details of all their workers earning less than ₹30,000, and can hire morre workers in this salary bracket only after ding so.Chautala also called upon the youth in the state to register themselves so that there is no shortage of manpower for the companies. The applicants will also be able to connect their applications with Parivar Pehchan Patra to resolve the issue of domicile, he said.The deputy CM also alleged that misleading propaganda was being carried out against the law. “There was a glass ceiling for the local youth in large companies and it had become difficult for them to get jobs in such firms. This law will ensure that doors for local youth is opened for employment,” he said on Monday an online interaction.Chautala also said that the government will hold discussions with industry associations that have opposed the reservation in court of law and find a solution to their issues as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-startups-exempted-from-haryana-private-job-quota-for-two-years-dushyant-chautala-101642531615808.html
19-01-2022||India||Inform people about importance of their vote, Modi tells BJP workers in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told party workers in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi on Tuesday through a virtual interaction that they should underline the importance of each ballot to voters in the upcoming state assembly polls. Modi’s interaction is significant for two reasons -- in the absence of large rallies (not allowed till at least January 23 in light of the third wave of the pandemic), the role of local workers becomes that much more important; and, early on, Modi signalled that he would lead from the front, the BJP’s campaign in India’s most politically important state, Uttar Pradesh. Interacting with party workers through the Namo app, Modi reaffirmed the BJP’s commitment to development. The redevelopment of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor, women’s empowerment, and infrastructure and health care were among the topics that came up for discussion during the audio interaction.“We have to tell people about the power of each and every vote,” Modi said. “Yogiji (chief minister Yogi Adityanath) and I are able to do so many things as the people of Uttar Pradesh gave blessings of their votes to us.”Assembly elections will be held in Uttar Pradesh in seven phases beginning February 10. Varanasi will vote in the seventh phase on March 7.Modi spoke to a BJP worker each from eight assembly segments – Varanasi South, Varanasi North, Varanasi Cantonment, Shivpur, Ajgara, Pindara, Sevapuri and Rohania – in his Lok Sabha constituency.The Prime Minister asked party workers to explain the reach of the government’s welfare schemes to farmers and said they should make farmers aware of the use of chemical-free fertilisers. He also talked about the BJP’s micro-donation campaign, seeking to raise funds through small contributions of ₹5 and ₹10 from members and supporters. “This drive will not be for fund raising, but is a powerful medium to connect with more people. It should be completed by the end of January,” he said. After inquiring about the weather in Varanasi while speaking to Ashutosh Sharma, BJP’s booth president of Bageshwari Mandal in Varanasi North assembly constituency, Modi said, “The weather keeps changing, but how is the heat of election in Varanasi?” People were happy with the “double-engine government” of the BJP at the Centre and the state, Sharma replied, mentioning various development work being carried out in Varanasi. Modi said he has worked to improve Varanasi’s connectivity, focused on preserving its heritage and ensured development. “The election is a test for political parties, but it is also a sort of training camp in which large number of workers can be trained. We should always remember the mantra of expansion of the organisation (BJP) and development of party workers,” Modi said. Shravan Rawat, BJP booth president of Pt Deendayal Mandal of Varanasi South constituency, said the new Kashi Vishwanath corridor has benefited business in the area. “The corridor is grand and divine. A large number of devotees are visiting the Kashi Vishwanath temple daily, due to which business of flower sellers and tea vendors is thriving,” Rawat said.Seema Kumari, BJP’s booth president of Mahamana Mandal in Varanasi Cantonment assembly constituency, told the Prime Minister that women were happy after getting houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. “All these works were done because women gave us the opportunity to serve them by taking a right decision,” Modi told Kumari, asking her to connect more with women self-help groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-inform-people-about-the-importance-of-their-vote-modi-tells-bjp-workers-in-varanasi-101642531614580.html
19-01-2022||India||Indefinite suspension of MLAs danger to democracy, says SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday observed that an outer limit on the period for suspending a member of legislature is essential for democracy as a situation can be perceived in future where a ruling party having with a slender majority resorts to such actions to keep the Opposition members out of the House.Dealing with the July 2021 action of the Maharashtra legislative assembly to suspend 12 MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for a one-year period, a bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar said, “This question that we are pondering upon is not just dealing with the rights of an individual or a constituency, but concerns democracy. If we uphold such an action, we will be staring at unexpected situations.”The state government defended its July 5, 2021 action by stating that once the Constitution provides power to the legislature to suspend its members for obstructing the business of the House, the judiciary cannot review the quantum of punishment. Senior advocate C Aryama Sundaram who appeared for Maharashtra said, “There is no Parliamentary law that bars suspension for a year. If I am able to convince the court on this aspect, further enquiry cannot proceed on this aspect.”The bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar told Sundaram, “The outer limit (for suspension) is essential for democracy and upholding democratic balance…It can otherwise result in a danger to democracy. For instance, if a ruling party has slender lead, what will be the outcome if 10 or 12 persons from the Opposition side are suspended?”This was the second time the court questioned the legitimacy of the Maharashtra Assembly’s decision to suspend the 12 MLAs from the House for a one-year period. On January 11, the same bench had said that suspension is worse than expulsion. In the latter case, on expulsion or disqualification, a seat cannot remain vacant beyond six months following which there is a re-election. This is provided under Section 151A of the Representation of Peoples Act. Further, under Article 190(4) of the Constitution, a member’s unexplained absence from the House for a period of 60 days can be a ground to declare the seat vacant. The MLAs had cited these provisions to show the action of the Assembly against them to be arbitrary and malafide.“Because you have power to expel, does not mean you will suspend a member for an indefinite period. The purpose of suspension is to ensure the business of the House is completed peacefully. When the session of the House gets over, where is the question of continuing the suspension,” the bench asked the state.Sundaram said, “Once you recognise the right of the House to expel, he goes for every session,” adding that the suspension contemplated is not as per the calendar year but the number of sittings. He further explained that under Article 190(4) absence of a member will not automatically result in vacancy of seat as the House will have the discretion to declare it vacant. The state further distinguished suspension from expulsion by stating that a MLA loses right to enter the House during the period of suspension but continues to represent his constituency in every other way.The bench reminded Sundaram, “The limit has been laid down in the Constitution Article 190(4) and law (Section 151A). We will go by the Constitutional spirit. The issue raised has to be tested not just on whether it is constitutional or illegal, but on rationality as well. This rationality may not be provided by law but should be derived on the basis whether a common man takes this action to be rational or preposterous.” As far as unconstitutionality is concerned, the bench observed that it must be inferred from the constitutional principles laid down under Articles 14, 19, and 21 which forms the core of an individual’s fundamental rights.The MLAs in their petition filed by Abhikalp Pratap Singh had stated that the order to suspend them goes to the root of democracy as it was an attempt to suppress dissent within the legislature which violates their right to free speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a).The 12 suspended MLAs are Sanjay Kute, Abhimanyu Pawar, Ashish Shelar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkalkar, Harish Pimpale, Parag Alavani, Yogesh Sagar, Jayakumar Rawat, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Kirtikumar Bhangadia. The hearing of the case will continue on Wednesday .The state has concluded its arguments. However, the lawyers appearing for the suspended MLAs will get a chance to respond to the submissions of the state government. The Speaker of the Assembly has refused to be part of the proceedings before the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indefinite-suspension-of-mlas-danger-to-democracy-says-sc-101642531494486.html
19-01-2022||India||Zydus Covid-19 vaccine hit by delay in supply||A delay in supplies has led to Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D not being included in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme, according to people familiar with the development.“Their supply to the government is a bit delayed, which is why it has not started being administered the programme yet,” an official said on condition of anonymity. “There has been absolutely no problem from the government’s side.”Zydus was expected to supply the first batch of its Covid-19 vaccine to the central government around the end of December last year.ZyCoV-D, the world’s first DNA-based and needle-free Covid-19 vaccine and the second indigenously developed one to be approved, was cleared for restricted use in emergency situation in people 12 years of age and above.Zydus did not respond to a query on the delay. The company had on November 8 announced that the government had placed an order for 10 million doses of ZyCov-D.The cost of per dose was fixed at ₹265, or ₹795 for the recommended three-dose regimen.The company had earlier announced that it should have a production capacity of about 10-12 million doses per month.The Zydus vaccine will initially be used in districts of seven states with low first dose coverage before it is rolled out nationwide, the health ministry said last month.The seven states where ZyCoV-D was scheduled to be administered in the first phase were Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The training to administer the vaccine has been completed.ZyCoV-D was developed in partnership with the government’s department of biotechnology under Mission COVID Suraksha, which involved the pooling of resources by several Indian research institutions for development and clinical trials. The Drugs Controller General of India on August 20 granted emergency use authorization.The vaccine works by instructing cells to produce the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which elicits an immune response. Results from the company’s phase III clinical trials showed the vaccine has an efficacy of 66.6%. The vaccine is to be given on day zero, day 28 and day 56, as per the schedule shared by the company.
19-01-2022||India||Ready to apologise to Congress’s Harish Rawat: Harak Singh Rawat||Harak Singh Rawat, who was expelled from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on January 16, said on Tuesday that he is ready to apologise to former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, the chief election strategist of the Congress party for the assembly polls to be held on February 14.“He (Harish Rawat) is my elder brother. I can apologise 100 times, or even one lakh times for Uttarakhand, its youth, its development,” Harak Singh said at a media briefing on a visit to New Delhi, indicating his willingness to rejoin the Congress, which he left in 2016.Harak Singh was responding to Harish Rawat’s statements about him. “I stand by what have I said. Not just him but all those who were involved (in the 2016 rebellion ) should seek apology from the people of Uttarakhand and democracy,” Harish Rawat said earlier.Harak Singh Rawat was one of the nine Congress lawmakers who rebelled against the Congress government headed by Harish Singh Rawat in March 2016, reducing it to a minority. The Centre imposed President’s rule in the state, although Harish Singh Rawat returned as CM after winning a trust vote in May. Harak Singh Rawat defected to the BJP and was elected on its ticket in 2017. He was expelled by the BJP earlier this month.The decision to induct Harak Singh Rawat into the Congress will have to be a collective decision of the party, Harish Rawat said on Tuesday.Harak Singh was expelled from the BJP for six years on Sunday and has since indicated that he wants to join the Congress ahead of the state elections.Some Congress leaders in Uttarakhand, especially those close to Harish Rawat, are not happy with re-inducting someone involved in the 2016 mutiny into the party.“What happened in 2016 weakened the democratic tradition in the whole country. It was a murder of democracy,” said Pradeep Tamta, Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member.The Congress high command, however, may be keen on using Harak Singh Rawat to fight the incumbent BJP in some seats where he has influence.Given his track record, Harak Singh Rawat has created a difficult situation for himself, said MM Semwal, professor of political science at Garhwal Central University.“If the Congress takes him back, it will send a wrong signal in the party,” Semwal said. “But the Congress high command must be looking at the broader picture and may want to use him for hitting at the BJP, at least in some seats where he holds strong influence.”
19-01-2022||India||Unauthorised interception of messages by probe agencies flouts rights: Delhi HC||Unauthorised interception of messages and audio conversations by investigating agencies will lead to manifest arbitrariness and violation of fundamental rights of citizens, the Delhi high court has held.On Monday, Justice Chandra Dhari Singh said that as per Section 5(2) of the Telegraph Act, an order for interception can only be issued either on the occurrence of any public emergency or in the interest of public safety, as per the law laid down by the Supreme Court in the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) vs Union of India case in 1997.In that judgment, the apex court said the “right to privacy would certainly include telephone conversations in the privacy of one’s home or office”. It added that conversations on the telephone are often of an intimate, confidential character and an important facet of people’s private lives.“Telephone-tapping would, thus, infract Article 21 of the Constitution of India unless it is permitted under the procedure established by law,” the SC ruled.The Puttuswamy judgment of the apex court on August 24, 2017, said that the right to privacy is protected by the Constitution as an intrinsic part of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and as a part of the freedom guaranteed by Part-III of the Constitution of India.Taking note of these rulings, Justice Singh said in a 80-page judgement: “…if the directions of the Supreme Court in PUCL which are now re-enforced and approved by the SC in KS Puttaswamy, as also the mandatory rules in regard to the illegally intercepted messages/audio conversations pursuant to an order having no sanction of law, are permitted, it would lead to manifest arbitrariness and would promote the scant regard to the procedure and fundamental rights of the citizens, and law laid down by the Supreme Court.”Also read | HC pulls up UP Police for forging papers, illegally arresting two from DelhiThe court’s ruling came in a case against Jatinder Pal Singh, an alleged middleman and involved what the Central Bureau of Investigation said was a criminal conspiracy with the object to show favour with respect to the recognition of the courses and grant of permission pertaining to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Patiala.In 2012, a trial court framed charges against the petitioner and other accused.Singh, through his counsel, contended that the illegal tapping of his telephone conversation was a violation of the right to privacy.Despite the charges against him, the Delhi HC agreed.In its judgment, the court said the mandatory requirements laid down by law for placing reliance on such audio conversations, “have not been fulfilled” in accordance with the Telegraph Act. The judge said that according to rules framed under the Telegraph Act, the order of the Home Secretary granting permission to intercept telephonic conversations is to be forwarded to a Review Committee within seven days of passing the order, for reviewing the decision.It, however, said that no material was placed on record to establish that any review of the order of the Home Secretary was conducted in compliance of the rules in this case.“…After the perusal of the records, this court is satisfied that in peculiar facts of the instant case, the mandatory requirements laid down by law for placing reliance on such audio conversations, have not been fulfilled. It is an admitted position that Rule 419(A)(17) which provides for destruction of intercepted message also adopt the said directions. The court below while passing the impugned orders has also ignored the settled legal positions and directions of the Supreme Court,” the judgment read.The court also said that recordings of the call intercepted in the instant case are “not admissible” since the due procedure for such interception as mandated by the Telegraph Act and the Rules framed was not followed.
19-01-2022||India||Shattering of the aspirations for private ‘English medium’ schools||The building is run down, hidden in a row of other identical buildings. It has two floors and a large metal gate. But unlike the others, which are homes, and from where the usual stirrings of life are visible even on a cold December morning, this building is silent.The gate, which has not been opened in months, has been claimed by cobwebs. A large grey lock protects what is inside, but rust has begun to spread across the metal. The lettering on the building has started to fade: The Lord Krishna English Medium Secondary School, Sadarpur village, Gautam Buddh Nagar. The school no longer exists; it closed a little over a year ago, another inanimate victim of the pandemic.The school, that opened in 2005, once boasted at least 700 students, spanning Classes 1-8, and served Sadarpur, a semi-urban village in the National Capital Region. Except, after the second wave in May 2021, unable to cope with the economic ramifications of government mandated school closures, the owners upped and left. “Most of the children in this locality used to go to this school. The fee was around ₹400 per month. While they stayed during the first lockdown, they could not sustain after the second lockdown that came in April-May,” said Rajender Chauhan (62) from Sadarpur. The village has tried to get in touch with the owners to ask them if they will return. But they have since moved to Pilkhuwa in Uttar Pradesh, and the fate of the school is uncertain.Across the country’s metros, small towns and villages, if there was one signboard that captured India’s aspirations, it was the rickety board advertising an “English Medium” private school. The advertisements were everywhere, painted on walls in tier 2 towns, on tattered posters pasted on lampposts in urban villages, even on billboards. The schools were everywhere too, a growing industry servicing the space between the desire to move children out of ill-equipped government schools and the inability to pay for more expensive private institutions. And in English, of course.Except, even as the pandemic and school shutdowns ravaged education, it devastated the economics of Low Cost Private Schools. If government schools, and larger private schools had the wherewithal to withstand months of no classes, these institutions run out of buildings on rent, and usually with slim profit margins, found they could no longer pay rent or salaries. In this third of a five-part series on the effects of the pandemic on India’s schools and children, HT looked at the fate of these small private schools that closed down in the vicinity of the national capital, and what that has meant for owners, teachers, students, and the larger education ecosystem.What the pandemic has meant for LCPSTwenty-four kilometres away from Sadarpur, 56-year-old Kamlesh Srivastava sits forlorn at home. In 1998, he founded Kanchan Public School in a village called Gadhi Chaukhandi in Gautam Buddh Nagar, from nursery to Class 5, with 26 teachers, and around 800 students. “In 2020 when the pandemic hit, we still had some hope. We had two buildings in the same compound one of which was on rent of ₹40,000 per month while the other was ours, which we bought in 2011. We first let go of the rented building and continued through 2020 with online teaching. However, as time went by, we were unable to pay salaries as parents stopped paying fees. The strength of students reduced from about 800 to just 150 when we reopened in October 2021. After the second Covid wave, there were barely 50 students across the school who would pay fees, and even then only about half of what they owed. As a result, we had to shut the school,” said Srivastava. Fees at the school started from ₹250 per month for nursery classes to ₹475 per month for Class 5.With no other source of income left, his married daughters now support Srivastava financially. But he isn’t the only one associated with the school that is now struggling. Priyanka Yadav, 35, was one of the teachers at the school, earning ₹8,000 a month. A resident of Mamura village, Yadav now gives English tuition classes to children in her village, and her monthly income has dropped to ₹4,500.“My husband lost his job last year when the pandemic started but got another one this year at a garment factory in Sector 63. We have three children to feed and rent to pay, and with my salary cut to half, we are barely able to make ends meet,” she said.Rekha Chauhan, who runs the low budget Adarsh Vatika School in Challera village and is a member of the local Public School Welfare Association of Gautam Buddh Nagar, said that of the 200 schools registered with the body, at least 40 have downed shutters for good. “A major problem is that the parents are unable to pay even ₹500 a month. At my school too, the strength has reduced from 800 students to just 200. It has left owners like us high and dry,” she said.Dharmendra Saxena, Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Basic Education Officer said that it is true that several schools closed during the pandemic in the district, but that there is no data on this. “The repercussions of the brunt of the pandemic on LCPS will only show up on paper, in government data, by 2023 when we start removing schools that have not updated their data for three years,” added Saxena.The national perspectiveAccording to a 2017 report titled “Understanding the Affordable Private School Market in India” compiled by non-profit FSG, 86% of children from low-income households in urban India attend affordable or low cost private schools. The report estimated that there were 130,000 -160,000 such schools in urban India that charge fees between ₹500- ₹1,650 a month.In March 2021, UNICEF released a report highlighting the impact of pandemic on low-cost or affordable private schools, stating, “COVID-19 has hit low-cost private schools (LCPS) especially hard. The economic shock of the pandemic has placed LCPS under significant financial stress; teachers reported losing their jobs, having their salaries cut, or not being paid at all. Thousands of LCPS have already shut down, and thousands more are on the brink of permanent closure.”Officials at the Union ministry of education said that the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) 2020-21, to be released in July, will likely shed some light on the scale of school closures. “The report maps district-wise numbers of schools, students and teachers. The closure of schools amid the pandemic will be reflected in this year’s report,” said a senior official at the ministry. Still, that report will likely ignore the impact of the second wave since it will only include data till March 2021.The shift to government schoolsFor the past decade, that she studied in a private “English medium” school, was a matter of pride for 16-year-old Sweety Malik. In March 2020, she passed her class 10 board exam from Angel Public school in the Kasna area of Gautam Buddh Nagar. Then the pandemic hit, the school shut down and every student was given a transfer certificate.There was another problem. She used to pay a fee of ₹1,100 a month, and even as a desperate family looked around, there were no other schools around them within that fee structure. “So in October 2020, I had to get admission at the Navjivan Inter College in Gejha village. Moreover, my father’s income reduced from ₹7,000 to ₹2,500 a month during the lockdown. So the ability to pay for private school just wasn’t there anymore,” said Malik, a resident of Haldoni village. Her father is a construction worker while her mother works as a house help in the high rise apartments of Greater Noida west.For Malik, the shift has been difficult to adjust to. “I am not very happy being here as all subjects are being taught in Hindi. But my classmates are fascinated with my spoken English and many take lessons from me.”Her father, Vikas Malik (38), said that he never wanted Sweety, and her two younger siblings, to go to a government school. “I always wanted my children to go to an English-medium private school so they could have a better life. However, the pandemic brought such conditions that both I and my wife were jobless for almost four months and our savings started drying up. When Sweety’s school shut down, I could not find any other affordable private school.”This shift to government schools is a pattern that is showing up across the country. According to the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021, a significant number of schoolchildren in India have switched from private schools to government-run schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The report found a jump in enrolment in government schools between 2018 and 2020, going up from 64.3% to 65.8%. In 2021, it leapt to 70.3%. On the other hand, enrolment in private schools decreased from 28.8% in 2020 to 24.4% in 2021, the report said.On the ground, data from Gautam Buddh Nagar district in Uttar Pradesh shows that government primary schools had a strength of 86,651 while secondary schools had 74,497 students enrolled in 2019-20. For 2021-22, the number of students in primary schools has increased to 94,626 while in secondary schools it has increased to 80,477.In Ghaziabad, there were 93,459 students studying in primary government schools in 2019-2020 which increased to 100,982 in 2021-22. In secondary classes, there were 83,987 students studying in government schools in 2019-2020 which increased to 89,452 in 2021-22.What this shift meansSituated in the busy main market of Gejha village, the entrance of Sweety Malik’s new school, Navjivan Inter College is easy to miss. The name of the school, written across the building in red paint, has faded away. Inside, there are dirty toilets, broken benches, cracked black boards, and the playground is lined with overgrown shrubs.The school didn’t have great infrastructure even before the pandemic, and now it has to serve more students: the strength has increased from 800 in 2020 to 1500 in 2021. “We were already overburdened with about 100 students in one class but now there are about 150 students in one class with one teacher for one subject. The teachers are overburdened and there is not enough infrastructure to fit in these many students,” said Pushpendra Singh, the school’s principal.In Uttar Pradesh, schools first shut in 2020 in March, and were then reopened in October 2020. In the second wave, the schools shut in April 2021, and then reopened in August 2021. When Singh’s school reopened on August 16 with the 700 extra students, some classes had to be shifted outside, where 40 benches have been placed in rows. Even inside the class, more than half the students have to sit on the floor.“In the winter students do not mind sitting outside in the sun. But during the summer, we often have to either cancel classes or wait for the ‘games period’ of another class so that we can take classes in their classroom,” said RK Singh, a teacher at the school.Lakshay Chhabaria, president of Affordable Private Schools’ Association, said, “Government schools in India, as we already know, suffer a shortage of staff with many posts for teachers and school staff lying vacant. On top of that when more students get admitted to the school, how can we ensure quality education?”Then, there are those for whom even government schools were not an option. Sanju Chaudhary, 17, was a Class 9 student at Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Amar Public School in sector 37, where he paid a monthly fee of ₹700 a month. He was also one of the brightest among a group of students at a tuition centre run by the NGO Social and Development Research and Action Group (SADRAG) where he sought to improve his skills on a computer. His father, a driver, lost his job during the pandemic, and the eldest of four siblings, Chaudhary was forced to find work. Mala Bhandari, founder of SADRAG said, “We tried very hard to get Sanju admission into a government school but his parents needed him to start earning. This is not just a one-off case but a story of many other children in the pandemic.” In Chaudhary’s story, he has gone from talented Class 9 student, with dreams and aspirations, to a worker at a bakery in Noida. He has no idea of when, if at all, he will be able to return to education.(With inputs from Fareeha Iftikhar)
19-01-2022||India||BJP sets up committees to strengthen election campaigns||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set up committees to strengthen its targeted campaigns in five poll-bound states so as to offset restrictions imposed by the election commission on traditional canvassing methods in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The poll panel has put a moratorium on all large gatherings and rallies, a preferred method of outreach, till January 23, forcing political parties to come up with alternative methods of canvassing.On Tuesday, BJP president JP Nadda addressed leaders who have been delegated the work of strengthening the party’s campaign through interventions that will largely rest on the party’s digital reach. The teams announced on Tuesday will assist the state units in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Goa to relay the party’s message through physical interactions and virtual connections, according to a functionary familiar with what happened at the meeting.Also read | Tell people about the power of every vote: PM to BJP workers“Teams with three to four people in each have been given the charge of working with the state units to increase the penetration through social media platforms and to spread out in smaller groups to interact with either groups of professionals or undertake door-to-door campaign without violating ECI’s rules against gatherings,” the functionary said, requesting anonymity.Union ministers Anurag Thakur and Rajeev Chandrashekhar, who are in charge of the digital outreach, will also have a team focusing on leveraging the party’s digital network.Commenting on the BJP’s preparedness to take its campaign online in view of the pandemic, Chandrashekhar said, “The BJP’s digital outreach is being built very strongly on two pillars that are digitally enabled, our vast network of workers and the many crores of citizens who are beneficiaries of the government schemes who are also the best digital ambassadors of the BJP’s governance record and delivery on promises. Because of these two strengths and use of small groups or in-person contacts, BJP’s messaging and campaigning will reach every voter despite the restrictions of physical campaigning caused by the Covid virus.”The BJP’s campaign typically involves appointing people in charge of each booth, who in turn have the responsibility of motivating voters to come out and cast their ballots. This is followed up with the identifying of supporters and fence sitters, who are then approached with the party’s programmes and schemes, and are also used to glean response to the government’s policies.While the door-to-door campaigns will be restricted, party leaders said they will innovate even in these. “Even at small physical meetings, we will be able to relay our content digitally,” said the functionary cited above. .Nadda and BL Santhosh, the BJP’s national general secretary overseeing organisation, have picked national joint general secretary Shiv Prakash and general secretary Dilip Saikia to coordinate such booth-level meetings, which usually involve two or three leaders meeting people in groups of 5-10 people.Another team has been given the mandate of carrying out samajik samvaad by reaching out to socially and economically marginalised communities. “Work began in November last year but with the announcement of the elections, it will now pick up pace. The team’s mandate is to reach out to the unaffiliated sections among scheduled castes and other marginalized groups and to act as a bridge between them and the government. We get to expand our political reach while making the government cognizant of their concerns,” said a second functionary who asked not to be identified.One of the teams will also assist in drafting and keeping track of the poll narrative that workers on ground will relay to voters. The issues that become part of the narrative are decided by the workers on the ground, taking into account the peculiarities and the specificities of the issues in each state.“There are key issues that are likely to be raised during the campaign and the party has prepared answers to these. Part of the process of building a narrative is also being able to not just counter what the opposition says, but to drive the discourse,” said a third leader who asked not to be named.Since the party will also hold virtual rallies, as it did during the Bihar assembly polls in 2020, a team will oversee the setting up of large screens in village squares and panchayat offices for broadcast of speeches. The party is particularly focused on sharpening its content that is disseminated through mobile phone and social media platforms. “Digital content is driving the campaign and in January alone in UP our content had 25 crore impressions across messaging platforms,” a fourth functionary said.Teams have also been set up for supervising the execution of indoor meetings. The poll watchdog has allowed parties to hold meetings of no more than 300 people, or 50% of the capacity of a closed hall. National general secretary Vinod Tawde, national secretary Sunil Deodhar and in-charge of the OBC morcha Laxman Singh have been given charge of planning these indoor events that will be addressed by star campaigners and national leaders.The party will also have volunteers campaign at marketplaces and public spaces carrying placards and pamphlets. “They will be masked and maintain social distancing. In some places, we will have campaigning targeted at women carried out through group activities. A team has also been set up to oversee the process of sending ballot papers to senior citizens, people with disabilities and Covid patients,” said the first functionary.
19-01-2022||India||BSF: 82 truckers found with fake driving licences at Bangladesh border||The Border Security Force found at least 82 drivers using fake driving licences to ply trucks to and from Bangladesh at Petrapole Integrated Check Post (ICP) in West Bengal over the last two days -- a significant security issue in a sensitive area. According to BSF spokesperson Krishna Rao, the Customs department and Land Port Authority of India have been informed that drivers operating on fake licences cannot be allowed to operate across the border. A police case is being registered by the force to investigate the “larger conspiracy”, Rao added. The border-guarding force received inputs about a few drivers being involved in transborder crimes such as smuggling of gold, cough syrup, drugs etc while engaged in export and import of goods between India and Bangladesh, following which surprise checks were carried at the Petrapole ICP on January 16 and 17, said Rao.On Sunday, BSF found 52 fake driving licences and another 30 the following day. A BSF spokesperson said all 82 fake driving licences have been handed over to the Customs. “The concerned authorities of Customs and Land Port Authority of India were told that BSF cannot allow those trucks to go to Bangladesh whose drivers are found in the possession of a fake driving licence,” Rao said. Rao added, “No driver with a fake driving licence can be allowed to ply the trucks to Bangladesh at any cost. These drivers obtain fake car passes from the customs department using their driving licences.”To ensure smooth trade between India and Bangladesh, BSF has also informed Bangaon Transport Association across the border to follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) so that the security and interests of the two nations are not compromised. Petrapole ICP is the largest land port in South Asia, located along the international border between India and Bangladesh, about 80 km from Kolkata. Petrapole (India)-Benapole (Bangladesh) is an important land border crossing for both the countries in terms of trade and passenger movement and nearly 30% of land-based trade between India and Bangladesh takes place there. Since it was operationalised in February 2016, the Petrapole ICP has witnessed an increase in passenger movement, with an average of 2.2 million people crossing the border post on either side each year.Detailing the reasons why the BSF has decided to beef up security at Petrapole, the spokesperson said the force seized smuggled gold worth around ₹1.4 crore from a transporter while he was trying to escape on a bike on January 4. The gold was smuggled from Bangladesh by concealing it in a truck. On July 19 last year, gold worth ₹1.71 crore was seized from an Indian driver coming from Bangladesh. Days later on August 21, Saudi riyal worth ₹1.68 crore was recovered from an empty Indian truck returning from Bangladesh after unloading export goods. Acting on an intelligence input, BSF seized 50 kg of marijuana from an Indian truck on January 9 this year besides several seizures of illegal items including narcotics in last few months. Rao said that “in all these illegal activities, roles of Indian transporters, labourers, drivers, helpers and different agents and sub-agents have been established”. “It is also worth mentioning that sometimes, drivers with fake driving licences tend to meet road accidents. Even BSF lost the life of one of its jawans when he was overrun by a truck driver in October last year. Therefore, it is necessary that BSF check the validity of the driving licence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-82-truckers-found-with-fake-driving-licences-at-bangladesh-border-101642530532760.html
19-01-2022||India||Variant watch: Even mild cases may leave a mark on brain||A case of mild Covid-19 can lead to significant effects on the brain, according to a new study by a team led by scientists from Stanford and Yale universities, who found previously undiscovered biological mechanisms and markers that demonstrate how a Sars-CoV-2 infection leaves many with effects similar to chemotherapy.The finding holds implications for rehabilitation of people with even mild cases and those suffering from so-called long Covid symptoms, which are still not properly understood. These effects have often manifested as what has loosely been known as brain fog, in which cognitive ability and memory functions are impaired.The latest study, shared as a journal pre-print for peer review, now finds more signs of why this may be happening by studying how the virus, engineered to cause only mild disease, affected mice brains and the infection markers seen in people with and without such symptoms.First, the researchers found signs of neuro inflammation by detecting specific markers for immune cells known as cytokines in spinal fluid up to seven weeks after an infection. These were found in the mice as well as 48 people who reported neurological long Covid symptoms, but the same markers were not present in 15 people who did not have these long-lasting symptoms.The scientists then studied the brains of the mice and found “microglial reactivity” in a particular part of the brain. Microglia are a type of immune cells in the central nervous system.These cells also limit the process of generation of new neurons in the hippocampus, the part of the brain that supports healthy memory function. Indeed, for the third part of the study, they found that there was a “stark decrease in new neuron generation” in the infected mice. They also found that another process of a healthy brain in which the myelin – it modulates the speed of neural impulses – is optimally maintained was impacted.The authors add that they are yet to assess whether newer variants such as Omicron have a similar biological effect on the brain. But their study provides new biological insight that cognitive losses affect not only people who were hospitalised due to Covid-19 but also those that had mild disease.“There are stark parallels between the cellular dysregulation that can happen after chemotherapy and even mild Covid-19. Understanding the neurobiological underpinnings of Long Covid will lay the groundwork for therapeutic strategies to address this neurological health crisis,” said Michelle Monje, neuroscientist at Stanford University and one of the authors of the study, in a tweet.A second study, also shared this week, offers some hope. Researchers in Israel found that people who were fully vaccinated were significantly less likely to suffer from long Covid symptoms.After adjusting... those who received two doses were less likely than unvaccinated individuals to report (fatigue) by 64%, (headache) by 54%, (weakness) by 57%, and (persistent muscle pain) by 68%, said the researchers from Safed, Israel.
19-01-2022||India||Strategically increase Covid tests: Centre tells states||All states need to immediately increase testing for Covid-19 infections in a strategic manner to figure out case positivity rates in specific locations within a state to contain the surge driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant, the health ministry said on Tuesday. “Progression of disease to a severe category can be averted by strategic testing of those who are at high risk and more vulnerable, as well as in areas where the spread is likely to be higher,” additional health secretary Arti Ahuja said in a letter to the states. “As you are aware, the Omicron which has been designated by WHO as variant of concern (VoC) is currently spreading across the country… laying out the broad framework of pandemic management in the context of Omicron, testing remains a key and crucial component of the framework,” she said. The ministry asked provincial governments to increase testing as data from the Indian Council of Medical Research’s portal show testing has declined in many states and Union territories. Keeping up the testing pace is important to identify new infection clusters and hot spots, which can help in setting up of containment zones, contact tracing, quarantining, isolation and follow-up, Ahuja said in the letter. This would ensure reduction in mortality and morbidity.“In all advisories on testing issued by ICMR including the latest advisory dated 10th January, 2022, the basic objective remains early detection of cases for quick isolation and care,” the letter said.Ahuja reiterated ICMR’s guidelines pertaining to conducting purposive testing that includes testing all symptomatic cases and all at-risk contacts of confirmed infections. Senior citizens and those with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic heart, and kidney or liver disease are deemed to be at higher risk than others.The health ministry has recommended strategic and focused testing of people who are vulnerable, living in closed surroundings, in densely populated areas in emerging new clusters, and new hot spots of positive cases.Testing is crucial in early detection of cases, experts said.“It is important to test so that positive cases are identified and isolated early, and also put on treatment in time to reduce the risk of death, especially for high-risk cases,” said T Jacob John, former head of the virology department at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. “That is how the spread of infection is curbed in the long run.” 
19-01-2022||India||Covid-19 forces massive cut in R-Day ceremony||The spectator count at India’s biggest ceremonial event, the Republic Day parade, will be massively curtailed this year due to Covid-related restrictions with only 5,000 to 8,000 people allowed entry to Rajpath to witness the spectacular display of the country’s military might and cultural heritage, top officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. “We do not want the parade to become a superspreader event in the midst of the third Covid wave. The number of spectators has been significantly curtailed. We are still working on the final numbers but it’s going to be between 5,000 and 8,000 people” said one of the officials cited above. Only double vaccinated adults and single vaccinated children of age 15 and above will be allowed entry. The January 26 parade was attended by around 25,000 spectators amid the ebbing second wave, compared to around 125,000 people who typically turned up at Rajpath to watch the event in the pre-pandemic era. A new show with 1,000 drones is expected to add sparkle to the Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29, which marks the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations. “This ‘Make in India’ initiative (drone show) has been organised by a startup, Botlab Dynamics, supported by Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and the department of science and technology. Only the US, Russia and China have the capability for a show with 1,000 drones,” the official said. The duration of the show will be 10 minutes. The Republic Day parade will begin at 10.30 am, instead of the traditional timing of 10 am, for better visibility to the parade and the fly past --- the highlight of the event. The fly past, comprising 75 aircraft in India’s 75th year of Independence, will feature flying formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna heli-borne operation. The defence ministry has conceptualised a raft of new events to mark the Republic Day celebrations as the country is also observing the 75th year of its Independence, a second official said. This year onwards, Republic Day celebrations will begin on January 23, the birth anniversary of the iconic freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose, instead of January 24, and culminate on January 30, Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary. This year marks Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. On January 23, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar for outstanding work in disaster management at a ceremony to be held at India Gate, said a third official. On January 26, the National Cadet Corps (NCC) will launch a programme called Shaheedon ko Shat Shat Naman, as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, to honour the sacrifices of fallen heroes. “The next of kin (NOK) of around 5,000 fallen heroes will be presented the ‘Plaque of Gratitude,’ by NCC cadets. Each plaque signed by the PM. This activity will be carried out around the same time when the PM pays homage at the National War Memorial in New Delhi,” the first official said. This will mark the beginning of the programme, which will carry on till August 15, 2022 by when the cadets would have felicitated the NOKs of all 26,466 fallen heroes whose names are inscribed on the memorial. Huge scrolls, measuring 75 metres by 15 feet each, will serve as view cutters in the spectator stands along Rajpath. “Ten scrolls were prepared taking inspiration from the unsung heroes of the freedom struggle,” the official said. For the first time, dancers taking part in the cultural segment of the parade have been selected through a nation-wide competition called ‘Vande Bharatam,’ which ended with the selection of 600 dancers. The aim of the competition was to hunt for dancing talent from across the country and provide equal opportunity to all to perform at the parade, the officials said. Ten large LED screens, five on either side of Rajpath, will be installed for a better viewing experience. The invitation cards for the parade will be different too this year. The seeds of medicinal plants such as ashwagandha, aloe vera and amla will be embedded in the invites for people to plant them later. This year, the government has also reserved seats for people who usually do not get an opportunity to witness the parade. Seats have been earmarked for autorickshaw drivers, construction workers, safai workers and frontline health workers at both the parade and the Beating Retreat ceremony.
19-01-2022||India||Bhagwant Mann is AAP’s CM face for Punjab polls||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday named Bhagwant Mann (48) as the party’s chief ministerial face for the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab.The name of Mann, a two-time parliamentarian from Sangrur who is considered the party’s most popular Punjabi face, was announced at an event in Mohali, where Kejriwal declared the result of the party’s phone-in survey asking people to suggest their preferences as CM. Kejriwal said the party received 2.15 million responses from people.“Many people included my name. I had already said that I am not in the race so we declared their votes as invalid. Of the remaining responses, 93.3% took Sardar Bhagwant Mann’s name,” said the AAP chief, who was flanked by Mann, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, AAP’s Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh and co-incharge Raghav Chadha on the dais.Mann said he was named (the CM face) not only by the party but also the people of Punjab. A “very big responsibility” has been given to him by the party, he said. “Lakhs of people have reposed their faith in me and it has become my double responsibility. I will work with double courage,” he added.The AAP launched a mobile number on January 13, on which people were asked to give their opinion till 5 pm on January 17.Kejriwal said that (Punjab Congress president) Navjot Singh Sidhu was number two with 3.6% votes. “Bhagwant Mann is officially declared as AAP’s chief ministerial face,” he announced, amid resounding applause and slogan-shouting from party supporters.Voting for Punjab’s 117 assembly seats will be held on February 20 and the counting of votes will be taken up on March 10. AAP is looking to dislodge the Congress from power after having emerged as the largest Opposition party in the 2017 elections. Five years ago, AAP contested without a CM face , seen by many as a big reason for its performance falling short of expectations.The comedian-turned-politician Mann unsuccessfully contested the 2012 Punjab assembly polls from Lehragaga in Sangrur as a candidate of the Manpreet Singh Badal-led People’s Party. He joined AAP in 2014 and was pitted against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa from the Sangrur Lok Sabha seat. He defeated Dhindsa by a record margin of over 200,000 votes. He again won the Lok Sabha seat in 2019 -- the only AAP candidate to win -- and also became AAP’s Punjab unit chief.“After forming the government, everyone has to work towards making Punjab a place where people will call the shots, not chamchas (sycophants),” Mann said, while thanking people for their support and prayers.Kejriwal said people from many sections of the society were protesting by sitting atop water tanks in the state and their issues must be addressed. “In my view, the pen of those holding positions of authority should be used for the welfare of the people. This is the only way we can make Punjab what it was,” he said.Invoking former president APJ Abdul Kalam, Punjabi poet Surjit Pattar and former South African president Nelson Mandela, Mann vowed to work for the people.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu mocked Mann. “The bridegroom (CM candidate) may have been chosen but it depends on the people whether a wedding should take place or not. I congratulate the bridegroom, though. Our high command is intelligent and whatever decision it will take, it will be in the interest of the state,” he said.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the move was “falling back on compromised candidate” as no one was ready to lead AAP in Punjab. “AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal never wanted to make Bhagwant Mann the face of the party in Punjab. He has been saying so to Mann’s face because the party was looking for a capable candidate. It is also a fact that AAP sounded off a number of prospective candidates but each and every one of them refused to lead the party,” said Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhagwant-mann-is-aap-s-cm-face-for-punjab-polls-101642530112818.html
19-01-2022||India||NDA exam: SC asks Centre to explain limiting women||The Supreme Court on Tuesday demanded an explanation from the Union government on restricting the intake of women cadets in the upcoming session of the National Defence Academy (NDA) to 19 -- the same as last year.Reminding the Centre of its assurance to put the requisite infrastructure in place by May 2022, the top court observed that “only 19 seats cannot be for all times to come” and said that it needs to explain the rationale behind fixing this number.“The figure is the same as for the 2021 test. Last year, you said that it was due to infrastructure problems. Now, again, for the year 2022, you have proposed to take the same number of women candidates. Why have you fixed this figure? You have to explain this. Only 19 seats cannot be for all times to come. It was only an ad hoc measure last year,” a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh said.It asked additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Union government , to submit an explanation on restricting the intake of women candidates to 19, along with other details about the total number of candidates, including women, who appeared in the NDA examination 2021, and for entrance tests for Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) and for Rashtriya Military School (RMS). The NDA exam is conducted twice a year, NDA-I in the first half of the year and NDA-II in the second.The Centre was put on a notice after senior counsel Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and advocate Mohit Paul complained about a fresh notification issued by the Union Public Services Commission for NDA-I exam in 2022, limiting the intake of women cadets to just 19.Representing petitioner Kush Kalra, the lawyers rued that this figure seems to be arbitrarily picked up from the last entrance exam, wherein the number of women candidates to be inducted in NDA-II, 2021 was 19: 10 in the army, three in the navy and six in the air force. They cited the Centre’s affidavit in September 2021, promising the court that it would soon have the required infrastructure ready for full intake of women.Observing that these submissions have “some merit”, the bench asked Bhati: “The last exam was under a little push and nudge from the court and you were saying that there was a little problem to get the infrastructure ready. So, we also said ‘let it be’, as we wanted the induction to start. But you certainly said that by May 2022 you will be fully ready. How have you now fixed the figure at 19 for 2022 based on the examination you conducted in 2021 as an ad hoc measure?”The ASG, on her part, replied that it is not just the infrastructural facilities in the academy that matter but also the requirement of the armed forces. This was the first time the Union government was talking about the requirement of the forces and the fact did not miss the apex court’s attention.To this, the bench responded: “We understand that but you told us on the last date that you would be better equipped to deal with it fully by May 2022. But now you have fixed that as the same. That is something you have to explain. The earlier exam was an emergency measure. But now what is your programme? How much will be inducted? We assumed that this had to be done in a phased manner.”Bhati sought some time to put on record all the requisite details, including the requirement of armed forces as well as the reasons behind the number of intake of women candidates. “We will place the ratio for army, air force and navy. Please give us three weeks to file an affidavit. For RIMC and RMS, this ratio is much higher and we will place that on record too.”At this, the bench gave Bhati three weeks to file a detailed affidavit with respect to intake of women cadets in NDA, RIMC and RMS, while taking into account the petitioner’s submissions that the intake should be based on certain criteria that can stand for time to come and also factor in the induction of women in different fields as per judicial pronouncements of the Supreme Court relating to permanent commission to women in armed forces.Breaking the glass ceiling that endured for 65 years, the top court in August 2021 rejected the government’s argument that the restriction against women from training at the Pune-based NDA was a policy decision while issuing the interim order to let them sit for the exam in November.It had also implored the government to “take a more constructive view of the matter”, prompting the Union government to come back to the court in September 2021 with a policy decision to throw open the doors of the NDA to women cadets as well.Under the eligibility criteria at that point of time, only male candidates who cleared class 12 level or its equivalent education and were in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 were eligible to apply.Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB) and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the Indian Army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training. NDA was commissioned in 1955.In the exam conducted in November 2021, women candidates comprised 178,000 of 570,000 applications, and 1,002 women cleared the written exam. The UPSC came out with a press note in December 2021, declaring 19 women candidates as successful.UPSC also issued a notice on December 22, 2021 for NDA-I exam notifying the figures for induction in the armed forces. It mentioned a total of 208 candidates, including 10 women, for the army; 42, including 3 women for the navy; and 120 candidates, including 6 women, for the air force. According to this notice, all 30 seats in the Naval Academy were to be filled up only by male cadets.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 2021, 118 women were serving in the armed forces.The Supreme Court , in February 2020, ruled that SSC women officers were entitled to permanent commission (PC) in the army and navy and that they have to be considered irrespective of their service length. This judgment led to around 5020 women officers being granted PC.
19-01-2022||India||How cold and long is this cold spell in Delhi||Delhi has shivered over the past week. January 15, for instance, saw the lowest maximum temperature in 51 years, and the 10th coldest day by maximum temperature in the same period. Lack of sunshine has made the cold harsher. Usually, early January is biting cold in the capital, but things start looking up around the middle of the month. What explains this year’s chill? HT looked at long-term weather data to make sense.Is pollution blocking sunlight?Delhi and large parts of India’s northern plains are used to waking up to smoggy mornings in winter, thanks to air pollution. Is the recent phase of sunless days – around 100 flights were delayed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport due to low visibility on January 13 – a result of high pollution as well?By the standard of recent years at least, the air this January has been better, with an average Air Quality Index (AQI) of 267.8, the lowest since at least 2018 for the period up to January 16. The earlier lowest value of AQI for this period was 309.8 in January 2020. It suggests that lack of visibility and sunlight is more because of fog than smog.Colder days have made winter harsherJanuary 15 saw a maximum temperature of 13.03 degrees Celsius in Delhi. This is 7.3 degrees colder than normal, which is the average of temperatures from 1981 to 2010. It is the lowest compared to the normal maximum temperature on this day since 1951, the earliest period for which data is available. While such wide deviation from the maximum temperature is not unprecedented – a slightly higher deviation of 7.5 degrees occurred on October 18 last year and such deviations have occurred on 150 days since 1950 – its timing made the day the 10th coldest day by maximum temperature since 1951. While January 15 was an extreme event, maximum temperatures have been lower than normal since the second week of January. Minimum temperatures, on the other hand, have been close to and above normal.Colder than usual days and just about normal nighttime temperatures mean the relative comfort which warmer days offer during winter has been missing in the past few weeks. The ratio of average maximum and minimum temperature in the first four days of January was 3.30. In the following 12 days, this was 1.78. In the 1981-2010 period, the ratios for these two intervals were not that different at 3.15 and 3.06.The temperature reading used here has been taken from India Meteorological Department’s gridded temperature dataset. The grids include an area between one-degree longitude and latitude and cover an area bigger than Delhi’s administrative boundaries.Is this the longest spell of low maximum temperatures?Daytime temperature has been below normal on all days since January 5. However, it has been substantially and consistently lower since January 8. In the nine-day period from January 8 to 16, it has been 10% or more less than normal. Its maximum value was 16.9 degrees on January 12 and the minimum value was 13.03 degrees on January 15.Have there been similar spells of low daytime temperatures? Allowing for slightly more variation, HT searched for all continuous periods of nine days or longer when maximum temperature was less than normal by 10% or more. So that such spells during summer are excluded, only those spells were considered when the temperature was under 20 degrees on at least one day.There are only 23 such spells since 1951, of which only five, including the current one, are nine days long. The current spell is therefore not the longest. That distinction is held by a 25-day period from December 8, 1997, to January 1, 1998. The average maximum temperature of the current spell (15.76 degrees) is also the 6th lowest, about 1.73 degrees higher than the spell with the lowest average (December 30, 2010, to January 10, 2011). However, this spell has lacked any mild relief in between. The maximum value of daytime temperature for this year’s spell is the lowest among all such spells, and the only one under 17 degrees. Fourteen of 23 spells had a maximum value above 19 degrees.Rain and overcast skies reasons for spike in coldThe trends above are characteristic of rainy days. Clouds and rain prevent long exposure to sun during the day, reducing daytime temperature. Whatever heat does get through during the day, however, is trapped by clouds and keeps night warmer than usual. Western disturbances this month have ensured this situation prevails. Rainfall this January in Delhi is the 5th highest since 1951 for the period up to 8:30 AM on January 16. The 44% share that heavy rainfall – more than 35.5 mm in a day – has had in this interval is the 3rd highest since 1901. Even when it was not raining in Delhi, it was raining in neighbouring states or in the hills, keeping the capital dark and cold.Is the situation likely to improve soon? The 7-day forecast of the regional meteorological centre in New Delhi published on January 18 does not suggest so. Maximum temperature is expected to rise to 19 degrees by January 20, but will remain in the 16-17 degrees range thereafter, with skies remaining cloudy until January 24. Minimum temperature is likely to be 13 or 13 degrees from January 20 to 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-cold-and-long-is-this-cold-spell-in-delhi-101642529993072.html
19-01-2022||India||Rajnath writes to Mamata, Stalin amid row over tableau rejections||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday wrote to the chief ministers of West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, assuring them the selection of tableaux for the Republic Day parade was based on a transparent process. The minister wrote the letters after Mamata Banerjee and MK Stalin expressed disappointment over the Union government rejecting the tableaux of their respective states for the Republic Day celebrations, and sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention in the matter.In his letters, Singh wrote that the tableaux proposed by different states and Union territories are selected after several rounds of evaluation by a committee consisting of experts from the fields of arts, culture, music and dance.“The tableaux of West Bengal were selected for the Republic Day parade following the same process in 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2021,” Singh wrote to West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee.Singh also said that he respected the CM’s sentiments and it was for this reason he wanted to personally inform her about the selection process. He added that of the tableaux proposals submitted by 29 states and UTs, 12 were finally approved.West Bengal’s proposed tableau was to commemorate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Indian National Army on Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. The tableau would have carried portraits of Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Vivekananda, Chittaranjan Das, Sri Aurobindo, Matangini Hazra, Birsa Munda, Nazrul Islam, Banerjee had earlier written. “Bengal was at the forefront of the Indian freedom struggle and paid heaviest price for the country’s Independence through the partition. People of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the central government,” Banerjee added.A central government spokesperson on Monday said, “This year’s tableau of CPWD includes Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, so the question of his insult does not arise.”In his letter to Banerjee, Singh highlighted the contribution of Bose to the freedom struggle and said that from this year, Republic Day celebrations will begin on January 23, the birth anniversary of the iconic freedom fighter, instead of January 24, and culminate on January 30.In his letter to Stalin, the defence minister wrote, “This is also to bring to your kind information that during the last few years, the tableaux from Tamil Nadu has been selected for participation in the Republic Day Parade during 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021…You would appreciate that the selection of tableaux is as per the prescribed guidelines on the matter.”Singh wrote that the expert committee examines the tableaux proposals on the basis of theme, concept, design and its visual impact before making its recommendations.In a letter to the PM, Stalin had earlier said, “Excluding the tableau will deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu…That the expert committee chooses to ignore and reject all the seven designs shown to it as per the modifications suggested by its members is unacceptable.”On January 13, Kerala chief minister Pinayari Vijayan also sought PM’s intervention after the state’s proposal for the tableau of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and Jatayu Park monument was rejected and the Centre instead changed it to Adi Shankara, which the state rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-writes-to-mamata-stalin-amid-row-over-tableau-rejections-101642529932995.html
19-01-2022||India||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman targets Congress after SC’s ruling on Devas||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday accused the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government for perpetrating the Devas Multimedia scam, citing the Supreme Court’s verdict, and said that while the corporate affairs ministry has initiated the liquidation process of the controversial firm, law enforcement agencies will take action against those involved in the crime.Extensively quoting the Monday judgement of the apex court that called the deal between the Indian Space Research Organisation’s (ISRO) commercial arm Antrix Corporation and Devas Multimedia “a product of fraud perpetrated by Devas”, Sitharaman said: “It is a fraud by Congress, of Congress [and] for Congress” and the Congress party is the “master of corruption”. ‘Digitally Enhanced Video and Audio Services’ is the expanded form of Devas.Antrix on January 28, 2005 entered into an agreement with private firm Devas for providing multimedia services to mobile users and offered the S-band satellite spectrum, a property of national security, without intimating the Union Cabinet, according to Sitharaman. Although, after the six years of inaction, the Congress-led UPA government in 2011 cancelled the deal, it did not try to defend arbitration proceedings initiated by Devas and its shareholders against the cancellation, she said. Antrix is a wholly owned company of the central government under administrative control of the department of space, which is a portfolio held by the Prime Minister.Also read | With Devas judgement, Modi government cleans yet another UPA messWhen asked about the next step of the government in this matter, Sitharaman said that the agencies such as the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) would act as per the law governing them and could attach some of the assets of entities involved that may include fix-deposits and other properties.“I may not be able to give you the details, because today I’m looking at the company... [The] company getting liquidated ... which was a fraud in its first place... all that [have been] established. We are looking at that side today. But sooner, post this order of the Supreme Court, I will be holding a meeting with all those departments and also the law enforcement agencies to see how best we can proceed,” she said.The Supreme Court on Monday cleared the decks for winding up of Devas Multimedia at the instance of ISRO’s commercial arm Antrix, as it affirmed the findings of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) that Devas was set up for a “fraudulent and unlawful purpose” of “unjust enrichment”. Devas holds three arbitral awards to the tune of ₹15,000 crore against Antrix, a public sector firm, over the termination of deal in 2011. India has challenged these arbitral awards.Commenting on the government’s action against the ongoing arbitration proceedings abroad, the finance minister said: “First of all, it is the Supreme Court of India whose order we are taking up and presenting before those arbitrations. Second, that is where I wish government of India [the then UPA government]... would have understood the gravity of the fraud that had taken place, and also gravity of cancellation and its fallout, and built-up the case [from 2011] in a tight manner, putting up the right arguments of national security and also the fraud that had been perpetrated...”She said it was the Narendra Modi government who took legal recourse and taking all steps necessary to protect the national interest, which is reflected in the recent verdict of the Supreme Court.Devas initiated three arbitrations against the termination of the deal. One at the International Chambers of Commerce (ICC) and two other arbitrations under the Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT) – one initiated by Mauritius investors and the other Deutsche Telekom, a German firm. India lost all three. The first, related to commercial termination of contract, is of $1 billion. The one under Mauritius BIT is $111.29 million, plus cost and interest and the third under Germany BIT is $93.3 million, plus cost and interest, the finance minister said. India will take legal recourse against Devas shareholders’ move to attach Indian assets abroad to recover the award. They have got a French court order to freeze Indian assets in Paris and some assets of state-run Air India in Canada.Rejecting the charge, Congress leader Pranav Jha said “Will request the minister to do a press conference and give a statement on the record unemployment, and rising poverty even as wealth of their Cronies increases multifold||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-targets-congress-after-sc-s-ruling-on-devas-101642529755974.html
19-01-2022||India||No foreign chief guest at R-Day as Covid-19 surges||The Republic Day celebrations on January 26 will go ahead without any foreign leader as a chief guest, the second year in a row that India’s signature event has been affected by the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic.India had invited the leaders of the five Central Asian states – Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan – to be chief guests at the celebrations, though no formal announcement was made in this regard by any of the countries.The rapid spread of the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus in the past few weeks and recent violent protests in Kazakhstan, which resulted in the death of more than 220 people, were factors that went against the participation of the Central Asian leaders, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.A diplomat from a Central Asian state, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the leaders of the five states would be unable to participate in the Republic Day celebrations in-person. The diplomat added that the Central Asian states and India are now focusing on a virtual summit of the leadership of the six countries to mark the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations, though a date for this is yet to be finalised.The possibility of looking at an alternative chief guest was ruled out due to the paucity of time, the people cited above said.Also read | Covid-19 forces massive cut in R-Day ceremonyLast year, India went ahead with truncated Republic Day celebrations without a chief guest after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called off his visit at the last minute because of the rapid spread of a strain of the Coronavirus in Britain. It is extremely rare for the Republic Day celebrations, seen as a high point in the country’s diplomatic calendar, not to have a chief guest.Prior to 2021, the last time the celebrations didn’t have a chief guest was in 1966, when Indira Gandhi was sworn in as prime minister on January 24 after the death of Lal Bahadur Shastri on January 11. There were also no chief guests at the celebrations in 1952 and 1953.Though no formal announcements had been made regarding this year’s chief guests, Turkmenistan’s foreign minister Rashid Meredov had hinted at it while participating in the India-Central Asia Dialogue in New Delhi on December 19. Meredov had said in his opening remarks at the meeting that the dialogue would be a “key event in the preparation process for the upcoming Central Asia-India Summit in January”.India’s move to invite the Central Asian leaders was a follow up to the invitation extended to the leaders of the 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) to be the chief guests at the Republic Day in 2018. The Central Asian states are perceived by India as part of the country’s extended neighbourhood and their importance has increased following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan.In recent years, India has stepped up its efforts to boost connectivity and trade with the strategically important region. At the India-Central Asia Dialogue, the six countries pushed for concerted action against all terror groups and stressed that Afghan soil must not be used for planning or executing terror attacks. They also pledged to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people.
19-01-2022||India||China nears completion of key bridge across Pangong||A bridge being built by China across the Pangong lake in an area claimed by India is expected to be completed in a few months and will give the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) an edge in speedily moving troops between several locations.High-resolution satellite imagery of the bridge from January 16, acquired from US space technology company Maxar by NDTV, shows the bridge is eight metres wide and more than 400 metres long, and Chinese workers are using a heavy crane to place concrete slabs between pillars before the laying of the tarmac.The first satellite images showing the bridge, being built across the narrowest section of the 134 km long strategic lake, emerged earlier this month. On January 6, the external affairs ministry accused China of building the bridge in an area it has illegally occupied for 60 years.The bridge is located south of a key PLA position on the north bank of Pangong lake. It is being built at a spot where the two banks of the lake are about 500 metres apart. Once completed, the bridge will cut the distance between Chinese troop positions on the north bank to a key PLA base at Rutog by around 150 km.Also read | China uses heavy machinery for Pangong bridge that will let PLA deploy fasterChinese forces currently take almost 10 hours to traverse about 200 km to get from the north bank to Rutog, driving around the lake. The Chinese side is also working on new roads to connect the end of the bridge on the south bank to Rutog.When the Indian Army blocked an effort by the PLA to unilaterally alter the status quo on the south bank of Pangong lake in August 2020 by taking control of the Kailash heights, the Chinese side had to redeploy troops from other sites through the time-consuming action of driving around the lake.Both countries withdrew frontline forces and armoured units from the two banks of the lake in February 2021, though the area has for long been a flashpoint between Indian and Chinese forces.The construction of the bridge “appears to strengthen the idea of permanency being established by Beijing in the region”, said Damien Symon, a geospatial intelligence researcher at the Intel Lab. He noted that the Chinese side is using heavy machinery to continue construction amid a harsh winter.After being stymied by the Indian Army’s efforts in August 2020, the Chinese began building several roads to prevent PLA troops from “being pinched by Indian deployments atop the ridges”, Symon said on Twitter. These roads “have branched towards the bridge since, but are yet to be connected”, he said.With the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) well into its second year, the construction of the bridge “appears to be a lesson learnt by PLA planners looking to provide seamless connectivity (and) rapid mobility for elements responding...to the frontline with India”, Symon added.The construction of the bridge was raised by the Indian side at the 14th round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders on January 12. The talks failed to yield any positive outcome, though both sides agreed to work for the resolution of the remaining issues in the Ladakh sector at the earliest.Earlier, on January 6, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government was closely monitoring the construction of the bridge on Pangong lake. “This bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years now. As you are well aware, India has never accepted such illegal occupation,” he said.The government was taking “all necessary steps to ensure that our security interests are fully protected”, and has significantly increased funding for developing border infrastructure and “completed more roads and bridges than ever before”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-nears-completion-of-key-bridge-across-pangong-101642529632072.html
19-01-2022||India||In phone call with UAE minister, Jaishankar condemns ‘terror attack’ in Abu Dhabi||India on Tuesday condemned the drone attack by Yemen’s Houthi rebels in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) that killed two Indian nationals as a terrorist incident and conveyed the country’s strong solidarity to the emirates in the face of such assaults.External affairs minister S Jaishankar discussed Monday’s “terror attack” with his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan during a telephone conversation, the external affairs ministry said in a statement.The UAE foreign minister shared details of the attack and conveyed his government’s deepest condolences at the death of the two Indians. He assured Jaishankar that the UAE government will extend the fullest support to the families of the dead, and said authorities in the emirates are in touch with the Indian embassy in this regard.Jaishankar “condemned the terror attack in the strongest terms”, and emphasised that such “an attack on innocent civilians was completely unacceptable and against all civilised norms”. He appreciated the immediate assistance provided by UAE authorities to the Indian embassy in responding to the situation.Jaishankar also “conveyed India’s strong solidarity with UAE in the face of such an attack”, and said that India, given its principled position against terrorism, will “stand with UAE in international forums on this issue”.Earlier in the day, the Indian embassy in the UAE said on Twitter that the two Indians killed in the drone attack on Abu Dhabi had been identified. It also said two of the six people injured in Monday’s attack were Indian nationals and were discharged after medical treatment.The mission did not give details about the two dead Indians. The external affairs ministry is working with UAE authorities for the repatriation of the bodies.The embassy thanked the government and foreign ministry of the UAE and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) for their support.ADNOC confirmed on Monday that the three people – two Indians and a Pakistani national – killed in the drone attack were its employees. They died in explosions and fires that followed the drone attack. The explosions hit three petroleum transport tankers near ADNOC’s storage tanks at the Industrial City of Abu Dhabi. Another fire broke out in a new construction area of Abu Dhabi international airport.Houthi military spokesman Yahia Sarei said his group launched an attack deep inside the UAE but didn’t provide details.Saudi Arabia-led coalition forces carried out an air strike on the Houthi-held Yemeni capital Sanaa in retaliation for the attack on Abu Dhabi. According to initial estimates cited in media reports, the air strike killed 14 people. The coalition also said it intercepted eight drones launched toward Saudi Arabia on Monday.The attack in Abu Dhabi came a fortnight after Houthi rebels seized the UAE-flagged vessel Rwabee with 11 crew members, including seven Indian nationals, in the Red Sea. India and the UAE have demanded the immediate release of the crew members.Yemen has seen intense fighting since Houthi rebels seized Sanaa in 2014. The UAE is part of the Saudi-led coalition that intervened in support of the government in 2015. Though the UAE has decreased the number of troops it has on the ground, it continues to support militias fighting the Houthis and cooperates with the US in counter-terrorism efforts in Yemen.
19-01-2022||India||Vijay Mallya loses legal battle to keep plush London home||Embattled businessman Vijay Mallya on Tuesday lost a legal battle to hold on to his plush London home after a British court refused to grant him a stay of enforcement in a long-running dispute with Swiss bank UBS.The 18/19 Cornwall Terrace luxury apartment overlooking Regent’s Park in London, described in court as an "extraordinarily valuable property worth many tens of millions of pounds", is currently being occupied by Mallya’s 95-year-old mother Lalitha.Also Read | Vijay Mallya contempt case to be dealt with finally on Jan 18: Supreme CourtDelivering his judgment virtually for the Chancery Division of the High Court, Deputy Master Matthew Marsh concluded there were no grounds for him to grant further time for the Mallya family to repay a GBP 20.4-million loan to UBS – the claimant in the case."The claimant’s position was a reasonable one… further time is not likely to make any material difference," Deputy Master Marsh ruled."I would also add from my review of the correspondence, I can see no basis whatever for the suggestion that has been made that the claimant has misled the first defendant [Vijay Mallya]… in conclusion, I dismiss the first defendant’s application,” he said.The judge also declined permission to appeal against his order or to grant a temporary stay of enforcement, which means UBS can proceed with the possession process to realise its unpaid dues."I will refuse permission to appeal and therefore it follows that I will not be granting a stay," said Marsh.Mallya’s barrister, Daniel Margolin QC, indicated that the 65-year-old businessman plans to pursue an appeal before a High Court Chancery Division Judge as it has "serious consequences" for his clients, including Mallya’s elderly mother who currently resides at the address.Meanwhile, Fenner Moeran QC made it clear that UBS intends to proceed with the enforcement order without delay.The case relates to a mortgage taken out by Rose Capital Ventures, one of Mallya’s companies, with the former Kingfisher Airlines boss, his mother Lalitha and son Sidhartha Mallya listed as co-defendants with right of occupancy of the property.In May 2019, Judge Simon Barker had handed down a consent order allowing the family to retain possession with a final deadline of April 30, 2020, granted for repayment of the loan. That deadline failed to be met and with special rules in place over the COVID-19 pandemic period, UBS was legally unable to pursue enforcement until April 2021.When the bank sought a court order for enforcement in October last year, Mallya filed an application of stay on the grounds that the bank had placed “unreasonable obstacles” in his path to repay the sums through family trust funds. His legal team also produced a non-binding letter claiming a company was willing to acquire the property, which would help pay off the loan.However, Deputy Master Marsh concluded that the letter was of “limited assistance” and expressed “real doubts about the bonafide of that offer”.Under the May 2019 order, UBS had been granted an “immediate right to possession” and Mallya and the co-defendants were not permitted to make any further applications to “postpone or suspend the date for giving up possession”.The court order also forbade any further claims arising out of the bankruptcy proceedings against Mallya by a consortium of Indian banks led by State Bank of India (SBI), proceedings which concluded in a bankruptcy order in July last year.Meanwhile, Mallya is wanted in India to face charges of fraud and money laundering amounting to an alleged ₹9,000 crores related to loans made to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.The former United Breweries chief remains on bail in the UK while a “confidential” legal matter, believed to be related to an asylum application, is resolved following separate extradition proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-mallya-loses-legal-battle-to-keep-plush-london-home-101642526929949.html
19-01-2022||India||Assam-Meghalaya border row: Give and take formula likely for solution; opposition has doubts||The decades old border dispute between Assam and Meghalaya could be sorted using a formula of ‘give and take’ between the two neighbouring north-eastern states, those involved in ongoing negotiations to sort out the issue have indicated. On Tuesday, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma held talks with political parties and various other organizations including student bodies of the state to apprise them about the progress made in the ongoing meetings between both states to sort out the issue amicably. Efforts are underway to try and finalise some deal soon, preferably before January 21, when Meghalaya celebrates its 50th statehood day. The CMs of both states are expected to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah this week to apprise him of the developments and resolve the issue. “Our efforts to resolve the Assam-Meghalaya border row have started bearing fruit as 6 of the 12 areas of difference have been identified for resolution in the first phase. During an interaction, (I) briefed representatives of all political parties on the progress made so far,” Sarma tweeted on Tuesday. “The areas of difference taken up for final settlement are Hahim, Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra. A roadmap for amicable settlement has been prepared based on recommendations of 3 regional committees with representatives from both the states,” he added. Deliberations between both states including the chief ministers have been taking place since last year on ending the row and it was decided that in the first phase 6 of the 12 disputed areas would be addressed. Recently regional committees of both states had submitted reports on these 6 areas. While Sarma expressed confidence of an early solution, opposition parties in Assam including Congress stated that more discussion on a wider scale was needed before rushing to find a solution. “During Tuesday’s meeting we were told that a give and take formula has been agreed upon by both states to sort the dispute in the 6 areas. As part of that Assam would get 18.51 sq km of area while Meghalaya would get 18.29 sq km,” said Md. Aminul Islam, organising secretary and MLA from All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) who attended the meeting. “Border disputes between states can’t be sorted at chief-ministerial level. It should be done by the Centre. Meghalaya has been encroaching our land over years. Instead of a quick-fix solution, we want the issue to be discussed in state assembly and a resolution adopted and forwarded to the Centre,” he added. Congress MLA and leader of opposition in the state assembly, Debabrata Saikia, also informed that both states have agreed on a give and take formula to sort out the dispute. “We have not agreed to the proposal as this issue is needed to be discussed in detail in the state assembly. Since this is a serious matter, I urge the state government to convene an assembly session to discuss it,” he said. President of Raijor Dal and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi, who couldn’t be present in the meeting due to his Covid-19 positive status, issued a statement opposing handing over of Assam’s land to Meghalaya and urged CM Sarma to protect the state’s boundaries. 
19-01-2022||India||Cold day conditions to abate in most parts of northwest India||NEW DELHI: Cold conditions marked by significantly low day temperatures are likely to abate in most parts of northwest India and are expected to be followed by a two-day wet spell from January 21, said the India Meteorological Department.“We are expecting cold day conditions to... abate gradually as the wind direction changes from northerly to north-westerly and then to easterly. But cold day conditions will intensify in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar... They are likely to have cold days for three days and dense fog also. Due to an approaching western disturbance, there may cloudy days from January 22 to 24 when again low day temperatures may be recorded. This January, we have been seeing extremely low maximum temperatures over a vast region,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre.A fresh western disturbance was over northwest India and another is likely to affect the region from January 21 onwards. An induced cyclonic circulation is also likely to form over Rajasthan on January 22.Scattered to widespread to moderate rainfall or snowfall is likely in the Western Himalayan region from January 21 to 23. In Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, scattered to widespread light to moderate rainfall is likely. Isolated to scattered rainfall is expected in Madhya Pradesh with maximum intensity on January 22.Minimum temperatures were likely to rise by 2-4 degrees Celsius in northwest India this week. Dense to very dense fog in the night and morning hours is very likely in isolated pockets in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, and sub-Himalayan West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-day-conditions-to-abate-in-most-parts-of-northwest-india-101642562477455.html
19-01-2022||India||UP elections: Mamata to campaign for Samajwadi Party||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee will campaign for the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, SP national vice-president Kiranmay Nanda said on Tuesday.While Banerjee will virtually campaign for the SP in Lucknow on February 8, she may also campaign digitally in Varanasi , Nanda told reporters following his 30-minute meeting with the TMC chief at her residence in south Kolkata. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav will take part in these, and the heads of the two parties will also hold a joint press conference on February 8, he added.Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases from February 10 to March 7. Counting of votes will be held on March 10.“Akhilesh Yadav wants Mamata Banerjee to campaign for us because she is the face of the anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) force at the national level,” Nanda said. “The SP will surely form the government. The BJP has realised that its defeat is inevitable. People have been coming in large numbers whenever Akhilesh Yadav is visiting any place. In contrast, few are attending BJP meetings. The SP wants anti-BJP votes to consolidate. That’s why we did not contest any seat in Bengal last year. Likewise, Banerjee, too, does not want to contest any seat in Uttar Pradesh,” he added.During the West Bengal assembly polls last year, Yadav had sent Nanda and Rajya Sabha member Jaya Bachchan to campaign for the TMC. Reacting to the SP’s announcement, state BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said: “We wish Banerjee a happy journey. She claims to be a religious person. We are sure she will enjoy the Ganga aarti at Varanasi.” Taking a swipe at Yadav’s remarks that Banerjee is the face of the anti-BJP force,West Bengal state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said: “Banerjee is not the only face against the BJP. Nanda said that to please her. Leaders like Akhilesh Yadav and Arvind Kejriwal are also anti-BJP faces. Banerjee has at least shown some good sense by not trying to purchase BJP leaders who are abandoning their party in Uttar Pradesh to join Akhilesh. In Meghalaya and Goa, she used these tactics to weaken the Congress.” Chowdhury’s remarks came amid a growing rift between the Congress and TMC, after the latter poached several lawmakers and senior leaders from the former.On January 18, HT reported that TMC’s offer for a poll pact in the Goa assembly elections found little favour with the Congress, whose high command is miffed with the TMC brass for its behaviour. Meanwhile, TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee reached Goa on Monday evening to finalise the list of candidates for the February 14 elections. The TMC has tied up with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, Goa’s oldest regional outfit, for elections to the 40-member assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-mamata-to-campaign-for-samajwadi-party-101642531914773.html
