20-01-2022||India||Rhino carcass found in Kaziranga with horn missing, first poaching case in 2022||GUWAHATI: A rhino carcass was found with its horn missing in Kaziranga National Park in Assam on Thursday. It is the first rhino poaching case in the state in 2022. It comes just days after the state government announced 2021 as the year with the least cases of rhino poaching in 21 years. Only one instance of poaching of the endangered animal was recorded last year. “The carcass was found today by the park staff of Hilekhonda camp at 8.45 am. The place of occurrence was inside tall elephant grass about 1 km away from the camp,” informed P Sivakumar, director, Kaziranga National Park. “It is a poaching case and the horn was removed by the poacher. The rhino was an adult female. The time of death appears to be more than 15 days old,” he added. On Sunday, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma informed that the state witnessed just one case of rhino poaching in 2021, the lowest figure in 21 years. “(It’s) a huge milestone in our efforts to eliminate the menace of poaching from our state. Kudos to our forest guards and officials of Kaziranga National Park for their sincere efforts to protect Assam’s beloved icon,” the CM tweeted. According to official figures, in 2013 and 2014, Assam registered highest number of poaching with 27 cases each year. It got reduced to 17 cases in 2015 and the following year it was 18. The cases dropped to 6 in 2017 and it was 7 in 2018. From 2019, the cases dropped continuously with 3 cases in 2019, 2 cases in 2020 and 1 in 2021. 
20-01-2022||India||No mask for kids below 5, steroids harmful for asymptomatic cases: Centre's revised Covid guidelines||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday issued guidelines for several measures for citizens as another wave has triggered massive spike in daily Covid-19 cases. The guidelines include use of steroids for treatment of Covid-19, mask usage among small children and also dealing with post recovery complications.The guidelines come on a day India recorded yet another major surge in its daily Covid-19 tally with 317,532 individuals testing positive for the virus, as per Union health ministry data. The overall death toll also witnessed a spike after 491 patients succumbed to Covid-19 as against 441 on Wednesday. India's cumulative Covid-19 caseload has now climbed to 38,218,773, the health ministry data revealed.Meanwhile, the Omicron count of India is nearing a whopping 10,000 with 9,287 infections of the highly transmissible ‘variant of concern’ confirmed in the country so far.Also Read | Omicron vs Delta: 5 things Centre flags as Covid 3rd wave surges in IndiaThe ‘Revised Comprehensive Guidelines for Management of Covid-19 in Children and Adolescents (below 18 years)’ released by the health ministry comes amid the Omicron surge in the country. The guidelines were reviewed by a group of experts in wake of the current scenario in India.Here are top 10 important points to be noted from the guidelines:(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-mask-for-children-below-5-centre-releases-revised-covid-19-guidelines-101642697097807.html
20-01-2022||India||Omicron vs Delta: 5 things Centre flags as Covid 3rd wave surges in India||India on Thursday crossed the 3 lakh mark in daily Covid-19 infection, in a worrying development in the pandemic situation of the country. The Union health ministry of Thursday said Omicron is driving the surge, but the effect has not been severe only because of the vaccine coverage. The Centre on January 10 notified that only symptomatic people should get tested. This created a notion that testing has gone down following the notification. The health ministry on Thursday said there has been no decline in the number of testing. Between Wednesday and Thursday, 19 lakh tests were conducted, the ministry said. Few districts which have seen a dip in the tests have been asked to ramp it up.Fatality in 3rd wave significantly lower than Covid 2nd wave: Health ministryHere are the 5 things Centre said on Covid third wave:1. Comparing the Covid figures between April 1 and April 30, 2021, with that of January 1 and January 20, 2022, the health ministry claimed that in the Omicron-driven surge, the number of fatalities has remained significantly low.2. During the second wave, when India was reporting 3.86 lakh Covid cases daily, the daily toll was over 3,059. On January 20, this year, India again breached the 3 lakh mark, but the toll was 380.3. Giving the specific example of Delhi, the ministry said during the 2nd wave, caused by Delta, bed occupancy in the Capital remained significantly high between April 1 and May 20, 2021. In the third wave, in contrast, Delhi's daily cases peaked up in the first two weeks of January but bed occupancy remained low.4. The current surge in India is not witnessing severe illness and death following high vaccination, the Centre said.5. However, those with co-morbidities should monitor their health and avoid complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-vs-delta-5-things-centre-flags-as-covid-3rd-wave-surges-in-india-101642699264354.html
20-01-2022||India||Stop auction of farmers’ land for non-payment of loans, orders Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday directed officials to stop the auction of agricultural land of farmers who could not repay their loans taken from commercial banks in the state even as the opposition demanded a complete farm loan waiver. The banks are auctioning land under the Rajasthan Agricultural Credit Operation (Removal of Difficulties) Act, 1974 (RODA Act). The auctioning of agricultural land of farmers who failed to repay loans has led to protests in Rajasthan. A delegation led by BJP MP Dr Kirodi Lal Meena, along with farmers today tried approaching the chief minister’s residence demanding cancellation of the land auctioning process. However, the police took Meena into custody and dispersed the protestors. As the issue turned political, Gehlot issued instructions to stop the auction of agricultural land of farmers who failed to repay the loans taken from commercial banks in the state. In a statement, Gehlot said, “Due to non-payment of loans of farmers taken from commercial banks that are controlled by the Reserve Bank in the state, land attachment and auction action is being taken under the RODA (Removal of Difficulties) Act. State government officials have been instructed to stop this.” The chief minister has also said that the state government has waived off the loans of cooperative banks and urged the Centre to waive the loans of farmers by doing one-time settlements from commercial banks. The state government is ready to bear its share in this also. He said, “Our government had passed a bill in the assembly to ban land auction of farmers having agricultural land up to five acres, but due to lack of permission of the governor, it has not become a law yet. I am sad that due to non-compliance of this law, the said situation has come.” He expressed hope that this bill will be approved soon so that further auction will not happen. Many cases of issuing notices to auction the land of farmers who are unable to repay the loans have come to the fore recently, leading to discussions on social media. The main opposition party, the BJP has targeted the Congress government of the state over the issue. Alleging that the state government failed to fulfill its promise of complete loan waiver, Meena said Congress in its 2018 election manifesto promised complete loan waiver but they have instead insulted farmers in the name of auction. Meena said Congress promised a complete loan waiver in10 days but despite that, the land is auctioned and attached. He alleged that the notices have been pasted to attach the lands of 800 to 1000 farmers in Dausa, 600 to 700 in Sawai Madhopur, around 800 in Karauli, about 3000 in Alwar district, and hundreds of others in Dholpur-Bharatpur. According to a rough estimate, ₹10,000 crores of cooperative banks loan on 15 lakh farmers are pending. In the memorandum to the chief minister, Meena mentioned a case from Dausa where the land of a deceased farmer Kajod Meena was auctioned on Wednesday. The farmer took a loan of ₹3.87 lakh in 2017 to dig a tube well, which with interest has reached around ₹7 lakh. Under pressure to repay loans and repeated requests from bank officials and employees, the farmer, a resident of Ramgarh Pachwara, committed suicide on October 26, 2021. Despite this, on January 18, bank employees and revenue officials tried auctioning his 15 bighas of land, which has a district level committee rate of around ₹75 lakh and market value of Rs1 crore. The auction was later cancelled. He demanded cancellation of the auction of farmers’ lands across the state; action against the bank and revenue officials who forced farmer Kajod Meena to commit suicide; to waive his entire loan and provide a financial assistance package of ₹25 lakh. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said, “The auction of entire land could not be done for a small loan. It was an illegal auction. Land mafia has their eyes on prime land. An investigation should be done against the bank officials.” BJP state president Satish Poonia tweeted, “Due to the promise of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in 2018, the lands of farmers of Rajasthan are being auctioned, farmers are being forced to commit suicide. CM Gehlot is busy writing letters. If a little bit honesty is left, then waive off the entire loan of the farmers.” 
20-01-2022||India||Amar Jawan Jyoti to be merged with flame at National War Memorial tomorrow||The Amar Jawan Jyoti flame at India Gate will be extinguished after 50 years and merged with the flame at the National War Memorial here on Friday, military officials said.The Amar Jawan Jyoti was constructed as a memorial for Indian soldiers who were killed in action in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, which India won, leading to the creation of Bangladesh. It was inaugurated by the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, on January 26, 1972.Military officials said on Thursday that the flame of the Amar Jawan Jyoti will be extinguished on Friday afternoon and merged with the flame at the National War Memorial, which is just 400 metres away on the other side of India Gate.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on February 25, 2019, inaugurated the National War Memorial, where names of 25,942 soldiers have been inscribed in golden letters on granite tablets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amar-jawan-jyoti-to-be-merged-with-flame-at-national-war-memorial-tomorrow-101642695624867.html
20-01-2022||India||Amid record Covid-19 surge in Kerala, lockdown-like curbs on next two Sundays. Details here||Amid a sudden spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) disease cases in the southern part of India, the state of Kerala has announced lockdown-like curbs on Sundays for the next two weeks. This ‘Sunday curfew’ will see a fresh set of restrictions imposed on daily activity in a bid to cut down the spread of the virus, which has already been transmitted enough times for the daily health bulletin to record as many as 46,387 fresh cases state-wide on Thursday – the highest-ever single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic.Also Read | Covid 3rd wave reaches South: Kerala reports 46,387 cases; Karnataka over 47,000Hours after the record spike in Covid-19 cases were registered, the department of information and public relations under the Kerala government took to its official social media channels on Thursday to lay out a host of restrictions that will come into effect in the state on Sundays for the next two weeks, i.e. on January 23 and January 30.The following restrictions have been imposed in lieu of the Sunday curfew in Kerala:1.  Only essential services will be allowed to operate on January 23 and January 30, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led Kerala government decided after a top-level Covid-19 review meet today.2. Mothers with children below two years of age and working in government or private institutions, cancer patients, and patients inflicted with severe diseases will be allowed to operate in a work-from-home manner. They should, however, present their respective doctors' certificates.3. Concerned institutions should ensure that businesses, malls, beaches, and tourist centers – including theme parks – are not overcrowded and that the Covid-19 protocol is properly followed. Sanitisers should be made adequately available in these places, the government order held.4. District-based restrictions can be imposed based on the number of people being admitted to hospitals. Based on information received by the disaster management authority every Thursday from the department of health, it will divide into districts into three zones – A, B, and C with differing levels of curbs.5. A maximum of 50 people can participate in social, cultural, religious-communal, political, public events, weddings, and funeral ceremonies in the A-category zones.6. In the B-category zones, no social, cultural, religious, communal, political, or public programs will be allowed. Religious worship should only be conducted online. A maximum of 20 people will be allowed for weddings and funeral ceremonies.7. In the C-category zones, all the existing restrictions of B-category areas apply. Additionally, cinema theaters, swimming pools, and gyms will not be allowed to operate here. All classes (including tuition centers), except final year classes of undergraduate/postgraduate level, and all classes except for the tenth and the twelfth standards will only be allowed online. This does not apply if residential educational institutions are operating on a bio-bubble model, the order specified.Which districts are under these categories?According to today's situation, Ernakulam, Alappuzha, and Kollam districts are coming under the A-category.Palakkad, Idukki, Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, and Wayanad districts are in the B-category.Districts that fall under the C-category are not there right now.Covid-19 case surge in KeralaThe third wave of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic which is believed to have crossed its peak in Delhi and Mumbai has hit hard Karnataka and Kerala as both the southern states reported a record surge in the last 24 hours. India on Thursday reported over 3 lakh cases, the highest in the ongoing third wave of the pandemic. The impact of the Omicron-driven third wave was felt first in Delhi and Mumbai, but now the wave has shifted the south with Kerala reporting 46,387 fresh cases on Thursday which is the highest-ever single-day spike.Given the fact that Kerala was one of the worst-affected states in the pandemic, the tally of the last 24 hours is significant. During the second wave, Kerala reported 43,529 Covid cases in a day, the highest before Thursday. The rate of hospitalisation remains low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-amid-record-covid-19-surge-lockdown-like-curbs-on-next-two-sundays-details-here-101642692661303.html
20-01-2022||India||Infectious disease expert says Omicron wave hitting 8 countries. India one of them||Top US doctor, infectious disease expert Faheem Younus on Thursday said the Omicron's tidal wave is hitting eight countries at present, including India and Pakistan. The list includes Peru, India, Brazil, Turkey, Mexico, Pakistan, Argentina and the Philippines. The wave has two characteristics: cases rise first. Hospitalisation and deaths follow, the expert said.India on Thursday reported over 3.17 lakh fresh Covid infections, the highest during the ongoing 3rd wave of the pandemic. The number will only increase on Friday, as states like Karnataka, Kerala, Bihar, Gujarat reported a massive jump. The health ministry on Thursday said the third wave in the country is surging ahead as a 16% positivity rate is worrying for India. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha, Delhi and Rajasthan are contributing the maximum number of daily cases, the department said.Covid 3rd wave reaches South: Kerala reports 46,387 cases; Karnataka over 47,000Omicron’s Tidal Wave Hitting PeruIndiaBrazilTurkey MexicoPakistan ArgentinaPhilippinesCases rise first; hospitalizations and deaths follow. It’s NOT mild. Get boosted asap. pic.twitter.com/pqJj86O3RCDelhi's Covid tally dips with 12,306 cases, logs highest deaths since JuneThe saving grace of the present surge is the fewer number of deaths and hospitalisation, the health ministry said. The number of fatalities, however, are showing a rising trend where the cases have become stabilised. For example, Delhi on Thursday reported 43 deaths, which is the highest since June. Mumbai reported 12 deaths on Thursday. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the peak of the third wave of the pandemic has gone past in the national capital, though Delhi is not yet out of the woods, he said.The Covid situation in India is diverse with contrasting pictures coming from states. While the Maharashtra government decided to reopen schools from coming Monday, the Kerala government has imposed Sunday lockdown for the coming two Sundays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infectious-disease-expert-says-omicron-wave-hitting-8-countries-india-one-of-them-101642693261720.html
20-01-2022||India||At Mauritius event, PM Modi spotlights India’s development partnership approach||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Mauritius counterpart Pravind Jugnauth on Thursday inaugurated a $45-million social housing project with 956 units and launched work on a solar power plant and a civil service college to be built with Indian aid of more than $500 million. At a virtual event joined by the prime ministers, the two countries also concluded agreements for India to provide about $200 million as assistance for a metro rail and other infrastructure projects in Mauritius and for small but high-impact development projects in fields such as education, healthcare and disaster risk reduction. Referring to the long-standing ties between the two sides based on history, ancestry, culture, and the waters of the Indian Ocean, Modi said in his opening remarks that the development partnership has become a key pillar in the close ties. “Mauritius is a prime example of India’s approach to development partnership which is based on the needs and priorities of our partners and respects their sovereignty,” he said, in an apparent reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative that has been criticised for creating a “debt trap” in several Indian Ocean states. Modi added: “Mauritius is also integral to our approach to the Indian Ocean. It was in Mauritius, during my 2015 visit, that I had outlined India’s maritime cooperation vision of SAGAR – Security and Growth for All in the Region.” Thank you, says Mauritius PMJugnauth interspersed his address with remarks in Hindi to convey his government’s gratitude for the wide-ranging cooperation and technical and financial assistance provided by India over the years. “We never cease to acknowledge that without the financial assistance of the government of India, this [metro] project would not have been implemented so fast,” he said.He said one of the major stations on the metro rail system will be named after Mahatma Gandhi to express the gratitude of Mauritius. Noting that the loans and grants reflect India’s commitment to the progress of Mauritius, Jugnauth invited Modi to visit the country in November or December for the inauguration of the full metro service. India-assisted projects in MauritiusThe 956 social housing units located at two sites were built with an Indian grant of $20 million and a line of credit of $25 million. This was one of five large infrastructure projects that were part of an Indian $ 353-million special economic package unveiled in 2016. The units were built by an Indian firm to bolster the Mauritius government’s affordable housing scheme. The two leaders virtually laid the foundation stone of the civil service college to be built with a grant of $4.74 million. The college, to be completed in 18 months, will build capacity in public sector management and governance. The 8-MW solar farm at Tamarind Falls, to be built with a line of credit of $500 million from India’s Exim Bank, is expected to be completed in 11 months. The facility will be the largest solar farm in Mauritius and will generate 14GWh a year. The plant will help Mauritius achieve its target of having 60% of renewables in its energy mix by 2030, and reduce the use of coal and oil imports. The two agreements concluded on Thursday included a line of credit for $190 million from India’s Exim Bank for the metro rail and other infrastructure projects, and a memorandum of understanding on small but high impact development projects worth $10 million in fields such as education, healthcare, community development, women’s empowerment, disaster risk reduction and energy. The first phase of the metro rail was inaugurated in 2019 and it has carried more than 5.6 million passengers since commercial operations began in January 2020. The second and third phases of the flagship project will be completed by the end of 2022 and work is already underway on the fourth phase. Modi also pointed to ongoing maritime security and defence cooperation between the two sides, saying this has translated the vision of SAGAR into action. “Despite the constraints of Covid, we were able to hand over a Dornier aircraft on lease and complete the short refit of the Mauritian Coast Guard ship Barracuda,” he said. The Dornier aircraft was leased in September 2021 and the free refit of the Coast Guard vessel was completed in October 2021. “In the coming days, we will begin work on several important projects such as the renal transplant unit, the Forensic Science Laboratory, the National Library and Archives, the Mauritius Police Academy, and many others. I would like to reiterate today that India will always continue to stand by Mauritius in its development journey,” Modi said. 
20-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 3rd wave of Covid hits South, over 46,000 cases in Kerala and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid 3rd wave reaches South: Kerala reports 46,387 cases; Karnataka over 47,000The third wave of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic which is believed to have crossed its peak in Delhi and Mumbai has hit hard Karnataka and Kerala as both the southern states reported a record surge in the last 24 hours. India on Thursday reported over 3 lakh cases, the highest in the ongoing third wave of the pandemic. Read MoreDelhi's daily Covid tally dips to 12,306, logs highest deaths since June; Satyendar Jain says easing of curbs unlikelyDelhi's single-day cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a dip on Thursday after as many as 12,306 people tested positive, according to the health bulletin data. On Wednesday, a total of 13,785 Covid-19 cases were logged in the national capital. Following the latest figures, the cumulative caseload of Delhi has reached 17,60,272, the health bulletin data showed. Read MorePramod Gupta joins BJP, says ‘Akhilesh hates Samajwadis’; SP chief retortsA war of words broke out between Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and former party MLA Pramod Gupta who jumped ship to the saffron camp on Thursday. Brother-in-law of ex-Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav, Gupta joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the afternoon and accused Akhilesh Yadav of hating “Samajwadis” and inducting criminals to the party. Read MorePakistan: Two killed, 22 injured in explosion at Lahore's Lohari Gate areaA blast near Lahore's Lohari Gate area on Thursday killed at least two persons -- including one child -- and injured 22 others, officials said, reported Geo News. Windows of nearby shops and buildings were shattered by the explosion. Some motorcycles were also damaged. Read MoreWhy Sachin Tendulkar won't play for India Legends in second edition of Road Safety World SeriesThe legendary Sachin Tendulkar, who led India Legends to title victory in the inaugural edition of the Road Safety World Series, will not be taking part in its second season. The reason behind the former India captain’s decision stems from the fact that several cricketers have complained of unpaid dues from the first edition of the tournament. Read MoreSalman Khan teases a teaser in cryptic Twitter post, turns on his Bigg Boss mode: 'Sab sunn raha hoon'It's not everyday that Salman Khan tweets so when the actor posted a tweet from his account on Thursday evening, fans were excited. That excitement soon turned to confusion though because most were unable to decipher the cryptic tweet. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-3rd-wave-of-covid-hits-south-over-46-000-cases-in-kerala-and-all-the-latest-news-101642691740390.html
20-01-2022||India||‘There is an atmosphere of tension and violence in the country’: Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday stressed on the need of strengthening peace, harmony, and brotherhood saying that that there is an atmosphere of tension and violence in the country. The chief minister was addressing the inauguration of nationwide program series ‘Azadi ke Amrit Mahotsav se Swarnim Bharat ki Ore,’ by Brahma Kumaris. The event was virtually attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra and union ministers. “All know that we have a glorious history and that of the freedom. We should remember Mahatama Gandhi, Jawahar Lal Nehru, Saradar Patel, BR Ambedkar, Lokmanya Tilak, and other personalities who struggled to get us freedom, and because of them we have reached here in last 75 years after independence,” Gehlot said. He said when PM Narendra Modi visits other countries, he gets respect because India’s progress in 75 years in science, technical sector and other areas are valued by other countries. “Our country’s identity is not new, and from the ancient time we have believed in Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, which means the world is one family,” said the CM,Appreciating the year-long program prepared by Brahma Kumaris, Gehlot said, “The message from here will reach across the country. We all want peace, harmony, and brotherhood... should be there and strengthened, which is also required, as it is being seen that there is atmosphere of tension and violence. And all want to get rid of it.” “I believe that the country and the society can progress only by walking on the path of truth and non-violence. The development will happen where there is peace and this is what we believe in,” he said. Earlier also, the chief minister on many occasions has expressed concerns on the same matter. 
20-01-2022||India||Goa polls: Utpal Parrikar weighs options as storm brews over BJP’s ticket denial||PANAJI: The BJP’s decision to deny a ticket to former Goa chief minister late Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal Parrikar to contest from the Panaji seat in the upcoming assembly elections has sparked off intense political speculation over his next move. Utpal, whose father represented the capital of Goa as a BJP MP continuously since 1994 until 2014 when the quit to take charge as union defence minister and then again from 2017 until his passing in 2019, is said to have rejected the offer of the party’s central leadership to contest from the Bicholim seat, 25 kms away from the capital. In choosing Babush Monserrate over Parrikar, the party leadership has chosen to reward the Monserrates with whose help ten Congress MLAs joined the BJP back in 2019. Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate is facing several cases against him including that of rape, rioting, etc. The ruling BJP defended the decision saying that the ticket was given to the “sitting MLA”. “A sitting MLA has been given a ticket in Panaji. Parrikar’s family is our family. They are close to us. I had given Utpal Parrikar two options, from where he could contest. He had refused one option. We are still discussing the second option with him. We all feel he should accept it. BJP has respected the Parrikar family,” Devendra Fadnavis who is the BJP in-charge of Goa, said. Utpal was offered the BJP’s ticket for the Bicholim seat where the party is struggling to find a candidate after assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar, who represents the seat, withdrew from the race citing his weak health. Utpal who is contemplating contesting as an independent indicated that he won’t sit idle if the BJP gives the ticket to a person “who has criminal antecedents.” “The kind of politics that is happening in Goa, I cannot tolerate it. It is not acceptable to me. Are they suggesting that only winnability is the criteria (and that) integrity doesn’t matter? Character doesn’t matter? and you are going to give the ticket to a person who has criminal antecedents and we have to sit home quietly?” Utpal said a week ago, while responding to comments by Fadnavis, who said: “Just because you are Manohar Parrikar’s or anybody’s son doesn’t mean you will get a BJP ticket.” Meanwhile, Aam Aadmu Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal publicly offered an AAP ticket to Utpal. “Goans feel v(ery) sad that BJP has adopted [a] use and throw policy even with [the] Parrikar family. I have always respected Manohar Parrikar ji. Utpal ji is welcome to join and fight elections on AAP ticket,” Kejriwal tweeted on Thursday. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant however shot back calling Kejriwal an opportunist and recalled Kejriwal’s past tirade against Parrikar accusing him of failing to tackle corruption in Goa despite promising to do so. “Hypocrisy! Person whose entire party & politics is based on shallow opportunism should brush up his memory & remind himself of his own filthy comments used against one of the greatest leaders Shri Manohar “Bhai” Parrikar,” Sawant tweeted in response. Earlier Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that opposition parties in Goa should rally behind Utpal Parrikar should he decide to contest as an independent. Meanwhile in Mandrem, former Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar is also weighing his options after he was denied a ticket in favour of Dayanand Sopte who joined the party from the Congress. The BJP in its list of 34 candidates announced so far has left out PWD Minister Deepak Pauskar (who defected from MGP), Isidoro Fernandes and Filipe Neri Rodrigues (who joined from the Congress) while Alina Saldanha, Carlos Almeida, Wilfred de Sa and Pravin Zantye quit the party in anticipation of denial of tickets to them..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-polls-utpal-parrikar-weighing-options-as-storm-brews-over-bjp-s-ticket-denial-101642688671046.html
20-01-2022||India||‘More draconian’: Mamata Banerjee fires another letter to PM Modi over IAS rule change||KOLKATA: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday sent her second letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in seven days, opposing proposed changes in service rules for Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, which she said, will empower the Centre to transfer IAS officers serving in the cadre to the central government without the concurrence of the officer concerned and the state government.“This is going to destroy our federal fabric and basic structure of our Constitution too. It is our Constitution which gives the states their powers and functions and it is our Constitution which provides the framework and structure of the all-India services as they exist. The swift unitary turn that the Central government has now proposed will strike at the root of the frame which has existed and worked well since the inception of our democracy,” Banerjee said in her two-page letter to PM Modi.Mamata Banerjee’s loud protests to the proposed change in the IAS cadre rules come after the Centre in May last year ordered Alapan Bandopadhyay, then serving as chief secretary, to join the union government on central deputation. Banerjee refused to let him go, and Bandopadhyay eventually opted to retire on May 31 rather than take an extension he was given. Bandopadhyay was reappointed as chief adviser to the chief minister and faces disciplinary action for not attending a meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Bengal visit on May 28.Under existing rules, officers of the three All India Service (AIS) - the IAS, Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service officers - are attached to a state (or a group of smaller states) as a cadre where they serve unless they opt to serve in the union government. If they do exercise this option, the state concerned has to concur to their request before they can be considered for a posting by the Centre.The central government has been facing a shortage of relatively young officers who often prefer to work in the field and state secretariat rather than come to Delhi in the early part of their careers. To be sure, there are also instances where requests from officers to serve in the union government are vetoed or kept on hold.Banerjee wrote her first letter of objection to Modi on January 13 after the department of personnel and training sought the opinion of all states on the proposed amendments to the IAS (Cadre) Rules. The Congress and Left parties have also opposed the proposals.Banerjee’s second letter on Thursday referred to some more changes proposed by the Centre. She asked the Centre not to push the states into a movement on this issue and said that once enforced, the new rules may be misused by the party in power at the Centre. “….I have to write again, further reiterating my points, because the central government has meanwhile further accentuated its stand, proposing yet another revised draft, taking the matter to further non-federal extremes. I find the revised amendment proposal more draconian than the former and indeed its very grain is against the foundations of our federal polity and the basic structure of India’s Constitutional scheme,” Banerjee wrote on Thursday.“The moot point of the further revised draft proposal is that an officer, whom the Central government may choose to take out of a state to any part of the country without taking his/her consent and without the agreement of the state government under whom he/she is serving may stand released from his/her current assignment forthwith,” the letter said.“The power proposed to be usurped by the central government by resorting to over-centralisation of powers is going to destroy the morale and freedom of the All India Service officers quite apart from such usurpation being unconstitutional on the face of it. It is going to completely render them and all the state governments at the mercy of the central government since the All India Services serve as the backbone of a state’s administrative machinery. It will hang on the head of each officer of the All India Services like a Damocles sword,” Banerjee said.“It will create fear psychosis which is bound to impact their performance, effectiveness and accountability to the state government. This will destroy the fundamental principle of the services which postulates that an officer serving in connection with the affairs of the state is accountable to the state government alone,” Banerjee wrote. “I request you not to take such a measure which will irreparably damage the spirit of mutual accommodation between the Centre and the states which has existed in respect of utilization of services of the All India Services. I request you not to denude the states of their powers over its officers which will have far-reaching consequences for our country. Let us not forget that the proposed amendments are very prone to be misused by the party in power at the Centre. We at the helm of governance of the country should not be misled by immediate gains which may sound tempting but have the potential of causing damage for all times to come,” the Bengal chief minister said.Stating that the proposed amendments will cause severe damage to the “steel frame” of the nation on its 75th year of Independence, Banerjee requested Modi not to “push us to the point of greater movements on this issue to protect the soul of this great democracy that India is and has been.”Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, a known critic of Banerjee, backed her up on this issue.“This is not a new move by the Centre. It has been trying to control bureaucrats for a long time. We have seen how Bengal’s former chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay was harassed,” said Chowdhury. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) countered Banerjee, accusing her of stopping IAS officers from opting for central deputation and hurting their careers.“Many bureaucrats posted in Bengal want to opt for central deputation but the state government has blocked their career growth. These officers are suffering. It is the state that is damaging the principles of our federal system. We support the Centre’s move to help the bureaucracy,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-draconian-mamata-banerjee-fires-another-letter-to-pm-modi-over-ias-rule-change-101642688371664.html
20-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave reaches South: Kerala reports 46,387 cases; Karnataka over 47,000||The third wave of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic which is believed to have crossed its peak in Delhi and Mumbai has hit hard Karnataka and Kerala as both the southern states reported a record surge in the last 24 hours. India on Thursday reported over 3 lakh cases, the highest in the ongoing third wave of the pandemic. The impact of the Omicron-driven third wave was felt first in Delhi and Mumbai, but now the wave has shifted the south with Kerala reporting 46,387 fresh cases on Thursday which is the highest-ever single-day spike.Given the fact that Kerala was one of the worst-affected states in the pandemic, the tally of the last 24 hours is significant. During the second wave, Kerala reported 43,529 Covid cases in a day, the highest before Thursday. The rate of hospitalisation remains low. For the two coming Sundays, there will be complete lockdown in Kerala, the government has announced. Kerala health minister Veena George said on Wednesday that the state has already started witnessing the third wave of the pandemic. The minister said both Delta and Omicron are contributing to the surge in the state. If the range of spread was 2.68 per cent during the second wave, it was 3.12 per cent these days and the next three weeks would be crucial for the state, the minister said.Karnataka too witnessed a massive spike on Thursday recording 47,754 fresh cases. Out of these cases, 30,540 are from Bengaluru, the state bulletin said.The third wave of the pandemic has been different from the first and the second waves in India. Experts said previous waves moved from west to east, but this wave moved from metro cities to other districts.  The peaks of the wave have been projected to come around different dates between the 2nd and the 4th week of January. Last week, Kerala health ministry warned that the peak of the third wave will come in another week as the Omicron spread started a little late in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-reaches-south-kerala-reports-46-387-cases-karnataka-over-47000-101642686708038.html
20-01-2022||India||India successfully tests new BrahMos version with higher indigenous content||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday successfully tested a variant of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile with higher indigenous content and improved performance from the Integrated Test Range at Chandipur off the Odisha coast, the defence ministry said. “The flight test is a major milestone for BrahMos programme. The highly manoeuvrable missile cruised at supersonic speed for its maximum range and all mission objectives were met,” a statement from the ministry said. The launch was conducted by BrahMos Aerospace and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The BrahMos missile, an Indo-Russian joint venture, has a range of 290 km and is the fastest cruise missile in the world with a top speed of Mach 2.8 (nearly three times the speed of sound). “The missile (tested on Thursday) was equipped with advanced indigenous technologies and followed a modified optimal trajectory for enhanced efficiency and improved performance. The missile with the modified control system has been fine tuned to achieve an enhanced capability,” the statement added. Defence minister Rajnath Singh complimented the BrahMos, DRDO teams and industry for the successful flight test. BrahMos was in the news last week after the Philippines confirmed it will acquire three batteries of the missile in a deal worth almost $375 million, a development expected to boost India’s efforts to become a major exporter of defence hardware. BrahMos variants can be launched from land, air, sea and under water. In 2020, the country upgraded its capabilities to keep a watch on the strategically-important Indian Ocean Region and deliver an offensive option swiftly, if necessary, with the air force basing its front-line Sukhoi-30 fighters in southern India for the first time. The Su-30 fighter jets, based at Thanjavur air force station in Tamil Nadu, are equipped with the air-launched version of the BrahMos missile. India has already developed an extended range BrahMos missile that can hit targets at a range of more than 400 km by tweaking the configuration of the existing weapon. Increasing the missile’s range became possible after India’s induction into the Missile Technology Control Regime in June 2016. India is also laying the groundwork to develop a high-range BrahMos supersonic cruise missile, capable of striking targets more than 800 km away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-tests-new-brahmos-version-with-higher-indigenous-content-101642684530719.html
20-01-2022||India||Bangalore Talkies: Covid takeaways and New Year resolutions||The new year has turned. Omicron still looms. But Bangaloreans are looking back-- and forward. We are asking ourselves and others about resolutions and Covid takeaways. What changed in our lives? What remained constant?Silk List, an online mailing list, founded in Bengaluru had a discussion on this topic. As did many alumni reunions that I attended in person and virtually. I compiled the answers into categories and directives. Which one resonates with you?Faith and hope restored: Whether it is being awestruck by the frontline workers who showed up day after exhausted day, or the numerous small acts of kindness that we witnessed from our neighbours, all of us felt a twinge of hope in our humanity. People gave to pet causes (migrant workers), charities (vaccine camps), and volunteered in our own way.Personal care: This seems particularly universal. Freed of our commutes, lots of us developed self-care routines. We walked or ran every morning, restarted our yoga, pranayama and meditation practices, learned to cook at home, and got healthier in the process.Family time: Since we were stuck at home, we planned dinner times with family. We had conversations about sexual orientation and silliness, politics and memes with our siblings, friends, nieces and kids. We learned new ways of being.Cloud kitchens: Lots of restaurants became cloud kitchens. Lots of home cooks became caterers. Kappa Chakka Kandari, Go Native, Klaa Kitchen, all sent out comfort food to patrons all over Bengaluru.Creative collaborations: Artists, dancers and musicians pivoted to the virtual world. They came up with collaborations and ways to reach their audiences. Shaale.com (the word means school in Kannada) set up master classes with musicians, mridangists and veena players. Now, music rasikas could learn kunarkol (chanting the beats of a drum) or the kanjira from the comfort of home. Many did.Hobbies: We dived into things that we had been putting off. Bengaluru has a thriving group that chants the Gita, plays bridge, does ikebana, goes bird-watching every week, and does virtual music/antakshari.Tackling big and deep projects that were put off: With time on hand, people faced their inertia and decided to tackle the big, deep and difficult projects that they had put off forever. Some set a goal of reading a physical book for an hour a day. Others took up embroidery and knitting. Others made time to visit old relatives who they cordially disliked out of compassion. Still others wrote the business plan, launched a start-up, quit a job, joined an NGO, trekked in Kashmir, or learned Kannada.Enjoy small things: We don’t take life, living or breathing for granted any more. Thanks to enforced constraints, we took pleasure in small things: locally brewed Geist beer, Bengaluru Avarebele mix from Postcard, warm croissants from Zed the Baker coupled with Begum Victoria’s brie cheese, Araku or Kalmane coffee at home. We created terrace gardens and enjoyed a hot bowl of homemade bisi-bele-bhaath with a nice dollop of Nei Native A2 ghee on top.Splurge: We took the acronyms YOLO (You Only Live Once) and Life is too short to eat/drink/enjoy bad stuff to heart. So we ordered rare orchids and tulips from the Flower Box or Ohana Fine Flowers. Since we couldn’t travel, we bought expensive Burgundy wines alongside local brands such as Grovers, KRSMA, Early Dark, and SDU. We finally bought that Sailor fountain pen from William Penn, and that Ganjam ruby earring. We splurged on things we cared about.Home improvement: Lots of us painted our homes, bought that new teak wood chair from Vyom Studio or that cool antique trunk from Saanchi. We reupholstered our sofas with silk from Atmosphere and accessorised with playful toys from the Varnam Craft Collective.Saved money: Of course we saved money. Where could we go? Well, some of us went to Karnataka’s many wildlife sanctuaries, ranging from Dandeli to BR Hills to Kabini to Nagarhole. But other than that, we couldn’t go to restaurants, pubs or restaurants so we learned, some for the first time, to plan and invest our money.Hotels and marriages took on new avatars: Hotels offered staycations, private dining options and learned to pivot to become local rather than global. Marriages went small and virtual.So what was my Covid takeaway? Mine was learning to follow my bliss, which was being out in nature, ideally in a forest or at least in the woodlands, accompanied by expert naturalists who taught me how to see that spotted owlet camouflaged in the raintree. I drank good wine, ate simple food, and took pleasure in hugging vaccinated friends and family. Touch, you see, is an underrated comfort.(Disclosure: I have mentioned Bangalore-based brands in this piece. They deserve patronage. As is true with all my work for this column, I have not profited from any of these mentions. No comps, commissions or discounts.)(Shoba Narayan is Bangalore-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications)
20-01-2022||India||BJP declares first 34 candidates for Goa polls, Utpal Parrikar denied Panaji seat||PANAJI: The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday announced its first list of 34 candidates for the upcoming Goa assembly polls. The list released by BJP in-charge for Goa elections Devendra Fadnavis and party national general secretary Arun Singh notably excludes former defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal Parrikar and includes two husband-wife duos. The party gave away the Panjim seat, which was claimed by Utpal Parrikar, to sitting MLA Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate. The party also overlooked former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar to favour Dayanand Sopte who joined the BJP mid-term from the Congress. The list includes two husband-wife duos-- Babush Monserrate and his wife Jennifer, who is currently the minister of revenue in the Pramod Sawant government, and health minister Vishwajit Rane and his wife Divya Rane. The party, however, denied ticket to wife of deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar. While Babush will contest from the state capital of Panaji, Jennifer will contest from their traditional stronghold Taleigao. Vishwajit Rane will contest from his sitting seat Valpoi while his wife will contest from Poriem, currently represented by his father and former chief minister Pratapsingh Rane, putting her on the path of a potential face off with her father-in-law. Rane has been declared as the Congress candidate but is yet to make up his mind on whether to contest or not. Among those who didn’t make the cut include PWD minister Deepak Prabhu Pauskar (Sanvordem) who defected from the MGP to the BJP, Isidore Fernandes (Canacona) and Filipe Neri Rodrigues (Velim). Sanvordem and Canacona have been given to party old-timers Ganesh Gaonkar and Ramesh Tawadkar, while Velim has been handed to newbie Savio Rodrigues. New entrants Jayesh Salgaocar (Saligao), Rohan Khaunte (Porvorim) Ravi Naik (Ponda) and Govind Gaude (Priol) have also been rewarded with tickets. Congress leaders who switched to the BJP Dayanand Sopte, Nilkanth Halarnkar, Francisco Silveira, Subhash Shirodkar, Clafasio Dias have all been given tickets. Explaining the decision to give the Panaji ticket to the Babush Monserrate by ignoring the claim of Utpal Parrikar, Fadnavis said Parrikar was given “other options.” “A sitting MLA has been given a ticket in Panaji. Parrikar’s family is our family. They are close to us. I had given Utpal Parrikar two options, from where he could contest. He had refused one option. We are still discussing the second option with him. We all feel he should accept it. BJP has respected the Parrikar family,” Fadnavis said. It is understood that the party has offered the Bicholim seat to Utpal Parrikar where the party has been struggling to find a candidate ever since assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar who currently represents the seat withdrew from the race on health grounds. Immediately after the BJP’s announcement, Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party national convenor Arvind Kejriwal offered a ticket to Parrikar. Earlier, Shiv Sena also offered a ticket to him. Those close to Utpal, however, said he is yet to make up him mind on contesting. Fadnavis also said that the party has adequate representation for all communities in Goa. “The world’s biggest party, BJP, has worked for the rights of the dalits and backward classes. In three general seats, ST candidates have been fielded. In one general seat, BJP has fielded an SC candidate. We have a total of 11 OBC candidates, nine minority Christian candidates have also been given tickets and nine are general,” he said. Defending his decision to offer tickets to husband-wife duos, Fadnavis said that was one of the occupational hazards of politics. “Babush Monserrate and his wife were elected and joined the BJP. Jennifer Monserrate has her own identity and she is a minister in the BJP government. Vishwajit Rane joined BJP from Congress and got elected on BJP ticket. The Poriem seat is Pratapsingh Rane’s seat. He has been elected from that seat for 50 years on a Congress ticket. The Congress has never lost from there,” Fadnavis said. He said the BJP has “requested” Pratapsingh Rane not to contest from the seat he has been representing for the past 50 years and instead “give the seat to the BJP” by either contesting on a BJP ticket or withdrawing from the race. The Goa government in December accorded a life-time cabinet minister rank to Pratapsingh Rane. “He accepted what we said and said that I have aged so I will not contest, Divya Rane will contest instead. Congress will contest the seat, but we will defeat them,” Fadnavis said. The BJP’s list consists of incumbent MLAs Dayanand Sopte (Mandrem), Nilkanth Halarnkar (Tivim), Joshua D’Souza (Mapusa), Glenn Souza Ticlo (Aldona), Atanasio Monserrate (Panaji), Jennifer Monserrate (Taleigao), Francisco Silveira (Sant Andre), Pramod Sawant (Sanquelim), Vishwajit Rane (Valpoi), Subhash Shirodkar (Shiroda), Milind Naik (Mormugao), Mauvin Godinho (Dabolim), Clafasio Dias (Cuncolim), Chandrakant “Babu” Kavlekar (Quepem) and Nilesh Cabral (Curchorem). New faces include Pravin Arlekar (Pernem), Premender Vishnu Shet (Maem), Sudesh Bhingi (Marcaim), Krishna Salkar (Vasco da Gama), Datta Borkar (Nuvem), Ulhas Tuenkar (Navelim), Damodar Bandodkar (Benaulim) and Savio Rodrigues (Velim). Others include former minister Ramesh Tawadkar (Canacona), former MLAs Subhash Phal Dessai (Sanguem), Damodar Naik (Fatorda), Dayanand Mandrekar (Siolim) and Manohar Ajgaonkar, who is now contesting the Margao seat against Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat having shifted from Pernem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-declares-first-34-candidates-for-goa-polls-utpal-parrikar-denied-panaji-seat-101642682552340.html
20-01-2022||India||‘More draconian’: Mamata again writes to PM Modi on proposed changes in IAS cadre rules||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to withdraw the proposed changes to rules for the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) cadre. Calling the central government's draft amendment of the IAS cadre rules more “draconian” than the former, Banerjee said that it goes against the “foundation of our federal policy and the basic structure of Constitutional scheme”.In another letter earlier this month, Banerjee had written to Prime Minister Modi on January 13, urging him to not go ahead with the proposal.In her two-page letter today, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo made references to a note that she had sent in this regard last week, and said that since then the central government had “accentuated its stand” and that its revised draft is taking the matter to “non-federal extremes”.This is the second letter that Mamata Banerjee has sent to the Prime Minister in eight days and in this one, she insisted that the proposed amendment to the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, will create a “fear psychosis” among officers and impact their performance.What are the proposed changes to the IAS cadre rules?The Union government has proposed an amendment to the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, which would enable it to post IAS officers on central deputation, bypassing reservations of state governments.In its amendment, the Centre has proposed to insert a provision in Rule 6 of IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, which stated that any IAS officer could be posted on central deputation with the concurrence of the state government concerned.The Centre has proposed to keep this part of the rule intact, but to add: “Provided that each state government shall make available for deputation to the central government, such number of eligible officers of various levels to the extent of the central deputation reserve prescribed under regulations referred to in Rule 4 (1), adjusted proportionately by the number of officers available with the state government concerned vis-a-vis the total authorised strength of the State Cadre at a given point of time.”What are Mamata Banerjee's objections to the proposed changes?The letter reads, “The moot point of the further revised draft amendment proposal is that an officer, whom the central government may choose to take out a state to any part of the country without taking his/her consent and without the agreement of the state government under whom he/she is serving, may now stand released from his/her current assignment forthwith.”Explaining why such a proposal comes across as problematic to her, Banerjee wrote, “The power proposed to be usurped by the central government by resorting to over-centralisation of powers is going to destroy the morale and freedom of the All India Service officers quite apart from such usurpation being unconstitutional on the face of it.”“It is going to completely render them and all the state governments at the mercy of the central government since the All India Services serve as the backbone of a state's administrative machinery,” the letter added. “It will hang on the head of each officer of the All Indian Services like a Damocles' sword. It will create fear psychosis which is bound to impact their performance, effectiveness, and accountability to the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-draconian-mamata-again-writes-to-pm-modi-on-proposed-changes-in-ias-cadre-rules-101642680265818.html
20-01-2022||India||HT THIS DAY: January 21, 1957 --Nehru inaugurates India’s first reactor; peaceful uses only objective, says PM||BOMBAY- MR NEHRU gave the assurance today that India would never use atomic energy for evil purposes “ whatever might happen and whatever might be the circumstances.” “ There are no conditions attached to this assurance,” Mr Nebru said inaugurating the atomic reactor, first in Asia outside the Soviet Union, at the atomic energy establishment at Trombay, 16 miles from here. Mr Nehru was loudly cheered when he said he was giving the assurance not only on behalf of his Government but also on behalf of all future Governments of India. “ Once we attach conditions nobody knows what conditions or circumstances might be and such assurances have no value or meaning. “ The atomic reactor of the “ swimming pool “ type, which actually went into operation on August 4 last year was named by Mr Nehru as apsara a la water nymph or a celestial dancer. Nearly a hundred scientists from all parts of the world attended the inauguration of the atomic energy establishment and the reactor. Among them were Gen K. D. Nochols, Dr B F. J. Schnoland, Deputy Director of Atomic Energy Research Establishment at Harwell in the U.K., Mr Nesmeyananov, Mr V. S. Emelianov, Mr A. I. Alikhaniants, Mr L G Lenov, Mr N. N. Privalov and Mr D V. Skobelt (all from the Soviet Union) and Dr Hideki Yukawa, member of the Atomic Energy Commission of Japan. The function, which was attended by members of the consular corps, Ministers of the Bombay Government and leading citizens was presided over by Mr Sri Prakasa, Bombay Governor. CENTRE OF LEARNING Mr Nehru said the atomic energy establishment would not only help Indian people but would also serve as a centre where scientific knowledge and experience could be shared and training facilities offered to other countries, more especially countries of Asia and Africa. Mr Nehru said the development of atomic energy had to be organized in such a way as to bring good and not evil to the world People in countries advanced its atomic development had realized that there was a tremendous danger if the energy were used in the wrong way. “ In fact I imagine everybody now realizes that things as they are today make a total war in which atomic weapons are used out of Question.” The Prime Minister said such a war would bring disaster to everybody and that was why talks for controlling the use of atomic weapons were going on He said disarmament was a very difficult task. “But I believe inspite of apparent and real difficulties, peoples’ minds, and more than that the minds of those who control the destinies of nations are beginning more and more to take a realistic view of the situation. Let us hope that they will arrive at some decision which will put an end to the terrible fear that these weapons may be used, he added. THE MAIN QUESTION Mr Nehru said all develop. mental activity in the country revolved round one question and that was how to raise the standard of life of the people. Some people might think that the development of atomic energy was not directly related to that question at any rate at present. “ “In any event, whether we like it or not, it is quite inevitable that we do it. We must go ahead or we fall back and drag ourselves along the tails of others. That naturally is not good enough,” he said. Mr Nehru was not sure whether all the changes that were taking place in the world in the name of progress were very admirable. “ Sometimes doubts arise. Whether they are admirable or not, they are inevitable. One should make them admirable by giving the right turn.” he said. The Prime Minister said India was at the beginning of the journey so far as the development of atomic technology was concerned but India had done rather well in the last two years. He paid tributes to Dr Bhabha, Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, and Dr K. S. Krishnan, Director of the National Physical Laboratory, for their efforts. INDIA’S SCIENTISTS Mr Nehru particularly referred to young scientists who have been working in the establishment and said: “ It is really when I see them and talk to them and see their informed enthusiasm and their trained mind that I realize that it is very good material we have got. The future becomes much more assured not because of the concrete and stones of the buildings being put up but because of the human material employed in the work.” The Prime Minister expressed gratitude to the countries which had generously helped India in its atomic energy development programme. He referred to the help given by Canada, which is helping to set up a second reactor at the establishment, the U.K., the U.S A. and France. With the Soviet Union, he said, there had been co-operation in this matter, “ which. no doubt, will develop in future.” Mr Sri Prakasa, earlier, said the new discovery of atomic energy gave mankind hope and cheer. The new energy had potentiality of disaster as well as enriching and enhancing human life. India would use atomic energy for the arts of peace and not for the arts of war. BHABHA’S SPEECH Dr Bhabha in his speech, outlined the future atomic development programme of the country. He said if India were not to lose further ground in the modern world it was necessary to set up some atomic power stations in the coming five years which would produce electricity as well as plutonium which would serve as fuel for future power reactors. The problem was being studied in the Department of Atomic Energy in consultation with the Planning Commission and other Ministries concerned and a decision was expected within the next few months. He said a plant to turn uranium salt into uranium metal had already been designed and was expected to come into operation by the middle of next year. (Uranium salt is produced at the establishment from uranium and thorium cake manufactures at the Alwaye Plant in South India during the processing of monazite sand). Heavy water, another chemical required in nuclear reactors to serve as a moderator, would also be manufactured in quantity, Dr Bhabba said. The fertilizer plant to be set up at Nangal would produce ten to 20 tons of heavy water per year. It was the intention of the Government to produce heavy water in all fertilizer factories which would be set up in the second Five-Year Plan.The government was also studying the erection of a plant to make atomically-pure graphite from the coke produced in the refinery in Assam. He said it was also the intention of the Government to erect plants for the manufacture of beryllium and ziroconium metals. India was the largest producer in the world of the rare mineral K. Beryl from which beryllium metal was obtained The metal ziraconium could be obtained from the zircon sand found in the southwest coast of India. Both the metals had important uses in advanced types of atomic reactors. Dr Bhabha said in order to ensure a steady supply of trained scientifle and technical Dersonnel the establishment was starting a training programme in June this I ‘ year. Two hundred and fifty young graduates and engineers would be recruited annually from universitibs and ,given supplementary ( training for a year to fit them for work in India’s atomic energy programme. It was hoped to increase the intake of the school to 350 in due course. Dr Bhabba said work on setting I up another reactor had started in the establishment since February last year. The reactor had been offered by the Government of Canada. It was expected to be completed by the first half of next year. THIRD REACTOR He said the erection of a third reactor had also been decided I upon and it was expected to get it started also in the first half of next year. In fact, this reactor might go into operation earlier than the second reactor offered by Canada for which heavy water was required. In India, Dr Bhabba said, the need was for small electric power stations of 20 to 50 megawatts and I it was the intention to study at the establishment reactors for this ‘I purpose moderated with beryllium oxide, gas cooled and working on natural or slightly enriched uranium. If India was to attain a standard of living equal to that obtaining in countries most advanced industrially, she had to use new sources of energy. Fortunately, India’s reserves of uranium and thorium were equivalent to more than 15 times her reserves of coal. Many more deposits were likely to be discovered. For long-term industrialization in India atomic energy was a necessity, he added. Besides the U. S.A , the Soviet Union and the U.K . other countries which sent their scientists to the inauguration ceremony were Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burma, Canada, Ceylon, China, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, France, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan Sweden, Thailand, Tunisia, North Viet-Nam. South Viet-Nam and Yugoslavia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-january-21-1957-nehru-inaugurates-india-s-first-reactor-peaceful-uses-only-objective-says-pm-101642680570965.html
20-01-2022||India||Fever with or without rigors among 5 common symptoms of 3rd wave in Delhi: Centre||As the Union health ministry of Thursday presented a comparison between the 2nd and the 3rd wave of the pandemic in India and specifically Delhi, the department presented the most common five symptoms that have been associated with Covid during the 3rd wave of the pandemic, driven by Omicron.The study has been done in Delhi but it is believed that these are the most common symptoms of Covid in the 3rd wave, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said during the weekly briefing of the health ministry.Fatality in 3rd wave significantly lower than Covid 2nd wave: Health ministryFever with or without rigors (shivering), cough, irritation in the throat, muscular weakness and tiredness are the five common symptoms the ministry listed. Around 99% of patients in Delhi complained of these symptoms, the health ministry data revealed. Fever, cough, throat irritation generally subside after day 5.From Alpha, Delta to Omicron: How Covid-19 symptoms changedAmong children between the age of 11 and 18 years, fever is the common symptom along with upper respiratory tract infection, the ministry said. Covid pneumonia was less this time, the health secretary said.Omicron was first detected on November 24, 2021, in South Africa and since then doctors have been flagging the difference of Omicron symptoms than earlier Covid caused by Delta or any other variants. Scratchy throat was highlighted worldwide as the most common symptom of Omicron.As Omicron advanced in all countries, other symptoms like night sweat, loose motion were added to the list. It was confirmed that Omicron has not been targeting the lungs and its impact are limited only to the upper respiratory track. The Centre's findings supported the universal belief but at the same time, the health ministry experts on Thursday warned that though the extensive vaccine coverage has saved Indians from the severity of the 3rd wave, people with comorbidities have to remain extra cautious. The health ministry on Thursday said the present 3rd wave of the pandemic in India is being driven by Omicron. Comparing the fatalities of the 2nd wave and the 3rd wave, health ministry data revealed that the third wave in India is milder than the second wave. On April 30, 2021, when the second wave was at its peak in the country, there were 3,86,452 new cases, 3,059 deaths and 31,70,228 active cases. The proportion of fully vaccinated people was 2%. On January 20, 2022, there are 3,17,532 new cases, 380 deaths and 19,24,051 active cases. The proportion of fully vaccinated people is 72%, health ministry data said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fever-with-or-without-rigors-among-5-common-symptoms-of-3rd-wave-in-delhi-centre-101642678219405.html
20-01-2022||India||Evening news brief from HT: Studies show reason behind rapid spread of Omicron and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Not heavy viral load; studies say this is the reason why Omicron spreads so fastThe viral load of Omicron and Delta is almost the same and it is not the reason why Omicron rapidly surged across the world and became the dominant SARs-CoV-2 strain replacing Delta. Read more'What planning, what strategy is this?': Gavaskar 'can't understand' logic behind Venkatesh Iyer not bowling for IndiaFormer captain Sunil Gavaskar could not wrap his head around the fact that all-rounder Venkatesh Iyer was not given a single over to bowl by India captain KL Rahul during Wednesday's first ODI against South Africa in Paarl. Read MoreGehraiyaan trailer: Deepika Padukone can't resist cousin Ananya Panday's fiance, fans can't resist their chemistryThe film, starring Deepika Padukone, Siddhant Chaturvedi, Ananya Panday and Dhairya Karwa, has been described by director Shakun Batra as a 'mirror into modern adult relationships'. Read moreThis entrepreneur wanted to be a filmmaker. Can you guess the person in the pic?A throwback image of a famous industrialist has created a chatter on Twitter. The picture is of Anand Mahindra that he himself posted on Twitter while talking about his childhood aspirations. Read moreYoga tips: What to do when you have a stiff neckWhen you have a stiff neck, it's difficult to move your neck, especially when you want to turn your head to the side. It may also lead to pain in the neck, head, arms or shoulders. Read moreBMW X3 SUV launched in India at ₹59.90 lakh. Check details hereThe prices of the latest model start from ₹59.90 lakh (ex-showroom) for the X3 xDrive30i SportX Plus trim, while the X3 xDrive30i M Sport costs higher at ₹65.90 lakh (ex-showroom). &lt;strong&gt;Read more&lt;/strong&gt;||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evening-news-brief-from-ht-study-finds-reason-behind-rapid-spread-of-omicron-and-all-the-latest-news-101642674173552.html
20-01-2022||India||Maharashtra govt gives nod to reopen schools, local bodies to take final decision||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government on Thursday decided to reopen schools, including pre-primary classes, from January 24, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, however, adding that the government has given the powers to local bodies to take a final decision depending upon the Covid-19 situation in the respective areas. Gaikwad said the department received several representations from various stakeholders to reopen schools, and the department has taken the decision keeping the safety of children in mind. The school education department sent the proposal to reopen schools for offline classes from January 24 to the Chief Minister’s Office. “The chief minister gave consent to reopen offline schools for classes 1 to 12. Till now, pre-primary schools too were shut. But we have decided to reopen pre-primary schools as well. Wherever Covid cases have gone down, the schools will reopen from January 24. However, Covid-appropriate behaviour, the SOPs issued by the government must be followed by the schools,” she said. The minister further added, “We are not talking about a blanket reopening of schools. Local bodies have the authority to decide depending on the Covid-19 situation in the city or district.” The offline classes in schools and colleges resumed in December as the Covid-19 cases were dropping. However, with a surge in coronavirus infections in January, the state government decided to keep offline classes shut. Besides the early signs of the third wave ebbing in some parts of the state, the growing pressure from various quarters to reopen schools has prompted the nod by the chief minister’s office. “We have received several representations from parents’ associations, schools, elected representatives, etc, to reopen schools. They all contended that the children are missing out on the social environment, school atmosphere, interactions etc. Our priority has always been the safety of children but as the Covid cases are reducing we decided to reopen schools, and the decision will remain with the local municipal bodies,” the minister said. 
20-01-2022||India||Fatality in 3rd wave significantly lower than Covid 2nd wave: Health ministry||The health ministry on Thursday presented a comparison between the 2nd and the 3rd wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India and noted the difference in the number of fatalities and the coverage of the vaccination. For the first time, the health ministry termed the present surge as the third wave of the pandemic in the country.Here is what the health ministry said about Covid 3rd wave in India:1. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha, Delhi and Rajasthan are the top states contributing the maximum number of daily cases.2. In the week ending on January 19, India has 515 districts reporting weekly case positivity of more than 5%. 3. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on April 30, 2021, when the second wave was at its peak in the country, there were 3,86,452 new cases, 3,059 deaths and 31,70,228 active cases. The proportion of fully vaccinated people was 2%.Variant watch: Even mild cases may leave a mark on brain4. On January 20, 2022, there are 3,17,532 new cases, 380 deaths and 19,24,051 active cases. The proportion of fully vaccinated people is 72%.5. The 3rd wave in India is not witnessing severity because of the vaccine coverage, Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research said.6. Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said the overall positivity rate of 16% is quite high for India. The surge is driven by Omicron, Dr Paul said. 7. The Union health ministry also presented a comparison of the 2nd and the 3rd surge of Covid in Delhi showing that the number of Covid beds occupied during the 3rd surge is low.8. Adequate Covid-19 testing is being done in the country, the health ministry said. "One-day figures do not show any trend. If one day, there is low testing and a lower number of infections, then that value is not our interest. We provide weekly data which shows a trend," Rajesh Bhushan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fatality-in-3rd-wave-significantly-lower-than-covid-2nd-wave-health-ministry-101642676028999.html
20-01-2022||India||Bulli Bai case: Mumbai court refuses bail to all three accused||A Mumbai court on Thursday rejected the bail applications of Vishal Kumar Jha, Shweta Singh, and Mayank Rawat – all three of who were accused in the controversial ‘Bulli Bai’ case and arrested by the Mumbai Police in connection with the matter.Earlier this week, the cyber cell of the Mumbai Police had opposed the bail pleas of the three, stating that the investigation suggested the accused were also involved in the ‘Sulli Deals’ app case.Also Read | Bulli Bai case: Mumbai Police arrest youth from OdishaThe Bulli Bai app, which triggered an uproar across social media earlier this month for putting up photos of Muslim women online for a mock ‘auction’, is hosted on the code-sharing platform GitHub and is currently being investigated by the Mumbai Police. The app itself was named after derogatory references to the Muslim community and came one year after a similar fiasco involving another targeted harassment app, Sulli Deals, hit the headlines.Hundreds of Muslim women, including vocal activists and top professionals, were listed for “auction” and had their photographs doctored and sourced without permission. While there was no actual “auction” or “sale”, the purpose of the app seemed to be to humiliate and intimidate the targeted women, many of whom are active social media users.The police investigating the case, have linked the creators of the contentious app to alt-right groups. They made four arrests in the matter – Vishal Kumar Jha (in Bengaluru), Shweta Singh (in Uttarakhand), Mayank Rawal (in Uttarakhand), and Niraj Bishnoi (in Assam's Jorhat), all of them being college students who allegedly came together to create the app.A fifth person was also arrested from Odisha on Thursday, reports said. Identified as Neeraj Singh, the latest person to be accused in the case is said to be an MBA degree holder and was involved in the planning of the app with the main culprits.Meanwhile, Niraj Bishnoi, the alleged mastermind of the Bulli Bai app, and his co-accused in the case Aumkareshwar Thakur, the alleged creator of the Sulli Deals app, have both been brought to Mumbai by the city's cyber police and were produced before the Bandra magistrate court, which remanded the two in police custody up to January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulli-bai-case-mumbai-court-refuses-bail-to-all-three-accused-101642673968546.html
20-01-2022||India||Bulli Bai case: Mumbai Police arrest youth from Odisha||The Mumbai Police on Thursday made another arrest in connection with the Bulli Bai app case, in which hundreds of Muslim women were put up for ‘auction’ online earlier this month. The accused, Neeraj Singh, was arrested from Odisha by the cyber wing of the Mumbai Police's crime branch.Also Read | Bulli Bai accused also involved in Sulli Deals: PoliceSingh was arrested after his involvement in the case surfaced in the course of the investigation, the police said, adding that he will brought to Mumbai soon.Neeraj Singh is the fourth accused arrested by the Mumbai Police in connection with case, and the fifth overall. The prime accused, Niraj Bishnoi, was arrested by the Delhi Police on January 6 from Jorhat in Assam. Following his arrest, Bishnoi, an engineering student, was suspended by his Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh-based college, where he was a second-year student. Vishal Kumar Jha, Shweta Singh and Mayank Rawat were earlier arrested for their involvement in the creation of the app. While Jha was arrested from Bengaluru, the latter two were arrested from Uttarakhand.Also Read | Bulli Bai: Niraj Bishnoi claimed he has been hacking sites since age of 15On January 14, a local court in Mumbai sent Singh and Rawat to 14-day judicial custody till the 28th of the month.The Bulli Bai episode followed last July's ‘Sulli Deals’ case in which images of Muslim women were uploaded online without their consent. The creator of the app, Aumkareshwar Thakur, was arrested from Madhya Pradesh's Indore on January 9 as massive uproar over the current episode again brought into focus the ‘Sulli Deals’ app.A week after Thakur's arrest, a Delhi court turned down his plea to be granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bulli-bai-case-mumbai-police-arrest-youth-from-odisha-101642667082960.html
20-01-2022||India||Afternoon news brief from HT: Army seeks assistance from PLA after Arunachal boy goes missing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Army seeks assistance from PLA after Arunachal boy goes missingThe Indian Army on Thursday sought assistance from China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) in locating a missing boy named Miran Taron from Arunachal Pradesh and return him as per established protocol, news agency ANI reported. Read moreWhat is behind the surge in Omicron cases in US? Report points to sewage waterThe Omicron variant of Covid-19, which is the primary reason for the worsening pandemic situation in the United States, has set authorities thinking for how long this surge might last. Read more13 Delhi-bound trains cancelled due to thick fog, flight operations unaffectedThe Northern Railway cancelled more than a dozen Delhi-bound trains as thick fog engulfed the national capital on Thursday morning. Read moreAli Fazal visits Mecca, shuts down troll who said acting is haram: 'Stop staring at your phone screen'Ali Fazal and Richa Chadha had been vacationing in the desert since quite some time, where Ali was also shooting for his next project, Kandahar. Read more'Is Virat invincible? No': Donald gives his verdict on Kohli's 'slump', makes big prediction regarding star India batterIn his first match for India since giving up captaincy in all formats, Virat Kohli looked like a million bucks while batting. Read moreToyota Hilux pick-up makes India debut, launch in MarchToyota Kirloskar Motor on Thursday has unveiled the much-awaited Toyota Hilux pickup truck in India. Read moreCovaxin, Covishield get full market approval by expert panel: What it meansAn expert panel of the central drug authority on Wednesday cleared Covaxin & Covishield for full use. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-news-brief-from-ht-army-seeks-assistance-from-pla-after-arunachal-boy-goes-missing-and-all-the-latest-news-101642662885623.html
20-01-2022||India||India successfully test-fires new version of BrahMos missile||India on Thursday successfully test-fired a new version of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile off the coast of Odisha in Balasore, news agency ANI reported. According to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), the missile was equipped with new technological developments which were successfully proven, according to ANI.More than a week ago, on January 11, the DRDO had successfully test-fired a naval variant of the BrahMos from a stealth guided-missile destroyer of the Indian Navy.The DRDO had said that the missile hit the designated target "precisely".Union defence minister Rajnath Singh had congratulated DRDO officials for successful launch and said that it "reconfirmed the robustness of the Indian Navy's mission readiness".BrahMos is a joint India-Russia venture, between the DRDO and Russia’s NPO Mashinostroyeniya, which, together, formed the Brahmos Aerospace. The missile derives its name from two rivers: the Brahmaputra in India and the Moskva of Russia.BrahMos Aerospace, the India-Russia joint venture, produces the supersonic cruise missile that can be launched from submarines, ships, aircraft, or land platforms.BrahMos missile flies at a speed of 2.8 Mach or almost three times the speed of sound.India has already deployed a sizeable number of the original BrahMos missiles and other key assets in several strategic locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-new-version-of-brahmos-missile-101642662529914.html
20-01-2022||India||Army seeks assistance from PLA after Arunachal boy goes missing||The Indian Army on Thursday sought assistance from China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) in locating a missing boy named Miran Taron from Arunachal Pradesh and return him as per established protocol, news agency ANI reported. The Army contacted the PLA as soon as it received the information regarding the missing 17-year-old, ANI further reported.According to the officials, the teenager who is a native of Zido village in Upper Siang district, was abducted by the PLA on Tuesday. The district authorities said the youth along with others were hunting in the border area between both countries when the incident took place.In September 2020, the PLA had abducted five youths from Arunachal Pradesh's Upper Subansiri district and released them after about a week. India shares a 3,400 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh.The latest incident comes at a time when the Indian Army is engaged in a stand-off with the PLA in eastern Ladakh since April 2020.So far, officials from both sides have held 14 rounds of military-level talks, but no resolution has been found.The disengagement process is due in areas of Hot Springs, Depsang bulge and Demchok in eastern Ladakh. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.Earlier in the day, senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi targeted the Centre over the missing boy. "Just a few days before Republic Day, the future of India is kidnapped by China. We stand with the family of Miram Taroun and we will not give up hope will not give up, won't accept defeat. PM's stupid silence is his statement - he doesn't care!" Gandhi tweeted.It is to be noted that the tweet was made hours before the Indian Army issued the statement over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-seeks-assistance-from-pla-after-arunachal-boy-goes-missing-101642661850414.html
20-01-2022||India||13 Delhi-bound trains cancelled due to thick fog, flight operations unaffected||The Northern Railway cancelled more than a dozen Delhi-bound trains as thick fog engulfed the national capital on Thursday morning. The visibility was drastically reduced due to the fog, said Northern Railway."About 13 trains running late for today, including Howrah-New Delhi Express, Puri-New Delhi Express, Gorakhpur-New Delhi Express, Mumbai-New Delhi Express, Kanpur -New Delhi Express," said chief public relations officer (CPRO) of Northern Railways said.The 'Gorakhpur-New Delhi Express was delayed by 2 hours and 30 minutes, added the CPRO.Not just Delhi, the dense fog led to reduced visibility across north India. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the visibility in Delhi's Palam, Punjab's Amritsar, Uttar Pradesh's Lucknow, Northwest Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior, Sub Himalayan West Bengal's Cooch Behar and Assam's Dhubri was at 50 meters at 8:30 am today.Dense fog was also reported in parts of Bihar. The visibility dropped at 50 meters in Gaya; similar situation prevailed in Haryana's Karnal and Hisar too, reported IMD.The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), meanwhile, said that flight operations were normal despite reduced visibility."Low visibility procedures are in progress at Delhi airport. All flight operations are presently normal," DIAL said in a statement on Thursday morning.The airport authorities, however, urged all the passengers to contact their respective airline for updated flight information.Along with a foggy morning, Delhi saw its minimum temperature dropping to 9.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season's average on Thursday morning.The air quality stood in “very poor” category as the air quality index (AQI) at 8am was 368, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed.The AQIs of three main cities in the national capital region (NCR) - Ghaziabad (366), Gurugram (318), Greater Noida (333) and Noida (345) - were also recorded in the “very poor” category.The AQI in Faridabad was in “severe” category at 416.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-delhi-bound-trains-cancelled-due-to-thick-fog-flight-operations-unaffected-101642660483466.html
20-01-2022||India||‘Attempts being made to tarnish India’s global image': PM Modi at Brahma Kumaris event||Attempts are being made to spoil India’s global image, Prime Minister Narendra Modi warned on Thursday, as he virtually inaugurated the ‘Azadi Ke Amrit Mahotsav se Swarnim Bharat Ke Ore,’ an initiative by the Brahma Kumaris dedicated to the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav.’“This cannot be brushed under the carpet by saying this is just politics. It's a question of our country's reputation,” he further said.Prime Minister Modi also detailed what role Brahma Kumaris and other international bodies can play in countering anti-India propaganda. “You should ensure that correct information is being conveyed to people in different countries. Fighting rumours being spread against India is a responsibility that lies with all of us,” Modi said.Though he did not specify or allude to any particular incident, PM Modi sent a similar message on October 12 last year, when, addressing the 28th foundation day ceremony of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), he urged people ‘not to be selective while raising issues pertaining to human rights.’Also Read | At NHRC event, PM Modi warns against ‘selective interpretation’ of human rightsMeanwhile, Modi also lauded Brahma Kumaris for their ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav se Swarnim Bharat Ki Ore’ initiative, which will comprise of seven year-long schemes. On the occasion, he also flagged off the schemes: My India Healthy India, Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Self Reliant Farmers, Women: Flag Bearers of India, Power of Peace Bus Campaign, Andekha Bharat Cycle Rally, United India Motor Bike Campaign, and green initiatives under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attempts-being-made-to-tarnish-india-s-image-pm-modi-warns-at-brahma-kumaris-event-101642657336018.html
20-01-2022||India||5G rollout: Boeing clears Air India for flights to US||Amid 5G rollout by the US, Air India has resumed B777 operations to the country on Thursday after approval from the US authority, said Airline officials.Due to the 5G rollout, Air India had earlier cancelled more than eight flights to the USA."Boeing has cleared Air India to operate in the USA on B777. Accordingly, the first flight has left this morning to John F Kennedy. Other flights leaving in the day are to Chicago and San Francisco. Arrangements to carry stranded passengers are being worked out. Matter regarding B777 flying into the USA has been sorted," said Air India.Earlier on Wednesday, after the rollout of 5G wireless networks in the United States, India has cancelled eight Air India flights to and from the US."Due to deployment of the 5G communications in the USA, we will not be able to operate the following flights of January 19, 2022," Air India said.Recently, the Federation of Indian Pilots (FIP), with a strength of 6,000 pilots, has expressed concern over possible interference of 5G wireless signals with sensitive aircraft equipment such as radio altitude meters, threatening aviation safety."It is important to fully understand and reduce potential 5G signal interference with radio altimeters that are integral to aircraft security systems. We understand that the activation of these services is a part of India's select Coming soon in cities," reads the January 4 FIP letter.Further FIP mentioned in the letter that if 5G deploys pilots may face safety issues while operating flights."5G signals could interfere with the Radio Altimeters that airliners, bizjets and general aviation aircraft rely on low altitude flight that it issued a Special Airworthiness Information Bulletin (SAIB) on the 'Risk of Potential Adverse Effects on Radio Altimeters' of 5G deployment. In response, the largest network carriers in the US, including Verizon and AT&T agreed to temporarily pause the advent of 5G service to allow the FAA more time to address concerns about interference," the FIP letter reads.Possibly Indian carriers are waiting for assurance before the operation from US-based federal aviation administration and aircraft manufacturer Boeing.However, Boeing declined to comment on the 5G issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5g-rollout-boeing-clears-air-india-for-flights-to-us-101642657693175.html
20-01-2022||India||1.2mn people died in 2019 from antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections: Study||NEW DELHI: At least 1.2 million people died in 2019 as a direct result of antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections, according to a study published in the medical journal Lancet. This is by far the most comprehensive estimate of the global impact of antimicrobial resistance.The analysis covering 204 countries and territories found that antimicrobial resistance (AMR) was now a leading cause of death worldwide, higher than HIV/AIDS or malaria. In effect, hundreds of thousands of deaths now occur due to common, previously treatable infections such as lower respiratory and bloodstream infections as the bacteria that cause them have become resistant to drugs.The report highlights an urgent need to scale up action to combat AMR and outlines immediate actions for policymakers that will help save lives and protect health systems. These include optimising the use of existing antibiotics, taking greater action to monitor and control infections, and providing more funding to develop new antibiotics and treatments.“These new data reveal the true scale of antimicrobial resistance worldwide and are a clear signal that we must act now to combat the threat. Previous estimates had predicted 10 million annual deaths from antimicrobial resistance by 2050, but we now know for certain that we are already far closer to that figure than we thought. We need to leverage this data to course-correct action and drive innovation if we want to stay ahead in the race against antimicrobial resistance,” said the study co-author Chris Murray, Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington.Estimates of the health impacts of AMR have been published for several countries and regions, and for a small number of pathogen-drug combinations in a wider range of locations. However, until now no estimates have covered all locations and a broad range of pathogens and drug combinations, according to the researchers.The new Global Research on Antimicrobial Resistance (GRAM) report estimates deaths linked to 23 pathogens and 88 pathogen-drug combinations in 204 countries and territories in 2019.“Statistical modelling was used to produce estimates of the impact of AMR in all locations – including those with no data – using 471 million individual records obtained from systematic literature reviews, hospital systems, surveillance systems, and other data sources,” said the paper.Disease burden was estimated in two ways: deaths caused directly by AMR (ie deaths that would not have occurred had the infections been drug-susceptible and therefore more treatable), and deaths associated with AMR (ie where a drug-resistant infection was implicated in deaths, but resistance itself may or may not have been the direct cause). Deaths caused by and associated with AMR were calculated for 204 countries and territories and reported for 21 global regions and seven super-regions.The analysis shows AMR was directly responsible for an estimated 1.27 million deaths worldwide, and associated with an estimated 4.95 million deaths, in 2019. HIV/AIDS and malaria have been estimated to have caused 860,000 and 640,000 deaths, respectively, in 2019.Drug resistance in lower respiratory infections – such as pneumonia – had the greatest impact on AMR disease burden, causing more than 400,000 deaths and associated with more than 1.5 million deaths. Drug resistance in bloodstream infections – which can lead to the life-threatening condition sepsis – caused around 370,000 deaths and was associated with nearly 1.5 million deaths. Drug resistance in intra-abdominal infections – commonly caused by appendicitis – led directly to around 210,000 deaths and was associated with around 800,000.While AMR poses a threat to people of all ages, young children were found to be at particularly high risk, with around one in five deaths attributable to AMR occurring in children aged under five years.Deaths caused directly by AMR were estimated to be highest in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, at 24 deaths per 100,000 population and 22 deaths per 100,000 population, respectively. AMR was associated with 99 deaths per 100,000 in Sub-Saharan Africa and 77 deaths per 100,000 in South Asia. In high-income countries, AMR led directly to 13 deaths per 100,000 and was associated with 56 deaths per 100,000.Of the 23 pathogens studied, drug resistance in six alone (E coli, S aureus, K pneumoniae, S pneumoniae, A baumannii, and P aeruginosa) led directly to 929,000 deaths and was associated with 3.57 million. One pathogen-drug combination – methicillin-resistant S aureus, or MRSA – directly caused more than 100,000 deaths in 2019, while six more each caused between 50,000 and 100,000 deaths.Across all pathogens, resistance to two classes of antibiotics often considered the first-line defence against severe infections – fluoroquinolones and beta-lactam antibiotics – accounted for more than an estimated 70% of deaths caused by AMR.The health impact of pathogens varied widely based on location, with deaths attributable to AMR in Sub-Saharan Africa most often caused by S pneumonia (16% of deaths) or K pneumonia (20%), while around half of deaths attributable to AMR in high-income countries were caused by Slead-based aureus (26%) or E. coli (23%).“With resistance varying so substantially by country and region, improving the collection of data worldwide is essential to help us better track levels of resistance and equip clinicians and policymakers with the information they need to address the most pressing challenges posed by antimicrobial resistance. We identified serious data gaps in many low-income countries, emphasising a particular need to increase laboratory capacity and data collection in these locations,” said study co-author Christiane Dolecek.
20-01-2022||India||India sees sharp spike in daily Covid-19 tally with 317,532 cases||India's daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose sharply on Thursday with 317,532 cases registered in the last 24 hours, which pushed the caseload to 38,218,773, according to the Union health ministry's data.Fresh deaths also surged to 491 while 223,990 more patients recuperated from the viral disease on Thursday. With this, the total number of deaths and recoveries has climbed to 487,693 and 35,807,029 respectively. The active cases are nearing the two million mark and currently constitute 4.83% of total cases.Thursday's case count has been the highest in 249 days, the health ministry said.On Wednesday, the country registered nearly 283,000 fresh cases, 441 deaths and 188,157 recoveries.The total number of tests carried out in the country is over 700 million with 1,935,180 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday.The country's Omicron count is nearing 10,000 with 9,287 cases of the fast-spreading variant detected so far, an increase of 3.63% since Wednesday.Authorities have administered more than 7.33 million vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours, and the cumulative vaccination coverage is nearing 1.6 billion.The health ministry added that more than 1.58 billion vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far through the Centre's free of cost channel and direct state procurement category.“More than 127.2 million balance and unutilized Covid vaccine doses are still available with the States/UTs to be administered,” the ministry added.The third wave of Covid-19 in the country might peak on Sunday as the daily cases will be less than 400,000-mark. According to a study by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, “The daily peak cases are projected to peak on January 23 in India and stay below the 400,000-mark. Metro cities Delhi, Mumbai, and Kolkata have already peaked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-in-india-records-sharp-spike-with-317-532-cases-new-deaths-at-491-101642650182449.html
20-01-2022||India||10 endangered turtles released into the wild in Sunderbans||KOLKATA: For the first time, 10 northern river terrapin, one of the most endangered species of turtles in the world, were released into the wild from a breeding centre in the Sunderbans in West Bengal on Wednesday.Forest officials said the 10 turtles (Batagur baska) have been fitted with GPS transmitters and would allow experts to track them and know about their home range and the habitat.“We have released 10 sub-adults including seven females and three males, in the wild on Wednesday after fitting them with GPS transmitters,” said S Jones Justin, deputy field director of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve.Even though the species was once widespread in the mangroves and estuaries of West Bengal and Odisha, overfishing led to a rapid decline in their population. It is believed that only a handful of them may now be living in the wild in the Sunderbans, the world’s largest mangrove delta.In 2009, the reserve authorities and the Turtle Survival Alliance started a breeding programme at Sajnekhali. Three years later, the programme yielded results, and the first batch of hatchlings, around 33, were produced.As the numbers started growing, in 2017, the population, which was contained in a single pond, was distributed in four ponds in the reserve. There are 12 adults and around 370 juveniles in the ponds.“They have been reared for nine years in the ponds. On Wednesday, 10 were released in the wild (in rivers) after being fitted with GPS transmitters. The transmitters would help researchers track the turtles across the vast expanse of the Sunderban mangrove and generate data which would help in their conservation programme,” said a forest official.The Sunderban mangrove, formed by the Ganga and the Brahmaputra, sprawls over 10,000 square km across India and Bangladesh, of which 40% lies in India. Surrounded by rivers and creeks, the mangrove is home to many rare and globally threatened wildlife species such as the Royal Bengal Tiger and the estuarine crocodile. In India, it is confined to the southern tip of West Bengal.Recent reports said the world’s largest mangrove delta is losing its dense forest cover. Experts said the rising salinity levels and increasing cyclones are taking a toll on the mangrove system. The mangroves act as a green barrier against cyclones and protect Kolkata from the direct brunt of storms that originate in the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turtles-released-into-wild-in-sunderban-101642650687734.html
20-01-2022||India||Widespread rain expected over weekend in north India||NEW DELHI: Widespread rain is likely in parts of northwest India including Punjab, Haryana, and Delhi over the weekend, the India Meteorological Department has said as a cyclonic circulation is lying over north Bangladesh and a western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is over Afghanistan.A fresh active western disturbance is likely to affect northwest India from Friday and an induced cyclonic circulation is very likely to form over Rajasthan on Saturday.Isolated to scattered rainfall or snowfall is very likely in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand. On Friday, Isolated to scattered rainfall is likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan. Fairly widespread rainfall is likely in the region over the weekend. Isolated to scattered rainfall is expected in Madhya Pradesh.Dense fog in the night and morning hours is likely in isolated pockets in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Bihar this week. Cold to severe cold day conditions is likely in parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during next the two days. Cold day conditions are expected in isolated pockets of Punjab, Haryana, and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-expected-over-weekend-in-north-india-101642648767533.html
20-01-2022||India||Meghalaya-Assam border dispute: CMs of 2 states to meet Amit Shah today||Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma and his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma will meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday. During the meeting, the leaders will submit their recommendations to resolve the decades-old border disputes between both northeastern states. The meeting will be held in Delhi after 6pm, Sangma said on Wednesday while speaking to reporters."We will be submitting more or less a common report and then I think the Government of India has to move according to the laws," he also said, as per a PTI report.The recommendations of the regional committees of Meghalaya and those of the Assam government will be given to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for further actions, he further informed.The Assam and Meghalaya cabinets have approved a ‘give-and-take’ formula to resolve the five-decade-old border dispute between the two states. In the first phase, issues of six of the 12 disputed areas will be resolved. The six areas that will be taken up for final settlement in the first phase are Hahim, Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra.The other six areas, where the disputes are more complicated, would be taken up later.As per the plan, the boundary demarcation is expected to be done after the due procedure in Parliament. The Survey of India will also be roped in for necessary inspections.In 1972, Meghalaya was carved out of Assam and both states share a 733-km boundary. Over the years, the two neighbouring states have witnessed several skirmishes between various communities inhabiting the border areas.This year on January 21, Meghalaya will celebrate its 50th formation day and the governments of both states are trying to forge an understanding on the dispute before the golden jubilee celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalayaassam-border-dispute-cms-of-2-states-to-meet-amit-shah-today-101642643980758.html
20-01-2022||India||Chhattisgarh: Voting in bypolls to elect 504 panchayat representatives begins||The voting for the by-election to elect 504 representatives of three-tier panchayat bodies in 28 districts of Chhattisgarh began on Thursday morning. According to state election commission, the polling will be held from 7am to 3pm.Apart from this, voting to elect eight sarpanch in as many village panchayats of two districts is also being held simultaneously. The sarpanch have to be elected in five gram panchayats of Kondagaon district and three of Korea district.The electoral exercise is being held under the shadow of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The state election commission has deployed one healthcare personnel at each polling booth.Each member of the polling team will have to follow all precautionary measures, including wearing masks, using hand sanitisers and maintaining social distancing, as per the norms set by the commission.There are 1,288 candidates in the fray for both the general election and bypolls, for which 1,066 polling stations have been set up.Elaborate security arrangements have been made at all polling stations to ensure fair and peaceful polling.In the elections held for urban local bodies in December, the ruling Congress party had defeated the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). While the Congress won 174 wards, the BJP could manage 89 wards. The Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) won in six while independent contestants won in 31 wards.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said that the results were expected and people have voted keeping in mind the government’s policies and schemes.The elections were held in 300 of the total 370 wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-voting-in-bypoll-to-elect-504-panchayat-representatives-begins-101642642830772.html
20-01-2022||NA||Breaking highlights: Kerala announces lockdown-like curbs on Sundays for next 2 weeks||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Tamil Nadu records 28,561 new cases, 39 deathsCOVID19 | 28,561 new cases & 39 deaths recorded in Tamil Nadu today; Active case tally at 1,79,205 pic.twitter.com/YGOrLmGJDKDelhi caps RT-PCR cost; ₹300 at private labs, ₹500 for home samplesDelhi Govt has fixed the maximum price for the RT-PCR COVID19 test at Private laboratories at ₹300 and ₹500 for RT-PCR samples collected from home. Rapid antigen test (RAT) to be done at ₹100 pic.twitter.com/SjhwIlvrmUMumbai reports 5,708 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths and 15,440 recoveries#COVID19 | Maharashtra: Mumbai reports 5,708 new cases, 12 deaths and 15,440 recoveries.Active cases 22,103 pic.twitter.com/FBb1yGlZm7J&K reports 5,992 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deathsJ&K reports 5992 new #COVID19 cases, 1177 recoveries and 7 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 31,044 pic.twitter.com/ZaCRBozpnuMaharashtra: IPS officer BK Upadhyay appointed as DG, Home GuardIPS officer BK Upadhyay appointed as DG, Home Guard in Maharashtra. He succeeds Param Bir Singh who is currently placed under suspension.Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases further dip to 12,306; positivity rate 21.48%Delhi reports 12,306 new #COVID19 cases, 18,815 recoveries and 43 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 68,730Positivity rate 21.48% pic.twitter.com/QHXHLhD6QiKerala reports 46,387 new Covid-19 cases, 32 deathsKerala reports 46,387 new #COVID19, 15,388 recoveries and 32 deaths in the last 24 hours. 309 deaths were added to COVID death list as per the guidelines of central government. Death toll stands at 51,501: State GovernmentAir India to resume US flight operations from midnight#FlyAI : Flight operations to/from destinations in USA were affected during last two days. We would like to inform our passengers traveling to/from destinations in the USA that effective 0001hrs of 21st January 2022 normal flights operations will recommence to/from USA.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav to contest UP elections from Karhal, reports ANISamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav will contest elections from Mainpuri's Karhal Assembly constituency: Sources#UPAssemblyElections2022India-assisted metro station in Mauritius to be named after Mahatma Gandhi, says country's PMTo pay gratitude for India's support to the metro express project, my government has decided to name one of the major metro stations as 'Mahatma Gandhi' station: Mauritius PM Pravind Kumar Jugnauth pic.twitter.com/x0H1vc3eXuAndhra Pradesh reports 12,615 new Covid-19 cases; 3,674 recoveriesAndhra Pradesh reports 12,615 new #COVID19 cases, 3674 recoveries and 5 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 53,871 pic.twitter.com/gtG3xnRaNTEx-Maha home minister Anil Deshmukh's judicial custody extended by another 14 daysMaharashtra's ex-Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's judicial custody extended by another 14 days. He was arrested by ED on November 2nd, 2021 in connection with extortion and money laundering allegations against him.He is currently lodged at Arthur road jail in Mumbai.Covid-19: Severe illness, deaths could be avoided in India due to high vaccination uptake, says DG ICMRVaccines have remained beneficial in India. Deaths have considerably reduced due to vaccinations. In this third surge of COVID19, we are currently not witnessing severe illness and deaths due to high vaccination uptake: DG ICMR Dr Balram Bhargava pic.twitter.com/7V2oTEmX79Covid-19: Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh are among ‘states of concern’Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are among the 'States of Concern'. We have sent Central health teams to these States and are continuously reviewing the situation: Rajesh Bhushan, Health Secretary on COVID19 situationMumbai court refuses bail to all three accused held in Bulli Bai caseA Mumbai court on Tuesday rejected the bail applications of Vishal Kumar Jha, Shweta Singh, and Mayank Rawat – all of them arrested in the 'Bulli Bai' case.Punjab elections: AAP CM candidate Bhagwant Mann to fight from DhuriAam Aadmi Party’s chief ministerial candidate and Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann will fight the February 20 election from the Dhuri assembly constituency. Read MoreUK: Boris Johnson rolls back Covid-19 measures including mandatory face masks, vaccine passBritish prime minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday (local time) announced the end of Covid-19 measures including mandatory face masks in England. “Our scientists believe that is likely that Omicron wave has now peaked nationally. From now on, Govt is no longer asking people to work from home,” he said. Read MoreSeema Kushwaha, lawyer of '2012 Nirbhaya gangrape case Delhi', joins BSPLucknow, UP | Seema Kushwaha, lawyer of '2012 Nirbhaya gangrape case Delhi', joins Bahujan Samaj Party pic.twitter.com/QCwAkOQcbEMaharashtra CM allows all schools to conduct offline classes from MondayMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has given consent to reopen offline schools for classes 1 to 12. Wherever Covid cases have reduced, the schools will reopen from January 24. However, Covid appropriate behavior and SoPs issued by the government must be followed, announced state education minister Varsha Gaikwad.Till now, pre-primary schools too were shut. But we have decided to reopen pre-primary schools as well, she said.In Delhi riots case, court sentences Dinesh Yadav to 5 years jail termDelhi court sentences five years jail term to Dinesh Yadav, the first person convicted in connection with February 2020 North East Delhi riots.UP assembly polls: Bhim Army chief to contest from Gorakhpur against Yogi AdityanathBhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad to contest from Gorakhpur urban seat against Yogi Adityanath.Goa CM Pramod Sawant to contest from SanquelimBJP announces candidate list for Goa assmebly polls. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant to contest from Sanquelim.BJP announces list of candidates for Goa assembly election The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announces list of candidates for Goa Assembly Election. Read moreBJP has given stability in Goa, says Devendra Fadnavis“BJP has given stability in Goa and is fulfilling the goal of development envisioned by late former CM Manohar Parrikar...No serious law and order issue in Goa since BJP took charge,” says BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis in Goa.Bulli Bai app case: Mumbai Police arrests one more person from OdishaMumbai Police arrested one more person in the matter, from Odisha today.AAP Punjab CM candidate Bhagwant Mann to contest from Dhuri, reports ANIAam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief minister candidate Bhagwant Mann to contest from Dhuri, Sangrur district, reports ANI.Raebareli Sadar MLA Aditi Singh resigns from CongressUttar Pradesh | Raebareli Sadar MLA Aditi Singh resigns from Congress pic.twitter.com/zWDh05lMYAIndia testfires latest version of BrahMos supersonic cruise missile off Odisha coastToday India successfully testfired a new version of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile off the coast of Odisha in Balasore. The missile was equipped with new technological developments which were successfully proven, defence sources told news agency ANI.5G rollout: Air India gets technical clearance for B777 flight operations in US“After approval from the US authority, Air India has resumed B777 operations to the US today… Due to 5G rollout, Air India had so far canceled more than 8 flights to the USA. Boeing has cleared AI to operate in USA on B777.Accordingly, first flight has left this morning to JFK. Other flights leaving in the day are to Chicago & SFO Arrangements to carry stranded pax are being worked out. Matter regarding B777 flying into USA has been sorted,” Air India said in a statement.Delhi's air quality in 'very poor' categoryThe national capital's air quality on Thursday in the 'very poor' category with the air quality of index (AQI) at 318. The concentrations of PM 2.5 and PM 10 were recorded at 143 in the 'very poor' and 246 in the 'moderate' category respectively. India sees sharp spike in daily Covid-19 tally with 317,532 casesIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease rose sharply on Thursday after 317,532 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 38,218,773, according to the Union health ministry's data. DVAC raids 57 places linked to ex-Tamil Nadu ministerTamil Nadu | Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) officials' raid underway in 57 places linked to former higher education minister and AIADMK leader KP AnbalaganThe DVAC officials is carrying out raids in 57 places linked to AIADMK leader and former Tamil Nadu higher education minister KP Anbalagan. PM Modi to flag off 7 initiatives of Brahma Kumaris todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday flag off seven initiatives of Brahma Kumaris including My India Healthy India, Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Self Reliant Farmers, Women: Flag Bearers of India, Power of Peace Bus Campaign among others. Mizoram adds 984 new Covid-19 casesMizoram reported 984 new cases; active cases at 9075 pic.twitter.com/A1EXfe914hMizoram's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surged to over 156,000 after 984 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. BMS to hold nationwide protests outside EPFO offices to demand hike in pensionThe Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) will on Thursday hold a nationwide protest outside the offices of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), demanding a hike in EPS95 pension. Read more6, including Taliban commander killed in Afghanistan's KunarSix people, including a Taliban commander and his son, were killed in gunfire in Afghanistan's Kunar on Wednesday. According to a reports, the gunfire happened as a result of personal enmity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-20-2022-101642639703132.html
20-01-2022||India||Goa election: Michael Lobo’s wife, his aide in new Congress list of candidates||PANAJI: The Congress on Wednesday announced its fifth list of candidates of five names that includes Delilah Lobo, wife of former BJP minister Michael Lobo, who along with her husband and supporters, recently joined the Congress as well as his aide Kedar Naik. Delilah will contest from the Siolim constituency while Kedar Naik will contest from Saligao. The Congress also named Moreno Rebello from the Curtorim seat, a clear message to Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, the former Congress legislator from Curtorim who quit the party to join the Trinamool Congress (TMC). This week, Lourenco resigned from the TMC and asked the Congress to take him back.Former advocate general of Goa Carlos Ferreira has been announced as the party’s candidate from the Aldona constituency.In all, the party has announced candidates for 32 assembly constituencies but several crucial segments remain including capital city of Panaji, and the bellwether seat of Benaulim in South Goa. The party has conceded two seats to the Goa Forward Party, so far.Meanwhile, BJP MLA Wilfred D’Sa resigned from the party as an MLA on Wednesday and is expected to contest as an independent. D’Sa, who was one among the ten MLAs who defected from the Congress to the BJP back in 2019, represented the Christian-dominated Nuvem constituency, which observers said, made his re-election on a BJP ticket highly unlikely forcing him to contest as an Independent. There is speculation that another BJP MLA and water resources minister, Filipe Neri Rodrigues, may quit the party to switch to the Trinamool Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-election-michael-lobo-s-wife-his-aide-in-new-congress-list-of-candidates-101642630344461.html
20-01-2022||India||Will review Covid-19 restrictions in state on Friday with experts: Bommai||BengaluruKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that he would review the restrictions imposed in the state on Friday as he will hold a meeting with Covid-19 experts amid a surge in cases. “On Friday I will hold a meeting with experts. We will review all restrictions. The number of Covid infections is going up but there is no load on hospitals and no admissions. We have to pay more attention towards OPD (outpatient department),” Bommai said in Bengaluru. In a statement, the chief minister’s office (CMO) said: “The number of hospitalisation cases is less in the current wave of Covid. So there is an opinion that it would be better to carry on daily life by following the Covid guidelines. The experts are examining it. They are set to present a comprehensive picture at the meeting to be held on Friday. A suitable decision would be taken after getting clarity about the issue.”He was addressing the media in person after almost 10 days as he had tested positive for covid-19 last week and went into isolation. The statements come even as Karnataka reports record daily infections, raising apprehensions of more stricter restrictions to contain the spread of the virus. The restrictions that are in force currently include night and weekend curfews as well as limits on the number of people who can assemble for any events like marriage or other get-togethers. Bengaluru registered 24,135 new infections in a 24-hour-period, according to the state health minister on Wednesday. The positivity rate in the state came down to 18.80%, Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said . The active caseload rose to over 267,000 with Bengaluru accounting for 184,000, he added. There were 21 more deaths due to the virus with five in Bengaluru. These are some of the highest single day infections in Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru since the onset of the pandemic in March 2020. However, hospitalisation has been lower, fuelling speculation of possible relaxations or not additional restrictions to those already in place which continues to adversely impact lives and livelihoods of the population. “Experts who have studied the trend in various states have estimated that the Covid wave in the state could peak by January end of February first week. The Chief Secretary has already ordered booking of cases and legal action against those who violate Covid rules. There will be no bias against any person or organisation,” the chief minister said. “We will take a decision on restrictions once we get the report from experts,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-review-covid-19-restrictions-in-state-on-friday-with-experts-bommai-101642620503693.html
20-01-2022||India||Karnataka revises Covid-19 guidelines for testing and home isolation||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Wednesday issued new guidelines for the testing and home isolation of Covid-19 patients in the state in line with the central government’s protocols. According to a fresh order, all symptomatic people will be required to undergo a rapid antigen test (RAT) and if the test shows a negative result, it will be followed up by an RT-PCR, as per ICMR protocols.All primary contacts of Covid-19 patients will be tested for the infection even if they are asymptomatic and irrespective of their age and comorbidities.Whoever tests positive for the virus will have to undergo home isolation and will be released after seven days if they have not experienced fever for three preceding days. “There is no need for re-testing after the home isolation period is over,” said the order.The primary contacts will also be required to quarantine at home for seven days.Health care workers who show any signs or symptoms of Covid-19 will be tested for the infection. Health care workers who are asymptomatic or exhibiting mild symptoms will have to isolate themselves for five days at home or a hotel.“If asymptomatic during the preceding three days with oxygen saturation greater than 94% at room air, they will be released from isolation with an advisory to strictly wear a mask or PPE when people are around for the next five days,” said the order.Their primary contacts will have to undergo home or institutional quarantine for three days and if asymptomatic, may be released thereafter without any testing.This comes days after the ICMR said that anyone who has come in contact with a Covid-infected patient does not necessarily need to take the Covid-19 test unless the person is in the ‘high-risk’ category based on age or comorbidities.In the advisory on ‘Purposive Testing Strategy for Covid-19’, ICMR stated that people who need not be tested include “contacts of confirmed cases of Covid-19 unless identified as high risk based on age or comorbidities”.Besides, asymptomatic individuals in community settings, patients who stand discharged as per home isolation guidelines, patients discharged from a Covid-19 facility as per revised discharge policy and individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel need not be tested, ICMR has said.But individuals with cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, breathlessness and other respiratory symptoms should be tested, the government body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-revises-covid-19-guidelines-for-testing-and-home-isolation-101642620383549.html
20-01-2022||India||Arunachal teen, part of hunting group, ‘abducted’ by China’s PLA, says MP||GUWAHATI: A 17-year-old youth from Upper Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh has been abducted by China’s Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA) from Upper Siang district, Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Arunachal-East, Tapir Gao, alleged on Wednesday evening.District authorities said the youth, Miram Taron, a resident of Zido village of Upper Siang district, was part of a group that was hunting in the border area between both countries when the incident took place on Tuesday.“The youth was among a group of local hunters. We came to know from others in the group, who escaped, that he was abducted by PLA from the Indian side,” Shashvat Saurabh, deputy commissioner of Upper Siang, said.“As soon as we came to know of the matter, we informed Indian army authorities that operate in the region. Continuous efforts are underway to rescue the youth at the earliest,” he added.BJP Lok Sabha member Tapir Gao took to Twitter to highlight the incident and sought help from Indian agencies to step up efforts for his early release.
20-01-2022||India||Experts predict third wave will peak by end of month, says K’taka CM||BengaluruKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said experts in the state have predicted that the third wave of the pandemic will peak between the last week of January and the first week of February. “Experts who have studied the trend in various states have estimated that the Covid wave in the state could peak by January end or February first week. The chief secretary has already ordered booking of cases and legal action against those who violate Covid rules,” said Bommai said. “The number of Covid-19 cases has increased, but there is not much load on hospitals. We need to concentrate on improving out-patient department (OPD) facilities. All this will be discussed with the expert committee,” he said. According to experts, during the peak of Covid-19, cases in the state could be anywhere between 70,000 to 150,000. “This is as per the projections that have been very clearly made by the Indian Institute of Science and the scientists at Indian statistical Institute, Dr Shiva Athreya and Dr Rajesh Sundaresan,” said Dr N Ravi, a virologist.“They have modelled, and they have given the best and worst-case scenario. And the best and worst-case scenarios are not in the hands of the government. It is in the hands of the people. You can’t blame the government for putting restrictions, or the spread. The best-case scenario is that it would be 70,000-75,000 infections per day towards the end of this month. The worst-case scenario is 1.5 lakh new infections every day for one or two days in the first or second week of February,” Dr Ravi told Hindustan Times.Meanwhile, the officials of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) have predicted that in the capital city the cases will peak by January 25, and it would be as high as 35,000 a day. This information was conveyed to the chief minister during the Covid-19 review meeting held on Tuesday. BBMP has projected that Covid cases saw a jump of 250 per cent in just a week’s time in Bengaluru. The projection is based on the week-on-week increase in Covid cases, said a senior official. The BBMP officials further said that the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is driven by the Omicron variant. A majority of people are reporting high fever, body pain, congestion and cough for a short interval of time. Going by the BBMP’s projections, daily cases in Bengaluru will cross the highest numbers reported during the second wave of coronavirus. According to Karnataka health department data, the record of the highest number of cases reported in the city is yet to be broken. Bengaluru had reported 26,756 on April 30, 2021. Karnataka on Wednesday registered 40,499 new Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths. The positivity rate in the state stood at 18.80 per cent. Capital Bengaluru alone recorded 24,135 fresh coronavirus infections along with five deaths. Meanwhile, the positivity rate in a district other than Bengaluru is on the rise. At the beginning of January, Bengaluru Urban reported the highest positivity rate, however as per the data released by the government on January 17, the capital is in fifth place with a positivity rate of 23.78%, with Mysuru, Mandya and Hassan registering higher positivity rates than Bengaluru. Hassan topped the list with a positivity rate of 32.93%. 
20-01-2022||India||Kerala HC directs VACB to carry out preliminary inquiry into bribe allegations against police||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) to carry out a preliminary inquiry into allegations involved in the case of some police officers who travelled to Delhi at the expense of the parents of two girls for tracing their daughters.Justice Devan Ramachandran gave the directive considering the suggestion made by the Amicus Curiae appointed by the court in ascertaining whether prosecution can be initiated against the officers one of whom had allegedly also demanded ₹5 lakh from the parents to hand over custody of their daughters who were rescued from the national capital.“...the VACB will cause a necessary preliminary enquiry into the various allegations involved in this case - but not merely confined to the demand of bribe alone - and file a comprehensive report before this Court in a sealed cover for further orders,” the order said and adjourned the case to February 11.It further said, if, after such an inquiry, the VACB is convinced that further action is required, it would not stop them from initiating such, notwithstanding the fact that the Court has not seen their report until February 11.Justice Ramachandran said the resolve of the Court is to make the police an honest, civilized, modern and accountable force. “It is only if the indiscretions of a few individuals in the force are taken note of and stringent action completed, will it serve as an example to others, leading to the force being a truly worthy one,” the judge said.“As long as the police officers even obliquely obtain the impression that they will be supported in spite of their misdemeanors, the eventual requirements of a strong policing and honest law enforcement would remain a chimera,” it observed.Earlier, the court had perused a report filed by the Commissioner of Police, Kochi, who had stated that the officers did not avail of the Railway travel warrants or advance travelling allowance that they were entitled to.Instead they travelled by air at the expense of the parents, the report had said and added that the Assistant Sub Inspector in the team also took ₹17,000 from the elder girl towards his and others boarding and lodging expenses.The report had also said that the amounts taken from the family would be returned or reimbursed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-directs-vacb-to-carry-out-preliminary-inquiry-into-bribe-allegations-against-police-101642620144781.html
20-01-2022||India||Seer arrested for demanding mosque demolition||Bengaluru: A seer was arrested on Tuesday for his alleged statement demanding demolition of the Jamia Masjid in Srirangapatna, located around 125 km from Bengaluru, police said. The seer had uploaded a video on his Facebook account claiming that the historic mosque was a hanuman temple, and that it should be demolished like the Babri Masjid. A case was registered against the seer, police said.Seer Rishi Kumara Swami of Arsikere-based Kalika Mutt in Hassan was arrested from Chikkamagaluru district, based on a complaint by Yathiraj, a security guard of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). According to police, the seer made the video when he visited Srirangapatna to attend the last rites of a child artist, who had died in a road accident on Saturday. In the video, he states that the sculpted pillars on the outer wall of the masjid belong to a temple. “The building of a temple in Srirangapatna has been converted into a mosque. Hindus should wake up now. This is one of the mosques that should be demolished soon like the Babri Masjid of Ayodhya,” he is seen stating in the video. The Jama Masjid or Masjid-e-Ala with two minarets was built by Tipu Sultan in 1794. The mosque is now maintained and administered by the Bangalore circle of Archaeological Survey of India. The mosque has a madrasa and a cloister for rooms. Following this arrest, the seer told the media that he stands by his statement that the structure is a temple and not a mosque. He claimed in the video that the pillars, walls and kalyani (water body) inside the premises of the mosque symbolise Hindu architecture. Rishi Kumara had courted arrest earlier for his controversial statements on varied issues. He has also acted in a feature film and has participated in a television reality show. During the bail hearing, the counsel for the seer argued that the statements made by his client are not controversial and that they expressed his anguish over the remains of the temple inside the mosque. The counsel for the government argued that his bail petition should not be considered, saying his release could lead to communal disharmony and destruction of evidence. The court has reserved the judgment for Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seer-arrested-for-demanding-mosque-demolition-101642620083743.html
20-01-2022||India||TN farmers take out anti-Mekedatu rally, slam Karnataka Cong for padayatra||Farmers belonging to a Tamil Nadu ryots association took out an anti-Mekedatu rally here on Wednesday, hitting out at the Karnataka Congress for its padayatra campaign seeking the dam project implementation, and they were prevented by the police on the inter-State border from proceeding further.The Tamil Nadu Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam (TNCVS), which led the march, slammed both the Congress and the BJP over the Mekedatu issue and demanded that chief minster MK Stalin and AIADMK leader K Palaniswami “break their silence” on the issue.Christened ‘Mekedatu Besiege Protest,’ the rally, led by TNCVS general secretary P R Pandian, demanded justice for the State, its farmers and people on the Mekedatu issue. After police disallowed the rally to proceed further on the highway towards Bengaluru, about one km ahead of the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border, Pandian told reporters that the padayatra went against the Supreme Court judgment on the inter-State river water issue. It was against the law and Tamil Nadu, he said.The march, though halted, is only aimed at garnering political mileage and capturing power again in the 2023 Assembly election to be held in Karnataka, the farmers leader alleged. As the DMK is in alliance with Congress in Tamil Nadu, the ruling party and the government led by it has not condemned the ‘conspiracy’ of the Congress vis-a-vis the Mekedatu issue, he claimed.“We condemn them and all the political parties.” Pandian wanted both Chief Minister Stalin and Leader of Opposition Palaniswami to ‘break their silence’ on the issue as silence meant giving up hard won rights over the Cauvery issue. Stalin, continuing his ‘reticence’ on Mekedatu, considering DMK’s alliance with Congress is not acceptable, he said.“The Chief Minister should immediately intervene. We are calling all political parties out to come out to protest against Mekedatu. If we take rest, entire Tamil Nadu will be destroyed.”Indirectly, the ‘Central government’ was backing the Congress party in the Cauvery issue and despite the pandemic, the BJP regime in Karnataka had shown that it was ‘afraid’ to reject permission to Congress for its march, he claimed. Both the BJP and Congress in Karnataka are trying to build the Mekedatu dam and it would not be allowed, he said.The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee chief K S Alagiri is ‘belittling’ the protest of Tamil farmers on Mekedatu issue, he alleged. Farmers of Tamil Nadu would never accept deprivation of their rights notwithstanding such a move of ‘Alagiri’, he said.According to the farmers body, the rally was against the Mekedatu project proposal and the recent march of Karnataka Congress to mount pressure on the BJP government to build the dam. Though they had planned to conclude their protest at ‘Mekedatu area,’ they were stopped by police. The farmers launched their rally at Tiruvarur on Tuesday and took out rallies in other towns of the Cauvery delta region including Thanjavur before arriving here to proceed to ‘Mekedatu’.Also, it was to urge the Central government to ‘withdraw’ its permission accorded to Karnataka to prepare a Detailed Protect Report (DPR) for the dam. If built, the Mekedatu dam would deprive farmers and people of Tamil Nadu of their rights over Cauvery water, the ryots association said. Led by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee chief D K Shivakumar, the padyatra sought implementation of Mekedatu Balancing Reservoir-cum-Drinking Water Project.On January 13, the Karnataka Congress halted the padayatra at Ramanagara following High Court observations, a surge in COVID cases and related government curbs. The padayatra began at Sangama, the confluence of Cauvery and Arkavathi rivers at Kanakapura in Ramanagara district, on January 9 and the distance that was scheduled to be covered before it reached the Karnataka capital was 139 km.The Mekedatu Project DPR was submitted to Central Water Commission by Karnataka in January 2019 and its copies were forwarded to Cauvery Water Management Authority for obtaining consent of co-basin States, including Tamil Nadu, which has been staunchly opposing the project ever since it was proposed by the neighbouring State years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-farmers-take-out-anti-mekedatu-rally-slam-karnataka-cong-for-padayatra-101642619963479.html
20-01-2022||India||CPI(M) has agenda to make Vijayan’s son-in-law next Kerala CM, alleges Cong MP Muraleedharan||Hitting back at CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan for his statement that leaders belonging to the minority communities were sidelined in the Congress, former Kerala PCC president and Lok Sabha MP K Muraleedharan on Wednesday said it was part of an agenda to make Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s son-in-law and PWD Minister P A Muhammed Riyas as his successor.Muraleedharan alleged that the CPI(M) state secretary Balakrishnan made such a statement for fulfilling the wishes of Chief Minister Vijayan who wanted to see Riyas as his successor.“Kodiyeri Balakrishnan is acting on behalf of Pinarayi Vijayan just as Union Home Minister Amit Shah acts on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Balakrishnan’s statement is part of an agenda to make Riyas as the next Chief Minister,” Muraleedharan told reporters here.Taking a dig at CPI(M), Muraleedharan said Riyas as state chief minister was not digestible for many in that party and the Congress was not responsible for that. “We have no problem in CPI(M) making Riyas as Chief Minister but that should not be done on the account of the Congress party,” the senior Congress leader said, responding to Balakrishnan’s allegation that leaders belonging to minority communities were neglected and sidelined in the Congress in line with the party leader Rahul Gandhi’s speech in Jaipur calling for establishing “rule of Hindus” in the country after ousting the “Hindutva” government at the Centre.” Senior CPI(M) leader E P Jayarajan termed as “immature” the remarks of Muraleedharan and said the Congress has become a group of people making sub-standard statements on political issues.“These statements reflect the lack of standards of the Congress. Therefore, there is no response to the immature views of the Congress leaders,” Jayarajan said, adding that if the Congress discusses politics, it can respond to it.Talking to reporters in Kannur on Tuesday, Balakrishnan had alleged that the Congress even sidelined its prominent minority faces, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Salman Khurshid and K V Thomas, from the national-level leadership as part of the party’s new policy.Accusing the Congress of discontinuing the representation of people from minority communities in the Congress’s Kerala leadership, Balakrishnan had sought to know whether the move was part of the new policy announced by Gandhi in Jaipur.Addressing a rally against inflation in Jaipur last month, Rahul Gandhi had said India is a country of Hindus and not Hindutvadis who want to be in power at any cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-has-agenda-to-make-vijayan-s-son-in-law-next-kerala-cm-alleges-cong-mp-muraleedharan-101642619906201.html
20-01-2022||India||Complaint filed against Yediyurappa, sons over alleged land grab||A Bengaluru-based social activist on Wednesday filed a complaint with the anti-corruption bureau against senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, his two sons and other influential people over alleged encroachment of government land.The complaint, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, was filed against Yediyurappa, his two sons -- one (BY Raghavendra) is the BJP MP from Shivamogga and the other (BY Vijayendra) is a vice president of the party -- among other big builders and real estate developers.According to the complaint, at least four connected pieces of land were purchased by a network of builders, real estate developers and others, who eventually sold them to a company led by Vijayendra.“A consolidated parcel of lands situated at Gantiganhalliu village, Yelahanka Hobli and consisting of the four benami transactions mentioned earlier was purchased by M/s Davalagiri Property Developers Pvt Ltd belonging to the family members of the then chief minister of Karnataka,” according to the complaint.In the complaint, TJ Abraham alleged that the sale deed was executed last February for ₹10.20 crore.The activist has levelled allegations of money laundering, corruption and encroachment of government lands by the BJP leader and his alleged associates.Yediyurappa has had to step down from the chief minister post at least twice in the four terms he has served, mainly due to allegations of corruption.He was forced to step down in July last year after allegations of corruption against the now 78-year-old leader and his family members. Several members of Yediyurappa’s cabinet had alleged that Vijayendra was running a parallel administration at the behest of his father.His successor, Basavaraj Bommai, has also been accused of corruption, including allegations that he and several other BJP leaders and senior government officials laundered dirty money using cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin. There are also allegations that the officials and elected representatives demand around 25-30% commission to award tenders for public works.“Interestingly the total measurement/extent of the lands in the sale deed bearing doc. No. 7878/20/21, dated 01/02/2021, is falsely shown as 9 acres and 23 guntas,” according to the complaint.The complainant alleges that the actual market price of the land was over ₹33 crore.“While ₹10,20,00,000 was paid through cheques, (the) remaining ₹23,05,00,000 was allegedly paid in cash by M/s Davalagiri Property Developers, belonging to the family members of the then chief minister Shri BS Yediyurappa, attracting Section 3 and 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,” according to the complaint.The office of Yediyurappa refused to comment on the allegations. Despite attempts his sons could not be contacted for their response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complaint-filed-against-yediyurappa-sons-over-alleged-land-grab-101642619903678.html
20-01-2022||India||16% Haryana teachers still not vaccinated against Covid: Data||Sixteen percent of teachers in Haryana’s government-run schools are yet to take their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while 15% teachers have received only the first dose, according to data seen by HT. The data is contrary to the state government’s claim of inoculating 100% eligible adults in the state with the first dose. Till January 15, about 68% (71,180) government school employees had been inoculated with both doses. Haryana has 14,160 government run schools in 22 districts of the state and 1,04,162 employees (majority of them teachers). While 16,167 teachers have taken only the first dose, 16,815 teachers have so far not ventured out to take the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to official data. Education minister Kanwar Pal said on Wednesday hit out at the teaching fraternity saying such vaccine hesitancy is not an inspiring example. “Teachers are role models and an inspiration for students, who aspire to follow the footsteps of teachers more than their parents. We cannot force them to vaccinate themselves in view of recent court orders,” the education minister said, pointing out that on the other hand, there was enthusiasm for vaccination among students. Till January 18, about 51 % students in the age group of 15-18 had been administered the first shot.The data showed that every district has teachers who have not taken the first dose. For example, at least 438 teachers in Panchkula, 467 in Ambala, 947 in Rohtak, 1,309 in Bhiwani, 411 in Karnal, 1,327 in Sonepat and 1,515 in Sirsa are among those 16% teachers who have not received the first dose. Jhajjar district, with 526 schools and 3,857 teachers, maintains a 94 % vaccination (single as well as both doses including) rate among the teachers followed by Karnal (93 %), Rewari and Yamunanagar (92 %) and Gurugram with (90 %). Nuh district, on the other hand, has the lowest vaccination among the school staff at 60%. The district has 834 schools and 4,675 employees, out of whom 1,067 have taken the first dose and 1,734 have been fully vaccinated while 1,874 are yet to take the first vaccine shot. In Ambala district 89 % school staff has been vaccinated, Bhiwani 77%, Charkhi Dadri 84 %, Faridabad 89%, Fatehabad 88%, Hisar 78%, Jind 82%, Kaithal 89%, Kurukshetra 83%, Mahendergarh 88%, Palwal 88%, Panchkula 85 %, Panipat 86 %, Rohtak 76%, Sirsa 75%, and Sonipat 77% . “I hope the 16 % teachers, who have so far not taken the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, will inoculate themselves. The good results of the vaccine and how it has saved lives are before all of us,” Pal said. 
20-01-2022||India||Justice CT Selvam to head TN fourth police commission||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin on Wednesday announced the constitution of the fourth police commission under retired judge of the Madras High Court Justice C T Selvam.The move, which fulfils the poll assurance of the DMK, would facilitate the commission to submit its recommendations to the government on the welfare of the police personnel and other aspects such as improving policing, preventing cyber crimes and making the men in khaki adopt a more humane approach to policing.Retired IAS officer K Allauddin, retired IPS officer K Radhakrishnan, Dr C Ramasubramaniam and retired Prof Nalini Rao would be the members on the panel, an official press release here said. Senior police official Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal would be the member-secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-ct-selvam-to-head-tn-fourth-police-commission-101642619783604.html
20-01-2022||India||Kerala vlogger booked for raping woman on pretext of marriage: Cops||A Malayalam vlogger-cum-comedian was booked by Kerala police for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman, said the police on Wednesday.The rape case against the accused, Sreekanth Vettiyar, was lodged on Tuesday. The woman, a resident of Pathanamhitta, told the police that the accused raped her on the pretext of marriage. The woman had initially posted about her ordeal on social media and a week later she formally filed a complaint against Vettiyar at a police station in Kochi. Police said Vettiyar was absconding after the case was registered. In her social media post, the woman said that Vettiyar was an acquaintance and had invited her to a flat, in February last year, in Kochi on the pretext of celebrating his birthday where he raped her. She said that he later promised to marry her but was incommunicado later. She said after she posted about her experience on social media, a couple of other women also shared their experience, following which she approached the police. “He manipulated me several times to ensure that I don’t reveal about the crime. The mental trauma I have faced in last couple of months is unexplainable. The criminal involved in the crime is roaming around freely and he gives lengthy lectures on liberalism and modern attitude,” said the woman in her post in Malayalam. She also alleged that he took money from her on several occasions. A senior officer from the central police station in Ernakulam said Vettiyar was booked under Section 376 (2) (rape) of the Indian Penal Code. Police said the victim’s statement will be recorded before a court later. Police said an investigation is on and they will also contact other victims. Vettiyar is a content creator and his social media page goes by the name “Vettiyar Trolls”.BLURB Police said accused Vettiyar was absconding after the case was registered||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-vlogger-booked-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-marriage-cops-101642619723434.html
20-01-2022||India||Tableau row: DMK govt resorting to ‘Republic Day Tool Kit’: TN BJP chief||Chennai: Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai on Wednesday accused the DMK government of resorting to a ‘Republic Day toolkit’ and of being incompetent for failing to get the state’s tableau qualified for the parade, adding to the row over the matter.“When the same officers were able to get our tableau qualified in 2019, 2020 and 2021 by going through the same competitive process, why can’t they do that now? The simplest answer is because of an incompetent government running the show in the state,” tweeted Annamalai.After the union government rejected Tamil Nadu’s tableau, chief minister M K Stalin wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention. To this, defence minister Rajnath Singh responded that Tamil Nadu was eliminated after the third round. On Tuesday night, Stalin announced that the rejected tableau will be displayed during the Republic Day celebrations in Chennai. Annamalai alleged that the DMK government was resorting to a ‘Republic Day toolkit’ to hide its mismanagement of the Pongal gift hamper that was distributed to more than 20 million ration card holders. The Pongal gifts to the beneficiaries had 21 grocery items, including 100 gram of ghee produced by the state-owned Aavin, varieties of dal, and a full sugarcane which is an integral part of the three-day festival that concluded last week. The BJP has alleged corruption in distribution of the gifts. “The jaggery is melting and filled with chemicals and is inedible,” Annamalai had said in a statement and posted a video on his Twitter account where people are seen complaining about items in the Pongal package. DMK’s spokesperson and advocate A Saravanan said the BJP and its ally the AIADMK were resorting to such criticism because of the support the government has been receiving. “Toolkits are the handiwork of the BJP government and not of the DMK,” said Saravanan. “BJP doesn’t have freedom fighters in their party and now everyone has understood how they insult freedom fighters of this country. Rani Velu Nachiyar is the first woman freedom fighter in the country and that (the tableau showing her) has not been given a stage.” He said the allegation of corruption in the Pongal hamper is a “manufactured crisis.”For the Republic Day parade, Tamil Nadu had submitted a theme “Tamil Nadu in the Freedom Struggle”, depicting renowned freedom fighters from the state V O Chidambaranar and poet Subramania Bharathiyar. The rear of the tableau had been designed to showcase a statue of Rani Velu Nachiyar riding a horse with a sword in hand and with women soldiers.
20-01-2022||India||Andhra govt employees up in arms against pay revision||Agitated against the pay revision announced by the state, the government employees have decided to launch an indefinite strike here, said an official on Wednesday.The employees have stated that the revised pay scales would result in reduction of their present salaries, instead of enhancement. An emergency executive meeting of the Andhra Pradesh State Government Employees’ joint action committee was held at Amaravati on Wednesday to discuss the pay revision orders issued by the state government.“We will finalise our plan of action on Thursday and serve the strike notice on the government on Friday. There is no question of holding any talks with the government unless it withdraws the orders,” joint action committee (JAC) chairman Bandi Srinivasa Rao said.Employees’ association president K Venkatrami Reddy said that the secretariat employees had staged demonstrations wearing black badges on Wednesday. “We are demanding that the government immediately roll back the order and hold talks with us,” he said.On January 7, chief minister (CM), Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, had announced a 23.29% increase in salaries, besides release of five dearness allowance arrears pending since July 2019 and increase of retirement age from 60 to 62 years.The JAC chairman, however, said 23% salary hike was way below the 27% interim relief the government had been paying since July 2019. “At the same time, the government has done away with the city compensatory allowance (CCA) and reduced the house rent allowance (HRA),” he pointed out.The JAC demanded that the benefits given to the state government employees at the time of shifting from Hyderabad to Amaravati be continued. Their other demands include continuation of additional pension to the staffers who crossed 75 years and declaration of probation to village and ward secretariat members.State chief secretary Sameer Sharma, however, allayed the apprehensions of the employees that they would get lesser salaries due to pay revision. “The gross salary will go up, though there might be cuts in HRA or removal of CCA,” he said.He said the government was trying to balance the revenue and expenditure while implementing the pay revision. “They cannot compare the interim relief of 27% with salary hike of 23%. Interim relief is not part of the salary and it was given to the employees only as a relief till the pay revision is worked out,” he said.BLURB On January 7, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced a 23.29% increase in salaries||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-employees-up-in-arms-against-pay-revision-101642619543300.html
20-01-2022||India||Assam, Meghalaya clear ‘give and take’ formula to resolve border dispute||The Assam and Meghalaya cabinets on Wednesday approved a ‘give-and-take’ formula to resolve the five-decades old border dispute between the two northeastern states. In the first phase, issues of six of the 12 disputed areas will be resolved, people familiar with the development said. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma will meet Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Thursday to hand him details of the proposal and request for further action. Deliberations between the two states, including the two chief ministers, have been going on since last year. Recently, regional committees of both states submitted their reports on the six areas that will be resolved in first phase. “The proposals submitted by the regional committees, which were agreed upon at the chief ministerial level, were today (Wednesday) approved by the state cabinet,” Sarma said after a cabinet meeting held at Halflong, the headquarters of Assam’s Dima Hasao district. “Cabinet has approved the recommendations of all 3 regional committees as process to resolve the Meghalaya-Assam border issue. The recommendations of both states would be submitted to MHA (ministry of home affairs). Along with CM Sarma, we will meet Home Minister Amit Shah for further action,” Sangma tweeted on Wednesday after a cabinet meeting in Shillong. The six areas that will be taken up for final settlement in the first phase are Hahim, Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra. The other six areas, where the disputes are more complicated, will be taken up later. On Tuesday, during an interaction with various political parties in Assam, Sarma said that as per the recommendations of the regional committees, the state will get 18.51 sq km of the total 36.8 sq km disputed area while the remaining 18.29 sq km will go to Meghalaya. He also said that as per agreements between both states, once the border dispute in all the 12 areas are resolved, Meghalaya will not be able to make any further claims on Assam territory. Meghalaya was carved out of Assam in 1972 and both states share a 733-km boundary. Over the years, the two neighbouring states have witnessed several skirmishes between various communities inhabiting the border areas. Meghalaya will celebrate its 50th statehood day on January 21 and the governments of both states are trying to forge an understanding on some of the disputed borders before the golden jubilee celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-meghalaya-clear-give-and-take-formula-to-resolve-border-dispute-101642619426507.html
20-01-2022||India||Delta, Omicron variants cause Covid rise in Kerala: Health Minister||Delta and Omicron variants were behind the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases in Kerala as the state battles third wave of the ongoing pandemic, health minister Veena George said here on Wednesday. She said the government was doing everything possible to limit the damage and notion of Omicron being mild was wrong. She said in last four weeks, there was a four-fold increase in cases triggered by Delta and Omicron variants. She, however, said there was no unusual rush in hospitals and bed occupancy was almost half now.The minister said the state government’s effective intervention delayed the peak and curtailed the need for hospitalisation to an extent. “Now, both Delta and Omicron variants are contributing to the surge. Some people are giving a wrong impression that Omicron is mild and it was not that dangerous. They are wrong. Whatever be the variant basic characteristics of SARS-Cov 2 were same and people should take all steps to keep the disease at bay,” she said. People will have to be more careful about post-Covid complications, she added. The minister admitted that infectivity rate was high during the third wave. “Omicron is at least 5 to 6 times infectious than Delta. We expect cases will peak in a week before flattening. We have to be extremely careful at this stage and all will have to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour,” she said. Action will be taken against those who spread misinformation about the virus, sahe said while asking all, cutting across political lines and other differences, to help contain the disease. The state on Wednesday reported 34,199 new Covid cases after 91,983 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 37.17 per cent. It also reported 49 deaths taking total to 51,160, according to the state health ministry data. Active cases also went up to 168,383.Erankulam and Thiruvananthapuram districts topped with 5,953 and 5,684 cases, respectively. Statistics also show about 40 per cent of the infected have taken both doses of vaccine. The core committee on pandemic is meeting on Thursday and it is expected to announce severe restrictions to contain the surge. CPI(M) meet a super spreader The ruling CPI(M)’s three-day district conference in Thiruvananthapuram which concluded on Sunday has turned out to be super spreader as more than 100 delegates, including educationminister V Sivankutty and two legislators, were tested positive. The mega Thiruvathira dance programme in which more than 500 women participated had invited enough flak and later the party state committee admitted it was wrong to conduct such a programme. The opposition Congress has sought strict action against organisers of the event.“The party is reduced to merchants of death. It shows the ruling party can do anything and get away easily with it. Despite widespread criticism it went ahead with the programme infecting many delegates. The party owes an explanation for this criminal negligence,” said Congress state president K Sudhakaran. He said the Congress has postponed all its programmes in view of spike in Covid cases. CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said the party has taken permission for the ongoing district conferences and public meetings were avoided due to the surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-omicron-variants-cause-covid-rise-in-kerala-health-minister-101642619423264.html
20-01-2022||India||PM Modi to host India-Central Asia Summit on January 27||India on Wednesday announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host the first India-Central Asia summit in a virtual format on January 27 as part of the country’s engagement with the extended neighbourhood. The development follows the government’s decision to go ahead with Republic Day celebrations on January 26 without any foreign leader as chief guest because of a surge in Covid-19 infections. Earlier, the Indian side had invited the leaders of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to be chief guests, though no formal announcement was made by any of the countries. The external affairs ministry said the presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan will participate in the virtual summit, described as the “first engagement of its kind between India and the Central Asian countries at the level of leaders.” The summit reflects New Delhi’s growing engagement with the Central Asian states, part of India’s “extended neighbourhood”, and is symbolic of the importance attached by leaders of India and Central Asia to a comprehensive and enduring partnership, the ministry said. At the summit, the leaders are expected to discuss steps to take India-Central Asia relations to newer heights, and exchange views on regional and international issues, “especially the evolving regional security situation,” the ministry added. Modi had visited all the Central Asian states in 2015, and there have been exchanges at high levels at bilateral and multilateral forums. The India-Central Asia Dialogue at the level of foreign ministers, the third meeting of which was held in New Delhi in December, has given impetus to relations between the two sides. “The participation of the secretaries of National Security Councils of Central Asian countries in the Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan held in New Delhi on 10 November 2021 outlined a common regional approach on Afghanistan,” the external affairs ministry said. This is the second year in a row that the Republic Day celebrations have been affected by the fallout of the pandemic. The rapid spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in the past few weeks and recent violent protests in Kazakhstan, which resulted in the death of over 220 people, were factors that went against the participation of the Central Asian leaders, said people familiar with the matter. Last year, India went ahead with truncated Republic Day celebrations without a chief guest after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called off his visit at the last minute because of the rapid spread of a Covid strain in Britain. It is extremely rare for the Republic Day celebrations, seen as a high point in the country’s diplomatic calendar, not to have a chief guest. 
20-01-2022||India||Bajrang Dal leader among 4 held for murder of K’taka Muslim teen||A Bajrang Dal leader, among four, was arrested in the murder case of a 19-year-old Muslim youth in Karnataka, said police on Wednesday.Police said the accused were identified as Bajrang Dal leader Sanju Nalvade, his associates, Gundya Muttappa Hiremath, Channu Chandrashekar Akki, and Sakrappa Hanumanthappa Kakanur . The incident took place on Monday when Nargund resident Shamir Shahapur and his friend, Shamshir were returning home after closing their business. The duo was attacked with lethal weapons during which Shahapur was killed and Shamshir sustained serious injuries. Shamshir is undergoing treatment at KMC Hospital, Hubli, the police said. A senior police officer in Gadag said, “The actual case relates to an alleged incident which took place about two-three months ago when a Muslim boy was accused of eve-teasing a Hindu girl. This case is under investigation. Following this, the Bajrang Dal members went the area and tried to pick a fight.”Following this incident, Nalavadi made a provocative speech in front of the police station on January 17, where he dared the police to arrest him and his associates. The police booked a case against the leader, but instead of the speech, he was booked for violation of Covid-19 rules. They were let off with a fine for the violation. “They murdered the 19-year-old the same night after leaving the police station,” said the officer. Police said the Bajrang Dal leader and his three associates was arrested on basis of CCTV footage. Police said that they are still probing if there is any connection between the murdered youth and the eve-teasing incident.
20-01-2022||India||Blast in INS Ranvir took place in AC compartment: Officials||The blast aboard Indian Navy destroyer INS Ranvir, in which three sailors were killed and 11 injured on Tuesday, took place in the ship’s air conditioning compartment and was possibly linked to Freon gas leak, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.Freon is used as a refrigerant in AC plants.The three men who were killed were in an adjacent compartment when the explosion took place on Tuesday evening, the officials said.In a statement, the Indian Navy on Wednesday identified the deceased men as Master Chief Petty Officer (MCPO) I Krishan Kumar, MCPO II Surinder Kumar and MCPO II AK Singh. An MCPO I is equivalent to a Subedar Major in the army, while an MCPO II is equivalent to a Subedar.Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar and all personnel of the Indian Navy extended their condolences to the families of the three men, the statement said. “We fully stand by with the families in this difficult time,” it added.The incident took place at the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai. The ship’s crew responded immediately and quickly brought the situation under control, the navy said on Tuesday, adding that no major material damage to the destroyer was reported.INS Ranvir was on cross-coast operational deployment from the Visakhapatnam-based Eastern Naval Command since November 2021 and was due to return to its base port, officials said. The navy has instituted a board of inquiry to investigate the cause of the accident.Manned by a crew of 30 officers and 310 sailors, INS Ranvir was commissioned into the Indian Navy in April 1986.The destroyer, built in the erstwhile Soviet Union, has a displacement of 5,000 tonnes, length of 146 metres, beam of 15.8 metres and top speed of 30 knots. It is armed with a variety of weapons including surface-to-surface missiles, surface-to-air missiles, anti-aircraft guns and torpedoes.INS Ranvir is among the warships commanded by Admiral Kumar in his 38-year military career.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-in-ins-ranvir-took-place-in-ac-compartment-officials-101642618884010.html
20-01-2022||India||Two IndiGo flights avert mid-air collision, DGCA orders probe||Two IndiGo flights averted a mid-air collision over Bengaluru airport just after take off earlier this month, prompting the Directorate General of Civil Aviation to initiate a probe into the matter, officials said. The incident took place at Kempegowda International Airport on January 7 when IndiGo flights 6E 455 (to Kolkata) and another flight 6E 246 (to Bhubaneswar) were reportedly given the mandatory clearances from the Air Traffic Controller (ATC) at the same time. As per guidelines, some time difference needs to be maintained during clearances for safe and smooth operation of flights.“We are investigating the matter and will take strictest action against those found delinquent,” DGCA director general Arun Kumar said.The airport in Bengaluru comprises two parallel runways – north and south. Officials familiar with the case said the north runway was in use for departures while the south was looking after arrivals on the morning of January 7. “The south runway was shut later in the day but the change was reportedly not communicated to the south tower controller. The north runway, meanwhile, was being used entirely for flight operations,” an airport official said, seeking anonymity.As the change in runways was reportedly not communicated, the south tower controller gave the required approval to the Kolkata-bound flight for departure. At the same time, the north tower controller gave permission to the Bhubaneswar-bound aircraft to take off from the north runway, the official said. “It was when both the aircraft after departure were converging, that luckily, the approach radar controller (in the air traffic control) noticed them moving towards each other and immediately instructed both the pilots to diverge and avoid a mid-air collision,” the official said. “It was due to the pilots’ last minute divergence that a collision was averted, “ the official added.The incident was neither recorded in any logbook nor was it reported by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the official claimed. IndiGo did not comment on the matter. AAI, on the other hand, remained unavailable for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-indigo-flights-avert-mid-air-collision-dgca-orders-probe-101642618704539.html
20-01-2022||India||Centre seeks info from states to monitor tiger reserves||As part of an initiative to centrally monitor tiger reserves in the country, the Central government has written to states asking them to compile information on all 50 reserves, officials familiar with developments said on Wednesday. The Union environment ministry is compiling a database on a management information system (MIS) with the information, national tiger conservation authority (NTCA) officials said. The information sought includes relocation of villages from core area, digitisation of reserve boundaries; and status of forest staff. The MIS is expected to be implemented this year officials said and interactions with tiger reserves have already started. India now has 2,967 tigers, or 7 out of every 10 big cats in the wild in the world, according to the All India Tiger Estimation Results released in 2019. The number reflects a 33% increase over 2014 when there were 2,226 tigers in the country. That number itself was an improvement over 2010 (1,706) and 2006 (1,411). During the launch of the ‘India State of Forest Report, 2021’ on January 13, environment minister Bhupender Yadav had said the Centre has written to all principal chief conservators of forests about collating and submitting the information related to their divisions on forests, biodiversity, human animal conflict and others. He also said that the Centre will take up the second phase of ‘Green India Mission’, which is focused on increasing forest cover and that India will also have to meet its nationally determined contribution (under Paris Agreement) of creating an additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide through additional forest and tree cover by 2030. “We want to improve the quality of our forests and increase green cover with community participation,” he had said. “The MIS will involve digitising the boundary of reserves; status of staff both contractual and permanent; arms and ammunition; anti-poaching activities; information on tiger mortality; forest cover and voluntary relocation of villages and people,” said a senior NTCA official familiar with the process. “Expenditure on various schemes and programmes will also be monitored,” he added, requesting anonymity. “As far as relocation of villages and people from core area is concerned, it is voluntary but it is also mandated in the wildlife protection act that core tiger reserve area should be inviolate. The status of relocation will also be transparently documented through MIS,” the official said. The wildlife protection act states that the core or critical tiger habitat areas of national parks and sanctuaries are required to be kept inviolate for the purposes of tiger conservation, without affecting the rights of the Scheduled Tribes or such other forest dwellers, and notified as such by the state government in consultation with an expert committee constituted for the purpose. The state government after obtaining the consent of scheduled tribes and other forest dwellers inhabiting the area and in consultation with an independent ecological and social scientist familiar with the area has concluded that impact of people on wildlife in the core area is irreversible and reasonable coexistence is not possible, can recommend relocation of people from a tiger area under Project Tiger. According to NTCA’s protocol for voluntary village relocation from critical tiger habitats, a minimum inviolate area of 800-1200sq.km is required for a viable population of tiger (20 breeding tigresses). The environment ministry had come out with a consultation paper in October last year on amending the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, to bring significant changes to forest governance, including facilitating private plantations for harvesting. It also said that the ministry is considering introducing a provision in the forest conservation act to keep certain pristine forests “showcasing rich ecological values” intact for a specific period. “The environment minister has emphasized on the need for community participation in forest conservation. This idea can also be extended to the manner in which the information system on tiger reserves is being put together by the ministry. Both recognition of rights in tiger reserves and design of what is “voluntary” in a relocation process continues to be a highly contentious issue. Therefore, the management system should not only rely on government data to ascertain the nature and extent of compliance with the legal procedures. The process can gain significantly by on ground research and experiences that can be corroborated with government data,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-info-from-states-to-monitor-tiger-reserves-101642618703370.html
20-01-2022||India||Panel pitches full market nod for Covaxin, Covishield||The subject expert panel (SEC) of the national drugs regulator on Wednesday recommended full market authorisation for both Covaxin and Covishield under certain conditions, according to people familiar with the developments.These vaccines were till now approved for use under emergency circumstances – from a regulatory point of view, this referred to the pandemic – and full approvals typically take time. While the conditions laid down by the CDSCO subject expert committee were not immediately clear, full licensure often means that a product can be sold in regular market, although whether that happens during a pandemic and in the case of an essential biological remains to be seen.“SEC of CDSCO has recommended for upgrade of covishield and covaxin status from restricted use in emergency situations to grant of new drug permission with conditions In adult population, DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India) will evaluate the recommendations and give its decision,” Central Drug Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) tweeted from its handle.As per the process, the drugs controller general of India takes the final call on granting the approval based on the expert panel’s recommendations.Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech International Ltd, manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin respectively, separately applied to the central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO) to seek full market authorisation stating that more than a billion vaccine doses have been administered to beneficiaries under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme.Experts also that the government should consider granting full licensure now.“There is adequate data available now from the real-world also that has further established safety and efficacy; therefore, high-time that the vaccines should be given complete market authorization,” said Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, GandhinagarAt least 1.37 billion doses of Covishield, and about 210 million Covaxin doses have been administered under the programme to date.Full market authorisation is granted when there is enough data to demonstrate that the vaccine is safe and effective for most people who receive it, while an emergency approval is often based on the premise that the benefits of using a product immediately outweigh its known harms.SII locally manufactures the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield; and Covaxin has been developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech International Ltd in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Medical Research (ICMR).Both the vaccines were granted approval for restricted use in emergency situation by the drugs controller general of India, VG Somani, on January 3, last year, and both the vaccines have been the mainstay of India’s covid immunisation programme.
20-01-2022||India||Cabinet extends tenure of National Commission for Safai Karamcharis till 2025||New Delhi: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the extension of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) for three years with effect from April 1 this year. Announcing the decision, Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said, “The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved the extension of the tenure of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis for three years from April 1, 2022. Now it will remain in effect till March 31, 2025.”Modi government is determined to work for the welfare of safai karamcharis, Thakur added.“The commission is responsible for giving recommendations to the government regarding specific programmes for welfare of safai karamcharis, study and evaluate the existing welfare programmes for safai karamcharis, investigate cases of specific grievances,” he said. The commission was established in 1993 as per the provisions of the NCSK Act till March 31, 1997. The validity of the Act was first extended for five years and then again for two years till February 29, 2004. Since then, the tenure of the commission has been extended as a non-statutory body under the ministry of social justice and empowerment. The tenure of the commission has been extended from time to time through government resolutions. The present tenure is valid till March 31, 2022.“The total implication of the extension for three years would be approximately ₹43.68 crore,” the government said in a statement.The major beneficiaries under the commission are the safai karamcharis and identified manual scavengers in the country. As per the government data, there were 58,098 manual scavengers in the country as on December 31 last year.“Though the government has taken many steps for the upliftment of the safai karamcharis, the deprivation suffered by them in socio-economic and educational terms is still far from being eliminated. Although manual scavenging has been almost eradicated, sporadic instances do occur. Hazardous cleaning of sewer/septic tanks continues to be an area of the highest priority for the government. Hence, the government feels that there is a continued need to monitor the various interventions and initiatives for welfare of safai karamcharis and to achieve the goal of complete mechanisation of sewer/septic tanks cleaning in the country and rehabilitation of manual scavengers,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-extends-tenure-of-national-commission-for-safai-karamcharis-till-2025-101642618404633.html
20-01-2022||India||ED completes raids on Channi’s nephew, Punjab CM launches attack||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said on Wednesday that it seized ₹10 crore in cash from the premises of Bhupinder Singh, the nephew of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, and his business partner after raids in connection with illegal sand mining in the state. Channi, who is hoping to return to power after assembly elections next month, alleged that the raids, which began on Tuesday, were an attempt to frame him. ED officials said they seized a total of ₹10 crore from Bhupinder Singh and his partner, Sandeep Kumar, in addition to gold worth ₹21 lakh and a Rolex watch worth ₹12 lakh. The raids began on Tuesday when the ED searched 10 locations, including those linked to the CM’s nephew, in Chandigarh, Rupnagar, Ludhiana, Pathankot and Mohali. The agency’s probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is based on a 2018 case registered by Punjab Police on illegal sand mining in the border state. The central agency lodged an ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) at its zonal office in Jalandhar in November last year after taking over the probe. Channi condemned the raids and called it an attempt to put pressure on him ahead of elections. Punjab goes to the polls on February 20. He said Bhupinder Singh was tortured by the agency as part of a conspiracy to target the Congress. “I have learnt that those who had come to interrogate talked about the PM’s visit, saying they will not let us file our nomination papers or contest the elections,” he added, referring to the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab earlier this month. Calling the ED raids a “planted exercise”, Channi said his nephew was not even named in the 2018 FIR. “This is a conspiracy to trap me in this case. They are taking revenge because I stood with Punjab and people of Punjab during the Prime Minister’s visit to Ferozepur,” he said. ED officials said that Bhupinder Singh was a director in a firm set up by the main accused in the case, Kudrat Deep Singh. The ED is probing money-laundering charges against them as it suspects the proceeds from illegal sand mining was laundered through the company.The FIR names 26 accused, including Kudrat Deep Singh.The case was registered on the complaint of the Punjab mining department that found sand quarries being run without approval during its raids in 2018. The mining department impounded 30 vehicles and other machinery used for illegal mining. The FIR said the mining was done outside the designated area and the operators used forged slips not issued by the mining department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-completes-raids-on-channi-s-nephew-punjab-cm-launches-attack-101642618283408.html
20-01-2022||India||Arunachal teen abducted by China’s PLA: Officials||A 17-year-old resident of Arunachal Pradesh has allegedly been abducted by China’s Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA) from the state’s Upper Siang district, officials aware of the matter said on Wednesday.The man identified as Miram Taron, a native of Zido village in Upper Siang district, was abducted on Tuesday by the PLA, said the police. The district authorities said the youth along with others were hunting in the border area between both countries when the incident took place.“The youth was among a group of local hunters. Other members of his group who were able to escape informed us that he was abducted by the PLA from the Indian side,” Shashvat Saurabh, deputy commissioner of Upper Siang, said.“As soon as we came to know of the matter, we informed the officials of the Indian Army that operate in the region. Continuous efforts are underway to rescue the youth at the earliest,” he added.Meanwhile, BJP MP from Arunachal-East, Tapir Gao, took to Twitter to highlight the incident and sought help from Indian agencies to step up the efforts for his early release.“Chinese PLA has abducted Miram Taron, 17 years, of Zido village yesterday January 18, 2022 from inside Indian territory, Lungta Jor area (China built 3-4 kms road inside India in 2018) under Siyungla area (Bishing village) of Upper Siang district (sic.),” the MP posted on his social media on Wednesday evening.“His friend escaped from PLA and reported to the authorities. All the agencies of Govt of India is requested to step up for his early release (sic.),” Gao added.This is not the first such incident. In September, 2020, five youths from Tagin tribe, who used to work as porters for Indian Army, had gone missing from Upper Subansiri district from the Indian side of the McMahon line, bifurcating Arunachal Pradesh and Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) of China.Following their disappearance, one of the abducted youth’s brother had posted on the social media about the ‘abduction’ by PLA. The same accusation was made by BJP MP Tapir Gao and Congress MLA from Pasighat Ninong Ering.It was later revealed that the youths had strayed across the border during an expedition to hunt and collect medicinal herbs. They were handed back to India after 10 days by the Chinese authorities.The Indian Army had informed then that it was the third such incident where youths from Arunachal Pradesh living near the Indo-China border had “strayed inadvertently to the other side of line of actual control (LAC)” during “adventurous forays”.
20-01-2022||India||Centre to rank states on rapid green nods||The Union environment ministry plans to rank states, specifically state environment impact assessment authorities (SEIAAs), on the speed with which they accord environmental clearances (EC) to development projects, a move that has drawn criticism from experts and activists who say this could result in more projects being cleared without proper due diligence.The criteria for the ranking was detailed in an office memorandum sent by the ministry to all SEIAAs on January 17, and HT has reviewed a copy of it. “It has been decided to incentivise the states through a star-rating system, based on efficiency and timeliness in grant of EC. This is intended as a mode of recognition and encouragement as well as for prompting improvements where needed,” it added. Such a ranking system, the memo said, was first tabled during a meeting chaired by the Cabinet Secretary on November 13 to discuss actions taken by the ministry to facilitate “ease of doing business”.As per the proposed ranking system, SEIAAs will be graded between 0 and 1 on five parameters, and 0 and 2 on one. These are: the average number of days taken by an SEIAA to accept proposals seeking either EC or terms of reference (ToR) for projects; the number of complaints addressed by the Authority; the percentage of cases for which site visits are carried out by either SEIAAs or state expert appraisal committees (SEACs); the percentage of cases in which the Authority seeks additional information from project proponents more than once; the disposal percentage of proposals seeking fresh or amended ToRs that are older than 30 days; and the disposal percentage of proposals seeking fresh or amended EC that are older than 120 days.While the parameters are fine, it is the way the scoring is to be done that is worrying. For example, if the SEIAA conducts site visits for more than 20% of the total cases placed before it for approval, it will receive 0 marks. However, if it conducts site visits for less than 10% percent of total cases considered, it will be awarded one mark. Similarly, if the SEIAA seeks essential details from project proponents more than once in above 30% of cases, it will receive 0 marks, but it will be awarded one mark if essential details are sought in less than 10% t of the cases. “This sets a dangerous precedent because it will clearly discourage authorities from carrying out site visits to gauge whether environment impact assessments have been properly carried out,” said Stalin D, environmentalist and director of Mumbai-based NGO Vanashakti.Sujit Kumar Bajpayee, joint secretary, MoEFCC directed queries to the environment ministry’s media cell, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The one parameter on which the SEIAA will be awarded up to 2 points is the average number of days taken by it to accord EC for projects. Should a particular SEIAA take less than an average of 80 days to grant EC to all projects considered, it will be awarded two marks. If the time frame exceeds more than 120 days, it gets 0. States which collect between 7-8 marks as part of this system will be given a five star rating, while states that collect less than 3 marks will be given a zero star rating. These ratings will be updated twice annually, on the basis of the SEIAA’s functioning during a six-month period.Environment lawyer Ritwick Dutta remarked that the plan runs counter to the environment ministry’s statutory duties. “Ease of doing business cannot be the yardstick by which the environment ministry, or environment departments at the state level, are judged. Their job is to protect the environment, not make things easier for industries. Such a ratings system has no place in the application of the precautionary principle, which takes time. The ministry is undermining its own safeguards and weakening the authority of the SEIAAs by imposing time limits on their functioning. This rating system is the equivalent of judging teachers for how well their students are able to cheat in an examination, or judging policemen on how efficiently they allow criminal activity to continue because it is good for business.”If an environment clearance is not accorded to a project within 80 days, Dutta explained, it is likely to be because the proposal lacks adequate data. “For instance, there might be serious gaps in a particular proposal’s EIA report. An SEIAA should be rightfully concerned about these, and it is within its power to seek clarity from the proponent. This is of course good for the environment, but bad for business, and so now regulatory agencies will be judged for subverting their own responsibilities.”Dutta added that this rating system is in violation of both the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 as well as the Constitutional responsibility of the Central Government to protect the environment. “A perusal of the Criteria reveals that greater weightage is given for projects where due diligence is less. Thus, if the SEIAA members conduct ‘site visits’ to ascertain the local conditions and ecology, marks are attributed for the same – and ironically the more the members visit the field to see the ecology less marks they get... The aim is clear, SEIAA members should sit in the confines of conference rooms and take decisions and earn high marks. This process will ensure that SEIAA’s aim will be to clear projects at the shortest possible time. It is pertinent to point out that the task of SEIAA under the EIA Notification is to undertake a ‘detailed scrutiny’ of the EIA Report and all other relevant information including minutes of the public hearing. Such ‘detailed scrutiny’ takes time. Besides, the SEIAA also has the right to reject projects – something that the OM has been silent on.”Experts also said that such a rating system stands to reduce the SEIAA to a ‘rubber stamps authority’ where there performance will be judged by the speed with which they facilitate environmental degradation and jeopardising of community livelihoods. “This Office Memorandum in contrary to the environmental rule of law; violates article 21 and is an arbitrary exercise of power to benefit only business at the cost of environment and people. At a time when India has the world’s worst air and water quality, this office memorandum will, if applied, reduce environmental law compliance to a mere formality. It needs immediate withdrawal,” Dutta said.This view was echoed by other experts. Kanchi Kohli, a researcher with the think tank Centre for Policy Research, claimed that such a move will severely constrain the mandate of the SEIAAs under the Environment Protection Act and the Environment Impact Assessment notification. “These authorities are meant to uphold environmental protection. If the Centre wants to assess the performance of SEIAAs, the criteria for the same should step from this mandate, which is drawn from Section 3(3) of the Environment Protection Act. This ratings system could lead to a further dilution in the quality of environment impact assessments and it only demonises the regulatory process, whereas it is the state of the economy at large which has arrested the growth of business. It’s not like such a move will suddenly allow projects to start taking off.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-rank-states-on-rapid-green-nods-101642618107029.html
20-01-2022||India||Variant watch: Why symptom link is key to Omicron||Why does the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2 spread significantly more readily than other variants of the coronavirus?For weeks now, it was thought to be the intrinsic traits scientists discovered when they tested the virus on human (or human-like) tissues. They found the variant multiplied significantly faster in upper air passages, thriving in parts of the body where, it was assumed, the virus was better placed to be exhaled or coughed out. Once it’s in the air, and makes it way to another host, its superior ability to latch on to cells – also demonstrated in the lab – gives it greater advantage.But two new studies now call into question whether these factors are indeed the reason for Omicron’s rapid spread.The first, by researchers from Harvard’s TH Chan School of Public Health, analysed the results of routine testing on National Basketball Association (NBA) staff between July 5, 2021 and January 10, 2022 – a period when Delta and Omicron outbreaks affected these people. Using the cycle threshold (CT) values from the tests and contact tracing, they found that the peak viral load in people who contracted Omicron was lower than those who had a Delta variant infection and that the rate at which the virus was cleared out from the nose and throat was quicker in the case of the newer VOC (variant of concern).Also read | Omicron variant poses limited downside to Indian economy: EconomistsViral load is often seen as a proxy for how infectious someone is.“…These results suggest that Omicron’s infectiousness may not be explained by higher viral load measured in the nose and mouth by RT-PCR,” they said in their pre-print study, which is yet to be peer-reviewed. But there are two caveats that apply here.First, as the authors note, it is unclear what role immunity difference between these two periods may have played; it could be that the people tested simply had more immune defences, as a result of prior exposure or vaccination, or both.Second, RT-PCR CT values are not a perfect measure of infectiousness.A second study offers a new explanation for why Omicron might spread so rapidly: It is more likely to lead to asymptomatic infection, thereby many are spreading it without knowing, the study reasons. Conducted by a team led by researchers from University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, the study found that there were far higher numbers of asymptomatic Covid-19 in case of Omicron infections than the other variants.The study was based on the mandatory testing of all people who came to get their vaccine doses. None of these people showed symptoms. The researchers found that during the Omicron wave, close to 30% of the people who turned up had an asymptomatic infection. In contrast, during the Beta and Delta wave, only 2.6% of the asymptomatic people who were tested were found infected.“These findings strongly suggest that Omicron has a much higher rate of asymptomatic carriage than other VOCs and this high prevalence of asymptomatic infection is likely a major factor in the widespread, rapid dissemination of the variant globally, even among populations with high prior rates of Sars-CoV-2 infection,” the authors added.
20-01-2022||India||Bracing for crude oil above $100 in a demand deficient economy||On January 17, the price of India’s crude oil basket (COB) was at $85.6 per barrel; that number is higher than the monthly average COB since September 2014.Brent crude prices – it is the international benchmark for crude oil prices in the world – breached the $87 level on January 18, touching the highest point since 2014. Goldman Sachs expects crude prices to breach the psychological barrier of $100 per barrel in the third quarter, Bloomberg News reported.These developments will be watched with concern in both the finance ministry and RBI. The former must be busy giving final touches to the 2022-23 Union Budget and the latter will see Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) members huddling together a week after the Budget has been presented.Oil prices have been higher in the past, but the current rally might be here to stay.If crude oil were to breach the $100 barrier – such forecasts have been made earlier too and have not materialized – it will not be a first. India’s average COB price was above $100 for three years beginning 2011-12.While the latest oil price spike has been driven partly by growing unrest in west Asia, an important oil producing region, there are reasons to believe that oil prices will stay elevated in the near future.“Energy investment is running at half the level needed to meet the ambition to reach net zero by 2050. Spending on renewables needs to rise. And the supply and demand of dirty fossil fuels needs to be wound down in tandem…But legal threats, investor pressure and fear of regulations have led investment in fossil fuels to slump by 40% since 2015”, The Economist wrote in October 2021. This is not good news for a country such as India.Also read | Chinese reliance on Middle East oil increases: ReportWhat does a crude price shock mean for India?A January 2019 Mint Street memo published by RBI summarized the effect of a rise in crude oil prices for India. “We find that if a crude price shock hits the Indian economy, the CAD (current account deficit) to GDP ratio will rise sharply irrespective of a higher GDP growth; and a $10/barrel increase in oil price will raise inflation by roughly 49 basis points (bps) or increase the fiscal deficit by 43 bps (as a percentage of GDP) if the government decides to absorb the entire oil price shock rather than passing it to the end users”, the authors said in the memo. One basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.The high oil-price phase a decade ago was also a period of considerable economic pain the country with inflation reaching very high levels, growth slowing, and the external balance becoming precarious.Elections have offered a temporary cushion against rise in crude pricesFuel prices are also a politically sensitive matter. The biggest proof of this fact is that the otherwise deregulated pricing regime is always suspended when an election is around the corner. For example, petrol-diesel prices have not been changed since December 2, 2021 even though crude prices have increased significantly;from $70.56 to $87.51 per barrel, during this period. To be sure, diesel prices have remained unchanged from November 4, 2021 onwards which is when the union government announced a reduction in union excise duty on fuels. Petrol prices fell further on December 2 when the Delhi government slashed its value added tax (VAT) on petrol. Elections to assemblies in five states are scheduled between February 10 and March 7.If the Budget does not bring down taxes on petrol-diesel and crude oil does cross the $100 barrier, fuel prices will be significantly higher than what they were when crude was above $100 a decade ago. This is because taxes on petrol-diesel are significantly higher today. This will generate additional tailwinds for inflation.The difference between current and previous episodes of high inflationA higher retail price of petrol-diesel due to higher tax component is not the only difference between the economic situation now and what existed a decade ago. An even bigger difference is the state of capacity utilisation or ability of the economy’s installed production capacity to cater to demand in the short run. In the long run investment can always increase the production capacity of an economy.A comparison of GDP deflator – it is the difference between nominal and real GDP growth and a holistic measure of inflation for the economy and not just households which is what the Consumer Price Index measures – and levels of capacity utilisation from RBI’s quarterly order books, inventory and capacity utilisation survey (OBICUS) captures this clearly. The high inflation phase (as seen in the GDP deflator) in the last decade was accompanied by very high levels of capacity utilisation – it was never below 75% -- whereas the recent rise in the GDP deflator’s value has come along with capacity utilisation rates which are much lower. “Recent trends in domestic goods demand show that, after reaching pre-pandemic levels, it (capacity utilisation) has stagnated. The Production Linked Incentive scheme was meant to enable firms to cater to global demand, but rising import tariffs are coming in the way”, HSBC India Chief Economist Pranjul Bahndari said in a research note dated January 18.What should be the policy response?Should RBI then raise interest rates – most private analysts expect it will this year – at a time when aggregate demand is lacking, and may dip more with higher borrowing costs? This is a question which lies at the core of India’s economic policy regime. In the normal course, it is monetary policy which is tasked with maintaining a balance between growth and inflation. There is now growing consensus that it is fiscal policy which should play a more proactive role at the moment.“For much of the pandemic, fiscal and monetary policy have actively complemented each other to help mitigate the growth damage from COVID. But in the third year of the pandemic, with inflation remaining above 5%, inflation expectations hardening by 200 bps over the last 18 months, and the current account deficit widening to the 2% handle, policy support will have to start becoming selective, with fiscal and monetary slowly having to evolve from complements to substitutes”, Sajjid Chinoy J.P. Morgan’s Chief India Economist wrote in a note issued earlier this month, calling for a tightening of monetary policy but a gradual fiscal consolidation path in the Budget.
20-01-2022||India||Amid lockdown, digital divide left migrants’ kids out in the cold||In May 2020, Sushma, 13, the daughter of migrant labourers, was a Class 8 student in a government school in Narela, Delhi. As India imposed a harsh lockdown in the wake of the first wave of Covid 19, her parents found themselves with no source of income.The month that followed was hard. For days, Sushma, her parents and two younger siblings lugged around everything they owned, struggling to find a way home to Medinipur in West Bengal, where at the very least, there would the solace of a roof above their heads, and no rent to pay. That wasn’t easy. Then, around the end of April came news of special trains for registered migrant workers.For four days, the family of five sat outside registration centres for migrant workers such as them, braving the heat, hunger, thirst and never ending queues. By the third night, they had run out of food, and began to live on the largesse of relief workers. At night, they lived under a flyover. Then finally, on the fifth day, as the pandemic raged, the family was on a packed shramik train heading back to Bengal. It was early May.The story of Sushma and her family was not uncommon in 2020. For days after India went into complete lockdown, India’s migrants were on the roads, walking, jostling into trucks and buses, struggling to return to their villages with their lives in the big city completely upended. Along with them, went their children, sitting on their parents shoulders, or if they were a little older, carrying luggage disconsolately. It was the beginning of what has been almost two years of a life that has been stop-start — going back to the villages, then returning, and in many cases, after the second wave, going back again.Also read | Why lockdowns won’t work in the current waveFor children such as Sushma, it has meant one other, very significant thing. For long stretches, they were not in school.Sushma’s parents lived in a rented one-room tenement in Narela, and both worked at a shoe factory nearby. They left in May, but were back in Delhi by September, as industries began to restart gingerly. In those four months in Medinipur, the 13-year old had no access to a smartphone. The family didn’t own one. “Someone donated us a mobile phone in November but by then the teachers had completed a large part of the syllabus. It was incredibly difficult to catch up with my peers,” she said.There was one smartphone between three children; her two younger siblings are in classes 5 and 6. But in the blink of an eye, the family was uprooted again. Their factory shut again in April 2021, as the second wave spread. They left again and only returned to Delhi in September 2021. But even if Sushma had a smartphone this time, she still couldn’t study. With no income, paying for a data package was a luxury beyond her parents.In the fourth part of this series on how the pandemic affected schools and India’s children, HT looks at the effects of the migrant crisis. How on the margins of India’s metropolises, as the medium of education shifted online, the children of the urban poor were left behind.Displaced and disconnectedIn its report titled “Impact of Covid 19 on Rising Unemployment and Loss of Jobs/Livelihoods in Organised and Unorganised Sectors”, the parliamentary standing committee on labour said in August 2021 that as many as 1,14,30,968 migrant workers returned to their home states in the first wave of the Covid 19 lockdown between March and May 2020. The states which saw the highest volume of returning migrants were Uttar Pradesh(32,49,638), Bihar (15,00,612) and West Bengal (13,84,693). During the second wave, the report said, enforced between April 2021 and May 2021, 5,15,363 migrant workers returned to their home states.A 2021 United Nations (UN) report said that migrants and displaced children would be disproportionately affected and suffer long after the public health crisis ended. “For many learners living in displacement, their education will now be more limited or disappear completely,” it predicted. In India, that has not been far from the truth.Aman Singh, 16, a Class 11 student at the government boys senior secondary school in Dallupura, said he had sleepless nights last year thinking about his Class 10 board exams. “I was promoted to class 10 during the first lockdown. Even before I could start my studies, my family had to return to our village in Almora.My father, who worked as a driver in a transport company, hoped that my younger sister and I could stay in Delhi and focus on studies. But we exhausted all our savings within two months of the lockdown and had to return to our village in May leaving my entire life behind,” he said.Singh’s village of Baliya is in the Uttarakhand mountains and even if there was a smartphone, the terrain doesn’t boast good connectivity. “I resumed my studies only after we returned to Delhi in November 2020. I was so happy when Class 10 board exams were cancelled in 2021 because I was not prepared at all. But studies are still a struggle, because my concepts are not clear despite now, in Class 11,” Singh said.According to the data collected by the Union education ministry from 24 states and Union Territories (UTs) until June, 29 million school students did not have access to digital devices. In cities such as Delhi, the urban poor are particularly affected.The family of Ehtasham Alam, a Class 7 student at the Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Burari for instance has never owned a smartphone. His father, a daily wage labourer earned just enough to feed his family of five, Ehtasham being the eldest of three siblings. There was never room for luxury, and until May 2020, a smartphone was just that. In May 2020, the family returned to their village in Bihar’s Siwan. “It was impossible for us to buy a phone for our children at a time when we were even struggling to arrange food and water. We returned to our village in May and it was difficult to convince our children that things would go back to normal. I cannot forget the days when my children slept on an empty stomach. Who will think about studies in a situation like that?” asked Afsana Khatoon, Alam’s mother.The family returned to Delhi after more than a year in June 2021. “But the children have lost interest in studies after spending more than a year being completely out of contact with their teachers. It will take a lot of time to bring them back on track,” she added.Sonal Kapoor, founder of Protsahan India Foundation, a Delhi-based Child Rights NGO, said that Covid-19 has uprooted children from spaces where they generally used to find their sense of belonging, joy and sense of safety. “Thousands of children faced severe deprivation of core basic rights, due to severe income losses in their families. They witnessed circumstances where survival became the priority and everything else, including education, took a backseat.”Over the past 20 months, states and UTs have reopened schools and then shut them down again, with waves of the pandemic rising and ebbing. For instance, in Delhi, schools were reopened partially in January and February 2021 after almost 10 months of being closed. However, as the second wave of pandemic shook the country in April, the Delhi government again shut schools that month. In September, the state government again reopened schools for classes 9 to 12 and in November for all other classes. Within weeks, the schools again shut down due to the rising pollution levels and now due to the increasing cases of the Omicron variant of covid-19.Teachers said that this discontinuity has affected marginalised children the most, exacerbated by migration. “A majority of these students were completely out of contact with their teachers due to the lack of smartphones. Those, who were living in Delhi amid the lockdown, were at least getting hardcopies of worksheets and notes from their schools. But for those who had returned to their villages in the hinterland, this option didn’t exist. This made the situation more difficult specifically for children who were already deprived,” said Arvind Kumar Jha, a mathematics teacher at a government school in Jhilmil Colony.Jha added: “When schools were briefly reopened last November, I noticed that some of my students, all migrant kids, had completely lost the habit of writing. They had forgotten basic spelling and pronunciation. It showed that they had been r completely disconnected from studies for months. These kids did not have anyone at home to help them with studies.”According to a survey report released by the United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) in September, 15% more migrant parents and 9% more ST (Scheduled Tribe) parents reported that their children were learning less than before.Way aheadAddressing the educational issues of children such as the ones Jha is talking about will take some doing. Gargi Kapoor, national manager (mission education) Smile Foundation, said all stakeholders including the government, civil society organisations and communities will have to come together to discuss and bridge the gap.In January 2021, the Union Ministry of Education issued guidelines for the “identification, admission and continued education” of migrant children in India, tominimise the impact of pandemic on school education in the country. The ministry asked all states and Union Territories to identify such kids and ensure they attend schools. Officials at the Delhi government’s education department said that several steps have been taken to ensure that every child returns to school including door-to–door campaigns, and mailing letters and learning material to the students who left Delhi during successive lockdowns. “The government will also come up with a 100-day plan to bridge the learning gap among students. It will be implemented once schools reopen again and special attention will be given to each and every student,” said a senior official at the department who asked not to be named.Educationist Meeta Sengupta said that such “bridge courses” must be designed to mitigate learning loss among marginalised children. “Migrant children live in a state of constant learning loss and catch-up programs being designed for pandemic learning loss should be made a regular part of the academic year to ensure support. The double whammy of the pandemic and migrant movement hurt these children the most and makes them vulnerable to exploitation if we do not do more. This means community learning mechanisms, creating multiple support hubs with para teachers mentored by seniors, teaching vans and similar schemes that take learning to the children wherever they are.”As Omicron looms over the national capital, physical classes in schools were shut again in late December with little clarity on when they will reopen. In her one room home in Narela, for Sushma that means a return to online study, the battle over the family’s one smartphone with her two siblings, and the fear of harsher lockdown restrictions which will impact their livelihood. “I was heartbroken when schools were closed again. It has become a never ending cycle. All day, the three of us stay home and fight over the use of the phone. But I don’t want to go back to the village. That I am clear about,” the 13 year old said.In Burari, Ehtesham Alam’s mother fears Omicron because she fears another lockdown. She knows that the choice to stay in the big city, or return to the village is out of her hands. She also knows the costs that come attached for her son, with very little escape. “Till there is work, we will stay. When if our jobs are stolen, no option exists. I know the children are exhausted. And I am afraid that if it continues like this, they may lose education forever.”
20-01-2022||India||Over 50% eligible kids get jabs in two weeks||More than half of the estimated 74 million children in the 15-18 age group have now received their first dose of a coronavirus vaccine, according to government data on Wednesday, with officials now expressing optimism that by next month, “most eligible children, if not all” will be covered.Prime Minister Narendra Modi described the milestone as encouraging news and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said it marked a big day for India’s fight against Covid-19.“Young and youthful India showing the way! This is encouraging news. Let us keep the momentum. It is important to vaccinate and observe all COVID-19 related protocols. Together, we will fight this pandemic,” Modi said in a tweet from his account, responding to an earlier tweet by Mandaviya.Data analysed by HT showed that while the pace has been impressive, especially in the first four days after the vaccination was opened for this age group, there has been a significant slowdown recently.This is not unusual, to be sure, since the launch of a new phase of vaccination is when most enthusiastic uptake typically happens. But it means that if the first half were covered in 16 days, it does not mean the next half will take the same amount of time.At its peak, between January 3 and 6, on average 5.67% of the eligible population took doses every day – at that rate, the full cohort should have been covered in 13-14 days. But the rate has slowed, and in the last five days, this pace was 1.58% a day.Encouragingly, however, at least half of the population will now be fully vaccinated by mid-February, in time for what is typically the examination season in the country. This is because these children right now are being administered Covaxin, the full course of which is given at a gap of 4-6 weeks.“The response has been excellent in children; and by next month we would hopefully have covered most eligible children with first dose, or probably all,” said a senior official in the health ministry, asking not to be named.Experts too said the response has been good.“The response has been good from Day 1. It could also do with the fact that the numbers (of infection) suddenly started to rise again and it probably brought people out of their comfort zone that many were in. We should see further rise in vaccination numbers in coming weeks,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, senior paediatrician, and group medical director, Apollo Hospitals.But, seeing the drop-off, the next half might need more convincing and the government will need to keep a watch for vaccine hesitancy. “When it comes to immunisation, last mile of the target is always the most difficult to achieve. People who come forward first are usually the vaccine eager ones, and once that rush settles down then comes those that could be hesitant and may not readily come forward,” said Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar.The response has also not been uniform across the country, with some states reporting as high as 90.6% (Andhra Pradesh) coverage of their eligible adolescent population while others showing as low as 9% (Punjab). Punjab, however, is very distant outlier at the bottom. No other state for which population projections are available has vaccinated less than a quarter of the 15-18 age group.Of the 23 states for which population estimates are available (north-eastern states other than Assam are clubbed together in these estimates), 16 have vaccinated at least half of their eligible teenagers, with 10 of them having covered 50%-60%.Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra – where the 15-18 population is the highest and the third highest in the country – have also vaccinated around 45% of the age group, suggesting that a large teenage population is not necessarily a roadblock to coverage.The decision to open up vaccination among children was precautionary, people familiar with the matter told HT. “The disease does not take severe form in most children but this is the most vulnerable group as it moves around much, which is why this group was chosen first,” said an official in the drugs controller’s office, on condition of anonymity.A second key factor is that children in these age groups have social contact patterns similar to adults. “This is largely the age in which children socially interact. It has been seen that adolescents largely behave like adults,” Dr NK Arora, chair, Covid-19 working group of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisations, said when the decision was announced.Expanding vaccination coverage to this age cohort also reduces the risk of infections among more vulnerable family members, a second expert added.“Children may show mild symptoms largely but they can bring infection home and elders and sick family members could be at risk. It was a good idea to open up vaccination for children,” said Dr JS Bhasin, director and head, department of paediatrics, BLK Hospital.
20-01-2022||India||BJP ties up with Apna Dal, Nishad Party in UP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday announced that it will contest all 403 seats in Uttar Pradesh “jointly” with its allies the Apna Dal and Nishad Party. The BJP also used the occasion to burnish its pro-Other Backward Classes (OBC) credentials; both the Apna Dal and the Nishad Party are built around a core OBC base. .Announcing the decision, BJP president JP Nadda said the party will contest with its “NDA partners just as it has done for the Lok Sabha elections”.While he did not specify the details of the seat-sharing agreement between the allies, Nadda said discussions on how elections would be fought and won were carried out without rancour.Anupriya Patel of the Apna Dal and Sanjay Nishad of the Nishad Party, who were present, spoke about the steps taken by the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state for the empowerment and uplift of the socially and economic marginalised communities.The party has been on an overdrive to dispel perceptions that its social engineering model built around support of non-dominant OBCs has come undone following the exit of three OBC ministers and several legislators over the past week.Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls in seven phases starting February 10 and ending March 7. Votes will be counted on March 10.The party is also tight-lipped about why it chose not to include the Janata Dal (United) in the coalition. The BJP and the JDU run a coalition government in Bihar but have chosen to contest elections separately in UP. “There was no word from the BJP on seat sharing so we chose to go alone. But the BJP must answer why it did not take along an ally that is also essentially an OBC party. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar being a Kurmi (OBC) would have added to the party’s pro-OBC claims,” a JDU leader said on condition of anonymity.A BJP leader in Delhi declined comment on the issue.Referring to the achievements of the BJP government in the state, Nadda said: “We have seen how the double engine government has given momentum to development in the state. When we say double engine, it means support from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and implementation of the work by chief minister Yogi Adityanath that has helped us bring change on the ground. We have seen a new picture of development emerge.”Nadda counted improved road and highway connectivity, and better education and social indicators, as examples of UP’s development. He said that unlike in the past, people do not migrate from the state anymore and UP has emerged as an “investment destination.”“Women and youth have been at the focus (of our policies). As far as law and order is concerned, we’ve seen it has vastly improved. When we see the scenario five years ago, there was migration, life came to a standstill post 7 pm., and there was a nexus between the government and the mafia. Today there is rule of law,” Nadda said.Patel, for her part, said the alliance government led to a mix of development and social justice. The Apna Dal has significant support among the OBC Kurmi community.Referring to the government’s pro-OBC policies she said it was the BJP that gave constitutional status to the OBC commission; made provisions for OBC reservation in NEET, and in government run Navodya and Sainik Schools.Patel , who is part of the Union cabinet, also expressed hope that the alliance will address pending issues such as her party’s demand for a separate ministry for OBCs.Nishad credited the BJP government for empowering the socially and economically marginalised and the fishermen’s community that he comes from. “Whatever the BJP says, it fulfils sooner than later whether it was abrogation of article 370 of the construction of Ram Mandir,” he said. He also added that the discussion with the BJP was on how to wining the elections and not seat sharing.While the official seat sharing announcement is awaited, people familiar with development said the two parties are likely to get more seats in proportion to their existing legislators and more than the last election.In 2017 the Apna Dal was an ally of the BJP and contested 11 seats, winning 9. The BJP’s other ally, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, which contested 8 seats and won 4 has since left the alliance and joined hands with the SP. The Nishad Party fought the 2017 elections alone and joined the National Democratic Alliance in 2019.
20-01-2022||India||Explained: US 5G issue and its implication for India’s carriers||Air India announced it was cancelling some of its most popular direct flights to and from cities in the United States and some of the aviation sector’s biggest names globally have sounded alarm at the expansion of 5G mobile services in American cities.The threat stems from the risk these airwaves pose to aircraft instruments, impacting at least some commonly used jets like the Boeing 777, which will need to undergo retrofitting to avoid the issue. The issue is unlikely to be a problem in Europe and Japan, where there have been enough changes in 5G deployment to ensure there is no interference, or in India , where the frequency band is different.The Directorate General of Civil Aviation in India said on Wednesday the issue is challenging for all stakeholders, and Boeing and Airbus last month warned that US operators alone could face revenue losses of up to $2 billion. US telecom majors AT&T and Verizon on Tuesday announced they were postponing activating 5G networks near airports for the time being.HT takes a look at the issues involved, the implications for India’s carriers and the country’s own plans for the 5G upgrade.Instrument interference riskAt the heart of the issue is the frequency at which the US telecom operators will run their 5G networks. AT&T and Verizon use the 3,700megahertz (mhz) and 3,980mhz frequencies in what is known as the C bband.The concern of the aviation industry is that this frequency band is very close to the 4,200 MHz – 4,400 MHz (4.2GHz to 4.4GHz) frequency that aircraft use for equipment and communications -- particularly in a device known as radar altimeters. “5G interference could adversely affect the ability of aircraft to safely operate,” wrote Dave Calhoun, CEO of Boeing and Jeffrey Knittel, CEO of Airbus, in a joint letter to the US Transportation secretary Pete Buttigieg, in December.Radio altimeters are critical for low-visibility landing, such as during spells of fog or heavy rain. They minimise the risk of accidents or collisions by accurate readings of the proximity to the ground.Arun Kumar, director general of DGCA said: “It (rolling out of 5G communications in the US) is challenging for all concerned. We hope some amicable resolution takes shape sooner than later.”Is India’s 5G plan also at risk?Several telecom companies, Reliance Jio, Airtel and Vi, are expected roll out 5G services later in 2022. “In the post-pandemic world, connectivity is an important issue and a bigger asset for the economy. It is essential that the country has the required spectrum to meet the escalating demands for wireless connectivity as they will form an integral part of the growth of the nation,” said Lt Gen Dr SP Kochhar, director general, Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI).At this time, India’s plans are unlikely to be affected because the band of radiowaves Indian telecom operators will use are further from the American C band, meaning there will be a large buffer to avoid interference.“It has been decided by the government that spectrum in the frequency range 3,300-3,670 MHz should be made available to telecom service providers for international mobile telecommunications (IMT) and 5G,” said the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in the latest consultation paper.“In general, we believe this will be the starting point (mid-band spectrum) since it offers good 5G performance, though lower than high-band spectrum,” said Sriram Rupanagunta, co-founder and senior vice president of Aarna Networks, a company that has expertise in private 5G networks.Rupanagunta added that several countries use 5G without such concerns and there are ways to address risks, such as by “reducing the power of the networks near the airports.”.The Federation of Indian Pilots (FIP) and Air India did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Reliance Jio, Airtel and Vi declined to comment, indicating that the COAI is the authorised body for dealing with these concerns.Approach by other countriesThe 5G implementation, including power levels of transmitters, frequencies, and proximity to flight operations have varied according to local guidelines, and there are differences with how more than 20 European Union countries have deployed 5G wireless transmitters near airports, compared with the US.“Multiple countries around the world are deploying C-Band 5G in a way that has much less risk of interference with radar altimeters. The reasons include the fact that other countries are using reduced power-level limits or increasing the frequency spectrum spacing between 5G and radar altimeters,” said Captain Joseph DePete, president of the Air Line Pilots Association International (ALPA), in a statement.Three main elements stand out. The transmitters (in Europe) have power capped at 613-watts, whereas rules in the US allow these to transmit at 1,585-watts—that’s two and a half times more. Second, transmitter deployment must give airports a buffer zone of 96 seconds of flight time, landing or take off. In the US, temporary guidelines factor in about 20 seconds as buffer.“In France, the government required that antenna must be tilted downward to limit harmful interference. Similar restrictions do not apply to the US deployment,” the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has noted.Similar guidelines for 5G networks in India, are yet to be finalised.CTIA, or Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association, in its latest report points out that Japan has deployed 5G base stations up to 4100 MHz, with no interference with aviation services in the country. That means just a 100 MHz buffer zone.“ ACMA considers that a 200 MHz guard band between WBB and radio altimeters is sufficient,” noted the Australian Communication and Media Authority in the latest guidelines for the use of the 3,700 MHz to 4,200 MHz band for 5G services.Wide disruptions feared at presentAccording to FAA, there are 137 aircraft in the United States and 1,010 worldwide that still stand to be affected due to the risk of the frequency overlap, and will require either retrofitting or the use of alternative methods during low visibility landing.An initial delay of the 5G roll-out, FAA said on January 3, allowed the aviation community and wireless companies to reduce the risk of delays and cancellations by getting more data, and identifying the nature of devices than can remain effective.Since last week, FAA began issuing restrictions that airlines and other aircraft operators will face at many airports with the launch of new 5G wireless service. “Aircraft with untested altimeters or that need retrofitting or replacement will be unable to perform low-visibility landings where 5G is deployed,” the agency had said in a statement.FAA, on January 16, cleared around 45% of the US commercial fleet to perform low-visibility landings at many of the airports where 5G C-band will be deployed. The agency also approved two radio altimeter models that are installed in a wide variety of Boeing and Airbus planes.The airplane models approved include some Boeing 737, 747, 757, 767, MD-10/-11s and Airbus A310, A319, A320, A321, A330 and A350s.Aviation safety expert Mohan Ranganathan said the situation was “definitely a threat to the aircraft but only when one uses any procedure or any equipment that involves the use of a radio altimeter”.“However, CAT I (category I) on the instrument landing system (ILS) or LNAV (lateral navigation) and VNAV (vertical navigation) approach, which is satellite based and doesn’t use radio altimeter to determine height, is not affected,” he added. .“By doing this (using these methods), they don’t have to cancel flights unless the weather conditions at the destination airport are bad. There is no need to panic,” Ranganathan said.“Unfortunately, DGCA has not really implemented a procedure for LNAV and VNAV use in India, unlike other parts of the world, hence we do not have satellite based approaches,” he added.The way forward: Frequency and equipment testingThe advantage that telecom players in India will have is the much wider buffer gap (around 530 MHz) between the highest range of the commercial C-Band for 5G and the lowest range of the C-Band used by aviation equipment. The other categories, which is low band 5G and mmWave networks, don’t at all interfere with aviation frequencies.It is expected that India will likely open mmWave frequencies at a later time for 5G networks, but not in the first phase of the rollout..
20-01-2022||India||Covid hospitalisations drop in Mumbai, Delhi’s plateau||In the ongoing third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mumbai seems to have gotten over the worst with hospitalisation numbers steadily dropping by the day, and Delhi seems to be getting there, with hospitalisation numbers plateauing.The two cities that were earliest urban hot spots of the Omicron wave, but in recent days, they have seen their case trajectories start to dip. And despite the reputation of Omicron causing relatively milder infections, both cities saw a spike in absolute number of hospitalisations, although those numbers have now declined in Mumbai and seem set to in Delhi too.Also read | Delhi reports 13,785 Covid cases, positivity rate at 23.86%In Mumbai, the seven-day average of daily infections was 8,816 cases a day for the week ended Wednesday – a drop of 50% from the peak of 17,523 average cases a day for the week leading to January 12. In Delhi, this peak came three days later, as average daily cases soared to 23,529 for the week ended January 15. Since then, this number has dropped 21%, with 18,607 new infections reported for the week ended Wednesday.From 1,874 beds occupied in Mumbai on December 30 (the earliest that this data is available), hospitalisation soared to 7,432 Covid patients admitted to hospitals on January 9, according to data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Since then, however, this number has dropped nearly every single day. As on Wednesday, only 5,058 beds are occupied by Covid patients in the city’s hospitals – a drop of 32% in 10 days.Also read | Maharashtra sees a spike over 4,000 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai records marginal dipIn Delhi, meanwhile, early signs of a peak in hospitalisations have started to emerge with the number of occupied beds stabilising. On Tuesday, the number of patients hospitalised with Covid dropped for the first time since the start of the Omicron wave -- from 2,784 (the highest so far in the latest wave) on Monday to 2,730 on Tuesday. On Wednesday, this saw a marginal increase to 2,734. And because the city’s peak came a few days after Mumbai’s , this number appears set to improve in the coming days.To be sure, hospitalisations in the Omicron surge still remained a fraction of what has been seen in previous waves.Further, neither of the cities ever looked like they were on the cusp of facing a crisis at the hospital level. Despite the rapid rise in daily infections (and even hospitalisations), authorities were able to add hospital beds in order to create a comfortable cushion of available beds.In Mumbai, on December 30 (the earliest that this data is made available by the BMC) there were 24,195 vacant beds in the city – the lowest this number has touched. In the three weeks since, this has consistently been improving. As on January 19, there are 33,051 beds available for Covid patients in the city – 37% more than the respective figure three weeks ago. In fact, bed availability in the city never dropped below the 25,000-mark.It is a similar story in Delhi. There were 8,646 beds available in the city on December 30, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin. In the three weeks since, this number has swelled 49% and stands at 12,869 on January 19.And even in terms of the proportion of overall bed availability occupied, even as cases picked up in the two cities in the Omicron wave, they always had at least around 80% of beds available at all times. Bed occupancy peaked at 21.4% in Mumbai on January 8 when 7,234 of the 33,803 hospital beds available in the city were occupied. In the 11 days since, this number has now dropped every single day (see chart). In Delhi, the highest proportion of beds occupied was on January 17 when 18% of the city’s 15,505 available beds had patients.This meant that throughout the surge in cases, the two cities had a large enough safety net in place to deal with hospitalisation rates several times the worst they have faced so far.“We are in the third week of the third wave, and we had anticipated the trends that we are seeing now,” said Mumbai’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “We recorded a higher number of cases during the first two weeks. The cases went down in the third week, but we had anticipated that a small number of people who will progress to severe disease will require ICU or ventilator care,” he said.A senior official of Delhi government’s health department said that while hospitalisations in the city have stabilised over the last four days, it is still too soon to confirm at a downward trend. “The hospital admissions have stabilised but we are yet to see a visible declining trend. However, since the hospitalisations were lower even during peak infection period in Delhi, it is a promising position.”Experts said that the number of people requiring hospital admission has been consistently low in recent weeks.“Patients are turning afebrile within a span of 4-5 days, and very few are requiring admissions,” said Dr Sujeet K Rajan, a respiratory medicine specialist from Bombay Hospital. “But some number of sicker patients requiring intensive care have started coming in over the past few days,” he said.Dr KK Talwar, former head of the Medical Council of India, who was also heading the Punjab government’s expert group on Covid during the second wave of the pandemic, said that Delhi is around two weeks behind Mumbai in its infection trajectory and is likely to follow similar patterns in infection and hospitalisations in the coming days. “Delhi is likely to follow similar patterns as Mumbai, just as Mumbai followed the patterns seen in South Africa. This fits into the clinical pattern of the Omicron spread,” Dr Talwar said. That’s a rapid spike in cases, few hospitalisations, and an equally sharp fall in cases.(With inputs from Soumya Pillai in Delhi and Jyoti Shelar in Mumbai)
20-01-2022||India||UP elections: Mulayam’s daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav joins BJP, praises Modi||Ending days of speculation, Aparna Yadav, the daughter-in-law of Samajwadi Party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in Delhi on Wednesday in the presence of Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, both OBC leaders from the poll-bound state.“Aparna is welcome in BJP family,” tweeted chief minister Yogi Adityanath.During the joining ceremony, Yadav praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi, spoke of being drawn to BJP’s “India first” ideology and said she will commit herself to “rashtra ki aradhana” (worship of the nation).Her entry into the BJP comes within days of the high profile exits of 14 important leaders, mainly OBCs, from the BJP to the Samajwadi Party.While welcoming her into the party, BJP leaders ensured that Aparna was repeatedly referred to as “adarniya neta Mulayam Singh ji ki putra vadhu (honourable leader Mulayam Singh ji’s daughter-in-law)” to make the point of having won over a key member of the Samajwadi Party’s first family.In Lucknow, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said ‘netaji’ (Mulayam Singh Yadav) had spoken to Aparna and attempted to stop her from joining BJP, but that he wished her well. The BJP however, wasted little time in targeting him.“First of all, I would like to congratulate and extend best wishes. I am also happy that our socialist ideology is expanding. I hope that our ideology will reach there and work to save the Constitution and democracy,” the SP president told reporters in his first response on the issue.Aparna Yadav too refrained from directly attacking her half-brother-in-law and said she would continue to be the “bahu (daughter-in-law)” of the Yadav family. “I will continue to be the bahu of the family and will fulfill all responsibilities,” she said, adding that the BJP leadership would take a call on from where she would contest and regions she may be sent to for campaigning.However, the BJP played up the family issue.“Akhileshji is not successful even in his family,” deputy CM Maurya tweeted.Swatantra Dev said Aparna Yadav joined the BJP as she knew that the party cared about the safety of women.With a diploma in international relations, Aparna Bisht Yadav is the wife of Prateek Yadav, Mulayam’s son from his second wife Sadhna and is now expected to contest on a BJP ticket, though the seat is still being discussed by party leaders who have assembled in Delhi to discuss candidates. In 2017, Aparna Yadav contested the elections from Brahmin-dominated Lucknow Cantt seat as a Samajwadi Party candidate but lost to BJP’s Rita Bahuguna Joshi.OBC communities played a significant role in the BJP’s win in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and 2017 state elections.During Aparna Yadav’s induction ceremony, several OBC leaders were present. It is being seen as the party’s outreach to OBCs amidst reports that they were leaning towards the SP.UP BJP vice president Daya Shankar Singh, who accompanied Aparna Yadav to Delhi, admitted that her induction had been in the works for the last 25 days, a period that coincided with heightened rebel activity within the BJP. After her formal induction, Aparna Yadav met other senior party leaders, including BJP president JP Nadda.(With PTI inputs)
20-01-2022||India||Akhilesh hints at contesting UP elections||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday hinted that he may contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, the first time he will be doing so.“If I decide to contest, I will contest (2022 assembly elections) with the permission of the people of Azamgarh, who got me elected to the Lok Sabha,” Yadav, the parliamentarian from Azamgarh, told reporters at SP HQ in Lucknow.If he does contest, it won’t be from Azamgarh. Responding to a question on whether he would be doing so, Yadav said he would likely pick a constituency that goes to polls before Gorakhpur, from where chief minister Yogi Adityanath will contest his first assembly election. Polling at Azamgarh will take place in the seventh phase (March 7) while Gorakhpur will go to polls in the sixth phase (March 3).“I will request the people of Azamgarh (for permission) and contest the poll from where the party decides. The election to seat (from where I contest) should be held before Gorakhpur so that I contest the poll before Yogi Ji,” said Yadav.Elections for the 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27 and March 3 and 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.Adityanath, who is also the chief priest of the Gorakhnath Math in Gorakhpur, is currently a member of state legislative council. Adityanath has won the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat five times.The SP chief had earlier indicated that he would not contest the assembly elections. When he was chief minister of Uttar Pradesh from 2012 to 2017, Yadav was member of the legislative council.With Adityanath in the fray, this will be the first time in 15 years that a serving chief minister will contest the assembly election. Last time, it was former SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav, who contested and won the Gunnaur assembly seat in 2007. His party lost to the BSP in that election, though.On Wednesday, Akhilesh Yadav also announced his party’s plan to re-launch the Samajwadi Pension Scheme if voted to power.“We launched the Samajwadi Pension Scheme for the poor when in government. We will relaunch the scheme and give them ₹18,000 per annum in place of ₹6,000 per annum paid earlier. This scheme provided financial support to 5 million families,” Yadav said.Meanwhile, talking about his sister-in-law Aparna Yadav’s decision to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the SP chief said he wants to convey his good wishes to her. He added that SP patriarch and his father Mulayam Singh Yadav made efforts to convince her to stay back.“First of all, I will congratulate and extend my good wishes. I am happy it’s expansion of the Samajwadi Party’s ideology. I hope our ideology will help save democratic institutions. Netaji Mulayam Singh Yadav made all efforts to convince her to stay back… I am happy they (BJP) are giving ticket to the ones who are not able to get a ticket from the Samajwadi Party,” he said.Uttar Pradesh BJP spokesperson Avnish Tyagi said, “By saying that he (Akhilesh Yadav) needs permission of people of Azamgarh Akhilesh Yadav is trying to evade contesting assembly elections. He does not have faith in people and thus making efforts not to contest assembly elections.”
20-01-2022||India||Will not contest Uttarakhand elections: Trivendra Singh Rawat||Former chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday expressed his unwillingness to contest the Uttarakhand assembly polls next month.In a letter to BJP national president JP Nadda, Rawat wrote that he wanted to dedicate his time “to ensuring the return of BJP in power in the 2022 polls”.The letter, which was widely circulated on social media on Wednesday, came on the day BJP was holding its central parliamentary board meeting in New Delhi to decide on the list of candidates for the upcoming elections. Uttarakhand assembly polls are scheduled to be held on February 14 and the counting of votes will take place on March 10.HT has seen a copy of the two-page letter dated January 19.“There has been a leadership change in Uttarakhand with the appointment of young leader Pushkar Singh Dhami as its CM. Hence, under the changed scenario, I think I shouldn’t contest the polls. I had already apprised the senior leadership about it earlier also,” Rawat wrote in the letter, while thanking the party leadership for giving him the opportunity to serve as the Uttarakhand CM.“Though, I will always remain the member of BJP. By not contesting the polls, I want to put all my efforts to ensure the return of party to power under the leadership of Dhami. Hence, I request you to accept by decision and allow me to dedicate fully for the above-mentioned cause.”Rawat also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “his support and blessings on the people of Uttarakhand while he was the CM”.The letter further read, “I am also grateful to the people of Doiwala constituency who elected me their representative in 2017 elections and gave me the opportunity to serve them,”Rawat resigned from the post of chief minister in March 2021, less than a year before the assembly polls, after serving the state for almost four years. Last year, he was replaced by Tirath Singh Rawat as CM. Since then, Tirath Singh Rawat has also been replaced by Dhami. (CHECK). Rawat’s exit was seen as an effort by the party to tackle anti-incumbency.Despite several attempts, Rawat couldn’t be contacted for a comment, but his media advisor Darshan Singh Rawat confirmed the authenticity of the letter. “Former CM Rawat doesn’t want to fight the polls as he wants to work for the party as a member only,” the media advisor told HT.When asked if the former CM wanted to contest from any other seat, Darshan said, “That can never be the case as Doiwala is his stronghold and has carried lot of development works there. However, the letter will be taken into consideration in the ongoing parliamentary board meeting, where if the senior leadership directs him to fight, then he will follow directions.”The BJP swept the assembly elections in 2017, winning 57 seats in the 70-member Uttarakhand legislative assembly. Congress won 11 seats.BJP state general secretary Kuldeep Kumar said, “The party has been apprised of the letter but as it has been addressed to the national president, a decision will be taken by the central leadership only.”
20-01-2022||India||India and US discuss Ukraine, Covid-19 in ‘wide-ranging talks’||Even as the confrontation between the United States (US) and Russia escalates over the situation in Ukraine, US deputy secretary of state, Wendy Sherman spoke to Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Wednesday on a range of global and bilateral issues.In a brief statement on the talks, state department spokesperson Ned Price said, “They discussed a broad range of issues including Russia’s concerning military build-up on Ukraine’s borders and regional issues.”Price noted that the two agreed to “remain closely coordinated on shared goals and priorities and reiterated the importance of a strong US-India partnership to mitigate the Covid-19 Omicron variant’s rapid advance”.In a tweet late on Wednesday night, the ministry of external affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that Shringla had a “wide-ranging telecon” with Sherman. They reviewed, among other issues, “upcoming bilateral engagements and the Covid pandemic, including supply of vaccines, and exchanged views on Indo-Pacific, Middle East, UNSC, India’s neighbourhood etc.” The Indian readout of the talks did not mention Russia or Ukraine.FS @harshvshringla had a wide ranging telecon today with US @DeputySecState Wendy Sherman.Inter alia reviewed upcoming bilateral engagements and the COVID pandemic, including supply of vaccines, and exchanged views on Indo-Pacific, Middle East, UNSC, India’s neighborhood, etc.The conversation between Sherman – who has been a key figure in talks with Russia and met her Russian counterparts in Geneva and Brussels last week – and Shringla comes a day after the White House warned that Russia could launch an attack on Ukraine “at any point”.Secretary of State Antony Blinken is in Kiev where he reassured Ukraine of US support, and is scheduled to travel to Germany to discuss a “unified response” to Russia’s actions with European allies and partners. He is also meeting his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, on Friday in Geneva in an effort to find common ground. The US has maintained that Russian de-escalation along Ukraine’s borders must be the first step to defusing the crisis, while Russia has sought broader guarantees on European security, including a commitment to limit NATO’s expansion and membership.For India, which enjoys a close strategic partnership with both US and Russia, the renewed tension between the two countries has been a matter of concern. This is particularly so at a time when New Delhi is hoping that the Joe Biden administration would waive off sanctions that would otherwise apply to India under the Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act for its acquisition of S-400 missile systems from Russia.
20-01-2022||India||SC to states: Ensure Covid ex-gratia claims resolved||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked states to make sure people are aware of the ex gratia being paid to the kin of those who lost their lives on account of Covid-19, and to ensure that claims were not rejected on technicalities. The affidavits filed by many of the states showed that they had received claims far in excess of the recorded Covid-19 deaths. For instance, Gujarat, which recorded 10,094 Covid-19 deaths according to government data, received 91,810 claims, of which, 5,761 were rejected while payment was made against 59,000. A similar jump was also witnessed by Maharashtra which recorded 141,835, the highest to be recorded by a single state in the country, but received 217,151 claims. Of this, the state government rejected 49,113 claims and paid against 100,271 claims, with the process still on. Passing a common order for all states, the bench of justices MR Shah and Sanjiv Khanna said: “No claim should be rejected on technical grounds and if there is any lacuna in the claim, the reason must be communicated to the concerned claimants and opportunity be given to rectify the mistake to ensure compensation is paid to them.” Similar increases were also seen in the affidavits of Andhra Pradesh (14,471 deaths according to the state and 41,292 claims), Telangana (3993 deaths and 28,969 claims), Tamil Nadu (36,825 deaths and 57,147 claims), Uttar Pradesh (22,928 deaths and 33.958 claims), and Chhattisgarh (13,600 deaths and 21,035 claims) . Madhya Pradesh and Odisha too saw increases, but marginal ones. But the court noted with concern that in many states, the number of claims failed to reach the actual figure of deaths recorded by them. The bench observed, “Our only anxiety is to see that no person should be deprived of compensation... If the applications received are less than the actual deaths it is a matter of concern. Figures in some states have shown phenomenal increase. But the very fact you have received less applications means there is less publicity by states/UTs. It may be the poorer section of the society which may be deprived of this information.” This was evident in the affidavits of Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Haryana, and Bihar , and also West Bengal, Assam, Jharkhand, and Himachal Pradesh. Kerala with reported deaths of 49,300 received 27,274 claims (23,652 paid), while Punjab received only 8,786 claims against 16,557 deaths. Finding it unfortunate that states were not complying with its earlier orders asking them to give wide publicity about the ex-gratia scheme, the bench said, “It is most unfortunate for us to call each state and ensure our order is complied with. Every state believes we are at their mercy, the people are at their mercy. In these matters, a proactive approach is needed as the payment must be made immediately and nodal officers appointed to ensure applications are processed soon.” Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, on whose petition the Court ordered payment of ex-gratia on June 30 and October 4, informed the Court that another bench of the Supreme Court is dealing with the case of children orphaned due to Covid-19. This information, he said, was available with the national commission for protection of child rights (NCPCR) which operates a centralized database n this regard on Bal Swaraj portal. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati appearing for Centre informed the Court that 10,000 children across the country lost both parents due to Covid-19. The bench directed the states to supply information about these children to the state legal service authorities (SLSA) and told states, “There has to be greater care by states to ensure the payment reaches to these children and not anyone else.” The Court also considered involving SLSAs to speed up filing of claims in states which have not showing promising figures. An order in this regard will be passed later, the bench said, while adjourning the matter to February 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scto-states-ensure-covid-ex-gratia-claims-resolved-101642617263212.html
20-01-2022||India||Goa elections: Shiv Sena, NCP declare alliance; say Congress not interested||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena on Wednesday announced an alliance for next month’s assembly elections in Goa and added that the Congress did not respond to their proposal of fighting the polls together. All the three parties are part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra. Addressing reporters, Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut and NCP leader Praful Patel said the two parties are also hoping for a post-poll arrangement with parties other than the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“We had thought that we should extend the MVA from Maharashtra to Goa. We thought that the Congress should play the major role and we (NCP and Shiv Sena) would contest some seats,” Patel said.“Up to 2012, Congress used to leave seven seats for the NCP in Goa. So, Sanjay Raut made a similar offer. We even conceded that the Congress will be the main party in fighting the elections jointly. To this proposal of ours, they never said no, but they never said yes… they never gave us an adequate number of seats or spoke of seats we were strong or capable of contesting, so it was an exercise where we felt the Congress was not giving us the due respect which we deserve,” he added. Patel continued: “I wish the Congress would have appreciated the larger picture and accommodated all the like-minded parties.” “We (Sena and NCP) had tried to make an alliance like the MVA in Goa too. But we did not get any positive response from the Congress,” Raut said. The two parties are looking at contesting around a dozen of the 40 assembly seats in the upcoming polls. “In Goa, there is a lot of confusion on the ground. There’s BJP, Congress, Trinamool Congress (TMC), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and other parties and in this overall confusion, the NCP and Shiv Sena thought that though we may not be in a position to form a government, we will have a respectable number of seats and can play an important role in the formation of the government,” Raut said. “We will decide on the seat arrangement and the list of candidates in the next few days,” he added.The state NCP leadership is hopeful of signing a poll pact with the Congress, with party leader José D’Souza claiming that talks remained stalled after initial progress in the matter. “Talks between the Congress and the NCP were not held at the local level but were at the central leadership level. We are not privy to the talks and the reasons why they did not work out,” Congress working president Aleixo Sequeira said.Both the NCP and Congress had fought the 2012 and 2017 assembly elections together. The NCP’s presence in the state, however, has dwindled ever since it was reduced to zero seats between 2012 and 2017 and won only one (Benaulim) seat in 2017.In 2017, the Congress had emerged as the single-largest party in Goa by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House, but could not come to power as the BJP, which bagged 13, allied with some independents and regional parties to form the government under Manohar Parrikar (now deceased). The Sena, on the other hand, has never won a seat in the state despite contesting successive elections either as independent or through an alliance. The electoral battle for Goa has become multi-cornered with the entry of Mamata Banerjee-led TMC and aggressive campaigning by the AAP. So far, poll tie-ups were forged between the regional Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and TMC, and between the Congress and the Goa Forward Party (GFP). Taking a swipe at Congress, TMC co-in-charge of Goa Sushmita Dev said: “Congress keeps complaining about the division of Opposition votes that will benefit the BJP. If that concern was genuine, it should have worked towards consolidating the anti-BJP votes in Goa.”Dev was referring to former Union minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram’s recent remarks that the Congress and BJP were the main contenders in Goa and that the AAP and the TMC would split the non-BJP votes if they decided to field their respective candidates.“It’s clear that the Congress has double standards. Let me add that in the Goa elections, the TMC has the people’s support while the Congress is seen as weak due to its failure to form the government in the past. We don’t work on the basis of conjectures. We have done ground surveys,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-shiv-sena-congress-declare-alliance-say-congress-not-interested-101642617203374.html
20-01-2022||India||UP elections: Hindu Yuva Vahini enters campaign mode after 5 years of dormancy||The Hindu Yuva Vahini (HYV), founded in 2002, when he was an MP, by Yogi Adityanath, has emerged after five years of dormancy, with the likely trigger being the the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) decision to field Adityanath from his and its base, Gorakhpur, in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.The HYV played an important role in Adityanath’s election campaigns in 2004, 2009 and 2014 and also propagated the message of Hindutva in rural areas of eastern UP. After Adityanath became chief minister in March 2017, units of the HYV in various districts of Gorakhpur were disbanded at the request of the BJP leadership over fears that it would function as a parallel political outfit. Its office-bearers and members who protested this move were expelled from it. This included HYV’s then state president Sunil Singh.Over the following five years, the HYV withdrew from political activities to focus on social issues, including ration distribution, building awareness about Covid-19 and Japanese Encephalitis, assisting migrant workers, and assisting local authorities in the implementation of development and welfare schemes.The announcement that CM Adityanath will be fielded from the Gorakhpur urban seat has charged members of the HYV. Though polling on this seat will be held in the sixth phase of UP polls on March 3, the HYV has already launched an intensive campaign to ensure Adityanath’s victory.In view of Covid-19 guidelines implemented by the Election Commission of India (ECI), the HYV has decided to organise door-to-door meetings, digital meetings, and strengthen its organisation at the booth level across the assembly segment, said PK Mall, general secretary, HYV.HYV office-bearers will hold a meeting with the chief minister over the election strategy and campaign when he arrives in Gorakhpur, Mall added.“Political activities of the HYV were dormant for around five years, but the organisation has been reactivated with the announcement of Yogi Adityanath’s candidature from the city seat. The outfit will hold meetings in all the wards and also campaign for BJP candidates in other assembly segments on the direction of the CM,” said Ram Laxman, a senior HYV leader and former students’ union leader of DDU Gorakhpur University.In the 2017 assembly elections, HYV leader Raghvendra Pratap Singh contested from Domariyaganj seat in Siddharthnagar. In a close contest, he defeated BSP candidate Saiyada Khatoon by a margin of 171 votes. In the 2022 assembly polls too, several HYV leaders are aspiring for BJP tickets.Adityanath raised the HYV in 2002 after his relationship with the BJP soured due to differences over ticket distribution in the assembly election. He challenged the BJP leadership by fielding Dr Radha Mohan Das Agarwal on a Hindu Mahasabha ticket against BJP candidate Shiv Pratap Shukla. Agarwal defeated Shukla, establishing Adityanath as the unchallenged leader of eastern UP, said Satyadeo Singh, a teacher in a government college in Gorakhpur.Soon, HYV volunteers were also entrusted with the task of propagating the Hindutva agenda promoted by the Gorakhnath mutt headed by Adityanath. From 300 members in 2002, the strength of the HYV increased to 1.5 million in 2017. In the Gorakhpur division alone, around half a million joined the outfit as it opened offices in villages.However, the activities of the HYV did not go down well with local BJP leaders who considered the outfit a “private force of Adityanath”. They urged the party leadership to curtail the activities of the HYV after Adityanath became CM, Singh added. 
20-01-2022||India||SC declines to recall order staying quota for OBCs in local body polls||No state or Union territory can be permitted to hold local body elections with 27% reservation for other backward classes (OBCs) without empirical data on the population and representation of OBCs, the Supreme Court held on Wednesday as it declined to recall its December 2021 order staying OBC quotas for Maharashtra local polls.The order comes after the apex court suspended OBC quotas for local body polls in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh for want of adequate data last month, and the Odisha high court cited the top court order to stay panchayat polls in Odisha for the same reason.“We are not going to recall our orders. States can’t provide reservation for OBC if they have not complied with the constitution bench judgment of this court, which was reiterated by a three-judge bench in its judgment last year. All states and Union territories (UTs) will have to complete the exercise of gathering empirical data, which will then be examined by the dedicated state commissions,” said a bench, headed by justice AM Khanwilkar.“There is no quarrel that the reservation has to be provided if the dispensation so provides, but this has to be in compliance with the judgment of the constitution bench and the three-judge bench. If the states have not acted after the 2010 constitution bench judgment, they will have to satisfy the triple test now. Until then, there cannot be any reservation for the OBC and election will have to be done on those seats as open category seats” emphasised the bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar.The 2010 constitution bench verdict laid down a triple test for reserving seats in local body polls: Setting up a dedicated commission to conduct contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of the backwardness with respect to local bodies, specifying the proportion of reservation in light of the commission’s proposals, and not exceeding the 50% quota cap as laid down by the top court in a landmark 1992 judgment.A three-judge bench relied on this five-judge bench verdict in March 2021 while holding that the triple test is a precondition for reservation to OBCs in local bodies.Wednesday’s order deals a blow to the efforts of several state governments that were looking to provide quotas to OBCs in local body elections, which currently only have seats set aside for scheduled castes (SCs) and scheduled tribes (STs), apart from women.State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said: “Until today, there was no way ahead except completing the triple test exercise. But today, the apex court allowed the state to submit the data to MSBCC and further allowed the commission to submit its interim report to the state government, which is a positive development.”In its order, the bench noted that it was for the respective state backward commissions to examine the data on OBCs as submitted by states and UTs, and then take a suitable view. It directed that the state election commission (SEC) will have to notify all OBC seats as open category seats for future elections to local bodies if states and UTs fail to satisfy the triple conditions laid down by the top court.“This observation must also govern the dispensation in all states which intend to hold elections by providing reservation for the OBCs. Without compliance with the triple test, state election commissions shall ensure that seats to future elections be notified as open category seats,” said the court.It also turned down a request made by the Union government to allow states and UTs to defer the local body elections until they could gather data on OBCs and have it vetted by the commissions.“We are not going to say ‘don’t hold elections’. We will not say until this exercise is complete, administrators will continue for an indefinite period. Where the term of the administrators have expired, we cannot allow them to continue indefinitely,” the bench told additional solicitor general KM Nataraj, who represented the Centre. Meanwhile, Chandrakant Bavkar, executive president, Jan OBC Morcha, said: “I don’t see it as a positive development and the way the state government is going ahead in this matter, I doubt that OBCs will get reservation in the upcoming local bodies’ electionsIn December 2021, the Supreme Court relied on its 2010 and March 2021 orders to decide that local body elections in Maharashtra will be held without any reservation for OBCs as the state failed to collect empirical data on OBCs. It directed the stat election commission to issue a fresh notification, declaring 567 seats out of a total of 2,100 as general category seats instead.Days later, the court also stayed the election process on seats reserved for OBCs in the municipal polls in Madhya Pradesh, asking the SEC to renotify the OBC seats as general category if the polls were to go on.The Maharashtra government moved the Supreme Court earlier this month, seeking a recall of the December 2021 order. The state government pointed out that the elections to 34 out of 37 zilla parishads, 313 out of 351 panchayat samitis and 9,000 village panchayats were due by March this year. “ OBC candidates will not get representation in the local bodies in the state for the next five years,” said the state’s plea.Similar applications were moved by the Centre and the Madhya Pradesh government, urging the court to recall its December order in the Madhya Pradesh case. Those pleas have not yet been heard.On Wednesday, senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, appearing for the Maharashtra government, urged the bench to recall its December order and instead allow the state to hold future elections on the basis of information and data already available with the states concerning the OBCs.The bench, however, made it clear that the triple test was to be complied with by the state and that the Supreme Court could not examine the correctness or otherwise of the data that the state seeks to reply upon.It then passed an order asking the state backward classes commission to vet the data being cited by the state government within two weeks and then make appropriate recommendations to the state government and the SEC.“The data and information may be furnished before the dedicated commission to enable the latter examine it and submit interim recommendations, which can be acted upon in terms of the law. This obviously would not obviate the triple test which had to be completed by the state under the 2021 judgment before providing reservation of seats for OBC in local bodies,” added the bench in its order.
20-01-2022||India||Goa elections: AAP declares Amit Palekar as CM face||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced the name of lawyer-turned-politician Amit Palekar as the party’s chief ministerial face for next month’s assembly elections in Goa.A prominent lawyer, 46-year-old Palekar will contest the February 14 Goa assembly elections from St Cruz constituency, which is currently represented by Antonio Fernandes from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The constituency covers Palekar’s village, Merces.Announcing the party’s CM candidate in Panaji, Kejriwal said it chose an “honest man”. “We promised to give Goa a chief ministerial candidate whose heart beats for Goa and who is willing to give his life for Goa. Amit Palekar is the one who is ready to even give his life for Goa. He is an honest man,” Kejriwal said.“Goa wants a change and AAP has been getting a tremendous response in the coastal state. People are impressed with the Delhi model of governance,” Kejriwal, the Delhi chief minister, said.Palekar, who joined the AAP in October, 2021, is making his debut in electoral politics. His name has been doing the rounds as the party’s CM candidate ever since Kejriwal said in November that the party would pick someone from the Bhandari community. Palekar belongs to the community, classified under the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in Goa.“You have seen the dirty politics of the last five years and in the last two months you have seen it fall to such a level that the Goans have begun to feel ashamed. We have entered politics to change this and are asking for one chance to bring a change,” Palekar said.His reference is to the state of defections seen in the state. As a lawyer, Palekar handled several prominent cases, including defending former minister Francisco “Mickky” Pacheco, who was on the run from the police in connection with the death of his family friend Nadia Joelle Torrado, who died by suicide in 2010. More recently, Palekar represented liquor licence holders, who were battling the Supreme Court’s order banning sale of liquor in the vicinity of national highways. He also represented one of the parties demanding better healthcare facilities during the peak of the second Covid-19 wave in Goa in May last year.“Other parties have sold Goa. Check their balance sheets. They have only indulged in corruption. People want clean and corruption-free governance. Do we want the same corrupt people who have been running the government or do we want clean faces that can take Goa forward,” Palekar said, while thanking party leader Kejriwal for “this opportunity”. AAP has already announced it will contest all 40 seats in Goa, which will go to the polls on February 14. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.“Palekar needs to show some body of work -- social work -- to really be considered a viable person who can represent the community. He has nothing to show for it. Few can’t fire a few fireworks and say that it is actual work and support yourself as the Chief Ministerial’ face,” BJP’s Anil Hoble, who is also a leader from the Bhandari Samaj, said.Congress leader Amarnath Panjikar said announcing a “CM face had no meaning” when the party wasn’t going to win a single seat. “They do not have a base in Goa and as such, announcing a CM face holds no significance. Instead, they are only trying to foment divisions in society through claiming justice for the community,” Panjikar said.“It remains to be seen if AAP will come up to a number of MLAs where they will be in a position to decide who will be the CM, let alone from their own party. I am not necessarily concerned about AAP appointing a Bhandari CM but their announcement of the same has opened a debate where Bhandaris are wondering about their political position and representation in the legislature,” independent analyst Kaustubh Naik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-aap-declares-amit-palekar-as-cm-face-101642616183021.html
20-01-2022||India||Covid ex gratia roll-out: SC summons chief secretaries of AP and Bihar||Taking exception to the slow pace at which Covid-19 ex gratia is being rolled out by some states, the Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the chief secretaries of Bihar and Andhra Pradesh to appear before it, stating that people cannot be left at the mercy of the executive.Andhra Pradesh had recorded 14,471 Covid-19 deaths, but following the orders by the Supreme Court in June and October for providing ex gratia compensation of ₹50,000 for all Covid-19 deaths, the criteria for recording deaths was relaxed and fatalities that occurred within 30 days of a person testing Covid positive was entitled to compensation. As a result, Andhra received 36,205 claims as on January 16. However, the state succeeded to pay compensation to only 11,464 persons.Unhappy over the slow pace by the state, a bench of justices MR Shah and Sanjiv Khanna said, “It is unfortunate that despite our earlier directions to pay compensation to kin or family members of persons who died due to Covid-19, and time and again directions issued, there is total callousness and negligence on part of Andhra Pradesh.”Advocate Mahfooz Nazki appeared for Andhra Pradesh and informed the top court that about 31,000 claims had been found in order and will be paid shortly. The bench recorded this figure in its order and said, “It appears the state is not at all serious on compliance of this court’s order and directions issued. No justification has been shown by the counsel for not making payment to those whose applications are found to be in order. This will tantamount to disobedience of our earlier order for which the chief secretary is liable for action under the Contempt of Courts Act.”The court had directed the chief secretary to be present at 2pm. Nazki requested the court not to issue a show cause notice and sought time to report full compliance. The bench said, “It is unfortunate that directions of this court are taken so lightly. Your chief secretary and chief minister are not above law. People are not at your mercy. This is an order by the court and you are not obliging us by following it.”Bihar, too, came in the line of fire as despite recording deaths of 12,009, the state received only 11,095 claims while payment was made only to 9,821 persons.The bench said, “In these matters, payment has to be made immediately as these families are in need of money. A proactive approach is needed by the administration by appointing a nodal officer to ensure claims are processed at the earliest.”The Supreme Court had directed the chief secretary of Bihar to be present at 2pm. Advocate Akshay Shrivastava, appearing for the state, told the court that according to the latest figures, payment has been made to 10,782 persons out of more than 12,000 deaths.“We are not ready to believe that only 12,000 persons died in Bihar. What is the actual figure? Now in many states, the actual death figure has increased because now they are honest. Tell your chief secretary to remain present,” the bench observed.The court is examining the implementation of state-wise Covid-19 ex gratia roll-out and had been insisting on wider publicity of the scheme to ensure the benefit reaches the targeted beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-ex-gratia-roll-out-sc-summons-chief-secretaries-of-ap-and-bihar-101642587019826.html
20-01-2022||India||Need a system with no place for discrimination, says PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday kicked off the “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” commemorating 75 years of India’s Independence by stressing the need for “a system in which there is no place for discrimination and a society that stands firmly on the foundation of equality and social justice”.“Light a lamp in the heart of every citizen of the country - the lamp of duty. Together, we will take the country forward on the path of duty, then the evils prevailing in the society will also be removed and the country will reach new heights,” Modi said at an event of the “Brahma Kumaris”, a spiritual organisation.He added that in the last 75 years, the conversation has revolved around “rights, fighting for rights, fighting, wasting time”. “Speaking of rights, to some extent, for some time, maybe true in any one circumstance but forgetting one’s duties completely has played a huge role in keeping India weak,” he said.Modi hit out at those attempting to “tarnish the country’s image” abroad by publishing “misinformation”. “We cannot get away from this by saying that this is just politics. This is not politics; this is the question of our country. Today, when we are celebrating the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, it is also our responsibility that the world should know India properly,” he said.The commemoration of 75 years of Independence will begin with the Republic Day celebrations. The celebrations will, from this year, start on January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose as part of the government’s “focus to commemorate important aspects of our history and culture”.Modi paid tribute to the women, who played a key role in India’s freedom struggle. “From Kittur’s Rani Chennamma, Matangini Hazra, Rani Lakshmibai, Veerangana Jhalkari Bai to, in the social sphere, Ahilyabai Holkar and Savitribai Phule.... It is because of these women that today the country’s daughter can join the armed forces,” he said. “Even in the country’s democratic setup, women are playing a bigger role. Women outvoted men in the 2019 polls. Now, society itself is guiding such change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-a-system-with-no-place-for-discrimination-modi-101642668809716.html
20-01-2022||India||PM to launch India-assisted projects with Mauritius counterpart Jugnauth today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Mauritius counterpart Pravind Kumar Jugnauth will jointly inaugurate an India-assisted social housing project in Mauritius during a virtual event on January 20. The two leaders will also launch the civil service college and an 8-MW solar power project in Mauritius that are being undertaken with India’s development support, the external affairs ministry said on Wednesday. An agreement on extending a $190-million line of credit from India to Mauritius for the Metro Express Project and other infrastructure projects, and a memorandum of understanding for implementing small development projects will be exchanged, the ministry added. The development comes close on the heels of Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi’s visit to Indian Ocean states such as Sri Lanka, Comoros and the Maldives, during which the Chinese side unveiled several economic projects. Mauritius is a key part of India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy and New Delhi has extended support for a wide range of projects in the African island nation. India also supported Mauritius in the initial stages of the Covid-9 pandemic by providing vaccines and medical supplies.In February last year, India and Mauritius signed a free trade agreement that was aimed at making the island nation a hub for Indian investments in the region, and New Delhi extended a $100-million line of credit to fund purchases of defence hardware. At the time, the two sides also signed two other pacts for leasing a Dornier aircraft and a Dhruv advanced light helicopter for monitoring the exclusive economic zone of Mauritius. The comprehensive economic cooperation and partnership agreement (CECPA) signed with Mauritius was India’s first free trade agreement with any African country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-india-assisted-projects-with-pm-jugnauth-in-mauritius-today-101642615763050.html
