21-01-2022||India||Channi: Will file defamation case against Kejriwal over post on ED raids||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said he will file a defamation case against his Delhi counterpart and Aam Aadmi Party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal for dubbing him a “dishonest” person, after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided a few premises, including one linked to the Congress leader’s nephew, earlier this week. “I have sought permission from the Congress high command to file a defamation case against AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal for posting a morphed photograph of mine with cash on his official social media accounts and calling me a dishonest person. It is highly condemnable and unacceptable,” Channi told reporters. The Congress leader recalled how Kejriwal had made derogatory remarks against other political leaders in the past and had to apologise to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Nitin Gadkari and Arun Jaitley, besides Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia.“Similarly, now before the elections, Kejriwal is playing cheap political tactics by launching malicious and dubious attacks on me,” the Punjab chief minister said. “It is unacceptable to see him blame me for the ED raid on my relative, even though I have nothing to do with it. Had I been involved, ED would have arrested me by now. But Kejriwal, without any proof, levelled baseless allegations and crossed all limits by posting my doctored photograph with cash on social media,” he added. Analysts consider AAP and the Congress to be the front-runners in the Punjab election, which is scheduled for February 20. Results will be announced on March 10. Kejriwal earlier announced that Bhagwant Mann would be his party’s chief ministerial candidate. The Congress is yet to announce its CM candidate, with both Channi and the head of the state party unit Navjyot Singh Sidhu keen on the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channiwill-file-defamation-case-against-kejriwal-over-post-on-ed-raids-101642789178661.html
21-01-2022||India||To curb drug trafficking, Rajasthan police to set up Special Task Force||To restrict the increasing cases of smuggling of narcotic substances, the Rajasthan Police department has proposed to set up a special investigation team headed by an ADG rank official. A proposal for the same has been prepared by the state police, which will be sent to the Rajasthan government. The state is witnessing an increase in cases related to narcotics – 1,878 cases were lodged in 2018, which increased to 2,589 in 2019, 2,731 in 2020, and 2,989 in 2021. According to the proposal, the task force will be headed by an additional director general of police rank officer. This special wing will work across the state, solely focusing and working against narcotics and its rampant smuggling. Additional Director General of Police, Crime, Ravi Prakash said in view of the increasing cases of narcotics and for effective monitoring, a proposal for a special task force has been prepared, which will soon be sent to the government. A senior official familiar with the development said Rajasthan has areas where the poppy husk is grown such as Chittorgarh, Pratapgarh, Jhalawar, and Kota. Earlier, the state used to give licences for its cultivation but it has been stopped. The farmers do not destroy the residual crop, which is later sold in the grey market. Besides, the use of drugs and tablets in the Hanumangarh and Ganganagar areas is also increasing. The young generation is coming in contact with such substances, he said. In a recently held review meeting of the Home Department, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has said that the modus operandi of crime has changed with the passage of time. There are a lot of complaints related to cyber-crime. He also directed to set up a dedicated unit to check the illegal trade of narcotics and drugs in the state. The chief minister said that according to the changing times, the police should make the maximum use of information technology and various platforms on social media. This month, the Odisha government has also constituted a special task force against drug trafficking and drug abuse. The mandate of the task force will be to coordinate, suggest action in drug demand reduction, raise community awareness, increase community participation and public cooperation, focused intervention in schools, colleges and among the youth. 
21-01-2022||India||Myanmar national held in Mizoram with 2,500 kg of explosives||A Myanmar national along with two others was arrested in Mizoram with 2,500 kilograms of explosives and 4,500 metres of detonators. The Assam Rifles recovered the explosives and arrested the three men while carrying out an operation on Thursday night. Acting on a tip-off, Lunglei Battalion of Headquarters 23 Sector Assam Rifles under the aegis of Headquarters Inspector General Assam Rifles (East) along with the Mizoram Police carried out an operation and recovered war-like stores in General Area Zawngling, Saiha district on Thursday. The recovered items comprise 2,500 kilograms of explosives and 4,500 metres of detonators, Indian currency amounting to ₹73,500, Myanmar currency of Kyat 9,35,000 and a vehicle (with registration number MZ 07 7936), said Major Rawat from Assam Rifles headquarters, Masimpur, Assam. “Two Indian citizens and a Myanmar citizen from the Chin National Front (CNF), who transported the explosives and detonators, have been apprehended in the operation,” Major Rawat said.CNF is a Chin nationalist political organisation fighting for a federal union based on self-determination, ethnic equality and democracy in Myanmar. Its armed wing is the Chin National Army (CNA), Rawat said. Major Rawat also indicated that the Assam Rifles had prevented the loss of precious lives of civilians by recovering these items. However, the team did not reveal the identity of those arrested to maintain secrecy and proceed further in the investigation of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/myanmar-national-held-in-mizoram-with-2-500-kg-of-explosives-101642787859914.html
21-01-2022||India||Union minister thrashed us with chair, say 2 Odisha officials; he calls it a ploy||BHUBANESWAR: Two Odisha government officials on Friday accused Odisha MP and union minister Bishweswar Tudu of assaulting them with a chair because they didn’t bring an official file with them to a meeting called by Turdu at the local Bharatiya Janata Party office in Baripada town of Mayurbanj district.Turdu, the union minister of state for tribal affairs and jal shakti, represents Mayurbhanj constituency in the Lok Sabha.Mayurbhanj district planning board assistant director Debasish Mohapatra, who reportedly ended up with a broken arm, said he along with deputy director Aswini Mallick were called for a review meeting of MPLADs scheme at the minister’s office in Baripada town’s BJP office on Friday afternoon when Tudu suddenly flew into a rage and started beating them up with a plastic chair.Tudu, who was elevated as a union minister in last year’s cabinet reshuffle, however, rejected the charge. “These are typical ploys by (Biju Janata Dal) ahead of the panchayat polls to derail our campaign. I am more focussed on the party campaign,” he said.Voting for Odisha’s panchayati raj institutions is scheduled in five phases between February 16 and 24. The counting of votes will be held on February 26, 27 and 28Mohapatra and his colleague, deputy director Ashwini Mallick, insisted that the minister was wrong.“My left hand was fractured due to the sudden attack by the minister,” Mohapatra said from the hospital bed. Hours later, they filed a formal complaint against the ministerInspector Birendra Senapati of Baripada town police station said the investigation in the case is on. A first information report (FIR) has been registered under sections 323 (Voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (grievous hurt), 294 (using obscene words) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at Baripada town police station.Deputy director Ashwini Mallick said the minister’s personal assistant first asked them on Thursday to meet the minister at the party office along with a file related to Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) on Thursday but they declined, citing the code of conduct that has kicked in due to the panchayat polls.“We told his PA that the minister can come to the district planning office or we can meet him in the Circuit House with the file. On Friday morning, he again called up asking us to visit him at a shopping mall in Baripada with the file. Later, his PA said we can meet him at his party office with the necessary information (but without the file) which we agreed,” said Mallick.Mallick said when he and Mohapatra met the minister at the latter’s party office, he lost his temper because they hadn’t brought the MPLADS file. “He verbally abused us and then started hitting us with a plastic chair without any provocation. We somehow managed to run away,” said Mallick. Tudu, who once worked as an engineer with the state water resources department, has been at loggerheads with the state government, accusing it of creating hurdles in the implementation of various central government welfare schemes.The union minister landed in a controversy in October last year after a video of his outburst against government officials at a review meeting in Odisha’s Keonjhar district emerged. In this, the minister was heard saying that in his home district Mayurbhanj, officers would be given a sound thrashing for neglecting their duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-thrashed-us-with-chair-say-2-odisha-officials-he-calls-it-a-ploy-101642787378371.html
21-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave: Delhi's R-value drops below 1; Karnataka withdraws curbs | 5 points||The weekend lockdown in Delhi, imposed two weeks ago, will be in place this weekend too, as lieutenant governor Anil Baijal rejected the Delhi government's proposal to lift the weekend lockdown. However, private offices are now allowed to operate at 50% capacity instead of a complete work from home. Karnataka has withdrawn the weekend restriction starting from this week only. Sunday lockdown will be in place in Tamil Nadu as well.Here are 5 points about the present Covid-19 situation of the country:1. Delhi on Friday reported 10,756 fresh infections and 38 fatalities. Mumbai, at the same time, reported 5,008 new infections and 12 deaths. The 24-hour tally of Bengaluru was 29,068. Kerala reported 41,668 fresh infections.2. Maharashtra is preparing to reopen schools from Monday. Pune on Friday reported 16,618 fresh infections in the highest single-day addition so far.3. In a major drop of the R-value (reproduction value) which denotes the rate of the transmission of the infection among people, India's reproduction value stood at 1.1 on January 18. a significant fall from 2.24 on January 13, 4.03 on January 19, the Cambridge tracker of India's Covid-19 pandemic said.4. The reproduction value of Covid in Delhi (0.68), Maharashtra (0.87) and West Bengal (0.69) has fallen below 1 indicating that the transmission of the infection has slowed down in these places.5. India on Friday reported 3,47,254 fresh infections a day after the 24-hour tally breached the 3 lakh mark in the ongoing third wave of the pandemic. According to scientific projections, India's daily tally will not cross 4 lakh in the third wave and will fall below 3 lakh by end of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-delhi-s-r-value-drops-below-1-karnataka-withdraws-curbs-5-points-101642785950392.html
21-01-2022||India||Assam political parties oppose land-swap deal with Meghalaya to solve border row||Several political parties in Assam have opposed the proposed plan of Assam and Meghalaya governments to end the five-decades-old border dispute between them with a give and take formula by swapping border areas. On Thursday, chief ministers of both states had met union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and apprised him of the recommendations of regional committees of the two states which suggested division of 6 of the 12 disputed areas. As per the recommendations, of the total 36.79 sq km disputed land in six areas-Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra--Assam would get 18.51 sq km while Meghalaya would get 18.28 sq km. The recommendations were approved by cabinets of both states. “Have Assam or Assamese people encroached on land of other neighbouring states? No, we haven’t. But now in the name of resolving border dispute, Assam government has agreed to give our land, which was encroached by Meghalaya,” Raijor Dal president and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi said in a statement. “Imagine, I encroach a 10 ‘bigha’ plot that belongs to you. Soon a controversy erupts over it. To sort it, discussions are held and I was asked about my view. I said that I want the plot I encroached. This was agreed by both sides. This is the formula arrived at to solve the Assam-Meghalaya border row,” he added. Gogoi said that if the same measure is used to sort out the other 6 disputed areas with Meghalaya, Assam would lose more land. And by that same yardstick, Assam would lose a total of 690 sq km of its land to sort out border disputes with Meghalaya, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. “The land swap deal done by Assam government by overlooking views of residents in those disputed areas has revealed that Assam would stand to lose. While we will give away our land to Meghalaya, the neighbouring state would hand us Assam’s land, which it had earlier encroached upon,” president of Assam Jatiya Parishad, Lurinjyoti Gogoi, said in a statement. “As per information tabled by the Assam government in the assembly on several occasions, Meghalaya had encroached nearly 35 sq km of our territory. As per the new formula agreed by both states, Assam and Meghalaya would each get half of that land. Is this an agreement or surrender?” he questioned. Both regional parties, Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad blamed Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma of failing to listen to views of Assam’s populace and also of overlooking constitutional provisions while agreeing to give away the state’s land to Meghalaya. Earlier, Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the two biggest opposition parties in the state assembly, had also opposed the land swap deal with Meghalaya and urged the BJP-led Assam government to discuss the issue in detail in the assembly before taking any hasty decision. 
21-01-2022||India||Assam Padma Shri awardee accused of raping minor sent to judicial custody||A Padma Shri awardee from Assam was on Friday sent to 14 days of judicial custody on charges of allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl who was in his foster care. Uddhab Bharali, a serial innovator who had won the Padma Shri in 2019, was sent to judicial custody by the court of chief judicial magistrate of Lakhimpur district after he surrendered before it on Friday. On Thursday the Gauhati High Court had cancelled Bharali’s anticipatory bail based on an audio-visual statement of the victim who alleged that the accused had subjected her to rape. Last month, police in Lakhimpur district had booked the 59-year-old under section 6 of the POCSO Act for aggravated penetrative sexual assault against the 13-year-old victim and sections 376 and 354 of IPC for rape and using criminal force to outrage modesty. But on December 28, based on a petition by Bharali, Justice Arun Dev Choudhury of Gauhati High Court granted interim bail for three-weeks to the Padma winner “considering the antecedents of the petitioner” with directions not to contact the victim or try and influence investigation. According to details of the case, two minor girls were placed under the foster case of Bharali and his wife by the Lakhimpur district child welfare committee (CWC) in August 2020. But in October last year, when he failed to renew the annual agreement of foster care despite repeated intimations, the CWC asked Bharali to produce both girls (one of whom had turned an adult) before them. After Bharali took both girls to the CWC, they remained in their care since October 28 last year. In December, the CWC asked Bharali to return the foster care agreement and on December 17 they cancelled the agreement on the ground that the minor child wasn’t willing to return to Bharali’s home. A CWC member informed on condition of anonymity that the minor disclosed that she was repeatedly raped by Bharali while she was in his home. On December 17, the CWC forwarded the matter to the district legal services authority (DLSA) who in turn conducted a medical test of the child and informed about it to the local chief judicial magistrate (CJM). Based on the DLSA report and preliminary findings, which confirmed rape, the CJM directed the police to file a case. While the police registered the case on December 18, Bharali wasn’t arrested and it allowed him time to apply and secure interim bail on December 28. Bharali has maintained his innocence and stated that he has some dispute with CWC chairman Anil Kumar Borah and that the FIR was filed “to humiliate and malign his reputation”. Borah, however, refuted the accusation. 
21-01-2022||India||Shifting of Amar Jawan Jyoti, new Netaji statue trigger political protest in Bengal||The West Bengal Congress and Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday opposed the shifting of the Amar Jawan Jyoti in New Delhi and criticised the Prime Minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for announcing a new statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at the India Gate. Narendra Modi announced on Friday that a statue of Netaji would be set up at India Gate in the heart of the national capital and till it is made there will be a three-dimensional holographic statue which he will inaugurate on Bose’s 125th birth anniversary on January 23. “At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him,” tweeted the Prime Minister and posted images of the holograph and the proposed statue. “Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary,” said a second tweet from the Prime Minister. During the day, the Centre also moved the torches at Amar Jawan Jyoti - a memorial set up in Delhi in 1972 by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi as homage to Indian soldiers who laid down their lives in the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War - to the newly constructed National War Memorial nearby. The TMC criticised both the decisions. “Indira Gandhi had lit the Amar Jawan Jyoti after the 1971 Bangladesh War. L K Advani compared her to Goddess Durga for that victory against Pakistan. Modi, on the other hand, set up the National War Memorial in 2019. Both flames could have been allowed. The BJP and the RSS had no contribution in India’s freedom struggle. The BJP wants to wipe out our history and present a distorted narrative,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy. Though he welcomed the decision to set up a new statue of Netaji, Roy said it was an effort to divert people’s attention from the protest against denial to the tableau on Netaji that the Bengal government planned for the Republic Day parade in Delhi. “The Centre could have allowed the tableau. They rejected it because of their narrow-minded politics. The Centre wants to install the statue because the BJP has been exposed. It has no respect for our national heroes,” said Roy. Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also targeted the BJP, saying it had insulted soldiers of the Indian army. “The BJP wants to distort every episode in history. The shifting of the flame is an insult to soldiers who laid down their lives. Similarly, the announcement on a new statue of Netaji is a hasty afterthought to divert public attention from the denial to the tableau. The BJP is doing politics with Netaji with an eye on elections,” Chowdhury said. Netaji’s daughter, Anita Bose-Pfaff, who lives in Germany, told news agency PTI on January 17 that Bose’s legacy has often been exploited for political reasons. “.....the opening of the anniversary year was celebrated in a bigger way, of all places in Kolkata, had something to do with election and election prospects in Bengal. The fact that nothing happened this year…..certainly the issue is not as important as last year,” she had told PTI in an interview. In January last year, the Prime Minister announced the formation of a high-level committee headed by him for holding year-long programmes to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Bose. The 85-member committee included union ministers, parliamentarians from Bengal, chief ministers, historians and members of the Bose family. Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, former prime ministers, Manmohan Singh and H D Deve Gowda and Congress leaders, Ghulam Nazi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury were made members of the committee. “This is a befitting tribute to the legendary Netaji, who gave everything for India’s freedom. Netaji is an epitome of India’s true strength & resolve. Congress has left no stone unturned to forget the immortal contributions of India’s brave son,” Shah tweeted on Friday. Netaji’s grand-nephew Chandra Kumar Bose, a BJP leader from Bengal, is also a member of the committee. Bose, who had criticised the BJP on several occasions in the past, said during the controversy over the tableau that the committee was defunct. “Tug of War with #Netaji Tableau- no one thought about the content being displayed on the Tableau depicting #NetajiINA! People questioning the expertise of the #Expert Committee to judge the history being projected! What was the necessity of the #High-Level Committee when it is defunct,” Bose tweeted on Wednesday. Defending the Centre, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said: “The Congress and the Leftists, who made all efforts to downplay Netaji’s role in the freedom struggle, are raising their voice when the BJP is celebrating Netaji’s birthday as Parakram Diwas (day of valour). This is nothing but an effort to create an unnecessary controversy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shifting-of-amar-jawan-jyoti-new-netaji-statue-trigger-political-protest-in-bengal-101642784022281.html
21-01-2022||India||Daily Covid cases likely to drop below 3 lakh by end of January: Cambridge tracker||The Cambridge tracker of Covid pandemic, a tracker developed by the UK's University of Cambridge, in its latest report, said India will reach the peak of the 3rd wave on January 24 and by the end of January, the trend value of reported daily cases will drop below 3 lakh. As on January 18, when the latest report has been published, the global R-value stood at 1.1, showing a declining trend in the transmission of the disease.Daily cases are clearly past their peaks in Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and West Bengal, in terms of their underlying trends. Their reproduction numbers are below one and daily growth rates are negative, the report said.According to the report, Daily cases in Chandigarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Mizoram, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh can be expected to peak within this week. Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh are likely to peak towards the end of January.Covid 3rd wave: India unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases per day, scientists project The peak is not yet in sight for Kerala, where the daily growth rate appears to be approaching its plateau at 21%.States which have an R-value over 1, as estimated on January 18, include Andra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, J&K, Karnataka, Kerala, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand.The R-value indicates the rate of transmission of the infection. If it is over 1, it means one infected person is spreading the infection to more than 1 person. A value below 1 indicates a declining trend.On Friday, India reported 3,47,254 fresh infections and 703 fatalities.  On Thursday, the 24-hour tally was a little over 3 lakh 17,000 which was the highest spike in the last eight months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-cases-likely-to-drop-below-3-lakh-by-end-of-jan-cambridge-tracker-101642782190717.html
21-01-2022||India||India, Canada to probe death of 4 Indians including infant who died near US border||NEW DELHI: Indian authorities will work with their Canadian counterparts to investigate the death of four Indian nationals from exposure to severe cold on the Canadian side of the border with the United States during an apparent human smuggling operation.External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday directed the Indian envoys to the US and Canada to respond to the incident. The Indian nationals, including an infant, reportedly died after they were abandoned near the US border. The dead also included a male teenager, an adult male and an adult female who are yet to be identified. US authorities have arrested a 47-year-old resident of Florida named Steve Shand for allegedly “smuggling undocumented foreign nationals”. Reacting to the development, Jaishankar tweeted: “Shocked by the report that 4 Indian nationals, including an infant have lost their lives at the Canada-US border. Have asked our Ambassadors in the US and Canada to urgently respond to the situation.” Ajay Bisaria, India’s high commissioner to Canada, described the incident as a “grave tragedy”.“An Indian consular team is travelling today [Friday] from @IndiainToronto to Manitoba to coordinate and help. We will work with Canadian authorities to investigate these disturbing events,” he tweeted.On Wednesday, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) in the province of Manitoba received information that the US Customs and Border Protection (USBP) had apprehended a group of individuals who crossed into the US from Canada near the town of Emerson in Manitoba. RCMP said in a statement that one of the detained adults had items meant for an infant but no infant was with the group.Following a search, RCMP officers initially found the bodies of three individuals on the Canadian side of the border. After continuing their search, the officers located the body of the teenage male. On the US side of the border, American law enforcement personnel found five Indian nationals a quarter mile south of the Canadian border on Wednesday. They said they had walked across the border “expecting to be picked up by someone” and “estimated they had been walking around for over 11 hours”, according to a statement from the US attorney’s office for the District of Minnesota. One of the five Indians was carrying a backpack for a family of four Indian nationals “that had earlier walked with his group but had become separated during the night”, the statement said. The backpack contained children’s clothes and medication, a diaper and toys. USBP received a report from RCMP about the four bodies found frozen on the Canadian side of the border. These bodies were tentatively identified as the family of four that was separated from the other Indians. 
21-01-2022||India||Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma tests positive for Covid-19 in Delhi||Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma on Friday tested positive for Covid-19 in New Delhi. Soon after he addressed the 59th Meghalaya Day celebrations via video conferencing from the national Capital, Sangma tweeted that he had tested positive for the viral infection.“I have tested positive for COVID-19. I am isolating myself for the required time. I have mild symptoms. All those who came in contact with me over the last few days are requested to observe their symptoms and test if necessary,” he wrote on Twitter.The Meghalaya CM had accompanied Assam chief minister Himanta B Sarma to the national Capital yesterday to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and submit the joint reports of the two states over the areas of differences and the partial resolutions arrived at recently between them.Yesterday, taking to twitter after meeting Shah, Sangma informed that the HM was apprised of the regional committee reports and that the Ministry of Home Affairs will examine the reports, following which, both the chief ministers will meet Shah after January 26. Sangma had stated, “We have also considered ethnicity as something very important. Both the Assam and the Meghalaya governments have felt strongly that any of the states may try to claim an area but the people living in that area, if they don’t wish to be in a particular state, one cannot force them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-cm-conrad-sangma-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-delhi-101642781443025.html
21-01-2022||India||German warship’s visit to Mumbai reflects Berlin’s new focus on Indo-Pacific||The German frigate Bayern sailed into Mumbai port on Friday after traversing the South China Sea as part of Berlin’s focus on maritime and security cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, marking the first visit by a German warship to India in almost a decade. Ahead of the warship’s arrival in Mumbai, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and defence secretary Ajay Kumar held separate meetings with the German Navy chief, Vice Admiral Kay-Achim Schönbach, in New Delhi on Thursday. Their talks focused on maritime security cooperation and greater engagement with Germany in the Indo-Pacific. The visit of the German frigate follows forays into the Indo-Pacific by other European navies. France deployed its carrier group to the region in 2019 and the UK’s largest warship, the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, and its strike task group sailed through the Indian Ocean and South China Sea in 2021. The Bayern, a 3,600-tonne F123 Brandenburg-class frigate, will dock in Mumbai for a day and conduct a passing exercise with the Indian Navy before sailing home after a seven-month deployment aimed at encouraging free and peaceful trade in the Indo-Pacific. The last German warship to visit India was the frigate Bremen in 2012, and the Bayern’s visit to Mumbai highlights the emerging importance of the Indo-Pacific on the world stage, the German embassy said in a statement. The warship was received at Mumbai port by Maharashtra minister Aditya Thackeray and German envoy Walter Lindner, who noted that 50% of global GDP comes from the Indo-Pacific and three major economies – the US, Japan and China – are located around this region. He also pointed to the need to ensure maritime routes remain free and peaceful. “But on the other side, we have regional tensions. We have at least three nuclear powers here. So, it is important to have free maritime routes and...a peaceful area with stability...the stability where conflicts are solved with mutual understanding,” he said. Referring to Germany’s Indo-Pacific policy unveiled in September 2020, which envisages greater security and economic cooperation, Lindner said: “This ship’s visit shows that we are not just talking.” “Germany recognises a significant shift of the world’s political and economic centre towards the Indo-Pacific. India is a key player in the region and our strategic partner and long-standing friend,” he said. “The message we want to promote is that of free navigation, maintenance of a rules-based international order and peaceful seas for flourishing trade.” Both France and Germany played a key role in forging the European Union’s Indo-Pacific policy that focuses on freedom of navigation and overflight and upholding a rules-based order. These moves came against the backdrop of China’s growing assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific, especially in South China Sea, where it is engaged in disputes with several countries. The Bayern has been in the Indo-Pacific since August 2021 on a patrol and training mission. This deployment is a direct outcome of the German Indo-Pacific guidelines and in line with the new EU Indo-Pacific strategy, and signals the significance of the region for Europe and Germany, the German embassy said. “Germany and the European Union are actively engaged to uphold the principle of free navigation and the rules-based international order. Germany has vital interests in the Indo-Pacific, a region that grows in significance, politically and economically. Germany and India are advocates of free trade,” it said. 
21-01-2022||India||Time for me to stand for Manohar Parrikar’s values, says son Utpal; quits BJP||Utpal Parrikar, the son of former union defence minister and four-time Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar on Friday resigned from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and announced he will contest as an independent from Panaji, the seat represented by his father for 25 years.Utpal Parrikar was denied a ticket by the BJP, which chose to hand over the party’s ticket to Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate, who won the seat in 2019 on a Congress ticket in the by-election held to fill the vacancy resulting from Parrikar’s passing.Announcing his decision, Utpal said: “People of Panaji did not vote for Manohar Parrikar just because he is MP. They voted for him because he stood for some values. The time has come for me to also stand for those values. I would like to announce that I will be contesting as an independent candidate from Panaji constituency.“I tried my best even during last elections and this election to convince my party that I enjoy not only the support of all the workers, who have built this party for the last 30 years, who had toiled with my father to build this party in Panaji. They are also toiling with me today. I have also enjoyed their support and the support of the general population of Panaji. In spite of that for some reason I have not been able to get the candidature of Panaji constituency. It has been given to someone who has opportunistically come within the party within the last two years. Due to these circumstances, I have no choice but to stand for the values my father believed in and go ahead and let the people of Panaji decide my political fate,” he added.Utpal was offered to contest from another two seats in Goa, both of which he rejected and questioned party leader Devendra Fadnavis who had earlier said that the BJP does not hand out tickets just because he is Manohar Parrikar’s son.”“If the party does not hand out tickets just because you are somebody’s son then why was I being offered to contest from other seats? I am not asking for the ticket because I want something on the platter,” Utpal said.“I am not here for some position or post or becoming MLA. I am fighting for some values which I believe in. I am fighting for Panaji. Let the people of Panaji decide. The candidate given by the party, I feel even embarrassed to talk about him. In Panaji, where the party has grown over 30 years,to give a ticket to someone with such a rapsheet who joined two years ago, I had no choice. I have to go to the people,” he added.Asked whether he would support the BJP in the future in a possible post-poll scenario, Utpal said that he will place such decisions before the people of Goa “at the right time.”Utpal Parrikar also welcomed the support he was receiving from other political parties notably the Shiv Sena which said that should Utpal decide to contest, other parties should support him.“Any support required to fight the type of candidate I am fighting is welcome,” Utpal said. .The ruling BJP in its first list of candidates ignored Utpal’s claims for the Panaji seat and instead chose Babush Monserrate, who joined the BJP from the Congress in 2019 along with nine other Congress MLAs. Monserrate who is facing trial for charges including rape, rioting, etc was preferred on grounds of “winnability” with party incharge Devendra Fadnavis saying that he was given the ticket because he was the ‘sitting MLA.’“A sitting MLA has been given a ticket in Panaji. Parrikar’s family is our family. They are close to us. I had given Utpal Parrikar two options, from where he could contest. BJP has respected the Parrikar family,” Fadnavis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-for-me-to-stand-for-manohar-parrikar-s-values-says-son-utpal-quits-bjp-101642778980556.html
21-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Co-WIN now allows 6 members to register from one number and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Co-WIN registration limit extended, now 6 members can sign up from one numberThe registration limit for Co-WIN, the central government's web portal for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination, was on Friday extended to now support six members from one mobile number instead of four. In addition, a new utility feature has been added under which an existing beneficiary can apply to have their vaccination status changed from fully vaccinated to partially vaccinated or even unvaccinated. Read MoreDelhi's Covid tally continues to dip with 10,756 new cases, positivity rate goes below 20%Delhi on Friday maintained its declining trend in fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with as many as 10,756 infections, according to the health bulletin data. The figures are 1,550 fewer than Thursday when 12,306 new Covid-19 cases were logged in 24 hours. With the new additions, the overall case tally of the national capital has reached 17,71,028, the bulletin data revealed. Read MoreSC refuses to entertain plea against Kangana Ranaut, says ‘more you publicise..’The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea brought by a Sikh advocate, Charanjeet Singh Chanderpal, seeking censorship on Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's social media statements. A bench of Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice Bela Trivedi suggested that the petitioner has two possible solutions: one is to ignore the utterances made by Kangana or avail remedy under law. Read MoreIndia blocks 35 YouTube channels, calls them ‘Pakistan’s fake news factories’India has ordered blocking of 35 Pakistan-based YouTube channels and two websites for “spreading anti-India fake news in a coordinated manner over digital media”, the government said on Friday. Read MoreYuvraj Singh takes a dig at India's fielding against South Africa: 'Guys are looking at each other on overthrows'Former India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh is not impressed with the standards of fielding the Indian team has displayed during the ODI series against South Africa. Following the first ODI, which India lost by 31 runs, Yuvraj, one of India's finest fielders of all time, expressed displeasure over the team's ground fielding. Read MoreParineeti Chopra, Bharti Singh cry as Hunarbaaz contestant’s son won’t talk to him, Mithun Chakraborty recalls insultsThe judges of Hunarbaaz - Mithun Chakraborty and Parineeti Chopra--as well as host Bharti Singh were moved to tears by the story of a contestant, whose son is not on talking terms with him. Manoj Jain wowed everyone with his magic tricks and even hypnotised host Haarsh Limbachiyaa. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-co-win-now-allows-6-members-to-register-from-one-number-101642777768986.html
21-01-2022||India||194 schools register to get affiliation from Sainik School Society||A total of 194 applications have been received from schools to get affiliation from the Sainik School Society, the government said in a statement on Friday.In September last year, the Union Cabinet cleared the proposal of affiliation of 100 schools, including both private and public, with the Sainik School Society, an autonomous organisation under the ministry of defence. The decision was taken in line with the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 that advocates “value-based education, enabling children to develop pride in the rich culture and heritage of this nation, effective leadership with character, discipline, sense of national duty and patriotism.”Currently, there are 33 Sainik Schools in the country that account for a large number of candidates who join the armed forces. Until now, Sainik Schools were set up after receiving requests from state governments/union territories that have to provide infrastructure such as land and educational/ residential buildings.“So far, 194 schools have registered at https://sainikschool.ncog.gov.in. Subsequently evaluation of schools will be carried out by the School Evaluation Committee at the district level and the report will be submitted to Sainik Schools Society by the last week of January 2022. The evaluation committee will consist of the District Magistrate/Collector as Chairman, principal of NVS/KVS located in the same district, and the principal of the closest Sainik School,” the statement stated.The schools approved by Sainik Schools Society will start following Sainik Schools’ curriculum and activities from the upcoming academic session i.e April 2022 from Class 6 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/194-schools-register-to-get-affiliation-from-sainik-school-society-101642778078336.html
21-01-2022||India||Now six members can register on CoWIN through one mobile number||Six members can now be registered using one mobile number on CoWIN portal for Covid-19 vaccination as opposed to the current cap of four family members, as the government on Friday announced having made changes to the system.“In continuation of updates on various utility features of Co-WIN for the beneficiaries, the following features are added in the self-registration portal of CoWIN: a) registration on Co-WIN –Instead of the existing limit of 4 members, now 6 members can be registered using one mobile number on Co-WIN...,” the Union health ministry said in a statement. Also, since some registered beneficiaries have been getting erroneous messages regarding their vaccination status, the government has made a provision for revoking vaccination status in the CoWIN system.“A new utility feature has been introduced under raise an issue in Co-WIN account through which a beneficiary can revoke the current vaccination status from fully vaccinated to partially vaccinated or unvaccinated status and also partially vaccinated to unvaccinated status,” read the health ministry statement.The ministry also clarified that the vaccination status can be corrected by the beneficiaries, where in occasional isolated cases, the vaccination certificates are generated due to inadvertent data entry errors by the vaccinator in updation of vaccination data of beneficiaries.The changes, however, may reflect 3-7 days after submitting the online request through raise an issue utility on the portal. Such beneficiaries can get their due vaccine dose, may be at the nearest vaccination centre, as per the existent standard guidelines once new vaccination status is successfully updated in the system.The backbone of the Covid-19 vaccine delivery system has been CoWIN, the IT platform modified for implementation of the national immunisation programme. The CoWIN platform was created by upgrading the earlier digital platform used for Universal Immunization Program (UIP) vaccine distribution based on Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system.The government has been making changes at regular intervals to the system to make it easier for the beneficiaries to avail of the facility.“From self-registration, to making changes in personal details, and to be able to download your digital vaccination certificate etc., the system has been modified over a period of time for the ease of beneficiaries; to make the process convenient for them. User feedback has also been important for us as it has helped in making the system better. Initially there were some issues but with time and improvement it is functioning very well,” said a senior government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.
21-01-2022||India||SC refuses to entertain plea against Kangana Ranaut, says ‘more you publicise..’||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea brought by a Sikh advocate, Charanjeet Singh Chanderpal, seeking censorship on Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's social media statements. A bench of Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice Bela Trivedi suggested that the petitioner has two possible solutions: one is to ignore the utterances made by Kangana or avail remedy under law."You are doing your cause a disservice by publicising what she said. The more you publicise it, the more you serve her cause. So, please stop repeating," Chandrachud said in reference to the petitioner's object to what Kangana said about the Sikhs.In the plea, the advocate referred to Kangana's Instagram statement where she wrote, "Khalistani Terrorists may be arm twisting the Government today, but let's not forget one woman, the only woman Prime Minister ne inko apni jooti ke neeche crush kiya tha (the only woman PM who crushed them under her shoes)...No matter how much suffering she caused to this nation… she crushed them like mosquitoes at the cost of her own life…. Lekin desh k tukde nahi hone diye…even after decades of her death… aaj bhi uske naam se kampte hain yeh…. Inko vaisa he guru chahiye… (they shiver from her name even today…they need such a guru)."Petitioner Chanderpal said Kangana is going on and on with her “outrageous” and "defamatory" statements that “Sikh Farmers were Khalistani Terrorists” and tried to portray the community as “anti-national”. "When we go to Gurudwaras, when we sit with the normal Sikhs over there, people don't distinguish between who is a Khalistani and who is a Sikh," the petitioner said."Don’t you think that common Indian citizens understand this and know the differences?" the bench asked him.The petitioner sought to club multiple FIRs lodged against Kangana to which the bench said, "You want all FIRs to be clubbed and investigated exclusively by the Khar police? Who are you to do all this? You are not the accused, you are not the complainant, you are some person in the public, you are a member of the bar..."(With inputs from PTI and LiveLaw)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-against-kangana-ranaut-says-more-you-publicise-101642774696753.html
21-01-2022||India||Kerala’s ruling CPI(M) suffers setback as HC bans public events for a week||The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) suffered a setback on Friday after the Kerala High Court banned all programmes that exceed 50 people putting a question mark on the ongoing party district committee meetings in Thrissur and Kasaragod. Hearing a public interest litigation questioning participation in party meetings during the pandemic, a division bench of the court said if participation in the Republic Day parade was limited to 50 people it can be applicable to party meetings also. It also said the government’s explanation in this regard was not satisfactory and banned all programmes that exceed more than 50 people for a week. Petitioner Arun Raj contended that earlier the Kasaragod district collector had issued a directive banning all public functions but later he was forced to issue a fresh circular to facilitate the party district conference. He said Covid -19 restrictions were compromised to facilitate the party district meet and he also cited the so-called “superspreader party event” in Thiruvananthapuram last week. The court questioned the logic behind organising major party programmes when less than 50 people were permitted for Republic Day events in the state. The court also said in Kasaragod district the test positivity rate was more than 36 per cent. The court later gave an interim order banning all programmes that exceed 50 people. Opposition Congress has welcomed the decision of the court. “The party should realise its blunder at least for now and suspend the ongoing meetings,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. CPI(M) leader A N Shamseer said the party state leadership will take an appropriate decision after going through the court directive. Both district meetings were inaugurated on Friday morning. Despite a heavy virus caseload and subsequent restrictions, the CPI(M)’s decision to go ahead with two district committee meetings invited widespread criticism. Opposition Congress and BJP alleged that pandemic restrictions were tweaked by the government for the smooth functioning of the meets and the party was repeating its mistakes. After the Thiruvananthapuram district conference last week about 100 delegates including education minister V Sivankutty and two legislators tested positive. Mega ‘Thiruvathira’ dance programme during the Thiruvananthapuram conference in which more than 500 women artists participated drew a lot of flak and later the party had to admit that it was wrong to conduct such a mass dance programme during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The government manipulated restrictions to conduct party meets. In both districts, the test positivity rate is more than 35 per cent. The party thinks that it can do anything and get away easily. How can the government insist that the common man should follow restrictions?” asked Satheesan. Instead of postponing these meets the party was posing a challenge to others and reduce itself to a laughing stock, he said. He added that the Congress has postponed all its programmes due to a spike in cases and the ruling party should have been more considerate and responsible. “Blind with power the party has lost its balance and semblance. When cases mount it is in a race to organise mega meets. Its Thiruvananthapuram meet has turned super spreader and it is yet to learn a lesson from its mistakes,” said BJP leader S Suresh. But party politburo member M A Baby scoffed at the criticisms. “These meets are conducted in a scientific and Covid-appropriate manner. Our political rivals are cooking up stories to take the spirit out of the meets,” he said. Kerala on Friday reported another spike with 41,668 cases after 95,218 samples were tested with a TPR of 43%. Active cases also rose to 2,23,548 and it also reported 33 deaths taking the death toll to 51,607, according to the data released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-ruling-cpi-m-suffers-setback-as-hc-bans-public-events-for-a-week-101642773277583.html
21-01-2022||India||India blocks 35 YouTube channels, calls them ‘Pakistan’s fake news factories’||NEW DELHI: India has ordered blocking of 35 Pakistan-based YouTube channels and two websites for “spreading anti-India fake news in a coordinated manner over digital media”, the government said on Friday.“These channels were toxic and spreading anti-India propaganda,” information and broadcasting ministry secretary Apurva Chandra said in a Press conference. “More and more such channels will continue to be blocked. Not only intelligence agencies, we urge the people to come forward and notify us of such content.”Chandra also reminded YouTube that the company should have also kept track of the content uploaded on its platform. “This is also the responsibility of the intermediaries. YouTube should also see that these are absolutely fake news,” he said, referring to India’s new intermediary rules notified last year.This is the second instance of the government blocking YouTube channels and websites linked to Pakistan in the last month. On December 21, the government said 20 YouTube channels were ordered to be blocked under emergency provisions incorporated in the information technology rules last February. YouTube later took down those channels.Union minister of information and technology Anurag Thakur said that any social media account trying to mislead the public would be taken down. “Any account that is trying to spin a conspiracy or mislead the people will be actioned,” he told reporters.An officias statement released on the action against “Pakistani fake news factories”, said these channels had over 12 million subscribers and over 1,320 million views. They include Khabar with facts, Khabar Taiz, Information Hub, Flash Now, Mera Pakistan With, Hakikat Ki Duniya and Apni Dunya Tv.“These channels were spreading misinformation about the Indian army, including conspiracies that the death of chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat was an assassination,” said Vikram Sahay, the ministry’s joint secretary and designated officer under the information technology law. “These threaten the sovereignty and the integrity of India.”According to the ministry, the YouTube channels, websites, and other social media accounts blocked were used by “Pakistan to spread anti-India fake news about sensitive subjects related to India”. “These include topics such as the Indian Army, Jammu and Kashmir, and India’s foreign relations with other countries. It was observed that rampant fake news was spread through the YouTube channels regarding the demise of the former Chief of Defence Staff Late General Bipin Rawat. These YouTube channels had also started posting content to undermine the democratic process of the upcoming elections in five states,” the ministry said in an official statement.“The channels propagated content to encourage separatism, divide India on the lines of religion, and create animosity among the various sections of the Indian society. Such information was feared to have the potential to incite the audience into commission of crimes adversely affecting public order in the country.”The directions to block the content has been issued using the emergency powers granted to the secretary of I&B, who can order an immediate takedown of content under the new social media and intermediary guidelines. The interim order will be placed in front of the inter-departmental committee for review.The inter-departmental committee forms the apex of the three-tier redressal mechanism, which includes a self-regulatory mechanism, followed by regulation by industry bodies. The committee, in a first, also has members from the industry body — one member each from the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry and Confederation of Indian Industry, one member from the Bar Council of India and a member from the Press Council of India. Besides these, the committee also has members from ministries such as the ministry of women and child development, ministry of law and justice, ministry of home affairs, ministry of electronics and information technology, ministry of external affairs and ministry of defence.The guidelines have, however, been challenged by various media consortiums in court for leading to censorship of news content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-blocks-35-youtube-channels-calls-them-pakistan-s-fake-news-factories-101642772737569.html
21-01-2022||India||Co-WIN registration limit extended, now 6 members can sign up from one number||The registration limit for Co-WIN, the central government's web portal for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination, was on Friday extended to now support six members from one mobile number instead of four. In addition, a new utility feature has been added under which an existing beneficiary can apply to have their vaccination status changed from fully vaccinated to partially vaccinated or even unvaccinated.The latest changes come as part of a series of updates on various utility features for Co-WIN rolled out by the government for beneficiaries of the web portal.According to an official release, these are the latest updates that were added to the Co-WIN platform:1. Registration on Co-WIN: Instead of the existing limit of four members, now six members can be registered using one mobile number on Co-WIN.2. Revoke vaccination status: A new utility feature has been introduced under the “Raise an issue” complaint in the Co-WIN account. Through this new feature, a beneficiary can ask for their current vaccination status to be revoked from fully vaccinated to partially vaccinated or even unvaccinated.This feature has been introduced so that the vaccination status can be corrected by the beneficiaries themselves, as in isolated cases the vaccination certificates are generated due to inadvertent data entry errors by the vaccinator while updating vaccination data for the beneficiaries.The changes may however take 3-7 days to reflect since the issue first has to be raised via an online request from the portal itself. Once their new vaccination status is successfully updated in the system, such beneficiaries can get their due vaccine dose at the nearest vaccination center as per the preexisting standard guidelines, the government said.Meanwhile, India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 160.43 crores after over 70 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours, said the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.Over 159.91 crore (1,59,91,02,495) vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far through the free of cost channel of the central government and through the direct state procurement category. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the central government has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-registration-limit-extended-now-6-members-can-sign-up-from-one-number-101642771469230.html
21-01-2022||India||Manohar Parrikar's son Utpal resigns from BJP, to contest as independent; says BJP will remain in heart||Manohar Parrikar's son Utpal Parrikar on Friday announced that he is resigning from the BJP and will be contesting in the upcoming Goa assembly election as an Independent candidate. This development comes after days of bargaining and lobbying for the Panaji constituency, which was represented by former Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar until 2019, the seat that his son has been eying on, but the BJP denied him in favour of the sitting MLA.Earlier in the day, Utpal said he would announce his decision in a press conference amid speculations of his contesting without any party from Panaji. Till last moment, the BJP continued claiming that talks were on with Utpal and he has been offered some alternative assembly seats.“I was left with no other choice. I have resigned from the party and I would be contesting as an independent from Panaji," Utpal Parrikar said adding that BJP will always remain in his heart. “It is a difficult choice for me, I am doing it for the people of Goa. No one should be worried about my political future, people of Goa will do it,” he said“I am fighting for the values which I believe in. Let the people of Panaji decide. I cannot negotiate with my party,” he added.Full coverage of Goa Assembly Election 2022On Thursday, the BJP released its first list of 34 candidates for Goa and fielded incumbent MLA Atanasio Monserrate from Panaji. Devendra Fadnavis said it is not fair to replace the sitting MLA, who won the bypoll after Manohar Parrikar's death in 2019. The seat was with Parrikar for almost 25 years. “For our party, the Parrikar family is always our family. But from the seat that Utpal wanted to contest from we already have a sitting MLA and it would not be fair to drop the sitting MLA. However, we had given him the option of contesting from two other seats and the talks are progressing in that direction,” Fadnavis said. Soon after BJP's snub, Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal extended an offer to Utpal, after Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the non-BJP parties should support Utpal if he contests in the election as an independent.  "If we support Utpal, we will also take an assurance from him that he would not support the BJP if it is voted to power," Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manohar-parrikar-s-son-utpal-resigns-from-bjp-to-contest-as-independent-101642770043145.html
21-01-2022||India||Coming from ‘at-risk’ nation? No need for admission to 'isolation facility' if testing positive on arrival||In a slight modification of its previous order, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) has done away with the provision of ‘management at isolation facility’ for passengers coming from countries designated as ‘at-risk’ and testing positive for Covid-19 after arrival at an airport in India.
21-01-2022||India||Data meant for CoWIN portal leaked online, over 20,000 Indians likely affected||Personal data of thousands of people in India has been leaked from a government server which includes their name, mobile number, address and Covid test result, and these information can be accessed through online search.The leaked data has been put on sale on Raid Forums website where a cyber criminal claims to have personal data of over 20,000 people.The data put on Raid Forums shows name, age, gender, mobile number, address, date and result of Covid-19 report of these people. Cyber Security researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia also tweeted that personally identifiable information (PII) including name and Covid-19 results are made public through a content delivery network (CDN).He said that Google has indexed lakhs of data from the affected system."PII including Name, MOB, PAN, Address etc of #Covid19 #RTPCR results & #Cowin data getting public through a Govt CDN. #Google indexed almost 9 Lac public/private #GovtDocuments in search engines. Patient's data is now listed on #DarkWeb. Need fast deindex," Rajaharia said in his tweet.An email query sent to the Ministry of Electronics and IT did not elicit any reply.The sample document shared on Raid Forums shows that the leaked data was meant for upload on Co-WIN portal.The government has heavily relied on digital technologies in terms of controlling and creating awareness about the Covid-19 pandemic as also its vaccination programme. Several government departments mandate people to use Aarogya Setu app for Covid-19 related services and information.Rajaharia in a follow-up tweet on January 20 said that he is not reporting any vulnerability in this incidence but cautioning people to remain alert from fraud calls, offers related to Covid-19, etc that they may get as their data is being sold in the dark web.Data sold in the dark web is often exploited by cyber criminals and fraudsters for various kind of frauds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-meant-for-cowin-portal-leaked-online-over-20-000-indians-likely-affected-101642767559692.html
21-01-2022||India||On Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary, PM to unveil grand statue of iconic freedom fighter||Ahead of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that he will unveil a hologram statue of the legendary freedom fighter on his birth anniversary on January 23 at India Gate.“At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted on Friday.He further said, “Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary.”The statue will be placed in the canopy and will replace the Amar Jawan Jyoti, which will be merged with the eternal flame of the National War Memorial Torch on Friday. The dimensions of the upcoming statue will be 28 feet X 6 feet, people aware of the development said.Home Minister Ait Shah tweeted that the statue is a befitting tribute to Subhas Chandra Bose. “Netaji is an epitome of India’s true strength and resolve. Congress has left no stone unturned to forget the immortal contributions of India’s brave son,” he tweeted.Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said that nothing that the Prime Minister does will undo the historical betrayal of Netaji by Hindu Mahasabha under Savarkar.“When Netaji was organising the INA to liberate the North East from British rule, Savarkar exhorted recruitment of Hindu Mahasabha in the British army. That same army then indulged in large-scale killing of INA soldiers. If the PM were to read the shameful history of his ideological forefathers, he would first apologise to the nation.”Last week, a government official had said that the Republic Day celebrations from this year will start on January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, in line with the Narendra Modi government’s “focus to commemorate important aspects of our history and culture.”Last year, the Central government announced that January 23 will be celebrated as Parakram Diwas or day of valour. Ahead of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary this year, Chandra Bose, who is a member of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to have the freedom fighter’s image on currency notes. He also suggested declaring January 23 a national holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-netaji-s-125th-birth-anniversary-pm-to-unveil-grand-statue-of-iconic-freedom-fighter-101642766737029.html
21-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave: What about the peak of death in Delhi? Experts weigh in||That Delhi is past the peak of the third wave of the Covid pandemic has been asserted by Delhi ministers and experts as for the past few days the national capital recorded a steady decline in the number of daily positive infections. On January 13, Delhi reported over 28,000 cases which is believed to be the peak.Doctors, however, opine that there is another peak to watch out for, which is the peak of the fatalities. This takes place generally a week or two after the peak of the daily cases.The fastest peak in daily cases followed by an increase in death has been the characteristic of the ongoing wave driven by the Omicron. On Thursday, Delhi reported 43 deaths which was the highest death in the city since June 10.Night and weekend curfew to continue in Delhi as DDMA issues fresh guidelines"Any patient who has got admitted after testing positive generally dies after his or her condition deteriorates in the next one week or so, and hence, death tally will peak later than the cases tally," a doctor at the Delhi government-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences said to PTI.Delhi has reported nearly 400 deaths in January so far but the majority of these have been attributed to comorbidities, not Omicron."After that record surge a week ago, which is being seen as a peak, cases have come down. Even the number of calls I was getting for medical consultations from patients have come down a lot in the past few days, indicating the situation is improving," Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, a senior consultant at Apollo Hospitals, said.The Delhi government on Friday sent a proposal to lift the weekend curfew to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, which has been rejected. Baijal, however, has accepted the government's proposal to allow private offices to function with 50% staff strength.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-what-about-the-peak-of-death-in-delhi-experts-weigh-in-101642765831088.html
21-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Channi says will file defamation case against Kejriwal, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Will file defamation case': Channi on Kejriwal's ‘dishonest man’ jibe after ED raidsPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said that Arvind Kejriwal is using his photos on “bundles of notes” though the ED raids were conducted on and the money was recovered from “someone else.” Read moreCovid-19 alert: Tamil Nadu to continue with complete lockdown on SundaysTamil Nadu chief minister on Friday announced a complete lockdown on Sundays, starting from January 23. The decision was taken as Covid-19 cases in the state continue to rise. Read moreKarnataka lifts weekend curfew, other curbs at night and 50% occupancy continuesThe Karnataka government on Friday said that it has decided to lift the weekend curfew with immediate effect, though other restrictions on movement at night as well as occupancy will continue across the state. Read moreIND vs SA: Virat Kohli surpasses Rohit Sharma, Rahul Dravid in unwanted list following his five-ball duck in 2nd ODIHe may have scored a fifty in his first game for India after relinquishing Test captaincy, but Virat Kohli on Friday perished for a duck to register an unwanted record under his belt. Read moreWith throwback pics of Ladakh, Vaani Kapoor speaks of magic and significanceVaani Kapoor is in the mood for travel – the throwback pictures on her Instagram profile is proof of the same. The actor, who is currently in the plains, is dreaming of being in the mountains. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-channi-says-will-file-defamation-case-against-kejriwal-and-all-the-latest-news-101642759015657.html
21-01-2022||India||Karnataka lifts weekend curfew, other curbs at night and 50% occupancy continues||The Karnataka government on Friday said that it has decided to lift the weekend curfew with immediate effect, though other restrictions on movement at night as well as occupancy will continue across the state.Karnataka’s Minister for Revenue R Ashok said that the relaxations will come into effect from this weekend.“Weekend curfew has been removed. But if the hospitalisation rate increases above 5%, then these restrictions are likely to return,” he said in Bengaluru on Friday.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai held a meeting on Friday with experts, cabinet ministers and other senior officials to review all existing restrictions that came into effect just after Christmas last year.However, night curfew as well as 50% occupancy rules will continue, he said.The decision comes after outrage and concerns expressed by the business community in the state over the piling losses due to the curbs that had severely impacted lives and livelihoods.Though there were varied opinions on considering different restrictions for different parts of the state, depending on the positivity rate, Ashok said that it was decided to consider Karnataka as a unit and the same rules would apply across the state.The minister said that as on January 20, there were over 2.93 lakh active cases and around 2.86 lakh people were in home isolation.He added that there were 5,333 Covid-19 infected people in hospitals and of this 340 were in the intensive care unit and just 127 who needed oxygen.Ashok said that protests, fairs, rallies and other events of large gatherings will continue to remain banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-lifts-weekend-curfew-other-curbs-at-night-and-50-occupancy-continues-101642763916880.html
21-01-2022||India||Covid-19 alert: Tamil Nadu to continue with complete lockdown on Sundays||Tamil Nadu chief minister on Friday announced a complete lockdown on Sundays, starting from January 23. The decision was taken as Covid-19 cases in the state continue to rise. The lockdown will begin at 10pm on Saturday and remain in place till 5am on Monday.Only essential services will be allowed to function during the lockdown hours, the government announced.Tamil Nadu had imposed a complete lockdown on every Sunday from January 9 when coronavirus infections in the state started rapidly rising.Meanwhile, a night curfew from 10pm to 5am remains in place on all days.Also Read | Amid record Covid-19 surge in Kerala, lockdown-like curbs on next two SundaysIn the last 24 hours, Tamil Nadu recorded 28,561 new cases and 39 deaths, according to the latest health bulletin data.The state's active tally has touched 1,79,205, while the total cases breached the 30-lakh mark.The capital city, Chennai, accounted for highest number of fresh cases despite a decline with 7,520 infections, followed by Coimbatore at 3,390 and Chengalpet at 2,196.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-alert-tamil-nadu-to-continue-with-complete-lockdown-on-sundays-101642762263960.html
21-01-2022||India||Denied ticket, Goa PWD minister quits BJP, to contest as independent||Goa Minister for Public Works Deepak Prabhu Pauskar on Friday resigned as minister and from the party after the BJP denied him a ticket. Pauskar, a first time MLA was made minister after he defected from the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party along with party colleague Manohar Ajgaonkar back in 2019 when party leader Sudin Dhavalikar was evicted from the cabinet. Pauskar said he wasn’t upset by the BJP’s decision but that the party he had built in his constituency has been deeply hurt by the decision to deny him a ticket, which has forced him to make the move. “I have decided to contest as an independent. I had enrolled more than 16,000 members for the Bharatiya Janata Party from my constituency and more than 60% of them have now resigned along with me. I will work to be re-elected as an independent,” Pauskar said after quitting. Pauskar was in the centre of a storm over recruitment in the Public Works Department where his own party MLAs accused him of large-scale corruption and favouritism in the selections of candidates. Following the allegations, the Goa government constituted a three member committee of officers to look into the recruitment procedures while simultaneously keeping the recruitment on hold. Besides Pauskar, former Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar who has been denied a ticket in favour of Dayanand Sopte who joined the party from the Congress in 2018 has also announced that he will be contesting as an independent after consulting his supporters. The party is also facing dissent in Canacona where deputy Speaker Isidore Fernandes who joined the BJP from the Congress mid-term along with nine other MLAs in 2019, has been overlooked in favour of former MLA Ramesh Tawadkar for the party’s ticket. Savitri Kavlekar, the wife of deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar has also quit the BJP after she was denied a ticket pointing out that the wives of Vishwajit Rane and Atanasio Monserrate were given tickets but she was not given one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denied-ticket-goa-pwd-minister-quits-bjp-to-contest-as-independent-101642762416855.html
21-01-2022||India||In historic move, Amar Jawan Jyoti merged with National War Memorial flame||The flame of the Amar Jawan Jyoti at the India Gate in Delhi was on Friday merged with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial, in a move that the central government called “historic” for India. In a short ceremony, a part of the Amar Jawan Jyoti flame was taken and merged with the flame at the NWM, which is 400 meters away on the other side of India Gate.The ceremony was presided over by the Integrated Defence Staff chief Air Marshal Balabadhra Radha Krishna, who carried out the significant move of merging the two flames.Watch LIVE: Amar Jawan Jyoti flame at India Gate to be merged with the flame at the National War Memorial https://t.co/iOw3m7zwg8Several political leaders, including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, had earlier questioned the central government for effectively shutting down the Amar Jawan Jyoti flame and replacing it with the permanent one at the National War Memorial. However, government sources refuted claims that the Amar Jawan Jyoti was being “extinguished”, and clarified that it was only being merged with the one at the National War Memorial.Also Read | Amar Jawan Jyoti to be merged with National War Memorial flame. This is whyAccording to the government, the flame at Amar Jawan Jyoti in the India Gate memorial paid tributes to the martyrs of 1971 and other wars, however, none of the names who made that supreme sacrifice for the country were present there.The National War Memorial, which was built in the India Gate complex by the Narendra Modi government and was inaugurated in 2019, has the names of all the Indian defence personnel who have lost their lives in different operations from the 1947-48 war with Pakistan to the Galwan valley clash with Chinese troops. The names of troops who lost lives in the counter-terrorist operations are also included on the walls of the memorial.Also Read | Delhi Traffic Police issue advisory for R-Day rehearsal parade. Details hereThe India Gate memorial, on the other hand, was built by the British government in memory of the British Indian Army soldiers who lost their lives between 1914-1921. The Amar Jawan Jyoti there was only included in the 1970s after the massive victory of India over Pakistan in which 93,000 troops of the enemy country surrendered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-historic-move-amar-jawan-jyoti-merged-with-national-war-memorial-flame-101642759893068.html
21-01-2022||India||Why Karnataka ends weekend curfew amid 47,000 daily Covid cases. Minister says this||The Karnataka government has decided to end the weekend curfew in the states starting from this weekend, though night curfew will remain in place. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting on Friday chaired by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai. Karnataka becomes the second state after Maharashtra to announce some relaxations amid the ongoing third wave of the pandemic. Unlike Maharashtra, Karnataka, however, is still peaking and Bengaluru on Thursday reported over 30,000 fresh Covid infections. Maharashtra has decided to resume offline classes in schools from coming Monday. Night curfew will be in place in Karnataka, revenue minister R Ashok said. The weekend curfew will be brought back if the rate of hospitalisation goes above 5%, the minister said. Other restrictions mandating 50% occupancy at public places will also be maintained. Covid 3rd wave reaches South: Kerala reports 46,387 cases; Karnataka over 47,000Unlike Delhi and Mumbai, where the Omicron wave is believed to be plateauing, Bengaluru is yet to reach its peak. On Thursday, it contributed 30,540 fresh cases to Karnataka's 24-hour tally of 47,754 cases.
21-01-2022||India||Uttar Pradesh polls: Congress launches manifesto for youths||NEW DELHI: After announcing 40% reservation in tickets for women, the Congress on Friday unveiled a strategy to boost employment in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh as it launched its manifesto for the youths. The manifesto is seen as part of efforts to woo young voters and to counter the caste and religious factors in the state, where the party has been out of power for over three decades.At the launch, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, made it clear she is the party’s face in the state. “Can you see any other face?” she said when asked who is leading the Congress in the assembly elections. She said the party was open to supporting any party other than the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party to form the next state government. “If any such situation arises, we would be open to joining it but our manifesto has to be at the centre of such a coalition.”Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, who was present at the launch, criticised the Union government and said India requires a new vision. “If you want to propose a new vision, you need to start in Uttar Pradesh. It is a step towards giving a vision to the country.” He hit out at the parties, which have been in power in Uttar Pradesh, and added the youngsters have understood that in the last 25 years, they did not get anything.Congress’s employment boosting strategy focuses on 1.2 million vacant government jobs as well as another 800,000 in the private sector and promotion of local skills.Priyanka Gandhi called the manifesto a strategy and not empty words. “The question is how to give you employment. In Uttar Pradesh, every 24 days, 880 people lose jobs. In the last five years, 1.6 million youth lost jobs. Youth needs a new vision and Congress is the only party that can give this vision.” She added they will remove problems to generate employment. “We will curb the scams in public job exams.” She added 150,000 posts are vacant in primary schools and 8,000 in higher education alone.Priyanka Gandhi said the Yogi Adityanath government’s “one district, one product” plan would be revised and that Congress would promote a cluster approach to support local industries if voted to power. She added fees for job exams would be waived and a single-window scholarship portal would be launched. The manifesto promises new opportunities for children of sanitation workers and that most backward classes would get ₹5 lakh loans for business. “A deaddiction centre with headquarters in Lucknow, youth festival annually to showcase local talents and world-class cricket academies for cricket and other sports would be built.”
21-01-2022||India||Man attempts self immolation outside Supreme Court, hospitalised||A 50-year-old man set himself on fire and attempted suicide outside the Supreme Court, the Delhi Police said on Friday. The police said he was rushed to the hospital, as reported by news agency ANI. He had suffered burn injuries and is being treated.The man tried to self-immolate near the new building of the top court for reasons yet to be known. According to reports, he has been identified as a resident of Noida.In a video, presumably shot on a mobile phone by a bystander, the man could be seen lying on the road and crying as the police tried to help him.“I am from a poor family. My family is starving,” the man could be heard saying as he told the police why he set himself ablaze.This is the second such incident outside the Supreme Court in the last six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-attempts-self-immolation-outside-supreme-court-hospitalised-101642757520045.html
21-01-2022||India||Under ‘double engine’ rule, Tripura becoming land of opportunities: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually addressed the people of Meghalaya on the occasion of their 50th statehood day and said that Tripura is gradually becoming a land of opportunities under the current “double engine government”, performing well on multiple parameters of development.Notably, Tripura, Manipur, and Meghalaya attained statehood on January 21, 1972, under the North-Eastern Areas (Re-organisation) Act, 1971. Tripura is currently governed by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led regime under Biplab Kumar Deb, who took oath as the chief minister in 2018, ending 25 years of Left Front rule in the state.“Today Tripura is becoming a land of opportunities,” the Prime Minister said today in his virtual address to the citizens. “The double engine government is working continuously to meet the small needs of the common people of Tripura. That is why Tripura is performing well today on many parameters of development.”Pointing out that Tripura is leading ahead of many other states in utilising modern, state-of-the-art facilties, Prime Minister Modi said that recently, the Tripura government has started providing 100 per cent facilities to every village and is also one of the only six states in the country where new technology is being used in housing construction.“Today, on the one hand, Tripura is doing commendable work in providing pucca houses to the poor, and on the other hand, it is also adopting new technology rapidly,” said Prime Minister Modi. “From transparency in administration to modern infrastructure, the Tripura that is being built today will prepare the state for decades to come.”Tripura is achieving new heights in development, and the collective “wisdom” of the people of the state is responsible for this, the Prime Minister said, adding, “…three years of meaningful change is proof of this wisdom.”“The history of Tripura has always been full of dignity,” he explained. “From the majesty of the Manikya dynasty emperors to the present day, Tripura has strengthened its role as a state. Be it tribal society or other community, all have worked hard and unitedly for the development of Tripura.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-double-engine-rule-tripura-becoming-land-of-opportunities-pm-modi-101642755941939.html
21-01-2022||India||Meghalaya becoming attractive destination for world: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that Meghalaya is becoming an attractive destination for the country and the world.While virtually addressing the people of Meghalaya on the occasion of their 50th Statehood Day, PM Modi said, "Over the past 50 years, the people of Meghalaya have cemented their identity of being close to nature. To see the beautiful waterfalls, to experience the clean and serene environment, to connect with your unique tradition, Meghalaya is becoming an attractive destination for the country and the world."The Prime Minister also said that the state has given the message of nature and progress, conservation and eco-sustainability to the world."I have had the privilege of visiting Meghalaya several times when you gave me the opportunity to serve as the Prime Minister for the first time, then I came to Shillong to participate in the North Eastern Meet. It was an unforgettable occasion for me to reach Shillong after three to four decades as a Prime Minister to participate in this event. Our brothers and sisters from Khasi, Garo, and Jaintia communities deserve special appreciation for this," said PM Modi.He further said that the Central Government has worked for the development of the state."Meghalaya is full of talent. In the last seven years, the Central Government has sincerely tried to accelerate the development journey of Meghalaya. The central government is fully committed specially to ensure better road, rail and air connectivity in the state," he said.He further said that Meghalaya has achieved a lot, but it still has a lot to achieve."Apart from tourism and organic farming, efforts are also necessary for the development of new sectors in Meghalaya. I am with you for all your efforts," he added.Under the North-Eastern Areas (Re-organisation) Act, 1971, Tripura, Manipur and Meghalaya attained statehood on January 21, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-becoming-attractive-destination-for-world-pm-modi-101642754644256.html
21-01-2022||India||Heading to airport? Beware of the new 'one hand bag' rule for passengers||Passengers taking domestic flights will no longer be allowed to carry more one hand baggage, the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) has ordered in a new circular, imposing ‘One Hand Bag rule’ across airports. The new rule has been imposed with an aim to ease out congestion and security concerns on ground and reduce burden at screening points at airports.The decision bars any passenger from carrying more than one cabin baggage on flights within India, with an exception to the items listed by the government in the circular. “As per BCAS AVSEC Circular Nos. 06/2000 & Lt12000, no passenger should be permitted to carry more than one hand bag other than those items already listed in the circular including lady's bag,” BCAS said in an order issued on January 19."It has been seen that passenger on an average carries 02-03 Nos of hand bags to the screening point. This has led to increased clearance time as well as delays, congestion in PESC point and inconvenience to passengers,” the order read.The civil aviation body instructed airlines, airport operators and other stakeholders to ensure the enforcement of the ‘One Hand Bag rule’ and display it on hoardings as well as passenger tickets and boarding passes for clarity.“Airline may be made responsible and depute staff to guide pax, check and verify their hand bag status etc, before allowing the passenger for Pre-embarkation security checks," the BCAS stated."All airlines may be directed suitably to inform passengers and to display 'one hand bag rule' on their tickets/boarding passes very conspicuously,” it added.The new order comes as an additional restriction for travellers, while smoothening the process of security check at airport. The Centre had already imposed a one-bag policy for check-in baggage to ease congestion and ensure health protocols during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heading-to-airport-beware-of-the-new-one-hand-bag-rule-for-passengers-101642751385263.html
21-01-2022||India||'India reclaiming history': All you need to know about Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's statue to be installed at India Gate||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Friday that a grand statue of iconic freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose will be installed at India Gate. Till the statue, made of granite, is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place, he said.“Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary,” he said on Twitter.The Prime Minister further said that Bose’s grand statue will be made of granite and will be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him.Senior government officials said that with the decision, India is reclaiming its history. The Canopy earlier had a statue of Kind George 5th, which was removed in 1968, they added.The officials further said that the dimensions of Netaji’s statue would be 28 feet X 6 feet.Reclaiming it’s history 🇮🇳The Canopy where Netaji's statue would be installed, earlier had a statue of Kind George 5th, which was removed in 1968.Some photos with the statue and after the statue was removed - pic.twitter.com/l2JZsN4lBnThe announcement was hailed by many Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, Union ministers and civil society members.Earlier, speaking at the inauguration ceremony of the new circuit house near Somnath Temple in Gujarat, the Prime Minister said that the Congress government constructed new things only for their families after independence while his government is building monuments of national importance.He added that the country is leaving behind that narrow thinking and building new places of pride, giving them grandeur."Today, the development of tourist centres is not just a part of the government scheme, but a campaign of public participation. The development of our cultural heritage is a great example," he added.The Prime Minister further urged people to travel and discover their own roots by visiting hidden gems of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reclaiming-history-all-you-need-to-know-about-bose-statue-101642751872541.html
21-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 3 held for derogatory remarks on Muslim women on Clubhouse, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Clubhouse chat case: 3 arrested for derogatory remarks against Muslim womenA two-minute video clip of the Clubhouse chat was shared on Twitter in which participants were heard making abusive and derogatory remarks against Muslim women. Read moreUnpaused Naya Safar review: Nagraj Manjule and Ayappa KM deliver solid entries in pandemic-themed miniseriesThree out of five stories in the coronavirus pandemic-based Unpaused: Naya Safar center on frontline and gig workers. The anthology miniseries is the sequel to Unpaused, released in 2020. Read more'Can't drop him after one failure': Ex-India opener warns Rahul and co. against 'chopping and changing' in XI in SA ODIsTeam India faced a defeat in the first ODI against South Africa on Wednesday and will be aiming for a strong comeback when it takes the field later today in Paarl. Read moreAnanya Panday sets internet on fire in bralette and leather pants for Gehraiyaan promotions: Suhana Khan reactsThe Gen-Z fashionista slipped into a trendy bralette and faux leather pants for the occasion and set the internet on fire. Fans and Ananya's BFF Suhana Khan also fell in love with her style. Read moreEye on countering Xi's China, top US official says India's role ‘crucial’Laura Rosenberger, part of Biden's National Security Council, has revealed the US President's China strategy. The National Security Council is the US President's principal forum for foreign policy decision making. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-3-held-for-derogatory-remarks-on-muslim-women-on-clubhouse-and-all-the-latest-news-101642747792869.html
21-01-2022||India||'Delhi averted Covid-19 danger': Health minister Satyendra Jain as cases dip steadily||The national capital is expected to record 10,500 Covid-19 cases on Friday, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said on Friday, adding the positivity rate is expected to hover between 17-18 per cent, news agency PTI reported.Delhi had on Thursday logged 12,306 fresh Covid-19 cases and 43 fatalities. Out of these 43 deaths, Covid-19 was a primary cause in only three, Jain further said, giving an indication of stabilising Covid-19 situation in the city."Experts said Delhi will record 1 lakh cases daily, but we averted that danger," he also said. The health minister also announced that the Delhi government will take a call on lifting more curbs within 3-4 days.Earlier in the day, the Delhi government sent a proposal to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal with a recommendation to relax some Covid induced restrictions in the city. As per the proposal, the Arvind Kejriwal-led government has suggested lifting the weekend curfew. It has also suggested ending the odd-even system for opening of shops and allowing private offices to run with 50 per cent staff in the city.After weeks of exponential growth in daily Covid-19 cases, the daily tally has fallen steadily in the last few days.The city had recorded 28,867 Covid-19 cases last Thursday, the sharpest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. The number then declined to 24,383 on Friday, 20,718 on Saturday, 18,286 on Sunday, 12,527 on Monday, and 11,684 on Tuesday.The positivity rate stood at 30.6 per cent on Saturday, the highest in the ongoing wave of the pandemic so far. It fell to 27.9 per cent on Sunday, 28 per cent on Monday and 22.5 per cent on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-averted-covid-19-danger-health-minister-satyendra-jain-as-cases-dip-steadily-101642749387810.html
21-01-2022||India||Subhas Chandra Bose birth anniversary: India Gate to have Netaji statue soon, announces PM Modi||A ‘grand statue’ of Subhas Chandra Bose will be installed at India Gate, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Friday, two days before the freedom fighter’s 125th birth anniversary. “I am glad to share that the grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted.At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him. pic.twitter.com/dafCbxFclKHowever, till the time the statue is constructed, a hologram bust of ‘Netaji’ will be put up at the iconic monument in the national capital, PM Modi further said.  “I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary,” he posted. Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary. pic.twitter.com/jsxFJwEkSJThe dimensions of the upcoming statue will be 28 feet*6 feet, people aware of development said. The canopy, under which it will be placed, previously featured a bust of Britain's King George V, which was removed in 1968, they added.Also Read | 'India reclaiming history': All you need to know about Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's statue to be installed at India GateLast week, the Union government announced that starting this year, the annual Republic Day celebrations will commence on January 23, instead of January 24, to coincide with the birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose. Also, since last year, January 23 has been observed as ‘Parakram Diwas’ in memory of the former commander of the erstwhile Indian National Army (INA).Today's announcement by PM Modi also comes in the backdrop of controversy surrounding the ‘merger’ of India Gate's Amar Jawan Jyoti flame with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grand-statue-of-subhas-chandra-bose-to-be-installed-at-india-gate-pm-modi-101642749061498.html
21-01-2022||India||Amar Jawan Jyoti: Congress hits out at govt for ‘removing history’||NEW DELHI: The Opposition Congress on Friday hit out at the government and accused it of “removing history” by extinguishing the Amar Jawan Jyoti at the India Gate for merging it with the immortal flame at the National War Memorial in New Delhi.In a tweet in Hindi, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said “some people cannot understand patriotism and sacrifice”. He added Congress will light the Amar Jawan Jyoti again. “It is a matter of great sadness that the immortal flame for our brave soldiers will be extinguished today.”The criticism came even as news agency PTI quoted unnamed government saying there is “a lot of misinformation on the matter”, and added the flame of the Amar Jawan Jyoti was not being extinguished but merged.In a tweet, ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leader Sambit Patra hit back. “It is ironic that people who did not make a National War Memorial for seven decades are now making a hue and cry when a permanent and fitting tribute is being made to our martyrs.”Congress leader Manish Tewari likened extinguishing of the flame to removing history. “Extinguishing Amar Jawan Jyoti tantamount to extinguishing history. For it commentates sacrifice of those 3,483 brave soldiers who cleaved Pakistan into two parts and redrew the map of South Asia post-partition,” he tweeted. Tewari called it ironical that in the 50th year of Bangladesh’s liberation, the government “seems to be working overtime to erase” India’s finest hour in post-independent history.“Amar Jawan Jyoti is imbued in the national consciousness. A billion people have grown up venerating it. Why can’t India have two eternal flames? Amar Jawan Jyoti and National War Memorial.” He called extinguishing the eternal flame nothing short of a crime. “I am surprised that the nation is silent as a national icon would be snuffed out in the project to re-write history.”Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor said the government has no respect for democratic traditions and established conventions. He added the government is “snuffing out” the sanctity of the Amar Jawan Jyoti.Rashtriya Janata Dal lawmaker Manoj Kumar Jha said such moves are “neither good politics nor good optics”. He added it is understandable that the present regime may not have a sense of “attachment/belonging with the glories of the past but it is beyond comprehension when you resort to such memory erasure tactics.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amar-jawan-jyoti-congress-hits-out-at-govt-for-removing-history-101642749276077.html
21-01-2022||India||'Matter of great sadness': Rahul Gandhi on Amar Jawan Jyoti issue||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the central government, accusing it of extinguishing the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate in New Delhi. The former Congress president said that "some people cannot understand patriotism". This despite the government clarifying that the eternal flame will not be extinguished but merged with the flame at the National War Memorial, 400-metres away from India Gate."It is a matter of great sadness that the immortal flame that used to burn for our brave soldiers will be extinguished today. Some people cannot understand patriotism and sacrifice - never mind. We will once again light the Amar Jawan Jyoti for our soldiers," Gandhi wrote on Twitter.According to officials, the merger of flames will be done in an elaborate ceremony which is scheduled for 3:30pm today at India Gate. The flame will be moved in a torch to the National War Memorial along with Guard Contingent and the two flames will be merged.The India Gate memorial was built by the British government in memory of the British Indian Army soldiers who lost their lives between 1914-1921.However, the Amar Jawan Jyoti was included in the memorial structure in the 1970s after the massive victory of India over Pakistan in which 93,000 troops of the rival country surrendered.The National War Memorial was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019. It honours Indian military soldiers who fought in armed conflicts of independent India. This includes soldiers who fought during the armed conflicts with Pakistan and China as well as the 1961 war in Goa, Operation Pawan in Sri Lanka and other operations including Rakshak in UT of Jammu and Kashmir.The names of troops who lost lives in the counter-terrorist operations are also included on the walls of the memorial.Meanwhile, as several leaders raised their voice against the move, peopleaware of the development said that a lot of misinformation is being spread with regards to the same. They said that the names of all Indian martyrs from all the wars, including 1971 and wars before and after it, are housed at the National War Memorial. Hence it will be the "true homage to have the flame paying tribute to martyrs there", they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/matter-of-great-sadness-rahul-gandhi-on-amar-jawan-jyoti-issue-101642747050599.html
21-01-2022||India||Clubhouse chat case: 3 arrested for derogatory remarks against Muslim women||Mumbai police have arrested three people from Haryana in connection with a chat on the Clubhouse app where derogatory and abusive remarks were made against Muslim women.Based on a complaint by a woman, the cyber cell of the Mumbai crime branch has registered a case against the three accused – identified as Akash, Jeshnav Kakkar and Yash Parashar – under sections 153(a), 295(a), 354(a), 354(d) of IPC, and section 67 of Information Technology Act 2000. Two of the accused will be produced in a local court later in the day, reported PTI quoting an official."We have registered a case against a vulgar Clubhouse app chat and arrested one person from Karnal, Haryana and is taken to 3 days SIT remand. 2 other accused are picked up from Faridabad and the process for their transit remand is in progress," Milind Bharambe, Joint CP Crime, said.Bharambe confirmed that two chat rooms were created on the Clubhouse app, one on January 16band the other on January 16. He said that many participants were involved in making derogatory remarks about women and talking about auctioning their body parts."Kudos @MumbaiPolice, they have got cracking on the Clubhouse chats too and some arrests have been made. Say no to hate. #Clubhouse," Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said in the tweet after the arrests.A two-minute video clip of the Clubhouse chat was shared on Twitter in which participants were heard discussing Muslim women under the topic ‘Muslim Gals are more beautiful than Hindu Gals’. They were also heard making comparisons between the Babri masjid demolition and sexual intercourse with Muslim women.After public outcry, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) Swati Maliwal issued a notice to the cybercrime cell of the Delhi Police, seeking action against people making derogatory remarks."In the said conversation, participants can be clearly heard making obscene, vulgar, and defamatory remarks over women and girls especially from the Muslim community," the notice said.Mumbai police made arrests a day after the Delhi police sought details from the Clubhouse app and search engine Google about the organiser of the audio group chat. The Delhi police had identified some men and women participants of the group audio chat as part of the investigation, reported PTI quoting people familiar with the development. The Delhi police had also registered FIR under sections 153(a), 295(a) and 354(a) of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clubhouse-chat-case-3-arrested-for-derogatory-remarks-against-muslim-women-101642746056987.html
21-01-2022||India||Somnath Temple circuit house inauguration: PM Modi lists 4 ways to boost tourism sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually inaugurated a new circuit house which has built been near the iconic Somnath Temple in his home state of Gujarat. Addressing the gathering on the occasion, PM Modi listed four ways to boost the tourism sector in the country--cleanliness, facilities, time and thinking.Also Read | PM Modi to inaugurate new circuit house near Somnath Temple today“Today, the nation looks at tourism in a holistic way. Therefore, we need to do the following four things to boost this industry,” he said.Speaking on cleanliness, Modi said that earlier, tourist sites, and even places of pilgrimage, fared poorly on this aspect. However, it was his government's Swachh Bharat Abhiyan which brought about a change.Facilities, PM Modi opined, should not be limited only to tourist sites. “Facility means facility of transportation, internet, correct information, medical and health etc. Today, all-round work is being done in this direction,” he remarked.The Prime Minister equated time with a Twenty20 match of cricket, saying that this is important because today, people want to cover many places in a short span of time. Lastly, and importantly, having a modern and innovative thought process is welcome, but what also matters is how much pride we have in our ancient heritage, Modi said.Prime Minister Modi further listed initiatives undertaken by his government to honour eminent personalities. “After independence, buildings were constructed in Delhi only for selected families. However, it is this government which built the Baba Saheb Memorial in Delhi and APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial in Rameshwaram. Similarly, attention was given to places related to Subhas Chandra Bose and Shyamji Krishna Varma,” he said.About Somnath Temple circuit house:According to a release from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the new facility has been built at a cost of ₹30 crore. A new circuit house was needed as the existing one is far away from the temple. This new facility has VIP and deluxe rooms, suites, conference room, auditorium hall etc.It also makes available sea view from every room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/somnath-circuit-house-inauguration-pm-modi-lists-4-ways-to-boost-tourism-sector-101642743867645.html
21-01-2022||India||PM Modi tops approval ratings of global leaders, UK's Johnson most unpopular. Here's the list||Prime Minister Narendra Modi continues to top the chart of global leaders with the highest approval ratings, leaving US President Joe Biden and Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau. The latest approval ratings by data intelligence company Morning Consult suggest that PM Modi has a net approval rating of 50, with 71 per cent of respondents voting in approval while 21 per cent voting in disapproval.Since the time Morning Consult started tracking each leader, PM Modi's approval rating was at its peak in May 2020 during the nationwide lockdown, while dipping to its lowest during the disastrous second Covid wave last year.The company is currently tracking the approval ratings of government leaders of Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, Spain, Britain and the US.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who has been facing criticism over the reports of him partying in the lockdown, has received a net approval rating of -43 as 69 per cent of respondents disapproved of the Conservative UK leader. The other leaders who have a net negative approval rating are Biden, Trudeau, Brazil’s Jair Bolsanaro, France’s Emmanuel Macron, South Korea’s Moon Jae-in, Australia’s Scott Morrison, and Spain’s Pedro Sachez.The ratings are based on a seven-day moving average of adult residents, with sample sizes varying by country.List of global approval ratings of world leaders:Narendra Modi: 71%Andrés Manuel López Obrador: 66%Mario Draghi: 60%Fumio Kishida: 48%Olaf Scholz: 44%Joe Biden: 43%Justin Trudeau: 43%Scott Morrison: 41%Pedro Sánchez: 40%Moon Jae-in: 38%Jair Bolsonaro: 37%Emmanuel Macron: 34%Boris Johnson: 26%List of global disapproval ratings of world leaders:Boris Johnson: 69%Emmanuel Macron: 59%Jair Bolsonaro: 56%Moon Jae-in: 54%Pedro Sánchez: 53%Scott Morrison: 52%Justin Trudeau: 51%Joe Biden: 49%Olaf Scholz: 40%Fumio Kishida: 36%Mario Draghi: 33%Andrés Manuel López Obrador: 26%Narendra Modi: 21%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-tops-approval-ratings-of-global-leaders-uk-s-johnson-most-unpopular-here-s-the-list-101642739570408.html
21-01-2022||India||Centre backs ‘exemplary punishment’ for corrupt jail staff||NEW DELHI: Exemplary punishment for corruption by jail staff alone can ensure incidents such as those involving former Unitech promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra bribing officials of Tihar Jail to “propagate criminal activities” from jail can be prevented, said the Centre in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on Wednesday.The court on August 26 directed the Chandra brothers to be shifted out of Tihar Jail to separate jails in Mumbai. It sought a report from Delhi Commissioner of Police Rakesh Asthana on the deficiencies in the prison management system at Tihar. His report of September 28 was forwarded by the court to the Centre for taking remedial steps. It was pursuant to this order of October 6 that the Centre filed its response. The court suspended the jail officials, who were allegedly bribed. The officials are also being probed as part of a criminal case registered against them.The affidavit said, “Any act of corruption detected in prisons should not go unpunished and exemplary punishment should be awarded by prison authorities, which will serve as a deterrent for other officials.”Referring to the Chandra brothers’ cases which triggered calls for jail reforms, the affidavit said, “If the Model Prison Manual 2016, advisories and instructions already issued by the MHA are followed assiduously and with earnest intent by the states and UTs, incidents such as the one that took place in Tihar Jail involving the accused Sanjay and Ajay Chandra can be prevented from occurring again.”Since prisons fall under the State List and laws on this subject can be adjudicated upon by the concerned states and UTs, the Centre told the court, “The real test of the Manual lies in the hands of the states who are the implementing agencies at ground level and have to revise their Jail Manuals in accordance with the guidance provided on a range of issues in the Model Manual.” Delhi has adopted the Model Jail Manual of 2016 besides 11 other states and UTs.Some of the measures under the Model Jail Manual include disciplinary proceedings by independent authority for corrupt practices or misconduct involving jail staff.“...if implemented in letter and spirit by the respective state governments and prison authorities at senior level, would go a long way in reducing the deep-rooted and persistent issue of corruption in prisons in India,” the Centre said.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah directed additional solicitor general Madhavi Divan, appearing for the Centre, and Enforcement Directorate to submit a fresh status report on the pending trial and investigation against the Chandra brothers and other family members.Asthana’s report highlighted 23 actionable points requiring immediate attention. They include the installation of security apparatus, improved surveillance, training to jail staff, and promoting good conduct among prisoners. The affidavit said the Centre fully agreed with Asthana’s recommendations and had forwarded them for consideration to the Delhi Chief Secretary.The Centre informed the court about the earmarking of ₹950 crore for modernising the prison system. The affidavit said, “Financial support will be provided to all states and UTs over a period of five years starting from the current financial year to fulfil the objectives of filling the existing gaps in security infrastructure in jails, providing new security equipment to jails in line with modern-day technologies, strengthening monitoring of jail security system through security equipment like door frames, hand-held metal detectors, baggage scanners…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-backs-exemplary-punishment-for-corrupt-jail-staff-101642739254937.html
21-01-2022||India||India reports 3,47,254 new Covid cases, 703 deaths in 24 hours||India on Friday recorded 3,47,254 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the latest data released by the Union health ministry. The country also recorded 703 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the ministry's data further showed.The active cases of Covid-19 topped the two-million mark as the Omicron-led surge continued in the country. The active cases have increased to 20,18,825, the highest in 235 days, the ministry data showed. The active cases comprise 5.23 per cent of the total infections, as per the data.Also Read | Delhi's daily Covid tally dips to 12,306, logs highest deaths since June; Satyendar Jain says easing of curbs unlikelyThe overall caseload now stands at 3,85,66,027, according to the data published by the Union health ministry. While the related-death toll is at 488,396.The number of Omicron cases reached 9,692, the ministry also informed. According to the data, Friday recorded an increase of 4.36 per cent since yesterday in daily Omicron cases.Also Read | Amid record Covid-19 surge in Kerala, lockdown-like curbs on next two Sundays. Details hereThe daily positivity rate surged to 17.94 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate is at 16.56 per cent, the ministry also added.As many as 2,51,777 people have been recuperated from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 3,60,58,806. Meanwhile, the country has administered 160.43 crore vaccine doses so far under the nationwide vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-3-47-254-new-covid-cases-703-deaths-in-24-hours-101642736830383.html
21-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Rain predicted in several states for next 2 days, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amar Jawan Jyoti to be merged with National War Memorial flame. This is whyAt 1554 hours today, Air Marshal Balabadra Radha Krishna, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, in the absence of serving Chief of Defence Staff will merge the flames of Amar Jawan Jyoti with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial in a ceremonial function. Read more…Western disturbance to cause rainfall in Rajasthan, other states for next 2 daysDelhi is likely to have a partly cloudy sky with the possibility of light rain towards Friday evening, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted as the maximum temperature in the national capital settled two degrees Celsius below the season’s average on Thursday. The weather department has also predicted rain in parts of Rajasthan during the next two days due to the influence of a new western disturbance. Read more…Why Bhim Army chief is risking direct fight with CM Yogi | Poll BaaziThe Azad Samaj Party has become the first party in Uttar Pradesh to announce a candidate to contest against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath from Gorakhpur. Bhim Army Chief Chandra Shekhar Azad will contest his first assembly election from Gorakhpur Sadar against BJP’s Yogi Adityanath, which is his stronghold that elected him to Lok Sabha for five straight terms till 2017. Watch videoICC announces schedule for T20 World Cup 2022; India begin campaign with blockbuster tie against Pakistan on October 23India will open their 2022 T20 World Cup campaign with a blockbuster tie against Pakistan at the iconic Melbourne Cricket Ground on October 23 this year as the International Cricket Council on Friday announced the schedule for the 2022 T20 World Cup. It will be the first World Cup match between the two Asian teams at the MCG. Read more…Bhoothakaalam movie review: Shane Nigam and Revathy's film is moving mental health drama disguised as horrorKumbalangi Nights actor Shane Nigam’s first release in two years, Bhoothakaalam, is an excellent film made from unfinished ideas. Its outer shell is that of a haunted house horror film. But its actual concern is mental illness. Think Jennifer Kent’s 2014 Australian horror film The Babadook, in which the widowed protagonist and her son’s poor mental health manifests as the eponymous monster. Read more…Loved Janhvi Kapoor's bold tropical print swimsuit for taking a dip in the pool? It is worth ₹17kActor Janhvi Kapoor spent the last weekend chilling with her friends and taking dips in the swimming pool under the balmy sun. The star took to Instagram to share several pictures from her relaxing holiday and served fans with major fashion goals. One of the striking and bold looks from the photo series shows the star posing inside the swimming pool wearing a printed bikini set in a soothing yellow tone. See pics here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rain-predicted-in-several-states-for-next-2-days-and-all-the-latest-news-101642732834846.html
21-01-2022||India||Amar Jawan Jyoti to be merged with National War Memorial flame. This is why||At 1554 hours today, Air Marshal Balabadra Radha Krishna, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, in the absence of serving Chief of Defence Staff will merge the flames of Amar Jawan Jyoti with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial in a ceremonial function.According to South Block officials, the merger of flames will be done in an elaborate ceremony which begins at 3:30pm with the arrival of CISC at the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate. The flame will be moved in a torch to National War Memorial along with Guard Contingent and the two flames will be merged.The merger of flames was done as the Amar Jawan Jyoti was lit up in 1972 after the 1971 Indo-Pak war under the India Gate, which is a memorial to 90,000 soldiers of the British Indian Army who died between 1914 and 1921in the World War I, in France, Flanders, Mesopotamia, Persia, East Africa, Gallipoli and the Third Afghan War. While the Amar Jawan flames represent the immortal soldier, the India Gate is representative of Colonial India.The National War Memorial, unveiled on February 25, 2019, honors and represents soldiers of Indian military who fought conflicts for independent India. The name of armed forces personnel killed during the armed conflicts with Pakistan and China as well as 1961 war in Goa, Operation Pawan in Sri Lanka and other operations including Rakshak in UT of Jammu and Kashmir are inscribed in the memorial in golden letters. This allows the near and dear ones of the fallen brave heart as well as the public to pay respects to the fallen warrior.The decision to merge the two flames was taken as there cannot be two war memorials in close proximity to each other and it is the National War Memorial which represents independent India and eternal soldier.
21-01-2022||India||As Meghalaya turns 50, govt plans year-long celebrations to mark the occasion||The northeastern state of Meghalaya is celebrating its 50th formation day on Friday. To mark the golden jubilee celebrations, the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) government has planned to celebrate the occasion by inaugurating projects throughout the year.Meghalaya was carved out of Assam on January 21, 1972. It was previously part of two districts the United Khasi Hills and Jaintia Hills, and the Garo Hills.The state had planned grand celebrations, but the plans were scuttled due to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, chief minister Conrad K Sangma said on Monday. "We have listed close to about 300 projects… We have decided that rather than inaugurating things in one day on the 50th year of statehood golden jubilee celebration, we will inaugurate them throughout the year so that the meaning increases," he also said.The official programme is scheduled to be held today at the JN Complex, which can accommodate close to 3,000 plus people. However, only 30 per cent occupancy has been permitted in view of the Covid-19 protocol. The guests are also required to strictly follow Covid protocols like wearing face masks and sanitising their hands at regular intervals.All the districts will be connected online to the programme in Shillong as separate events will not be held in the districts given the Covid-19 situation, the chief minister had also informed.Meanwhile, on Thursday, Meghalaya reported as many as 329 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the highest one day spike. The state has a total of 1,629 active cases and the death toll stands at 1,494. The overall caseload is 87,404.With 1,117 active cases and 1016 deaths, state capital Shillong is among the worst-hit districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-meghalaya-turns-50-govt-plans-year-long-celebrations-to-mark-the-occasion-101642731058758.html
21-01-2022||India||PM Modi to inaugurate new circuit house near Somnath Temple today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a new circuit house in Gujarat’s Somnath on Friday. According to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the ceremony will take place via video conferencing at 11am.The Prime Minister will also address the gathering on the occasion.The new circuit house has been built at a cost of over ₹30 crore and is located near the famous Somnath Temple.In a release, the government said that it is equipped with top class facilities, including VIP and deluxe rooms, and suites, conference room and auditorium hall.The landscaping has been done in such a manner that sea view is available from every room, the release further said.The need for the new circuit house was felt as the existing government facility was located far off from the temple, the PMO said.In a bid to strengthen religious tourism in the country, the Prime Minister had inaugurated several projects in Somnath and laid the foundation stone for Parvati Temple in August last year. It is proposed to be constructed with a total outlay of ₹30 crore.Other projects like the Somnath Promenade, Somnath Exhibition Centre and the reconstructed temple precinct of Old (Juna) Somnath were also inaugurated.About Somnath TempleThe Somnath temple has a unique place in Hinduism. The famous temple located on the coast near Veraval in Gujarat was desecrated and invaded by Mohmud of Ghazni and other Muslim invaders between 11 to 17th century. However, after every attack, the temple was rebuilt including the present structure which was built at the instance of the first home minister of India Sardar Patel and was inaugurated by the first president Dr Rajendra Prasad in May 1951.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-new-circuit-house-near-somnath-temple-today-101642729309676.html
21-01-2022||India||Daughters to inherit self-acquired properties of fathers dying without a will: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the daughters of a male Hindu dying without a will would be entitled to inherit self-acquired and other properties obtained in the partition by the father. The court also said that such daughters would get preference over other collateral members of the family such as sons and daughters of brothers of the deceased father. The judgement dealt with the property rights of Hindu women and widows under the Hindu Succession Act.“If a property of a male Hindu dying intestate (without a will) is a self-acquired property or obtained in the partition of a coparcenary or a family property, the same would devolve by inheritance and not by survivorship, and a daughter of such a male Hindu would be entitled to inherit such property in preference to other collaterals (such as sons/daughters of brothers of deceased father),” a bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said in a 51-page judgment.The court also dealt with the question of whether such property will devolve onto the daughter upon the death of her father or on to “father’s brother’s son by survivorship” in the absence of any other legal heir.“Right of a widow or daughter to inherit the self-acquired property or share received in the partition of a coparcenary property of a Hindu male dying intestate is well recognized not only under the old customary Hindu Law but also by various judicial pronouncements...,” the verdict said.In case a female Hindu dies without leaving a will, the court said, the property she inherited from her father or mother would go to the heirs of her father while the property she inherited from her husband or father-in-law would go to the heirs of the husband.“The basic aim of the legislature in enacting Section 15(2) (of the Hindu Succession Act) is to ensure that inherited property of a female Hindu dying issueless and intestate, goes back to the source,” it said.The judgment came on an appeal against the Madras high court verdict dismissing the partition suit of the daughters.The top court said, “...since the property in question was admittedly the self-acquired property of a father despite the family being in a state of jointness upon his death intestate, his sole surviving daughter will inherit the same by inheritance and the property shall not devolve by survivorship.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daughters-to-inherit-self-acquired-properties-of-fathers-dying-without-a-will-supreme-court-101642728464410.html
21-01-2022||India||Supreme Court to hear Tarun Tejpal's plea for in-camera hearing in 2013 sexual assault case today||The Supreme Court will on Friday hear an appeal filed by former Tehelka editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal against the Bombay high court's order rejecting a plea for an in-camera hearing of the proceedings challenging his acquittal in a 2013 sexual assault case.A bench comprising Justices Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai will be hearing the plea. Last year in November, a Goa bench of the Bombay high court had rejected the application, in which Tejpal sought an in-camera hearing of the proceedings under Section 327 of the CrPC.The journalist is accused of sexually assaulting his then-colleague in a lift of a five-star Goa hotel in 2013.He was acquitted by a sessions court in May 2021, however, it was challenged in the Goa bench of the Bombay high court by the state government. Challenging Tejpal's acquittal, the state government had said that the court’s judgment was “coloured by prejudice and patriarchy”.After the Goa police filed an appeal against Tejpal's acquittal, he moved the high court with an application seeking an in-camera hearing of the matter, which was rejected.“Section 327 applies for the purpose of inquiring into or trying any offence. It has limited application during inquiry or trial. The appeal is something very clear. Appeals, revisions, etc are neither investigation nor inquiry nor a trial,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Goa government, had argued.Senior advocate Amit Desai, who was representing Tejpal, had referred to the law commission and various judgements of high courts supporting his application for an in-camera hearing. The high court, however, rejected the submissions.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-tarun-tejpal-s-plea-for-in-camera-hearing-in-2013-sexual-assault-case-today-101642726716508.html
21-01-2022||India||Packages of drug ingredients to carry QR codes for tracking: Govt||The Union government has made QR (quick response) codes mandatory on packages of drug manufacturing ingredients, both domestic and imported, in a bid to crack down on fake medicines.Earlier this week, the Union health ministry gazette notified guidelines, saying “every active pharmaceutical ingredient (API; bulk drug) manufactured or imported in India shall bear a quick response code on its label at each level, packaging that store data or information readable with software application to facilitate tracking”.The data stored in the code is expected to have unique product ID, name of the API, brand name, name and address of the manufacturer, batch number, batch size, date of manufacturing, date of expiry or retesting, serial shipping container code, manufacturing licence or import licence number, and special storage condition required.API is the core ingredient for manufacturing a drug. If it is fake or sub-standard, then the whole medicine quality is jeopardised. A major chunk of APIs is imported to India from China. However, the government is taking measures to ensure that India is able to manufacture most of it indigenously.The changes in the drugs rules were made under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, after consultation with the regulator’s subject expert panel— the drugs technical advisory board. The initiative will help easily distinguish between the real and fake drugs.India’s drug regulatory authority is also in the process of amending the Drugs and Cosmetics (D&C) Rules, 1945.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/packages-of-drug-ingredients-to-carry-qr-codes-for-tracking-govt-101642726168424.html
21-01-2022||NA||Breaking News Highlights: West Bengal logs 9,154 new Covid-19 cases, 19,112 recoveries and 35 deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:West Bengal reports 9,154 new Covid-19 cases, 19,112 recoveries, and 35 deathsWest Bengal reports 9,154 new #COVID19 cases, 19,112 recoveries and 35 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 1,34,816 pic.twitter.com/zYyrVUd83HMumbai logs 5,008 new Covid-19 cases, 12,913 recoveries and 12 deathsMumbai reports 5008 new #COVID19 cases, 12,913 recoveries and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 14,178 pic.twitter.com/dAq5mFLjPWPrima facie, it appears leak is not related to Co-WIN, matter being examined: Govt on alleged data leakRegarding data leak from CoWIN - We are getting the matter examined. However, prima facie it appears that the alleged leak is not related to Co-WIN as we neither collect any information on address or the #COVID19 status of beneficiaries: Ministry of Health & Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/fZAMGLYzkFDavos forum to be held in person May 22-26, says World Economic Forum The Davos summit will be held in person for the first time since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, from May 22-26, the World Economic Forum announced Friday.Karnataka reports 48,049 new Covid-19 cases, 22 deathsKarnataka reports 48,049 new #COVID19 cases, 18,115 recoveries, and 22 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 3,23,143 Positivity rate 19.23% pic.twitter.com/Z4deYdlFR8Delhi reports 10,756 new Covid-19 cases, 38 deathsDelhi reports 10,756 new #COVID19 cases, 17,494 recoveries and 38 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 61,954Cumulative Positivity Rate 5.16% pic.twitter.com/JJOm9bhngF35 Pak-backed YT channels taken down for ‘spreading anti-India’ propaganda35 Pakistan-backed YouTube channels have been taken down for ‘spreading anti-India’ propaganda, ministry of information and broadcasting secretary Apurva Chandra said on Friday during a press brief at the National Media Centre in New Delhi.Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma tests positive for Covid-19Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma tests positive for #COVID19. "I am isolating myself for the required time. I have mild symptoms," he tweets. pic.twitter.com/4A2ZzhQKHxBJP releases first list of 34 candidates for Punjab assembly electionsToday BJP is announcing the first list of 34 candidates for the #PunjabElections2022: Punjab BJP in-charge Dushyant Gautam pic.twitter.com/gHYT6thA03In historic move, Amar Jawan Jyoti merged with National War Memorial flameThe Amar Jawan Jyoti flame at the India Gate was on Friday merged with that at the National War Memorial in a short ceremony in Delhi, during which a part of the Amar Jawan Jyoti flame was taken and merged with the flame at the NWM, which is 400 meters away on the other side of India Gate. Read MoreExpelled Uttarakhand BJP minister Harak Singh Rawat joins Congress in DelhiExpelled Uttarakhand BJP Minister Harak Singh Rawat joins Congress, today pic.twitter.com/XDDgIns6wfAAP releases third list for Uttar Pradesh assembly electionsAam Aadmi Party (AAP) releases the third list for Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections 2022 pic.twitter.com/mjmE6NHrVP50-year-old tried to self-immolate near Supreme Court new building: Delhi copsA 50-year-old man tried to self-immolate near the new building of the Supreme Court. He was rushed to hospital: Delhi PoliceHimachal: Fire breaks out at house in Chirgaon Rohru area of ShimlaHimachal Pradesh | Fire broke out at a house in the Chirgaon Rohru area of Shimla district pic.twitter.com/etYLS13djqIS gunmen in Iraq kill 11 soldiers in brazen barracks attackGunmen from the Islamic State extremist group attacked an army barracks in a mountainous area north of Baghdad early Friday, killing 11 soldiers as they slept, Iraqi security officials said.After Delhi CM sends proposal to lift weekend curfew, L-G Baijal says status quo should be maintained#BREAKINGLG Anil Baijal not in favor of lifting weekend curfewIn reply to CM @ArvindKejriwal's proposal to end weekend curfew, LG says status quo should be maintained till Covid-19 situation further improvesPrivate offices to be allowed 50% work from office@htTweets50th statehood day of Meghalaya: PM Modi addresses nationMeghalaya has given the message of nature and progress, of conservation and eco-sustainability to the world, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he addressed the nation on the 50th statehood day of the northeastern state. PM Modi to unveil hologram statue of Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversaryAt a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him. pic.twitter.com/dafCbxFclKPrime Minister Narendra Modi to unveil hologram statue of Subhas Chandra Bose at India Gate on his 125th birth anniversary.UP polls: Rahul, Priyanka release youth manifestoCongress leader Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi launch Uttar Pradesh's Youth Manifesto, at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) headquarter in Delhi, ahead of state assembly elections. Pakistan achieved ‘GDP growth of 5.37% in 3 yrs': Imran Khan“I want to congratulate my government on achieving GDP growth of 5.37% in 3 years leading to substantial jobs creation and rise in per capita income. Our econ reforms success recognised internationally. Bloomberg predicted Pak will sustain high growth trajectory and employment levels," tweets Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan.‘Delhi averted danger,' says health minister Satyendra JainExperts said Delhi will record 1 lakh cases daily, but we averted that danger.Will take call on lifting more curbs within 3-4 days, says health minister Satyendra Jain, as per PTI. PM Modi inaugurates new circuit house in Gujarat’s Somnath via video conferencingPrime Minister Narendra Modi has inaugurated a new circuit house in Gujarat’s Somnath via video conferencing.Mumbai police arrest 3 for making abusive comments against womenThree people have been arrested for making abusive and cruel comments about women in the Club House app chat. Mumbai Cyber Police is investigating after registering a case on the complaint of a woman, reports ANI. Delhi govt sends a recommendation to Lt Gov to end weekend curfewDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal sends a recommendation to Lt Gov to end weekend curfew as Covid-19 cases dip. The government has also proposed to end odd-even system for shops in markets. Private offices may be permitted to call 50% staff to office. Currently 100% is work from home. Delhi's air quality remains in 'very poor' categoryThe air quality in the national capital on Friday remained in the 'very poor' category according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).India reports 3,47,254 new Covid cases, 703 deaths in 24 hours; active cases cross 2-million markCovid-19 active cases in cross 2-lakh mark in India as the Omicron-led surge continues. The overall caseload was up by 3,47,254 and it now stands at 3,85,66,027.  PM Modi extends greetins on statehood day of Manipur, Meghalaya, TripuraGreetings to the people of Manipur, Meghalaya and Tripura on their Statehood Days. These states are making vibrant contributions to India’s development. Praying for their constant progress.Amar Jawan Jyoti to be merged with National War Memorial flameAt 1554 hours today, Air Marshal Balabadra Radha Krishna, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, in the absence of serving Chief of Defence Staff will merge the flames of Amar Jawan Jyoti with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial in a ceremonial function. Read MoreSputnik V effective against Omicron, say developersRussian anti Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, has two times higher virus neutralizing antibodies to the Omicron variant than the Pfizer vaccine, announced its developers on Wednesday based on a preprint study. Read More17 dead, 59 injured in explosion in western GhanaAs many as 17 killed, 59 others have been injured in explosion in western Ghana, reports AFP citing government.France plans to relax Covid induced restrictions next monthFrance will relax some restrictions early next month in a bet the pandemic will recede thanks to faster inoculations and plans to shut the unvaccinated out of most social activities. Austrian lawmakers passed the European Union’s first law making coronavirus vaccinations mandatory.UP elections: Keshav Prasad Maurya rises up ranks after OBC leaders exit BJPUttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya is suddenly everywhere -- appealing to other backward class (OBC) leaders exiting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to reconsider their decisions; welcoming defectors to the party; or targeting the Samajwadi Party and its leader Akhilesh Yadav. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-21-2022-101642726142743.html
21-01-2022||India||‘FB unable to contain hate speech’: Whistleblowers push for action||Facebook whistleblowers Sophie Zhang and Frances Haugen on Wednesday joined a collective of advocacy groups to press Facebook to release its India Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) and address allegations the company is not doing enough to stop human rights abuses in India.At a press conference, Zhang and Haugen, said the social media company was not able to contain hate speech and misinformation. The groups identified themselves as India Civil Watch International (ICWI) and the Real Facebook Oversight Board.“If Facebook was required to publish the performance of its Hindi language violence incitement hate speech classifiers, it would show that India does not get the safety it deserves” for its “300 million users”, said Haugen, a former product manager on the Civic Misinformation team at Facebook.She added that for a linguistically diverse country like India, Facebook needs to organize safety mechanisms to protect its users on the app.Zhang, the company’s former data scientist, said:“Facebook claims benevolence, but in the end, they feel no responsibility to protect democracy… At Facebook, the policy department- the people responsible for making decisions- are the same as the ones responsible for lobbying the government. So, it’s no surprise that there is a conflict of interest.”“Given the complexity of this work, we want these assessments to be thorough. We will report annually on how we’re addressing human rights impacts, in line with our Human Rights Policy,” said Miranda Sissons, director of Human Rights Policy, Meta. Facebook, the parent company of the social media network, was rebranded as Meta recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fbunable-to-contain-hate-speech-whistleblowers-push-for-action-101642725646720.html
21-01-2022||India||Western disturbance to cause rainfall in Rajasthan, other states for next 2 days||Delhi is likely to have a partly cloudy sky with the possibility of light rain towards Friday evening, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted as the maximum temperature in the national capital settled two degrees Celsius below the season’s average on Thursday. The Met department forecast suggests foggy conditions, which delayed many Delhi-bound trains, will continue in Delhi in the morning.“There will be partly cloudy sky with possibility of light rain or drizzle towards evening on Friday. There will be shallow fog in the morning,” the IMD said.The weather department has also predicted rain in parts of Rajasthan during the next two days due to the influence of a new western disturbance. The disturbance, likely to form an induced circulation system over southwest Rajasthan on Friday, could lead to light-to-moderate rain with thunder in Jodhpur, Bikaner, Ajmer, Jaipur, Kota, and Bharatpur from January 21 night onwards.Many places in Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Dausa, Dholpur, Jaipur, Karauli, Sikar, Sawai Madhopur, Tonk, Bikaner, Churu, Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Nagaur, Jodhpur and Pali districts are likely thunder and lightning. Some places in Jaipur, Alwar, Sikar and Churu districts may witness hailstorms.Under the influence of a fresh western disturbance and other synoptic situations, isolated to scattered rainfall or snowfall very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the next 2 days. The rain, thereafter, is likely to spread with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall or snowfall on Saturday and Sunday.The IMD has predicted isolated to scattered rainfall over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and East Rajasthan on January 20-21 and increase thereafter with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall on January 22 and 23. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Punjab on January 22 and isolated heavy rainfall likely over Assam and Meghalaya on January 24.“Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over Southwest Bay of Bengal and another over south Tamil Nadu in lower tropospheric levels; isolated light rainfall/thundershower over Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal and Kerala & Mahe during next 4-5 days,” the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-western-disturbance-to-cause-rainfall-in-these-states-uts-for-next-2-days-101642725213894.html
21-01-2022||India||Officials: Fewer officers on deputation hits work||Even as some state governments have signalled their intent to challenge the Centre’s proposed amendments to All India Services Rules that will allow it get more officers on Central Deputation, data reviewed by Hindustan Times shows that the number of such officers on deputation has declined over the past decade. Union government officials said that this has affected the functioning of the Central Government .Documents reviewed by HT show that the number of IAS (Indian Administrative Service) officers available on central deputation reserve (CDR) has gone down from 309 in 2011 to 223 as on date. The proportion of CDR utilization has gone down from 25% in 2011 to 18%.This has come despite an increase in the number of IAS officers at Deputy Secretary/Director level from 621 in 2014 to 1130 in 2021; the number of officers at this level on central deputation has almost remained the same -- changing from 117 to 114.The situation in the Indian Police Service (IPS) is far worse and exemplified by a letter written by Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla to West Bengal Chief Secretary H K Dwivedi last June. In his missive, the Home Secretary stated that the CDR earmarked for West Bengal Cadre is 75, but only 14 IPS officers are presently working on Central Deputation.That the state governments are refusing to send IPS officers on central deputation is hitting the efficiency and working of the central paramilitary forces, the officials cited in the first instance added. There is evidence, they said, to show that on January 1, 2022, there is a vacancy of 186 IPS officers at the DIG level against a sanctioned strength of 252 officers. The vacancy at Superintendent of Police (SP) level is 97 (sanctioned strength 203) and at Inspector General (IG) level it is 30 (140). Data as of today shows that West Bengal utilizes only 16% of central deputation reserve followed closely by Haryana (16.3%), Telengana (20%), Karnataka (21.74%), Maharashtra (26.47%), and Punjab (29.73%) . There is a shortage of 633 IPS officers on central deputation with only 442 officers on deputation.While the Union government has sought state government responses to the proposed amendments to IAS cadre rules by January 25, after the last reminder on this was sent on January 6, some state governments have called this a blow to the federal structure of governance as they will be forced under the new rules to relieve officers for central deputation.The Hindu first reported on January 19 that at least six states, including some ruled by BJP governments have written to the Centre opposing the changes.Among the amendments proposed is one that says the Centre will arrive at the number of officers on CDR in consultation with states, another that in case of any difference of opinion between the Centre and the state, the latter will go with the decision of the former, and within a specified time and a third that the Centre could pick a specific officer from a state in public interest.While some states are questioning this right of to seek services of a particular officer, the officials cited in the first instance pointed out that sometimes, in a specific situation such as a major disaster, or where a counter-insurgency or counter-terrorism or anti-Naxalite operation needs to be carried out, there is requirement of specialist officers as not every one can handle the situation at hand.“The Centre is willing to discuss the proposed amendments with the states. It is not going to be a unilateral decision, but the fact is that officers with experience of states are need at the Union level. Further, the growth of state officers will remain stunted if they are not exposed to the central and international stage. This is why the IAS, IPS and IFS were categorized as All India Services,” said a top bureaucrat, explaining the rationale behind the proposed amendments.
21-01-2022||India||Former AAP Goa convener is Congress candidate for Panaji||PANAJI: The Congress on Thursday declared its sixth and final list of candidates for the upcoming Goa assembly elections with former bureaucrat and former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state convener Elvis Gomes fielded from the state capital Panaji. Gomes, who quit the civil service to join the Aam Aadmi Party ahead of the 2017 assembly elections, joined the Congress in December 2020, claiming the AAP no longer represented the ideals it was set up for. He will now take on the BJP’s Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate and possibly Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal who is likely to make an announcement on Friday that he will contest as an independent. Besides Gomes, the Congress has also nominated former BJP MLA Carlos Almeida, who will contest from the Vasco da Gama constituency, a seat he has been representing for the past two terms. The party has also opted for Anthony “Tony” Dias (Benaulim), Amit Patkar (Curchorem) and Tukaram Borkar (Siroda) for its three seats. The Congress has entered into an alliance with Goa Forward Party and has conceded three seats to its alliance partner. Meanwhile, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) too has announced a list of four candidates with former minister José Philip D’Souza fielded from Dabolim, Rehan Muzawar from Navelim, Digvijay Priolkar Verlekar from Priol and Subhash Prabhudesai from Shiroda. The NCP, which has announced a pre-poll alliance with the Shiv Sena has said that the two parties will jointly contest around a dozen seats in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-aap-goa-convener-is-congress-candidate-for-panaji-101642712972866.html
21-01-2022||India||Goa: Pratapsingh Rane refutes Fadnavis’ claims over daughter-in-law’s candidature||PANAJI: Senior Congress leader Pratapsingh Rane has refuted claims that he has granted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) his “consent” to field his daughter-in-law Divya Rane from his sitting seat, Poriem. Reacting to comments made by BJP Goa election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis, who said that Rane was “approached” and asked to “give the seat to the BJP, he said: “It is not right. My name is being used, it should not be done. Poriem is not my backyard. This is fake news. Fadnavis met me several days ago. He had visited me. But I have not spoken any politics with him. Whether I contest or not is a different matter. First this needs to be clarified,” Rane told reporters on Thursday evening. The octogenarian Rane who has been representing the Poriem seat for nearly five decades has remained faithful to the Congress but his son Vishwajit who has been representing the neighbouring Valpoi seat since 2007 joined the BJP in 2017. The BJP has now fielded Vishwajit’s wife Divya from Poriem. Speaking in Delhi on Thursday morning Devendra Fadnavis said that the BJP has “requested” Pratapsingh Rane not to contest from the seat he has been representing for the past 50 years and instead “give the seat to the BJP” by either contesting on a BJP ticket or withdrawing from the race. “He accepted and said that I have aged so I will not contest, Divya Rane will contest instead. Congress will contest the seat, but we will defeat them,” Fadnavis said. Pratapsingh Rane, a 10-term legislator, is Goa’s longest serving MLA. He also holds a record for having served as chief minister of the state for a little less than 16 years across six terms between 1980 and 2007. He was the assembly speaker between 2007 and 2012. He has been continuously elected since 1972 to the then legislative assembly of the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu. The 82-year-old veteran politician has also stayed firmly with the Congress for decades. In December last year, Rane announced that he will be contesting the upcoming Goa polls saying that the decision was arrived at after demands from his well-wishers, supporters and party workers. His decision to contest prompted outrage from his son and BJP legislator Vishwajit Rane, who quite unkindly suggested his father should retire. Pratapsingh was subsequently announced as the Congress’ official candidate from Poriem. The senior Rane, however, appeared to backtrack from his decision to contest, saying it was perhaps time to retire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-pratapsingh-rane-refutes-fadnavis-claims-over-daughter-in-law-s-candidature-101642710212678.html
21-01-2022||India||Fee hike demand by colleges delayed counselling for MDS seats: Karnataka to SC||NEW DELHI: A last-minute demand for an increase in fees by private dental college associations in Karnataka led to the delay in counselling for post-graduate dental admissions in the state, the Karnataka government told the Supreme Court on Thursday and requested that the last date for counselling for admission to Master of Dental Surgery course be extended till January 31.Counselling for the MDS course across the country ended on November 20 but Karnataka conducted it from December 4 to 18. When the Centre and Dental Council of India refused the state’s request to regularise the admission of 633 students admitted to the MDS course, a private dental college in Karnataka approached the top court to seek its intervention, arguing that the students should not have to suffer due to the state government’s decision to delay counselling.When the Karnataka government adopted a hands-off approach at a Supreme Court hearing on January 12 - it argued that the government had already made it clear to the students that their admission was provisional - the top court ordered the state government to explain it delayed the counselling.In its response filed on Thursday, Karnataka principal secretary, department of medical education Naveen Raj Singh said: “The delay in the admission process was attributable to the time taken in entering into consensual agreement and in order to provide an opportunity for students with lowered percentile. The private colleges were demanding 20% increase in the fees and the government was not willing to accept the demand as the people at large were already undergoing financial hardships due to Covid-19 pandemic in the year 2020.”For this reason, the state added, although consensus was reached between the state and private dental colleges association on the seat-sharing agreement as early as November 18, two days before the cutoff date, the agreement was not signed.The Karnataka official said the demand for fees was made by the colleges at a meeting with the state government on November 2.“In the said meeting (of November 2) all private colleges requested the state to write a letter to DCI seeking an extension of 45 days’ time for counselling. Since counselling is a common counselling, the same was not done even for the 15 governmental seats. This was because the future of a large number of students was at stake,” the Karnataka government said.The agreement came to be signed on November 29 and 30 between the state and three dental college associations - Karnataka Religious and Linguistic Minority Professional Colleges Association, Karnataka Professional Colleges Foundation and Association of Minority Professional Colleges in Karnataka.The affidavit said, “All the associations knew, on the date of signing of these agreements, that they were way past the cutoff date and these agreements were signed with a hope that central government shall intervene in the interest of 923 students (total MDS seats in the state of which 633 were filled).”The government said that as soon as the agreement was signed, the state acted expeditiously.The affidavit also requested the court to make an exception in the interest of students and allow counselling to be completed by January 31 for the 633 seats including 15 government college seats, 210 government seats in private dental colleges, 16 NRI seats, 294 seats filled up by private colleges on merit, and 98 by way of other categories.“There was no intentional delay on the part of the state. Karnataka has already conducted counselling and granted admissions to 633 students. It is humbly stated that the last date of admissions may be extended to January 31 in the larger public interest and the interest of the students in the state of Karnataka,” the state urged the court. Karnataka added that the Centre and DCI have rejected the request to extend the deadline and a response to the third communication to the Centre reiterating the request is awaited.The court is hearing a petition filed by a private college - Maratha Mandals Nathajirao G Halgekar Institute of Dental Sciences and Research Centre. The state government said that filing a petition in court was an afterthought as on December 13 when the college filed the petition, it shot a communication the same day asking Karnataka Education Authority not to allot any seat to the college due to delayed counselling.Some of the affected candidates who took admission are also before the court. While taking admissions, the students were informed about the risk of taking admission beyond the cutoff date. The students represented by lawyer Charu Mathur earlier told the court that a delay in commencement of the 2021-22 will automatically delay the next batch leading to total disturbance in the academic cycle.The case will be heard next on January 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fee-hike-demand-by-colleges-delayed-counselling-for-mds-seats-karnataka-to-sc-101642709612461.html
21-01-2022||India||Calcutta high court lawyers seek stern action against TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee||KOLKATA: A section of lawyers of the Calcutta high court wrote a letter to the Chief Justice of India, chief justice of the Calcutta high court and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee seeking stern actions against Trianmool Congress MP and senior advocate of Calcutta high court Kalyan Banerjee. The two-page letter signed by 157 lawyers and members of the Calcutta high court accused Kalyan Banerjee of nepotism, giving undue preference to certain lady lawyers and speaking ill against West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. “There have been numerous instances where certain lady lawyers have been given undue preference over deserving lawyers in exchange of unexplainable favours. Other female lawyers have also complained of Kalyan Banerjee’s behavior and stated that his approach towards them has been dishonorable and depraved,” the latter said. This comes after Kalyan Banerjee spoke out against Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee who is also the party’s national general secretary. While Abhishek Banerjee last week opined that all political gatherings should be suspended for the next two months, more than 53,000 Covid tests were conducted in his Diamond Harbour parliamentary constituency. The MP tweeted that it was a record. Kalyan Banerjee, however, said: “I have no other leader than Mamata Banerjee. He (Abhishek) is opposing the Mamata Banerjee government. In this way, the state government has been challenged.” The letter sent by the lawyers also said: “It is pertinent to mention that Kalyan Banerjee despite being most unpopular, has been using his political position and power to make room for his puppets including his son and daughter in the government panel of lawyers.” Kalyan Banerjee, however, refused to comment saying that he was following the instructions of Mamata Banerjee in the true spirit. “I am following didi’s instructions in true spirit. I won’t make any comment. Didi is looking after the entire episode,” he said. Meanwhile, speaking to media persons in Goa on Thursday, Abhishek Banerjee said that Kalyan Banerjee’s statements prove there is democracy within the party. “Even I have no other leader than Mamata Banerjee. So, what’s wrong with Kalyan Banerjee’s statements? Also, his statements prove that there is democracy within TMC, which is good,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-high-court-lawyers-seek-stern-action-against-tmc-mp-kalyan-banerjee-101642706372460.html
21-01-2022||India||Modi, Mauritius PM launch social housing project worth $45 million||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Mauritius counterpart Pravind Jugnauth on Thursday inaugurated a $45-million social housing project with 956 units and launched work on a solar power plant and a civil service college to be built with Indian aid of more than $500 million. At a virtual event joined by the prime ministers, the two countries also concluded agreements for India to provide about $200 million as assistance for a metro rail and other infrastructure projects in Mauritius and for small but high impact development projects in fields such as education, healthcare and disaster risk reduction. Referring to the long-standing ties between the two sides based on history, ancestry, culture, and the waters of the Indian Ocean, Modi said in his opening remarks that the development partnership has become a key pillar in the close ties. “Mauritius is a prime example of India’s approach to development partnership which is based on the needs and priorities of our partners and respects their sovereignty,” he said, in an apparent reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative that has been criticised for creating a “debt trap” in several Indian Ocean states. Modi added: “Mauritius is also integral to our approach to the Indian Ocean. It was in Mauritius, during my 2015 visit, that I had outlined India’s maritime cooperation vision of SAGAR – Security and Growth for All in the Region.” Jugnauth interspersed his address with remarks in Hindi to convey his government’s gratitude for the wide-ranging cooperation and technical and financial assistance provided by India over the years. “We never cease to acknowledge that without the financial assistance of the government of India, this [metro] project would not have been implemented so fast,” he said. He said one of the major stations on the metro rail system will be named after Mahatma Gandhi to express the gratitude of Mauritius. Noting that the loans and grants reflect India’s commitment to the progress of Mauritius, Jugnauth invited Modi to visit the country in November or December for the inauguration of the full metro service. The 956 social housing units located at two sites were built with an Indian grant of $20 million and a line of credit of $25 million. This was one of five large infrastructure projects that were part of an Indian $ 353-million special economic package unveiled in 2016. The units were built by an Indian firm to bolster the Mauritius government’s affordable housing scheme. The two leaders virtually laid the foundation stone of the civil service college to be built with a grant of $4.74 million. The college, to be completed in 18 months, will build capacity in public sector management and governance. The 8-MW solar farm at Tamarind Falls, to be built with a line of credit of $500 million from India’s Exim Bank, is expected to be completed in 11 months. The facility will be the largest solar farm in Mauritius and will generate 14GWh a year. The plant will help Mauritius achieve its target of having 60% of renewables in its energy mix by 2030, and reduce the use of coal and oil imports. The two agreements concluded on Thursday included a line of credit for $190 million from India’s Exim Bank for the metro rail and other infrastructure projects, and a memorandum of understanding on small but high impact development projects worth $10 million in fields such as education, healthcare, community development, women’s empowerment, disaster risk reduction and energy. The first phase of the metro rail was inaugurated in 2019 and it has carried more than 5.6 million passengers since commercial operations began in January 2020. The second and third phases of the flagship project will be completed by the end of 2022 and work is already underway on the fourth phase. Modi also pointed to ongoing maritime security and defence cooperation between the two sides, saying this has translated the vision of SAGAR into action. “Despite the constraints of Covid, we were able to hand over a Dornier aircraft on lease and complete the short refit of the Mauritian Coast Guard ship Barracuda,” he said. The Dornier aircraft was leased in September 2021 and the free refit of the Coast Guard vessel was completed in October 2021. “In the coming days, we will begin work on several important projects such as the renal transplant unit, the Forensic Science Laboratory, the National Library and Archives, the Mauritius Police Academy, and many others. I would like to reiterate today that India will always continue to stand by Mauritius in its development journey,” Modi said. 
21-01-2022||India||Himachal Pradesh: 7 killed in Mandi hooch tragedy, four arrested||Seven people were killed after consuming illegal spurious liquor in Sundernagar town of Mandi district since Wednesday, police said on Thursday, adding that four people have been arrested so far in connection with the case. According to police, five people died on Wednesday while two others -- Sita Ram of Khanyor village and Bhagat Ram -- died a day later. Of them, Sita Ram died after falling ill in his house while Bhagat Ram was undergoing treatment at Lal Bahadur Shashtri Government Medical College and Hospital (LBSGMC), Nerchowk. Meanwhile, three more people were admitted to the LBSGMC on Thursday, taking the total number of people hospitalised to five. One of them, who was admitted at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, in serious condition has now been referred to PGI ChandigarhSub-divisional magistrate Dharmesh Kumar said that 10 vehicles fitted with public address system have been deployed in the area to make people aware and urging them to seek medical advice if symptoms occur.The Himachal Pradesh government has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case. The SIT will be headed by deputy inspector general (DIG, central range) Madhududan with SP Kangra Khushal Chand Sharma, SP Mandi Shalini Agnihotri and SP (Crime) CID Shimla Virendra Kalia as its members.On Wednesday, Mandi superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri said the liquor vend from where the hooch had been purchased had been sealed, and two people had been taken into custody.The Mandi police on Thursday arrested four people including a panchayat ex-pradhan and kin of a serving pradhan in the case. They have been identified as Jagdish Chand, ex-pradhan of Salapar panchayat and Acchar Singh, the father-in-law of the serving pradhan of the panchayat. Two other accused were identified as Sohan Lal and Pradeep Kumar. Police have recovered 12 bottles of ‘Santra’ brand liquor from Sohan Lal.All four were booked under sections 304 (cupable homicide), 308 (punishment for culpable homicide) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code.The incident gave way to a political slugfest with the opposition Congress accusing the ruling BJP of sheltering the liquor mafia in Sundernagar area. The BJP however, hit back saying that one of the accused was associated with Congress.Former chief parliamentary secretary and Congress leader Sohan Lal Thakur alleged that illicit liquor was being sold in Sundernagar for a long time, but the administration was “under pressure” not to act against the mafia. He alleged that spurious liquor was smuggled from Chandigarh and sold in border areas of Sundernagar sub-division, including Salapar, Kangu, Harabagh, Jarol, Pung, Mahadev, Dhanotu, Bhaur, Naulakha, Dadour and Kanaid.Dhabas adjacent to the National Highway (NH) from Mandi to Kullu-Manali had reportedly been selling this liquor, alleged Sohan Lal.Meanwhile, police found that the spurious liquor was being sold in original cartons. Police had recovered several cartons dumped at secluded places after the tragedy unfolded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-7-killed-in-mandi-hooch-tragedy-four-arrested-101642705952684.html
21-01-2022||India||ED raids on Channi’s nephew were politically motivated: Congress to EC||A Congress delegation on Thursday met Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra to register a complaint against the “politically motivated” raids conducted by the Enforcement Directorate on a relative of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi ahead of the assembly elections.In their memorandum to the poll body chief, the delegation, which also comprised senior leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Abhishek Singhvi, alleged that raids were a “violation of the model code of conduct”, which came into force on January 8 after the poll schedule was announced.“Politically motivated raids by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on a relative of Punjab chief minister Sardar Charanjit Singh Channi solely with a view to malign and defame the chief minister and incumbent Congress government,” the memorandum said. Furthermore, they sought the intervention of the Commissioner as the party believes the raids are a violation of the Model Code of Conduct.Also read | Channi’s kin minted crores through illegal sand mining, alleges Harsimrat“The case sought to be built up by the Investigative Agency is deliberately contrived and self-serving and designed to serve the interest of BJP and its allies, who are becoming irrelevant in the political landscape of Punjab,” it added.The ED on Wednesday said that it seized ₹10 crore in cash from the premises of Bhupinder Singh, the nephew of Channi, and his business partner after raids in connection with illegal sand mining in the state.Channi said the raids were an attempt to frame him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-on-channi-s-nephew-were-politically-motivated-congress-to-ec-101642705652134.html
21-01-2022||India||As cases plateau, Delhi to wait before easing Covid curbs||The Delhi government’s health department reviewed the city’s Covid-19 outbreak at present and decided to further observe case trends over the next few days to propose any relaxation of curbs, a decision questioned by experts who said some restrictions can now be rolled back.The Capital added 12,306 new cases, which accounted for 21.48% of the tests conducted – both numbers were a drop from what was recorded a day earlier. The hospital occupancy rate too has remained stable, with more than 82% of the hospital beds having remained vacant over the last week.The officials too accepted that the situation was stable. “We are closely monitoring the situation. While the hospitalisations in Delhi have been stable for the last one week, we are yet to see a clear decline in cases. We will wait for some time before we can relax the restrictions,” said a senior health official, asking not to be named.Strict restrictions on activities and movement of people are in place in Delhi since cases began rising at the beginning of the month, with all leisure and discretionary activities like eating out and going to the cinema banned. A curfew comes into force on between 10pm and 5am and over the weekends, when people can only leave their homes for certain essential activities.Also read | Delhi caps RT-PCR test at private labs, for home collection: Know the new ratesThese curbs have caused significant losses, particularly the hospitality sector. Medical experts said at the current stage, they are excessive.“The government can start lifting restrictions in a phased manner. We have seen that this variant is impacting the unvaccinated, people with co-morbidities and senior citizens more, so while protecting this segment, the rest of the population can be allowed to slowly start resuming their lives and livelihoods. What we are seeing now is that because of regular restrictions, the working class are desperate,” said Dr Sumit Ray, head of department (critical care), Holy Family Hospital.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of department of community medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital, said continuing restrictions could, in fact, drag out the infection curve.“Since this variant is so transmissible, restrictions are only delaying the decline in infections. Another important thing to consider is that the longer we allow the virus to stay in the community, the greater are its chances to mutate, which in the larger sense would delay the end of the pandemic itself. In my opinion, the restrictions are more of a psychological consolation for people that the government is in action-mode and because of this, authorities also do not want to stick their necks out and impose no restrictions,” said Dr Kishore.At its peak this month, the city reported 28,867 cases. The positivity rate reached a high of 30.64%. But the numbers have come down from these levels.After recording a minor increase in new Covid infections on Wednesday, Thursday’s numbers were a decline. But, the city on Thursday added 43 deaths, the highest single day deaths in the Omicron wave so far, surpassing the 40 reported on January 12.The last time the city reported such a high death count was on June 10 last year, with 44 deaths.According to the Delhi government health bulletin, there was also a fall in the positivity rate. Out of the 57,290 samples tested, 21.48% came out positive, as opposed to 23.86% on Wednesday and 22.47% on Tuesday.As government officials pointed out, hospital admissions continued to remain stable, with only 2,698 beds (17.31%) in dedicated beds in Covid-19 hospitals being occupied out of the total 15,589. This means, 12,891 (82.69%) remained vacant.While reviewing the Covid-19 spread in the national capital, the health department also asked districts to ensure that the number of daily testing is amped and stricter action against the violation of Covid norms is also ensured.“The daily testing had dropped slightly, but what we need to understand is that even if tests are slightly lower we can still get the city’s broad picture of infections with the positivity rate. We have ordered the district magistrates to start testing people in crowded places again,” a health official said.
21-01-2022||India||Bengaluru reports highest single day spike in Covid cases; decision to restrictions on Friday||Bengaluru city on Thursday recorded 30,540 Covid-19 cases, its single-day highest since the pandemic broke out. On May 6, 2021, Bengaluru had reported 23,706 new cases and 139 deaths, which was the highest number of cases reported in the city so far, according to a state health department bulletin.As per the bulletin, the active cases in the state stand at 2,93,231.As many as 29 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Thursday, with Bengaluru Urban recording 8 deaths. The death toll in the state so far has risen to 38,515. The state recorded 22,143 discharges from hospitals on Thursday, taking the total discharges to 30,45,177.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai is expected to review the restrictions imposed in the state on Friday at a meeting with an expert panel. The restrictions currently in force in Karnataka include night and weekend curfews, a ban on rallies and protests and a bar on more than 100 people attending any social event in closed spaces.“Many people, including political leaders, have opined that curbs can be lifted in districts where cases are under control. There are some 15-20 districts like that. To protect lives, we need to make a strong decision. At the same time, we must allow livelihood, especially of daily wagers, vegetable vendors and so on,” said Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka.Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar attacked the government for dragging its feet on deciding the curbs. “They’re killing people. What will happen to trade and business? Overseas governments have decided not to impose curbs. I went to Hyderabad where there are no curbs,” he said.On Thursday, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar announced that a team of 15 “official spokespersons” from Bengaluru is being formed and only they will be authorised to speak to the media on the Covid-19 situation.Explaining that a few medical practitioners were giving incomplete, inaccurate and unsubstantiated information and contradicting statements on the pandemic, Dr Sudhakar stressed that the government order with names of doctors has been signed and will be issued soon to the media.This comes a day after the government asked doctors to exercise caution while giving statements to the media on Covid-19. In a statement, the Commissionerate of Health and Family Services had said some medical practitioners were allegedly giving incomplete, inaccurate, and unsubstantiated information about Covid-19. “Such misinformation leads to confusion in public at large on the prevailing Covid scenario in the state and encourages them to deviate from well laid out guidelines issued by the health and revenue authorities,” the statement said.The health department asked medical professionals to exercise utmost care and caution while communicating with the public on Covid-19 and to refer to the government guidelines, circulars, and orders thoroughly before appearing on any media or social platform.“Any misinformation or non-factual data on Covid-19 shared on such platforms would be deemed as an offence and necessary action would be initiated as per section 54 of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and section 4(K) of Karnataka Epidemic Disease Act, 2020,” the department added in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-reports-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-cases-decision-to-restrictions-on-friday-101642705532161.html
21-01-2022||India||Centre looks to build brand around National War Memorial||The government has started work on an overarching plan to take the National War Memorial (NWM) to the people through a large-scale branding exercise, a move that has been welcomed by former servicemen. NWM is a monument dedicated to soldiers who fell in post-Independence wars and operations, and was inaugurated in 2019 to fill a key gap -- until then, India did not have a memorial for its fallen heroes. The defence ministry has sought the help of the information and broadcasting ministry for the elaborate branding exercise, officials directly involved in the matter said on condition of anonymity. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the war memorial almost three years ago, on February 25 2019. Since then, around 3.1 million people have visited it and paid homage to the country’s fallen soldiers whose names are inscribed on its walls. As on date, the names of 26,466 brave warriors are inscribed on the memorial. The government believes a lot more can be done to publicise the war memorial, and attract more visitors to it, the officials added. . Hindustan Times has learnt that a meeting chaired by defence secretary Ajay Kumar on January 11 focussed on “the subject of branding and increase in registrations for NWM.” The chief points noted for action at the meeting included “the facilitation of visits of dignitaries visiting Delhi during National Film Awards, including members of film/TV fraternity, highlighting NWM through various media platforms (DD/AIR/Social Media) and broadcasting next of kin (NoK) ceremony through AIR/DD,” according to a government note seen by HT. Other publicity measures planned include a film on NWM by the Films Division of India, commissioning of articles on the memorial in various newspapers , and scheduling of programmes on DD, AIR and regional channels. On January 10, the defence ministry wrote to the information and broadcasting ministry seeking the latter’s help to devise a “suitable action plan” to publicise NWM, its history and what the monument stands for. The letter, written by joint secretary (ceremonial) in the defence ministry, states that the one of the aims of setting up NWM was “to inculcate a sense of high moral values, sacrifice, national spirit and belongingness in each and every citizen, while paying befitting tribute to our soldiers.” HT has seen a copy of the letter, which is a follow-up to a previous communication on January 5 from the defence secretary to the information and broadcasting secretary regarding specific decisions on NWM. “This involves broadcasting live visuals of NWM in national functions like the Republic Day parade, formulating an action plan for better branding of NWM to attract citizens from all corners of the country, release a new video on NWM for publicity each year, deployment of audio-visual team to capture the visits by citizens and expression of their emotions (with their consent) during such visits through appropriate video, social media platforms and using visuals through drones,” read the January 10 communication. The letter also highlights the need for proper publicity of celebrity visits from the world of cinema, media and journalism. “A suitable action plan in this regard is requested to be formulated. It is requested that a suitable point of contact for same be nominated and intimated for further coordination on the issue,” the letter added. “It’s an excellent initiative. We got the NWM in 2019 after waiting for a national memorial for decades, and now we need to take it to the people,” said former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd). On January 26, the National Cadet Corps (NCC) will launch a programme called Shaheedon ko Shat Shat Naman, as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav (the celebrations of India’s 75th year of independence) , to honour the sacrifices of fallen heroes. NCC cadets will present the ‘Plaque of Gratitude’ to NoK of 5,000 braves, with each plaque signed by the PM. This activity will be carried out around the same time when the PM pays homage at NWM. This will mark the beginning of the programme, which will carry on till August 15, 2022 by when the cadets would have felicitated the NoK of all 26,466 fallen heroes whose names are inscribed on the memorial.
21-01-2022||India||Punjab leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira got financial benefits from drug traffickers: ED charge sheet||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet against Punjab Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira for allegedly laundering money in the 2017 Fazilka drug smuggling racket , people familiar with the development said.The kingpin of Fazilka drug racket, Gurdev Singh, has also been named as accused in the ED charge sheet, filed in the first week of January under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).ED has found that Khaira made substantial cash deposits in his and his family members’ bank accounts over the years, which he could not satisfactorily explain during interrogation. The charge sheet states that between 2014 and 2020, Khaira spent over ₹6.5 crore on himself and family members. His income during this period was less than ₹3 crore, but expenses were in excess of ₹3.5 crore, said an official, requesting anonymity.Investigators at the agency who didn’t want to be named said they have provided substantial evidence to establish that the former legislator was involved with drug traffickers and received financial benefits from them.Khaira, 56, was arrested by the central anti-money laundering agency on November 11 for his links with drug smugglers and forgers making fake passports. At the time of arrest, Khaira denied any wrongdoing and said he was being targeted by central agencies as he has been vocal against the Centre’s three new farm laws (since repealed). “It is political vendetta. Nothing else,” said Khaira to media while being taken away by ED on November 11, 2021.Khaira won the assembly election in 2017 from Bholath in Kapurthala district (Punjab) on an Aam Aadmi Party ticket. However, in January 2019, he quit the party and formed Punjab Ekta Party (PEP), which he merged with the Congress in June 2021.He came under ED’s scanner in January 2021 in two matters -- the first pertaining to a cross-border drugs smuggling network unearthed in Fazilka, Punjab in 2015, in which 1.8 kg of heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 live cartridges and two Pakistani SIM cards were seized by Jalalabad police (Punjab); and the second to a fake passport racket being run in Delhi.Nine smugglers were sentenced in the Fazilka drugs smuggling case in October 2017 including Gurdev Singh, Manjit Singh, Harbans Singh and Subhash Chander.According to a senior ED officer who didn’t want to be named, Khaira was particularly very close to Gurdev Singh, the leader of Fazilka drugs smuggling racket and used to often shelter him.The politician’s name cropped up in the case in 2017 as well. Although he was not named in the Punjab police charge sheet, a Fazilka court issued summons to him on November 30, 2017. However, the Supreme Court granted him relief by quashing the proceedings against him. At that time, he was Punjab’s Leader of opposition and an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA.The main allegation against him is that he was supporting the gang of international smugglers and enjoying the proceeds of crime.Last year, the central agency questionned AAP national secretary Pankaj Gupta and former party leader Kumar Vishwas as well in connection with foreign funds raised by the party in 2016 in the run up to Punjab assembly elections. Khaira travelled to the US in 2016 to raise funds for AAP from the non-resident Indians (NRIs) in the run-up to Punjab state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-leader-sukhpal-singh-khaira-got-financial-benefits-from-drug-traffickers-ed-charge-sheet-101642705232067.html
21-01-2022||India||Andhra woman beheads husband, surrenders with head in bag: Police||A 50-year-old woman beheaded her 53-year-old husband and walked into the Renigunta police station with the severed head to surrender before the police in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district on Thursday, police said.The incident took place at Renigunta town, about 10 km away from the temple town of Tirupati on Thursday afternoon, police said. The deceased was identified as Ravichander from Narsaraopet in Guntur district and the woman as Vasundhara form Giddalur in Prakasam district.“Prima facie, family disputes are the reason for the brutal murder of the man,” a police official from Renigunta (urban) police station said.According to the police, the couple had been staying at a police lines street in Renigunta town with their 20-year-old son. “Enquiries with their neighbours revealed that the husband and wife had been frequently quarrelling for the last one year,” he said.On Thursday, police said the couple had a heated argument and were heard shouting at each other. “The son was not in the house, when the parents were quarrelling. In a fit of rage, Vasundhara picked up a sharp knife, stabbed him repeatedly and later beheaded him,” the police said.Later, she put Ravichandar’s head in a plastic bag and reached the police station. “We were shocked when she placed the bag on the table and said she had killed her husband,” the police official said.He said Vasundhara was being questioned further. Ravichander’s torso was recovered from the couple’s house and the body was sent to a government hospital for post mortem, police said.“We have booked the murder case against the woman. We are investigating the case. The reason for the murder is being ascertained,” the police official said.Renigunta urban inspector of police Anju Yadav, who reached the murder spot for investigation, could not be reached for further details.
21-01-2022||India||UP elections: Mulayam’s one more kin, face of Congress’s women drive join BJP||Former Samajwadi Party MLA Pramod Gupta, relative of the party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and Priyanka Maurya, the face of Congress’ ‘Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon’ poster in Uttar Pradesh, joined the BJP here on Thursday.Gupta’s joining comes a day after Yadav’s daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in Delhi on Wednesday.The duo joined the party in the presence of former state unit president, and head of the BJP Joining Committee, Laxmikant Bajpai.“An important political name and a member of Samajwadi Party family and former MLA of Auraiya, Pramod Guptaji is joining the BJP family today,” Bajpai said welcoming Gupta.“I want to remind that from the family of Mulayam Singhji who is respected by all of us... after his ‘samdhi’ Hariom Yadavji, daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav and today his ‘saadho’ (brother-in-law) Pramod Guptaji is joining the BJP family and you all know the value of ‘saadho’ in a family,” Bajpai said.Introducing Maurya, Bajpai said she is the poster girl of the Congress leader Priyanka Vadra Gandhi and exuded confidence that she will now use her power and capabilities in giving strength and momentum to the election campaign of the BJP.Maurya is a homeopath and a social activist having a large following on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, Bajpai said.Along with them, Ayodhya’s folk singer Vandana Mishra also joined the BJP.Speaking to media persons, Gupta alleged “No one is being allowed to meet Mulayam Singh Yadav, who has been kept as hostage by Akhilesh Yadav.””Mulayam Singh and Shivpal Singh have been harassed in the Samajwadi Party and the party workers are very sad. Those who used to use foul language against Mulayam Singhji are being given importance in the party. Where will the socialist ideology go under such circumstances,” Gupta asked.Gupta was the SP MLA from Auraiya’s Bidhuna constituency in 2012. He is related to Sadhna Gupta, the second wife of Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upelectionsmulayams-one-more-kin-face-of-congress-s-women-drive-join-bjp-101642705113933.html
