22-01-2022||India||Will back out if BJP fields good candidate, says Parrikar’s son||PANAJI: A day after quitting the Bharaytia Janata Party (BJP) to contest next month’s Goa assembly elections from Panaji as an independent, Utpal Parrikar, son of late chief minister Manohar Parrikar, said on Saturday that he was ready to withdraw from the race if the party fields a “good candidate” from the constituency.Parrikar quit the BJP after he was denied a ticket from Panaji, a constituency that his father and party veteran had represented for more than two decades. After quitting the party on Friday, he said he will fight the February 14 elections from the Panaji seat as an independent.The BJP has nominated sitting legislator Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate, one of the 10 MLAs who joined the party in July 2019 after quitting Congress, as its candidate from Panaji. Monserrate is facing multiple criminal cases, including a case of rape of a minor.Parrikar said the decision to quit the party was a “most difficult decision”. If the party had given the ticket to any “good candidate who didn’t have a criminal background,” he would not have been forced to quit the BJP, he said.“It is not about me. Give us a good candidate for Panaji, one who is not a criminal, and I will back out and tell the voters to vote for this candidate,” Parrikar said.Manohar Parrikar represented the Panaji constituency since 1994 and until his death in 2019, apart from a brief two-year term when he was India’s defence minister and a Rajya Sabha member from Uttar Pradesh.However, the BJP has justified its decision to field Monserrate from Panaji, saying he can “best represent the aspirations of the people”.Issuing a public notice in a local daily, a practice made mandatory as per directions of the Supreme Court, the BJP said “he has been actively engaged in social service for the people of the constituency for the past many years.”“He was found to have a good understanding of the ground situation and shared a good rapport with the voters here,” the notice read.Though the party has claimed that Monserrate is a “senior politician who has represented the constituency multiple times before”, in truth it is Monserrate’s first term as Panaji MLA. He had previously represented Taleigao and Santa Cruz constituencies.Monserrate is among seven BJP candidates to have criminal cases registered against them. His wife Jennifer Monserrate, who is the BJP candidate from Taleigao, too, has criminal cases relating to assault on police registered against her. Others with criminal cases are Rohan Khaunte, Govind Gaude, Krishna Salkar, Mauvin Godinho and Chandrakant Kavlekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-back-out-if-bjp-fields-good-candidate-says-parrikar-s-son-101642875645774.html
22-01-2022||India||In Odisha’s Sonepur, 5 of bridegroom’s party killed in head-on collision with truck||Five members of a bridegroom’s party including a father-daughter duo were killed and five others seriously injured when the SUV they were travelling in collided head on with a truck over a bridge on Mahanadi River in Sonepur district late on Friday night.Sonepur SP Sitaram Satpathy said 10 people from Nimna and Panchmahala village of Sonepur district were returning after attending a marriage function at Kaudiamunda village when the SUV they were in ran into the truck over the Mahanadi bridge at around 1 am. Ashish Pandia and his daughter Siddhi Pandia were killed on the spot along with Pramod Pandia, Trayambak Meher and Subham Pandia.Five others were rescued from the badly mangled vehicle by police and other rescue teams with the help of gas cutters.All the injured were initially rushed to Sonepur Hospital and subsequently shifted to Burla Medical College and Hospital for treatment after their condition deteriorated.The fatality rate in road accidents in Odisha is 33.33% higher than the national average. While 48 die in every 100 road accidents in Odisha, the national average is 36. There has been a steady increase in the number of fatalities from 2014 (3,931) to 2020 (4,738), an increase of about 21%.As per State Road Safety Council officials, over-speeding contributed to 69 per cent of the deaths followed by violation of helmet law (41 per cent) and hit and run cases (20 per cent). The SC has recently pulled up the Odisha government for not adopting a focused approach for preventing fatalities by enforcing stringent measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-s-sonepur-5-of-bridegroom-s-party-killed-in-head-on-collision-with-truck-101642873663920.html
22-01-2022||India||What Delhi's gradually rising Covid death toll says | 5 points||Delhi on Saturday reported 45 Covid-related deaths, the highest since June last year, though the positivity rate in the national capital is going down. On Thursday, the death toll was 43. The trend matches what experts have been warning across the world that the peak of cases in the third wave will be followed by the peak of fatalities, though the situation in the third wave will remain much better than the second wave, experts have predicted.Here are 5 points to know about Delhi and India's Covid-19 situation1. The Delhi government earlier said the fatalities are mostly in patients with comorbidities. A doctor at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences told PTI any patient who gets admitted after testing positive and with severe complications generally dies after a few days of treatment. Hence, the death tally is likely to peak later.2. In the first 22 days in January, the Covid death toll in Delhi stands at 479.3. A study released by Max Healthcare hospitals on patients admitted during the ongoing third wave, hospital occupancy and ICU bed requirement is much lower now in comparison with the earlier waves, a point which has been emphasised by the Centre as well.4. The study said the overall mortality in the first wave was at 7.2% which increased to 10.5% during the second wave. So far, the hospital which conducted the study saw 6% mortality. Deaths are being reported in the elderly population who had other complications like kidney disease, heart disease, diabetes, cancer etc.5. As on Saturday, a little over 2,500 patients in Delhi are being treated in hospitals and Covid care centres while 44,000 people are in home isolation. Over 90% of beds are vacant in Covid care centres and health centres. Over 80% of beds are vacant in Delhi's dedicated Covid hospitals.Maharashtra on Saturday reported 46,393 fresh cases and 48 deaths. Mumbai reported 3,568 fresh infections. Bengaluru reported 17,266 cases in a sharp decline from around 30,000 the previous day. Karnataka reported 42,470 fresh infections. Kerala reported 45,136 new infections and the government has asked the private hospitals to set aside 50% of beds for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-delhi-s-gradually-rising-covid-death-toll-says-5-points-101642871756319.html
22-01-2022||India||Kerala High Court restrains police from arresting actor Dileep till Jan 27||The Kerala High Court on Saturday restrained the crime branch from arresting Malayalam actor Dileep and four others till January 27 in a fresh case related to an alleged conspiracy to kill the police officer who investigated the case of abduction and sexual assault involving an actress. In the interim order the single judge bench of Justice P Gopinath allowed the crime branch to question him and others till Tuesday and warned the accused that their bail will be cancelled if they tried to influence witnesses in the case. Though the prosecution insisted on custodial interrogation the court said a final decision will be taken on January 27. The court issued an interim order after a day-long hearing. The crime branch had filed a fresh case against them two weeks back alleging a plot to kill the police officer who investigated the actor’s abduction and sexual assault case of 2017. The Malayalam actor, who is the seventh accused in the case, and others, moved the court after a fresh case was registered against them following the disclosure of film director Balachandra Kumar. The court witnessed fierce arguments and at one point the court observed that charges against the accused that they conspired to finish off the police officer were difficult to stand the test of law if they were merely based on the statement of the director. The court also directed the prosecution to file a detailed report on questioning in a sealed cover before Thursday. The defence lawyer argued that a conspiracy charge was foisted on the accused without any proof after the investigation team found that its contentions in the main case were weak. But the prosecution insisted that custodial interrogation was needed to unravel the case and the accused may try to influence witnesses using money and muscle power. At this point the court said conspiracy and inducements were two different things and a mere statement that someone would be killed cannot be taken as an inducement. The sensational case took a fresh turn after director Balachandra Kumar’s disclosure and he also released some audio tapes. The crime branch later registered a fresh case against Dileep and four others for allegedly plotting a conspiracy to eliminate the police officer Baiju Paulose. The conversation allegedly took place in November 2017 at the actor’s house in Aluva in Ernakulam district, crime branch said in its first information report. The new FIR was filed against six Dileep, his brother Anoop, another relative Suraj, and two others (Appu and Babu) and they were charged under the Indian Penal Code sections 116 (abetment of offence), 118 (concealing design to commit an offence), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation). After Kumar’s revelations the Kerala government approached the Supreme Court two weeks back with a plea to extend the trial for six more months. Kumar, a former friend of actor Dileep, claimed last month that the actor was in possession of the video of the assault on a woman actor and that he tried to influence many witnesses in the case. He also alleged that he had met the main accused in the case, Pulsar Suni, at the residence of actor Dileep in 2016 when he had gone there to discuss a film project. Later the prosecution recorded his statement under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. A leading woman actor was waylaid, kidnapped and sexually assaulted by a criminal gang in Kochi while she was returning home after a shooting assignment in 2017. Six months after the incident, Dileep was arrested and made an accused in the case. Prosecution alleged that the attack was planned at the behest of Dileep to settle an old score with the woman actor. In four years, the high-profile case has witnessed many twists and turns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-restrains-police-from-arresting-actor-dileep-till-jan-27-101642869883689.html
22-01-2022||India||Former Goa CM Laxmikant Parsekar quits BJP, to contest as independent||Former Goa Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar on Saturday resigned from the BJP and announced that he would be contesting as an independent in the upcoming assembly polls. The three-term MLA and former state BJP president, who has represented the Mandrem constituency in North Goa since 2002 until his defeat in 2017 has said that he was taken for granted by the party and ignored in favour of a non-performing MLA. “The people are disappointed in the present MLA. I was waiting for the ticket. I didn’t publicly make known my disappointment. I am a disciplined soldier of the party so I didn’t go to town with my grievances. But they took me for granted. Thinking that I will not resign. Even now there are people who think that I will not be able to bring myself to resign from the party. But it is high time. I am resigning from the BJP,” Parsekar said. “On January 20, it was announced that I was not getting the ticket. My supporters were intensely disappointed, but it soon became a demand that I should resign and contest as an independent. If I am concerned about this constituency then I should run for elections, was what they told me,” Parsekar said. The former chief minister said that he sensed that there was popular anger in the constituency over the non-performance of the current MLA over a stalled project and the lack of new projects. Explaining the reasons why he lost, Parsekar said that during his tenure as chief minister he got caught up in administrative work which “widened the gap” between him and his voters resulting in his defeat. “At the time I didn’t campaign at all. I was the Chief Minister and the gap between me and the people had widened. I was staying in Panjim since I had to focus on administration at the time. I didn’t lose focus on the development of the constituency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-goa-cm-laxmikant-parsekar-quits-bjp-to-contest-as-independent-101642868743551.html
22-01-2022||India||HT This Day: Jan 23, 1986 - Sawant, two others sentenced to death||NEW DELHI- Special Judge Mahesh Chandra today convicted Satwant Singh, Kehar Singh and Balbir Singh on the charges of murder and conspiracy to murder late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, and sentenced them to death. With this, Mr Mahesh Chandra, District and Sessions Judge, delivered the first death sentence of his career and brought the historic trial to an end. The judgment follows 113 sittings over eight months in the makeshift courtroom inside the Central Jail, Tihar. The trial began on May 13 last year after it was committed to the Sessions by Addl Chief Metropolitan Magistrate S. L Khanna, on May 6. The arguments concluded on Jan 15 this year after approximately 250 hours of court time. The three accused in the case-Satwant Singh, alleged surviving assassin and conspirators Balbir and Kehar Sing were chargesheeted under Sections 302. 307 and 120(D) of the Indian Penal Code on Feb 11 last year by the special investigating team led by Ms Anand Ram, IPS. The other alleged assassin, Beant Singh was killed in a shoot-out following the assassinated. Reading the operative portion of his 259-page judgment, Mr Chandra said the prosecution had established, beyond all reasonable doubt, that deceased Beant Singh and accused Kehar Singh. Balbir Singh and Satwant Singh had on and before October 31. 1984, entered at New Delhi into a criminal conspiracy to commit the murder of Smt. Indira Gandhi, the then Prime Minister of India, and they had in furtherance of the said conspiracy and their common objective committed, both jointly and individually, illegal acts. The judgment says that "finally on 31-10-1984 at 9.10 a.m. deceased Beant Singh and accused Satwant Singh in pursuance of the said criminal conspiracy and in furtherance of their common intention, while posted on security duty at TMC gate on No. I Saidarjung Road, New Delhi, had fired fire-arms bullet shots upon Mrs Indira Gandhi," the then Prime Minister of India, from their service arms namely revolver (Ex.P.L) and SAF carbine (Ex.P.4), respectively". As a consequence of this firing, the judgment reads. Mrs Gandhi "sustained grievous and dangerous injuries which resulted subsequently in her death and in the process accused Satwant Singh further also caused grevious bullet injuries to P.W. Rameshwar Dayal." Mr Chandra said, "I have come to the conclusion that accused Satwant Singh had used his service SAF carbine (Ex.P.4) for an illegal and unlawful purpose, i.e. to commit the murder of Smt. Indira Gandhi." Mr Chandra said he therefore held that accused Satwant Singh, Kehar Singh and Balbir Singh had been proved to have committed criminal offences punishable under Sections 12()-B read with Section 302 I P.C. He further held that Satwant Singh was proved to have committed criminal offences punishable under Section 302 I.P.C. read with Section 120-B/34 1.P.C. and under Section 307 I.P.C. and also under Section 27 of the Arms Act, 1959, and convicted them of the same. Mr Mahesh Chandra, who was very tense while reading out the judgement from behind a bullet-proof glass partition, delivered it at 11 a.m. in the presence of the special public prosecutor and the accused. Counsel for Satwant Singh, Kehar Singh and Balbir Singh was absent. After asking the accused if they wished to say anything on the judgement - all three declared their innocence - Mr Chandra retired to his chamber to write the order of sentence. I le returned to the court at 11.51 a.m. In a separate three-page Order of sentence, Mr Chandra said he had called upon the accused to make their submissions on the question of sentence in accordance with Section 235 Cr.P.C. He said the accused had only submitted that they were innocent and had not said anything else. The judge said he had given his considered thought to the question of sentence. Briefly outlining the facts of the case, Mr Chandra said he had kept in view both the nature of the offence and the fact "that deceased Beant Singh and accused Satwant Singh were detailed for the security of the late Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi and the service arms Ex.P.1 revolver and Ex.P.4 SAF carbine had been issued to deceased Beant Singh and accused Satwant Singh for her security and they committed her murder after entering into criminal conspiracy with other persons". There was pin-drop silence in the courtroom as the Special Judge said he was of the opinion that the present case was one of "rarest of rare nature in which extreme penalty of death is called for". Mr Chandra said, "I sentence accused Satwant Singh, Kehar Singh and Balbir Singh under Section 120-8 read with Section 302 I.P.C. to the sentence of death." He said, "I further sentence accused Satwant Singh under Section 302 read with Secton 120-B/34 I.P.C. to the sentence of death and further sentence him to undergo R.I. for seven years under Section 307 I.P.C. and to undergo R.I. k>r three years under Section 27 of the Arms Act and all the sentences shall run concurrently. The 259-page judgment took note of Mr Pran Nath Lekhi's contention that the conspiracy lay somewhere else. But, it stated, the limited question before the court was whether deceased Beant Singh along with accused Satwant Singh. Kehar Singh and Balbir Singh had on or before Oct. 31. 1984, entered into a criminal conspiracy to murder Mrs Indira Gandhi, and whether in furtherance of such conspiracy Beant Singh and Satwant Singh did in fact murder her on Oct. 31, 1984. The judgement said that "any other question would he irrelevant as far as this court is concerned and, therefore, cannot be gone into and any reference to it would be even uncalled for here". It concluded that the prosecution had established the guilt of the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt. Another aspect of the case considered in the judgment was the confessional statement made by accused Satwant Singh which was retracted later. The judgment noted that Mr S. L. Khanna, Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, had warned Satwant Singh that be was not ix>und to make a statement and that if he made one it could be used against him during the trial. Mr Khanna had given Satwant two days to consider his decision, allowed him to consult a lawyer, Mr I. U. Khan, and only then sent him to Mr Bharat Bhushan Mr recording his statement. Satwant had also been medically examined by Dr Vijay Kumar, Medical Officer of Tihat Jail, and was declared fit to make a statement. Satwant had signed each page of the confession document. The judgment dismissed defence counsels contention that there were irregularities in the appointment of Mr S. L. Khanna and Mr Bharat Bhusban. It said that the mere fact that the orders of appointment of Mr Bharat Bhusban had not reached him on Dec 1. 84 when he recorded the confessional statement did not materially affect his competence in this regard as the orders became effective from the moment they were passed. Further, the Supreme Court had ruled that a retracted confession could be used for conviction of the accused "if it receives some general corroboration from other independent sources", and can also be used against co-accused. The judgment held that such corroboration had been received. Regarding the issue of conspiracy, the judgment held that the prosecution had established its case that Kehar Singh and Balbir Singh were associated with deceased Beant Singh, it had further established that on specific dates each conspirator was "doing something or the other at some place or the other", and that on those dates Kehar Singh had invariably been away from his job. The association of Balbir Singh with Beant and Satwant had also been proved. the main link between them being deceased Beant Singh. The judgment said that under Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act, the acts of each one could be used against the other and could be attributed to all of them. Though the prosecutioil had not produced direct evidence of conspiracy, it had produced sufficient circumstantial evidence to raise an inference of conspiracy, the judgment said. These included the recovery of a book entitled "Bhindranwale Sant' from the house of Beant and Balbir, the 'baaz' (falcon) incident and the exhortation of Kehar to Beant in a gurdwara. Even Bimla Khalsa's testimony corroborated the charge of conspiracy, the judgment said. The 259-page judgment went through the entire evidence and arguments presented by both the prosecution and the defence counsel through its 113 sittings. It said that the statements of Head Constable Narain Singh and Assistant Sub-Inspector Rameshwar Dayal and Nathu Ram--the eye-witnesses to the occurrence--established that deceased Beant Singh and accused Satwant Singh had fired the shots at Mrs Gandhi. It had also established that they had deliberately manoeuvred their duty roster to do so. The judgment took note of the testimony of prosecution witness Inderbir Singh regarding the gurdwara incident and Kehar Singh's exhortation to Beant Singh, "Ro mat badla le". It noted that Kehar was very close to Beant and even took him to Amritsar. The confession of Satwant Singh also affected Balbir and Kehar Singh, the judgment read. After the judgment and the order of sentence were read in the open court, Mr Mahesh Chandra gave copies of the same to the three accused. He informed all three of them that they were entitled to file appeals against the judgment and sentence to the High Court within 30 days of the order. Mr Mahesh Chandra was then escorted out of the courtroom under heavy security and did not come to his office in Patiala House in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-23-1986-sawant-two-others-sentenced-to-death-101642867019314.html
22-01-2022||India||Woman buys smart phone without husband’s nod. He hires contract killer to murder her||A man allegedly hired a contract killer to murder his wife after she purchased a smart phone without his permission. The woman, however, survived the attack. She had to undergo around seven stitches in her throat as the killer managed to injure her with a sharp weapon. The incident took place late on Thursday night at Narendrapur in the southern fringes of Kolkata. Police have arrested two persons including the man and the contract killer. Cops are looking for another man who was roped in by the contract killer. “According to the woman she had asked her husband, a few months ago, to buy her a smart phone which he refused. The woman who has been earning some money by giving tuition classes bought a smart phone on January 1. When the husband got to know about it he was furious and threatened to kill her,” said an officer of the local police station. On Thursday night before going to sleep the man went to lock the main door of the house. But as he didn’t come back even after some time, the woman went looking for him and was attacked by two unidentified men. The injured woman, bleeding profusely, managed to rush out of the house and raise an alarm. On hearing the screams of the woman, a group of locals who were feasting nearby rushed to her aid. One of the assailants and the husband was caught. The second assailant managed to flee. “We have arrested the woman’s husband Rajesh Jha, 40 and one of the assailants who identified himself as Surajit. We are looking for the second assailant. A case has been initiated and we are investigating the matter,” said an officer of Narendrapur police station. The couple has two school-going daughters aged 11 and five years. The husband works as an accountant at a mobile store, while the woman who has a B.Com degree used to give tuitions at home to earn her own money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-buys-smart-phone-without-husband-s-nod-he-hires-contract-killer-to-murder-her-101642866163646.html
22-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Delhi BJP requests L-G Baijal to end weekend curfew and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After CM Kejriwal, BJP requests L-G to end weekend curfew, other curbsThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi urged lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal to end the ongoing restrictions imposed in the national capital to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreCourt refuses pre-arrest bail to TikToker booked for raping girlfriendThe Dindoshi sessions court on Friday rejected the anticipatory bail application filed by Tiktok influencer Mohammed Shadan Farooqui, who has been booked for raping his girlfriend. Read moreEight detained in US following death of 4 Indians in human smuggling operationUS authorities have detained eight people, including an American citizen, for alleged involvement in human smuggling following the death of four Indian nationals from exposure to severe cold on the Canadian side of the border with the United States. Read moreUtpal Parrikar vows to exit race if BJP fields ‘good candidate’ from PanajiA day after resigning from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), son of late Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar, Utpal Parrikar said on Saturday that the decision was "most difficult" to take. Read more'IPL 2022 to begin in last week of March, will leave no stone unturned to stage it in India': BCCI secretary Jay ShahBCCI Secretary Jay Shah on Saturday confirmed that the 15th season of the Indian Premier League will begin from the final week in March and will end will continue till May end. He also added that he will ensure that the tournament is played in India. Read moreLata Mangeshkar showing positive signs of improvement, says spokesperson: ‘Request for disturbing speculation to stop’Singer Lata Mangeshkar is showing 'positive signs of improvement' said her spokesperson quoting Dr Pratit Samdani of Breach Candy Hospital. Read moreMilind Soman goes shirtless to ooze oomph during pull-ups workout in the forestNumerous studies show that shinrin-yoku has real health benefits and just a two-hour forest bath is enough to de-stress or relax an individual and actor Milind Soman was seen rooting for the same this Saturday as he went shirtless to ooze oomph during pull-ups variation in forest. Read moreMini Mathur posts video of peacocks, peahens strolling through Dubai street“Incredible” is probably the word you will be inclined to use after watching this video posted by actor Mini Mathur on her Instagram page. The video shows peacocks and peahens roaming in a street in Dubai. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-bjp-requests-l-g-baijal-to-end-weekend-curfew-101642864531517.html
22-01-2022||India||'Readymade babies': Taslima's tweets on surrogacy create a row||Writer Taslima Nasreen's opinion on surrogacy, as Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas welcomed their first baby via surrogacy, has created a flutter on social media. The writer slammed the process of surrogacy and questioned the feelings of mothers who attain motherhood via surrogacy. Social media users criticised the writer's comment."How do those mothers feel when they get their readymade babies through surrogacy? Do they have the same feelings for the babies like the mothers who give birth to the babies?" the writer tweeted. Surrogacy is possible because there are poor women. Rich people always want the existence of poverty in the society for their own interests. If you badly need to raise a child, adopt a homeless one. Children must inherit your traits---it is just a selfish narcissistic ego.How do those mothers feel when they get their readymade babies through surrogacy? Do they have the same feelings for the babies like the mothers who give birth to the babies? "Surrogacy is possible because there are poor women. Rich people always want the existence of poverty in the society for their own interests. If you badly need to raise a child, adopt a homeless one. Children must inherit your traits---it is just a selfish narcissistic ego," the writer said.Social media users commented that it is the choice of the individual and in many cases, people may opt for surrogacy because of medical reasons. Though Taslima did not mention Priyanka Chopra's name, the tweets come after Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas announced on Saturday midnight that they have become parents via surrogacy. Reports said the celebrity couple have welcomed a baby girl who was born 12 weeks premature.Surrogacy is a medical process in which the egg of a woman is fertilised with the sperm of a man in a medical process and the embryo is then planted in the uterus of the surrogate mother who carries the baby in the womb.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/readymade-babies-taslima-s-tweets-on-surrogacy-after-priyanka-chopra-nick-jonas-become-parents-creates-a-row-101642859783969.html
22-01-2022||India||EC ban on physical rallies, roadshows to continue, relaxation for public meetings||As the country continues to grapple with a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Election Commission on Saturday extended its ban on political rallies and roadshows in the five election-bound states till January 31, while making exceptions for candidates contesting in the first and second phase of polls with a limit of 500 people being imposed on public meetings. After speaking to the secretary, ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India and Chief Secretaries, Chief Electoral Officers and Health Secretaries of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, the Commission has, however, decided to relax some of the guidelines for candidates who will be contesting in the first phase on February 10 and second phase to be held on February 14. Now, candidates in Uttar Pradesh, which will vote in the first phase, will be allowed physical meetings in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 people or 50% of the capacity of the ground, but only from January 28 to February 8. “Since contesting candidates for Phase 1 elections will be finalised on January 27, 2022, the Commission has decided to allow physical public meetings of political parties or contesting candidates in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 people or 50% of the capacity of the ground or the prescribed limit set by SDMA, whichever number is lesser, from January 28, 2022 till February 8 2022 (excluding the silence period),” the statement said. Similar relaxations have also been issued for the second phase of the polls, which will be held in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Goa on February 14. The revised guidelines will be applicable for the second phase candidates from February 1, 2022 till February 12, 2022. The election watchdog last week relaxed the norms a little and allowed indoor meetings of a maximum of 300 people or 50% capacity of the meeting hall or limits prescribed by the state disaster management authorities. The Commission has also enhanced the limit for door-to-door campaign. Instead of 5 persons, now 10 persons, excluding security personnel, will be allowed for door-to-door campaign. “Commission has also allowed video vans for publicity with usual Covid-19 restrictions at designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 viewers or 50% of the capacity or the limit prescribed by SDMA, whichever is lesser, in the poll going states subject to public convenience and no hindrance to smooth flow of traffic,” the statement added. The decision grant leeway for public gatherings has been taken after the Commission consulted the health departments and other officials across the Centre and the states. “Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra along with election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey accompanied by Secretary General and concerned Deputy Election Commissioners held a comprehensive review of the present situation with respect to status and projected trends of Covid-19 pandemic in the five poll going states,” EC said in a press statement.“The Commission also reviewed vaccination status and action plan for expeditiously completing vaccination for 1st, 2nd and booster dose for eligible people amongst polling personnel. The Commission deliberated on relaxing restrictions for physical rallies in the wake of prevailing situation.”It said fresh instructions on campaigning will be issued after a review once the extended ban ends. Political parties, meanwhile, have been focusing on ramping up digital campaigns and events in keeping with the Commission’s guidelines. Home minister Amit Shah on Saturday held a door to door campaign in Uttar Pradesh, even as Congress’ candidates for Goa took a pledge and visited several temples in the state. The government also increased the expenditure limit for candidates last month to provide room to spend on virtual campaigns during the pandemic. The limit was raised by the Law Ministry to ₹40 lakh in large states, up from the earlier ₹30.8 lakhs, in keeping with EC’s recommendations. The elections for five assemblies will be held in seven phases from February 10. The results will be declared on March 10, the commission announced last week. It earlier placed restrictions of meetings till January 22.Other containment measures include curbs on the number of vehicles accompanying a candidate for the submission of nomination, which will be restricted to two instead of five.The Commission has allowed only 1,250 voters in each polling station instead of the usual 1,500. The number was capped at 1,000 for the previous two rounds of state elections. There will be mandatory sanitisation of polling stations and thermal checking of all those casting their vote. The commission is also running a pilot project to live-track overcrowding of voters at various poll booths to ensure safety norms are followed.Covid-19 patients and those who are quarantined will be allowed to cast their vote in the last hour of polling under the supervision of health authorities, the commission said. Sector magistrates will coordinate this in their allocated polling stations and record of such electors shall be maintained by the presiding officer, it said.All electoral offences will be brought to the fore and not just Covid-19-related offences. All violations will be dealt with by the chief secretary or the chief of the state disaster management authority of the concerned state, he added.Last year, the commission courted controversy throughout the eight-phase West Bengal election, beginning with the prolonged duration of polls to not conceding to the Opposition’s demands to club the last three phases in view of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. A police complaint was filed against the watchdog for culpable homicide by the wife of a Trinamool Congress candidate who died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-ban-on-physical-rallies-roadshows-to-continue-relaxation-for-public-meetings-101642859983612.html
22-01-2022||India||Abide With Me missing from Beating Retreat line-up||Abide With Me, a decades-old staple tune at Beating Retreat and said to be Mahatma Gandhi’s favourite, does not figure in the line-up announced by the government on Saturday for the January 29 musical extravaganza that will feature a raft of military bands and marks the end of the Republic Day celebrations. The Christian hymn, composed by Henry Francis Lyte in 1847, finds no mention in an Indian Army handout released on Saturday with details of the ceremony, staged on the eve of Gandhi’s death anniversary.“Soldiers relate to Abide With Me as it has been a part of our military culture. The tradition should continue,” said former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd).A defence ministry spokesperson did not comment on why the composition has been omitted in the 75th year of India’s Independence, a move that could trigger a fresh political row on the back of the eternal flame controversy.The eternal flame, Amar Jawan Jyoti, at India Gate was on Friday extinguished after 50 years and merged with the flame at the adjacent National War Memorial (NWM), amid political finger pointing over the move aimed at creating a single site for paying homage to India’s fallen heroes and conducting all ceremonial functions.Beating Retreat has traditionally ended with the hymn, Abide With Me. This year military buglers will play the iconic patriotic song Sare Jahan Se Acha in the end. The other popular tunes that will be played at the ceremony include Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja, Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon and Hind Ki Sena.Beating Retreat will feature bands from the Indian Army, Indian Air Force, Indian Navy and Central Armed Police Forces, apart from buglers and pipes and drums bands. The ceremony involves the lowering the flags against the backdrop of the setting sun and a simultaneous lighting up of the Rashtrapati Bhawan, South Block, North Block and Parliament House.A new show with 1,000 drones is expected to add sparkle to Beating Retreat. It is being organised by a startup, Botlab Dynamics, supported by Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and the department of science and technology. Only the US, Russia and China have the capability for a show with 1,000 drones, officials have said.The government on Saturday also released the schedule of the 73rd Republic Day Parade, India’s biggest ceremonial event that is being conducted in the shadow of the third Covid-19 wave and will be witnessed by fewer spectators at Rajpath.The Indian Army’s participation in the 90-minute parade will include a mounted column of 61 Cavalry (one of the world’s last remaining horse-mounted cavalry regiments), 14 mechanised columns and six marching contingents, apart from Param Vir Chakra and Ashoka Chakra awardees.The parade will begin at 10.30 am, instead of the traditional timing of 10 am, for better visibility to the parade and the fly past. The fly past, consisting of 75 aircraft in India’s 75th year of Independence, will feature flying formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna heli-borne operation.Vintage army equipment to be showcased during the parade includes the Centurion tank that took part in the 1971 India-Pakistan war, OT-62 Topas armoured personnel carrier and the 75/24 Indian field gun, alongside modern tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns.The blend of old and new equipment seeks to demonstrate the army’s evolution over the years, as was done during the Army Day parade on January 15. The Republic Day parade will feature a total of 16 marching contingents, including those from the IAF, navy and para-military forces, and 25 tableaus of various states, government departments and the armed forces.The Indian Navy’s tableaux will depict the naval uprising of 1946, which contributed to India’s struggle for independence, said Lieutenant Mayank Bhagour. It will also feature models of the indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant, the light combat aircraft and some warships.Before the parade starts, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the country in paying homage to India’s fallen braves at NWM, a monument dedicated to soldiers who fell in post-Independence wars and operations and inaugurated by the PM almost three years ago, on February 25 2019. As on date, the names of 26,466 brave warriors are inscribed on the memorial, including the ones who fell in the 1971 war.The spectator count at the parade will be massively curtailed this year due to Covid-related restrictions with only 5,000 to 8,000 people to be allowed entry to Rajpath to witness the display of the country’s military might and cultural heritage.Only double vaccinated adults and single vaccinated children of age 15 and above will be allowed entry.The January 26 parade was attended by around 25,000 spectators amid the ebbing first wave last year, compared to around 125,000 people who would usually show up at Rajpath to watch the event in the pre-pandemic era.
22-01-2022||India||Ban on rallies in poll-bound states to continue till Jan 31, with few exceptions||The Election Commission on Saturday extended the ban on physical rallies and roadshows in five poll-bound states till January 31 amid the third wave of the Covid pandemic in the country. The decision was taken by the Election Commission following a meeting with the Union health secretary and the chief health secretaries of the five states.The commission has, however, granted relaxation for physical public meetings of political parties/contesting candidates for Phase 1 from January 28, for Phase 2 from February 1. The upper limit of five people permitted for the door-to-door campaign has been enhanced to 10. Video vans for publicity have been permitted at designated open spaces with Covid restrictions.Full coverage of Assembly elections 2022Initially, the ban was on January 15 which was then extended by a week till January 22. The ban was imposed on January 8 when the Election Commission announced the election schedule for these five states following which the model code of conduct came into effect. The case trajectory of the five states and the vaccination coverage are key factors in allowing relaxations.As far as vaccination is concerned, Uttar Pradesh which currently has 98,238 active Covid cases has inoculated 96% of its population with the first dose in the 18 plus category. Uttarakhand has vaccinated 99% of its population with the first dose and 84% with the second dose. Goa has vaccinated 98% of its population above 18 years of age with a second dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-roadshows-rallies-in-5-poll-bound-states-to-continue-till-jan-31-ec-101642855965410.html
22-01-2022||India||Three children injured in crude bomb explosion in Bengal’s Berhampore||Three boys, aged between 11 and 14 years, were injured when they lobbed a crude bomb assuming it was a ball at Berhampore in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Saturday morning. The victims have been identified as Mamun Ali, 11, Ashik Sheikh, 14 and Jewel Sheikh, 12. The injured were rushed to the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital. Doctors said that Mamum could be referred to a hospital in Kolkata as his condition was critical. Villagers said that the three boys were playing cricket in a field. One of them had hit the cricket ball which landed in an adjacent farmland full of sunflower plants. All three went to look for the ball and found a ball-like object lying in the farm. When they picked it up assuming it to be a ball and threw it, the explosion took place. The three sustained splinter injuries. Asif’s father Mirjuwan Mondal said, “My son was playing in the field with some other boys. I rushed to the field after getting the sound of the explosion. I have no idea who left the bomb in the field.” Elections to at least seven civic bodies in Murshidabad, including Berhampur municipal body are pending and are likely to be held in February. Locals said that goons backed by political parties may be hoarding crude bombs ahead of the polls. A few days ago one person was killed and a few others were injured when some crude bombs went off in a field at Beldanga in the same district. “Three children have been injured in an explosion. A case has been initiated and we are probing the incident,” said an officer of Berhampore police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-children-injured-in-crude-bomb-explosion-in-bengal-s-berhampore-101642852722879.html
22-01-2022||India||Republic Day parade to have 25 tableaux, 16 marching contingents, 17 military bands||This year's Republic Day parade will have 16 marching contingents, 17 military bands and 25 tableaux of various states, departments and armed forces, the Indian Army said in a statement on Saturday.The Army will be represented by a mounted column of cavalry, 14 mechanised columns, six marching contingents and a flypast by advanced light helicopters of its aviation wing at the Republic Day parade-2022 (RDP-2022), it said.The mechanised columns of the Army will show one PT-76 tank, one Centurion tank, two MBT Arjun MK-I tanks, one APC TOPAS armoured personnel carriers, one BMP-I infantry fighting vehicle and two BMP-II infantry fighting vehicles, it stated.One 75/24 Pack howitzer, two Dhanush howitzers, one PMS bridge-laying system, two Sarvatra bridge-laying systems, one HT-16 electronic warfare system, two Taran Shakti electronic warfare systems, one Tiger Cat missile system and two Akash missile systems will also be part of the mechanised columns.The six marching contingents of the Indian Army will be of Rajput Regiment, Assam Regiment, Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry, Sikh Light Infantry, Army Ordnance Corps Regiment and Parachute Regiment, according to the statement.One marching contingent each of the Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy will also participate in RDP-2022, the statement said.From the central paramilitary forces, five marching contingents of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Police Force (CISF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Indian Coast Guard (ICG) and Border Security Force (BSF) will participate in RDP-2022, it stated.Overall, there will be 16 marching contingents from the armed forces, central paramilitary forces, Delhi Police, National Cadet Corps (NCC), National Service Scheme (NSS) along with 17 military bands, pipes and drum bands at the parade, it noted.Two Param Vir Chakra and one Ashok Chakra awardees will also participate in this year's parade.Before the commencement of RDP-2022, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the nation in paying homage to the soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice by laying a wreath at the National War Memorial, the statement said.RDP-2022 will begin at 10.30 am and end at 12 noon, it said.Twenty-five tableaux of various states, departments and armed forces will be part of RDP-2022, it said.Two teams -- one male team of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and one female team of Border Security Officer (BSF) -- will do the motorcycle display.Lieutenant General Vijay Kumar Mishra, General Officer Commanding Delhi Area, will be the parade commander and Major General Alok Kacker, Chief of Staff Delhi Area, will be the second-in-command of the parade, the statement said.RDP-2022 will march from Vijay Chowk to the National Stadium through the traditional route of Rajpath, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-parade-to-have-25-tableaux-16-marching-contingents-17-military-bands-101642850929033.html
22-01-2022||India||Juhi Chawla didn't pay ₹20 lakh cost for 5G case yet, plea filed||The Delhi State Legal Services Authority has moved the Delhi high court seeking the payment of ₹2o lakh which was imposed on actor Juhi Chawla and others in connection to their petition on the rollout of the 5G technology. The case has been listed for February 3, reports said. The lawyer who appeared for Juhi Chawla said he was not served with the petition copy and that the actor has recently moved a division bench of the high court regarding the case. A division bench will hear the case on January 25.On June 4, 2021, Justice JR Midha dismissed Juhi Chawla's civil suit against the roll-out o the 5G technology in India and imposed a cost of ₹20 lakh on plaintiffs. It appears the suit was for publicity, the court had noted last year.The actor has recently challenged the verdict and appealed that the single bench order dismissing the suit is bad in law as a suit can only be dismissed once it has been allowed to be registered as a suit by the Court.The actor also said the single bench said that her plea was only to gain publicity just because she had circulated the video-conferencing link of the High Court on her social media accounts which had resulted in the repeated disruption of the Court proceedings held on June 4, 2021.The plea against 5G in India was moved in May last year and the Bollywood actor was one of the petitioners. Court proceedings were held virtually at that time because of the second wave of the covid pandemic. Juhi Chawla joined the court proceeding through video conferencing and as she had shared the video link on her social media accounts, the hearing faced disruptions.Following the dismissal of the plea, Juhi Chawla had released a video saying she is not against 5G technology. The petition was only to seek the government's clarification on 5G that the technology is safe, the actor said at that time.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/juhi-chawla-didn-t-pay-rs-20-lakh-cost-for-5g-case-yet-plea-filed-101642851137823.html
22-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Pune to not reopen schools from Monday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm . Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pune schools won't resume physical classes from Monday, Covid cases highPune schools will not resume physical classes from January 24, as announced by the Maharashtra government earlier, as the number of Covid cases is quite high.Read more Most policies being implemented by environment ministry driven by TSR Subramaniam reportThe Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice on a plea seeking the creation of an Indian Environment Service on the lines of the Indian Forest Service. The plea seeks effective implementation of the 2014 TSR Subramaniam committee report. Read more In December alone, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation received one-fifth of entire Covid vaccine doses of 2021The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation received the highest number of vaccine doses in December, which was 20% of the total doses received throughout the year 2021. Read more ‘Whether you are Sachin or Kapil Dev, you feel pressure’: Harbhajan says Kohli is feeling the heat after stepping downFormer India skipper Virat Kohli has not been his usual self of late. After a series of resignations and being part of a massive controversy, the 33-year-old has looked out of sorts during the ongoing India-South Africa ODI series. Read more Jokes on The Kapil Sharma Show about Chris Gayle leave guests in splits: Why is casual racism laughed at in India?In an episode of The Kapil Sharma Show from last month, guests Salim Merchant, Sulaiman Merchant, Sunidhi Chauhan, and Salman Ali can be seen laughing at racist comments on cricketer Chris Gayle. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pune-schools-to-remain-shut-from-monday-and-all-the-latest-news-101642847974459.html
22-01-2022||India||Most policies being implemented by environment ministry driven by TSR Subramaniam report||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice on a plea seeking the creation of an Indian Environment Service on the lines of the Indian Forest Service. The plea seeks effective implementation of the 2014 TSR Subramaniam committee report. Several new policies being introduced by the Union environment ministry recently are based on recommendations of the Committee report including accelerating the time to grant environmental clearances; creating a single-window environment, forest and coastal regulation clearance system and drafting an umbrella environment management law that will subsume the air, water and environment protection acts. Environmental and legal experts have criticised many of these policies but the goal according to the Committee is to balance development and environmental needs. An explainer:What is the TSR Subramaniam report?In 2014, the Centre constituted a high-level committee headed by former cabinet secretary, TSR Subramaniam, to review the processes, laws and Acts of the Environment ministry. Following submission of the TSR Subramaniam committee report in November 2014, then environment minister, Prakash Javadekar, said it was an historic achievement that would “balance developmental commitments and environment protection.”How is an Indian Environment Service going to contribute?According to the report, the public sector, including the Central and State governments, and various other quasi-official bodies, such as corporations, municipal boards, enforcement agencies, as well as the industrial sectors will require reliable expertise of a high order in the management of environmental issues in recent times.“Current approval systems and monitoring mechanisms function in a quasi-amateurish manner, leading to sub-optimal management of environmental issues,” the report said, proposing that a new Indian Environment Service be created. To recruit staff in the service, an expert committee may examine the entry qualifications and other details, preferably for recruitment through open competition in consultation with the MoEFCC, the department of personnel and training and UPSC.What did the committee recommend?The committee said environmental and forest governance in the country needs to be re-aligned through a series of structural and process-oriented changes. It called for new forestation policy to attract investment in growing trees on private land; defining ‘forest’ to remove any ambiguity; the net present value of forests which is paid by project proponents in lieu of forest diversion be increased; creating inviolate or no-go areas in forests; single-window clearance system for projects requiring environmental clearance; proposed setting up of full time expert body National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) at the Centre, and State Environmental Management Authority (SEMA) for project clearance; introduced a new concept of ‘utmost good faith’ to be brought in through a new legislation, to ensure that the applicant of environmental clearance is responsible legally for his statements; a new model ‘umbrella’ law that will subsume Air Act, the Water Act and the EP Act; creation of a new All India Service – Indian Environment Service among several other recommendations.What do environmental experts have to say about these recommendations?Most experts are extremely critical of the recent changes in policy being made following the recommendations. “The creation of dedicated environmental services or creating new legal frameworks like those suggested in the TSR report, may not be able to offer any solution to deeper problems surrounding environmental decision making. The legal standards to protect environment are being routinely lowered down and institutions are being required to focus on granting approvals rather than taking proactive measures to protect the environment. In an environment when committees like the TSR report recommended minimising environmental scrutiny by relying on utmost good faith, there is little new regulators or dedicated government departments can do. The protection of the environment can only be emboldened through clear intent and only by mainstreaming and upstreaming it into economic planning,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.“The timelines for granting environmental clearances is stipulated in the Environment Impact Assessment notification of 2006. We are only trying to meet those timelines and bring efficiency to all systems. I haven’t heard of any Indian Environment Service being created but it’s a very big ministry with different departments. These decisions will be taken at the government level,” said a senior environment ministry official.Is the environment ministry implementing TSR Subramaniam committee recommendations?The environment ministry has started implementing most of the TSR Subramaniam committee recommendations. For example, the ministry in March last year commissioned a private law firm to draft a new environmental management act which will act as an umbrella law covering Air, Water and Environmental Acts. In October, the ministry released a consultation paper on amending the Forest Conservation Act 1980 to bring significant changes to forest governance in India including facilitating private plantations for harvesting and exploration or extraction of oil and natural gas deep beneath forest land by drilling holes from outside the forest areas; the ministry in line with the Committee’s recommendations, is in the process of implementing a single window clearance process for all clearances pertaining to forest, environment, wildlife and coastal regulation zone. The average time to grant environmental clearances in all sectors has reduced significantly from over 150 days in 2019 to less than 90 days in 2021, the ministry had said in December. The ministry also plans to rank states on the speed with which they accord environmental clearances (EC) to development projects. The criteria for the ranking was detailed in an office memorandum sent by the ministry to all states on January 17 where they said they will do a star rating for states based on efficiency and timeliness in grant of EC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-policies-being-implemented-by-environment-ministry-driven-by-tsr-subramaniam-report-101642848222504.html
22-01-2022||India||CESL floats ₹5,500 crore tender for 5.5k electric buses||New Delhi: The state-run Convergence Energy Services Ltd (CESL) on Thursday launched a ₹5,500 crore tender to procure 5,580 electric buses. A PSU under the ministry of power, CESL has floated the single tender for 5,450 single-decker and 130 double-decker e-buses.The tender floated was the outcome of the “Grand Challenge” plan for e-buses which was initiated in June last year by the ministry of power and NITI Aayog. It was ideated after several state governments floated tenders with unstructured standards for e-buses and failed to get bidders. Gauging the lack of uniformity in the technical and financial specifications, the Centre decided to aggregate the demand of a few big cities as an experiment, which was then termed as the grand challenge. The grand challenge was open for nine cities with a population of more than 4 million, but ultimately five were able to meet the set requirements in terms of finances and paperwork.Now under the programme, Kolkata will get 2,000 pure electric buses, Delhi and Bengaluru will have 1,500 e-buses each, while Hyderabad will get 300 and Surat 150 such zero emission buses. The first set of buses will start coming from July this year and the buses will go to cities as per the depot infrastructure readied by them. All the buses will have to be deployed maximum by March 2024, a senior CESL official said on condition of anonymity. Documents seen by HT showed that out of the five cities, Delhi currently is in the most advanced stage of upgrading all its depots with electric charging infrastructure for the buses.“The real meaning of aggregation across cities under an OPEX model is actually homogenisation. This Grand Challenge Tender is the biggest ever scheme in the world – and is based on an innovative, asset-light model that make it possible for STUs to deploy affordably and at scale. The Grand Challenge will certainly encourage the faster transition to green mobility across the country while creating a synergy between private operators and state governments,” said Mahua Acharya, MD and CEO, CESL. This is significant because most buses used for public transport in all these cities run on diesel, with Delhi being the only exception where all buses are CNG propelled. Diesel run buses are heavily polluting. Acharya said this is one important step in the series of initiatives to fulfil the commitments made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for making India a net zero nation by 2050 and getting closer to achieving energy independence by 2047. The benefits of participating in the Grand Challenge include lower prices realised due to aggregated demand, high quality benchmarked technology, access to FAME-II incentives, access to state incentives, air quality improvement, and access to domestic and international sources of finances. “The subsidy amount is actually for 3,472 buses, but we got oversubscribed in the grand challenge. After discussions, the concerned state governments agreed that they would pay the balance amount for the remaining buses at the price discovered during the tender process without the subsidy,” said the official. Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog said, “Standardising tendering conditions in diverse cities is a big step towards the transformation of public transport in India. Participation in the Grand Challenge is a commendable effort from STUs, who I am sure will stand to gain from economies of scale through the aggregation of demand by CESL.”Kailash Gahlot, Delhi’s transport minister said, “Delhi has requested 1500 buses under the Grand Challenge. The national capital stands ready to offer state subsidies where they are required. We are aggressively pursuing electric mobility – and I commend CESL for its efforts to standardize the terms and conditions for how this is delivered.”
22-01-2022||India||‘We rushed out, corridors were filled with smoke’: Residents of Tardeo building||MUMBAI: The residents of Sachinam Heights (known as Kamala building in the vicinity) in South Mumbai said the fire in the high-rise that killed six persons and injured 15, broke out around 7 in the morning while most of them were asleep. The residents said the fire probably began inside the wire duct that runs between the ground and the top floor of the 20-storey building. They also added that while the fire was confined between the 19th and 20th floor only, the entire building got engulfed in smoke and visibility became difficult for them. “I opened the door at 7 am to collect the milk that was delivered by the milkman. I saw the entire corridor of my floor filled with thick smoke that was coming out from the wire duct. We understood there must have been a fire outbreak, we woke up the remaining members and rushed out of the building,” said Nanda Chavan, a resident of the fourth floor. Chavan’s sister, Shubhangi Salkhar along with her husband Dilip and ten-year-old son, Dhaval is admitted at the Bhatia hospital at present. Chavan said that her sister and her family reside in the 13th floor of the building. “After we came down, I started to look for my sister and her family members but couldn’t find them. After half-an-hour, we saw fire brigade personnel bringing them down,” she said. Kamlakar Dalvi (64), a member of the managing committee of the building who stays on the fourth floor said that the fire broke out around 7 am in the morning and during this time most of the residents were fast asleep. “The morning water comes between 7-8 am regularly and I was going to check the water valve when I saw smoke and heard screams from our neighbours as well. We alerted the remaining flats on our floor and managed to get out of the building, the fire brigade arrived around 7:30 am and started the rescue operation. As most of the members were sleeping, rescue operation became haphazard as many of us had to go door to door and alert the people,” said Dalvi. A resident requesting anonymity said that the building was built in 2013 and between 2013-2016 there was an ongoing court case between the builder and some tenants that used to live on the plot earlier. The building is a redevelopment project and the plot on which it is built used to be a slum area once, where Dalvi used to live earlier. After the fire broke out, the residents took refuge inside the banquet hall of Matru Mandir society which is just adjacent to the Kamala building. Nearly 200 residents are staying inside the banquet hall at present and member of the Matru Mandir society have arranged basic civic amenities and food for the victims. Also, many residents shifted to their neighbours’ and relatives’ places that were nearby. “There were fire extinguishers in the building but most of the residents didn’t know how to operate it so we had to rush out. Also, the fire safety alarm wasn’t working and we couldn’t hear any warming bell,” said Dalvi. Another resident, Vijay Aperaj (61) said that after the fire broke out, inside the building it became dark as the electricity got cut off. “All the electrical appliances stopped working and we opened the doors to check. We saw smoke coming out of the ducts and also felt a burning smell. We rushed out from the building immediately with all our family members and the interiors became suffocating as well,” said Aperaj. There are two refuge floors inside the building, each on the eighth and the fourteenth floor. However, Dalvi said that the residents preferred to go downstairs instead of going to the refuge floor. There are 135 flats in the building and in each floor, there are eight flats. Four of which are 315 square feet and two flats of 225 and 250 square feet each. Considering there were eight flats in each floor, the entire building was quite cramped up and there was not much space between the flats. The building is located in a lane adjacent to the Tardeo Road. The fire fighting vehicles were parked at the entry point of the lane from where the pipelines were pulled inside and evacuation operation was carried out. A senior fire brigade official, present at the spot said that even though the exact cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, the preliminary findings suggest that there could be a short-circuit inside the wire duct of the building. “The fire system was defunct and two flats have been severely damaged and there have been some serious loss of properties as well. The fire system in the building was defunct. Had it been working then the proportion of loss occurred could have been lesser,” the official said. Meanwhile, the Gamdevi police has registered an accidental death report (ADR) in connection with the incident. We have registered an accidental death report (ADR) in the matter, as six people have died and several others have been injured. We will write to all concerned departments like fire-brigade and BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) and depending on their reports decide further course of action,” said senior police inspector, Rampyare Rajbhar of Gamdevi Police station. “We are presently recording statements of the victims and eyewitnesses and also doing spot panchnama,” said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-rushed-out-corridors-were-filled-with-smoke-residents-of-tardeo-building-101642847682542.html
22-01-2022||India||Amit Shah launches District Good Governance Index in 20 districts of J-K||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday launched the District Good Governance Index (DGGI) in Jammu and Kashmir, which is the first Union Territory to have such an index.Shah launched the index in the presence of Union minister Jitendra Singh and Jammu and Kashmir's lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha.Addressing the launch event virtually, Shah said, “I want to congratulate all residents of Jammu and Kashmir for the launch of the District Good Governance Index. This is an important day not just for J-K but for the entire India.”Shah said the beginning of this index in Jammu and Kashmir will slowly expand to all other states and a good governance competition will start in every district of the country.Shah said the index will benefit residents of Jammu and Kashmir in a big way as it will work towards improving the district machinery, make districts result-oriented and also improve their delivery mechanism.“Under the index, the policies, schemes and programs of the central as well as the state governments have been monitored at the district level," the Union home minister said at the virtual launch event on Saturday.“The index will rank the districts and also present their comparative picture. With this, officials evaluating their districts will get to know what areas have to be worked on,” Amit Shah said.The District Good Governance Index, which has been launched for 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir, has been prepared by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) in partnership with the Union Territory's administration and is a major reform in bench-marking good governance at the district level.According to an official statement, the DGCI is a significant step for timely collation and publication of statistics at the state/ district level.It is expected that the index will provide a robust framework for evidence-based assessment of the performance of all the districts in Jammu and Kashmir, the statement added.Previously, the Centre had released the National Good Governance Index on December 25 last year that indicated Jammu and Kashmir saw an increase of 3.7% in Good Governance Indicators from 2019 to 2021. The strong performance of J-K was also noted in the fields of commerce and industry, agriculture, judiciary and public infrastructure among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-launches-district-good-governance-index-in-20-districts-of-jk-101642841274550.html
22-01-2022||India||Mumbai: Six killed, 15 injured in major fire at Tardeo high-rise||MUMBAI: Six people were killed and 15 injured in a major fire on the 18th floor of the 20-storey Kamla Building in Nana Chowk near Gowalia tank in South Mumbai on Saturday, the chief fire officer of the Mumbai fire brigade said, adding the firefighting operations are still underway.“Information regarding the cause of death is awaited. While apartment number 1904 is completely charred, this had intense heat and flames, other apartments that have been affected have not seen as much damage in comparison. As firefighting is ongoing, we are yet to take complete stock of the extent of damage. Out of the 7 dead, only one person was in apartment 1904 as per the information we have at present,” Chief Fire officer Hemant Parab told Hindustan Times.The fire was reported at 7.28 am and declared level 3 at 7.42 am. After 2.5 hours of firefighting, the Mumbai fire brigade managed to cover the fire from all sides by 10.05 am.A total of 22 people were injured and rushed to three nearby hospitals. Out of the 7 people taken to Nair hospital, 5 were declared dead; of the 2 people rushed to Kasturba Hospital, one died, and of the 14 people taken to Bhatia Hospital, one died.The fire brigade deployed 13 fire engines, 7 jumbo tankers, a breathing apparatus van, and 5 ambulances at the spot. 16 senior fire brigade officials, including a deputy chief fire officer, a deputy fire officer, 2 assistant deputy fire officers, and 12 station officers are part of the firefighting operations.State environment minister and Mumbai suburbs guardian Aaditya Thackeray took to social media and said, “In touch with the authorities regarding the fire outbreak at the Kamala building in Tardeo. The fire brigade and polise are on site. Rescue and cooling operations are underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-seven-killed-15-injured-in-major-fire-at-tardeo-highrise-101642844682102.html
22-01-2022||India||UP govt extends closure of schools till Jan 30||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday extended the closure of schools in the state till January 30 in view of rising coronavirus cases in the state.  The closure of schools has been extended till January 30 and online classes will continue, according to an order issued by Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi.The government had earlier ordered closure of the educational institutions till January 23 in view of a rise in Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-extends-closure-of-schools-till-jan-30-101642843117683.html
22-01-2022||India||Monserrate ‘best represents aspirations of people’: Goa BJP||PANAJI: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has justified the party’s decision to give the Panaji ticket in the upcoming Goa assembly polls to Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate while ignoring former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal Parrikar, saying they chose the former as the party believes in fielding a candidate “who can best represent the aspirations of the people.” “He (Monserrate) has been actively engaged in social service for the people of the constituency for the past many years,” said the party in a notice issued by its general secretary in a local daily as is now mandatory as per directions of the Supreme Court. “He was found to have a good understanding of the ground situation and shared a good rapport with the voters here,” the notice said. Curiously, the party has claimed that Babush Monserrate is a “senior politician who has represented the constituency multiple times before” when in truth Monserrate’s current term as the legislator representing Panaji is his first as a representative of the state capital though he was selected from Taleigao and Santa Cruz constituencies before during his previous three terms as a legislator. The party for the other candidates said: “There was no other person who could represent the voices of the people of the area and thus the present candidate was chosen”. Interestingly, this sentence was missing in the column for Monserrate. On Friday, Parrikar’s son announced he was resigning from the BJP and will be contesting as an independent. “The candidate given by the party.... I feel even embarrassed to talk about him. In Panaji, where the party has grown over 30 years, to give a ticket to someone with such a rap sheet, who joined two years ago, I had no choice. I have to go to the people,” Utpal told a news conference where he announced his candidature. Manohar Parrikar represented the Panaji constituency since 1994 and until his death in 2019 barring a brief two-year period when he was union defence minister and a Rajya Sabha MP from Lucknow. Monserrate is facing charges under sections 376 (rape), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as section 4 (penetrative sexual assault of a minor) of the POCSO Act in one case. He is also facing charges under sections 143,147, 148, 149, 153, 323, 324, 325, 333, 427, 435, etc (sections related to armed rioting) for leading a mob that violently attacked the Panaji Police station in 2008 and a third case under 326, 354, 504, 506, 509 (assaulting a woman), as he has declared. The BJP has a total of seven candidates who have cases against them. Besides Monserrate, his wife Jennifer Monserrate, who is the BJP’s candidate from Taleigao constituency, too has criminal cases registered against her relating to assault on police station. Others with criminal cases include Rohan Khaunte, Govind Gaude, Krishna Salkar, Mauvin Godinho and Chandrakant Kavlekar. Besides Salkar, who is a new entrant into the BJP, Khaunte, Gaude, Godinho and Kavlekar have all been ministers for varying periods during the last five years of the BJP government. Godinho and Kavlekar are facing charges of corruption that were filed during the tenure of the BJP-run governments when the duo were members of the Congress party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monserrate-best-represents-aspirations-of-people-goa-bjp-101642842402298.html
22-01-2022||India||Mumbai fire: Aaditya Thackeray visits Kamala Building; Centre, state announce compensation||Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Saturday afternoon visited the Kamala Building fire site in Mumbai to check the ground situation after six persons were killed and 23 others were injured in a major fire that broke out on the 19th floor of the residential building. The government will give ₹5 lakh compensation to families that lost their members in the fire, the minister said. The two hospitals which reportedly were refusing treatments have admitted injured, the minister said.PM Narendra Modi has announced an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives. The injured would be given ₹50,000, the PMO said. The blaze erupted around 7am in the morning while many residents were still sleeping. Seven of the injured have been taken to the BMC-run Nair Hospital, where five dies, while another succumbed to the injuries at Kasturba Hospital. 17 others who received injuries have been admitted to Bhatia Hospital and five have been discharged, a civic official said. Among the rest 12, three are in critical condition.The fire fighting went on past 12 and the blaze was extinguished by 12.20pm."Soon after the fire broke out on the 19th floor, residents started running out with their family members. There are at least six flats on each floor. The blaze engulfed the floor and some residents were trapped there," another BMC official said. “I am shocked and anguished to know nearby hospitals refused admissions to the injured persons, which resulted in more deaths. If it is true then, BMC and State administration should fix the responsibility for these deaths and take action against those who are responsible for the deaths,” Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-fire-aaditya-thackeray-visits-kamala-building-govt-to-pay-rs-5l-damages-101642841684024.html
22-01-2022||India||Five of a bridegroom’s party die in Odisha road accident||BHUBANESWAR: Five of a bridegroom’s party including a father-daughter duo were killed and five others seriously injured when the SUV they were travelling collided head on with a truck on a bridge over Mahanadi River in Sonepur district late Friday night, said police. Sonepur SP Sitaram Satpathy said 10 people from Nimna and Panchmahala village under Ullunda block of Sonepur district were returning after attending a marriage function at Kaudiamunda village when the Bolero jeep they were in ran into the truck over the Mahanadi bridge at around 1 am. Ashish Pandia and his daughter Siddhi Pandia were killed on the spot along with Pramod Pandia, Trayambak Meher and Subham Pandia. Five others were rescued from the badly mangled vehicle by police and other rescue teams with the help of gas cutters. All the injured were initially rushed to Sonepur hospital and subsequently shifted to Burla Medical College and Hospital for treatment after their condition deteriorated. Fatalities rate in road accidents in Odisha is 33.33% higher than the national average. While 48 die in every 100 road accidents in Odisha, the national average is 36. There has been a steady increase in number of fatalities from 2014 (3,931) to 2020(4,738), an increase of about 21%. As per State Road Safety Council officials, over-speeding contributed to 69 per cent of the deaths followed by violation of helmet law (41 per cent) and hit and run cases (20 per cent). The Supreme Court has recently pulled up the state government for not adopting a focused approach for preventing fatalities by enforcing stringent measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-of-a-bridegroom-s-party-die-in-odisha-road-accident-101642838381743.html
22-01-2022||India||Direct, emotional connect between administration, public needed: PM to DMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday lauded ‘aspirational districts’ for removing the barriers in taking the country forward. Interacting with district magistrates from across the country on the implementation of key government schemes, PM Modi said that the teamwork of the Centre, states and local administration is yielding good results in aspirational districts."When the aspirations of others become our own aspirations, when fulfilling the dreams of others becomes a measure of our success, then that path of duty creates history. Today, we see this history being created in the aspirational districts of the country," the prime minister said.He called for a direct and emotional connect between the administration and the public to ensure 'top to bottom' as well as 'bottom to top' governance flow.“Convergence is a major reason for the success that the country is getting in aspirational districts. All resources are the same, government machinery is the same, officers are the same but the result is different,” PM Modi noted.Highlighting the importance of district administrations in good governance, the prime minister said it helps the government to implement the schemes in a better way. He suggested the officials chalk out detailed guidelines for field visits and inspections. He also called on the civil servants to work for the country with the same enthusiasm they had on the first day in the service.“I would like to remind one more thing to the colleagues from civil services who have joined in. You must remember the day when you had your first day in this service. How much you wanted to do for the country, how full of enthusiasm, how full of service you were. Today you have to move forward with the same spirit,” he said.PM Modi further stated that the ‘Jan Dhan’ accounts have increased by four to five times in almost every aspirations district in the last four years.“Almost every family has got a toilet, every village has been electrified. And electricity has not only reached the homes of the poor but has infused energy into the lives of the people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/direct-emotional-connect-between-administration-public-needed-pm-modi-to-dms-101642836398878.html
22-01-2022||India||Cold wave: List of coldest places in India right now||Several parts of north India are reeling under severe cold wave-like conditions, with the temperature plunging to historic lows.In the next two to three days, the minimum temperatures over northwest India is likely to fall gradually by 3 to 5 degrees Celsius due to dry northwesterly winds which are bringing cold air from the snow-clad Himalayas, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The IMD further said in its forecast on Friday that Himachal Pradesh is expected to experience bad weather till January 24.Here are the top coldest places in India at the moment:1. Dras (Ladakh): Dras saw an intensely cold night as the minimum temperature was at minus 17 degrees Celsius on Friday.2. Pahalgam (Jammu and Kashmir): The mountain resort recorded a minimum temperature of minus 13 degrees Celsius on Friday night, according to IMD.3. Srinagar (Jammu and Kashmir): The city recorded a low of minus 4 degrees Celsius.4. Rajasthan: Dense fog engulfed many parts of the state, including capital Jaipur as minimum temperature rose a little bit. The lowest minimum temperature of 6.8 degrees Celsius was recorded in Chittorgarh followed by 8.0 degrees each in Bhilwara and Vanasthali, 8.1 degrees in Jaipur and Sangaria, 8.5 degrees in Sikar, 8.7 degrees in Bikaner, 8.8 degrees in Tonk and 9.0 degrees Celsius in Nagaur, as per IMD data.6. Delhi: The national capital witnessed a foggy morning on Saturday, a day after the city recorded a minimum temperature of 7.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-list-of-coldest-places-in-india-right-now-101642836215477.html
22-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 18-year-old man arrested from Lucknow in Clubhouse app chat case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi police arrest 18-year-old from Lucknow in Clubhouse app chat caseThe Delhi Police has arrested an 18-year-old from Lucknow in connection with the Clubhouse chat in which participants were heard making derogatory and abusive comments against Muslim women. Read more Orissa high court asks for status report on violence in Dhinkia steel plant siteThe Orissa high court on Thursday asked the state’s home department to submit a status report on the ground situation in Dhinkia village, the proposed site of a 13.2 million tonne per annum integrated steel plant by Jindal Steel Works (JSW) in Jagatsinghpur district, where a face-off between villagers and police left more than two dozen persons injured six days ago. Read moreVirat Kohli looks disconnected; there is a division': Kaneria slams India's poor show, says 'Rahul not ready to lead'India's ongoing tour of South Africa has been riddled with poor performances, controversies, and a lot of tension. Hardly anything has gone right for the Rahul Dravid-coached side as the 'Men in Blue' have been defeated in the ODI series after conceding the Test series 2-1 to the Proteas. Moreover, before the start of the white-ball series, Virat Kohli surprisingly stepped down as the nation's Test captain. Read more Lata Mangeshkar still in ICU, spokesperson says ‘don’t give wind to false news’Giving an update about legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar’s health, her team has issued a statement urging fans not to believe any false news regarding her health. Read more Rasika Dugal, 'back in the bay', went for a runRasika chose to bask in the weather of Mumbai through her own way – by going for a run with her fitness partner Sheldon Rego. Read more Mumbai tragedy: Fire in residential building leaves 7 people dead, several hurtSeven people died in the fire that broke out in a 20-storey Kamala building near Mumbai's Bhatia hospital in Tardeo on Saturday morning. Read more Video of a person knitting with noodles goes viral, makes people ask ‘Why’Knitting is an art and there are several videos on the Internet that proves the same. One video showing this technique has now gone viral. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-18-year-old-man-arrested-from-lucknow-in-clubhouse-app-chat-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101642834185783.html
22-01-2022||India||Political drama over meeting of CM and former CMs in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh sat on a Dharna one km away from chief minister’s office on Friday after CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan allegedly cancelled their meeting to discuss issue of displacement of villagers due to the Tame Irrigation project. The political drama began when the photos and videos of a meeting of Chouhan with MP Congress Committee president Kamal Nath at the state hangar in Bhopal went viral on social media. After meeting with the CM, Kamal Nath joined the protest with Digvijaya Singh. Nath also got angry on media persons for asking questions on the purpose of his meeting with the CM. Digvijaya Singh said he sought a time to meet the chief minister to discuss the matter of compensation against the displacement of villagers after five thousand hectares of land submerged due to the Tame irrigation project of Suthalia of Rajgarh, Bhopal and Vidisha districts. “More than 1500 families will be displaced but they are not getting enough compensation,” said Singh. Singh said the CM’s office gave him time at 11 .15 am on Friday for meeting but he was informed on Thursday that the meeting was cancelled. Singh said he will reach on time and will stage a protest because the CM has no time to listen to the issues of common people. However, the meeting was cancelled as the CM went to attend a function in Dewas. After the video of their meeting went viral on social media, Nath said, “We met accidentally as I was returning from the Chhindwara and the CM was leaving for Dewas. It was a courtesy meeting.” He further said, “After I came to join Dharna, Digvijaya Singh informed me that he was seeking time for the past one-and-a-half months but the CM has no time to listen to him. We will stage protest with villagers who are being displaced without proper compensation.” Later, the CM also said that we were crossing each other at state hangar and it was just a cordial meeting. “I told Digvijaya Singh to come and meet on January 23 but he is more interested in politicising the matter,” Chouhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-drama-over-meeting-of-cm-and-former-cms-in-madhya-pradesh-101642836041721.html
22-01-2022||India||Delhi police arrest 18-year-old from Lucknow in Clubhouse app chat case||The Delhi Police has arrested an 18-year-old from Lucknow in connection with the Clubhouse chat in which participants were heard making derogatory and abusive comments against Muslim women. The accused, Rahul Kapoor, who had registered himself with the user-ID 'Bismillah', was apprehended after the Delhi Police sent a team to Lucknow.Kapoor has claimed that he created an audio chat room on the instructions of a person, he identified as ‘Sallos’, and later handed him over the moderator key, Deputy Commissioner of Police KPS Malhotra said. Kapoor’s mobile phone has been seized and he will be joining the investigation in Delhi by evening.The father of the suspect works as an accountant at Army Public School, Lucknow Cantt.The arrest comes a day after Mumbai Police nabbed three people from Haryana in connection with the chat. The cyber cell of the Mumbai crime branch, based on a complaint by a woman, registered a case against the three accused under sections 153(a), 295(a), 354(a), 354(d) of IPC, and section 67 of Information Technology Act 2000. The accused were identified as Akash, Jeshnav Kakkar and Yash Parashar."We have registered a case against a vulgar Clubhouse app chat and arrested one person from Karnal, Haryana and is taken to 3 days SIT remand. 2 other accused are picked up from Faridabad and the process for their transit remand is in progress," Milind Bharambe, Joint CP Crime, said.Bharambe confirmed that two chat rooms were created on the Clubhouse app, one on January 16band the other on January 16. He said that many participants were involved in making derogatory remarks about women and talking about auctioning their body parts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-arrest-18-year-old-from-lucknow-in-clubhouse-app-chat-case-101642834750801.html
22-01-2022||India||Orissa high court asks for status report on violence in Dhinkia steel plant site||BHUBANESWAR: The Orissa high court on Thursday asked the state’s home department to submit a status report on the ground situation in Dhinkia village, the proposed site of a 13.2 million tonne per annum integrated steel plant by Jindal Steel Works (JSW) in Jagatsinghpur district, where a face-off between villagers and police left more than two dozen persons injured six days ago. Justice RK Patnaik sought the home department’s status report on the issue while hearing a PIL filed by Kuni Mallick and four others seeking a probe by a committee comprising a retired Judge of the high court, social activists and members of the civil society into the “police atrocities” committed on the residents of Dhinkia. On Friday, police and villagers clashed at Dhinkia village when the former were marching to demolish the betel vines within the project area of the steel plant. Of the 2950 acres of land required for the project, 45.56 acres of forestland is in Dhinkia, where people are adamant not to allow the project to happen arguing that their livelihood depends on the betel vines. After the clash, which also left some policemen injured, six persons including former member of panchayat samiti Debendra Swain, who has been campaigning against the proposed plant, were arrested. Meanwhile, a delegation of over a dozen political parties submitted a memorandum to Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal, seeking his intervention to stop what they called “police atrocities” in Dhinkia. The parties alleged that the Odisha government was using police force to evict villagers and they have left the village out of fear. They demanded that the police should be withdrawn from Dhinkia and demolition of betel vines be stopped forthwith. In 2017, JSW Utkal Steel Limited, led by industrialist Sajjan Jindal, proposed to set up a 13.2 million tonnes per annum integrated steel plant at the same site that was initially allocated to Korean steel major Posco more than a decade ago. The Korean company, which signed a pact with the Odisha government, had to withdraw from it after protests by the people of Dhinkia. The new steel plant by JSW in Jagatsighpur will connect with the company’s proposed 30 MTPA iron-ore grinding plant in Keonjhar district via a 312 km-long slurry pipeline. A 52 MTPA captive jetty located near the Jatadhar river mouth will also cater to the import and export requirements of the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-high-court-asks-for-status-report-on-violence-in-dhinkia-steel-plant-site-101642833881684.html
22-01-2022||India||Covid-hit Gujarat clamps night curfew in 17 towns: What's allowed, what's not||The Gujarat government has announced night curfew in 17 more towns and extended its implementation in eight metro cities till January 26. The decision was announced by chief minister Bhupendra Patel on Friday taken to keep the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in check.The night curfew will be in place from 10pm to 6am every day.The cities where night curfew will be imposed are Surendranagar, Dhrangradhra, Morbi, Wankaner, Dhoraji, Gondal, Jetpur, Kalawad, Godhra, Vijalpore, Navsari, Navsari, Bilimora, Vyara, Vapi Valsad, Bharuch and Ankleshwar.on January 7, the government announced a night curfew between 10 pm and 6 am in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Junagadh, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Anand, and Nadiad.On Friday, Gujarat reported 21,225 fresh Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths. The total number of cases in the state has reached 10,22,788.Here’s a list of what will be allowed and what will be closed during the night curfew in Gujarat cities:• As many as 150 persons will be allowed in the open spaces, and 50 per cent of the total capacity of a closed venue in case of any social religious function.• Cinema halls, libraries, auditoriums and gyms allowed to function in these cities with 50 per cent occupancy.• The public transport both air conditioned and non- air-conditioned buses directed to run with 75 per cent of its sitting capacity. Standing passengers not allowed.• Occupancy restricted in marriages and funerals also. As many as 150 persons to be allowed in open spaces, 50 per cent in closed venues for these purposes.• All businesses, offices, shops and shopping malls in these 17 towns to be opened till 10pm. Restaurants allowed to operate with 75 per cent seating capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covidhit-gujarat-clamps-night-curfew-in-17-towns-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101642833418900.html
22-01-2022||India||Quad summit announced, to be held after Australian elections in May||With US President Joe Biden accepting Japanese Prime Minister Kishida Fumio’s invitation to visit Tokyo in the first half of 2022 on Friday, the Quad summit is expected to take place in May with free and open Indo-Pacific, Covid-19 response, climate, clean energy, and infrastructure on the agenda. The last Quad summit was held on September 24, 2021, in Washington.According to officials in knowledge of the matter, the Quad summit has been announced but will take place only after the Australian general elections in May. Formal invites will be sent by Japan only after the dates convenient to all are finalised. A meeting of Quad foreign ministers and sherpas is also likely to set up the agenda for the summit.The meeting of Quad security grouping comes at a time when erstwhile Cold War powers US and Russia are locked on Ukraine, Shia Houthis in Yemen have targeted Sunni UAE with armed drones and China is eyeing Taiwan while building fortress Tibet and Sinkiang through massive Sinicization campaign.While US President Biden accepted Kishida’s invitation for attending the Quad summit, the big takeaways from the virtual summit was that Washington encouraged increase in Japanese defence spending, vowed to protect Senkaku Islands from Chinese aggression and agreed to work with other pacific partners like Australia, France and New Zealand for humanitarian disaster relief work.Both US and Japan have agreed on a economic dialogue in two plus two format with focus on building global supply chains not dependent on China. This decision to intensify economic cooperation in the Indo-Pacific also dovetails into the Quad's vision for alternate supply chains with both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison facing adverse trade relations with China on account of mounting trade deficit and high tariff sanctions respectively.While there will be no further admission into Quad grouping, all the participating countries recognise the centrality of ASEAN countries in tackling Indo-Pacific and intensification of engagement with Indonesia has already begun in a bid for an open Indo-Pacific. This is because all the ingress routes to South China Sea are under Indonesian jurisdiction - from Malacca Strait to Ombai-Wetar strait near Timor in far Pacific.The Modi government is already engaging Indonesia as it is in proximity to Andamans and Nicobar Islands and there is discussion on New Delhi supplying Jakarta with BrahMos supersonic land attack missiles after Manila.
22-01-2022||India||Court sentences elderly man to 10-years jail for raping minor girl||A court in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district sentenced a 67-year-old man to 10 years imprisonment for raping a minor girl five years ago.POCSO judge Sumita Jena on Friday also imposed a fine of ₹10,000 on Bhagamat Tudu, special public prosecutor Abhina Pattnaik said.The court directed the State Legal Services Authority to pay ₹3 lakh to the rape survivor as compensation.On September 20, 2017, the 10-year-old girl had gone to the forest for grazing of goats near her village in Bisoi block when Tudu raped her.The judgement was based on the victim’s statement, medical report and statements of 14 witnesses, the prosecution added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-sentences-elderly-man-to-10-years-jail-for-raping-minor-girl-101642827539533.html
22-01-2022||India||India reports 3,37,704 new Covid cases, 488 deaths in 24 hours||India on Saturday reported 3,37,704 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, pushing the overall tally to 3,89,03,731, according to the latest data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The related death toll saw a rise of 488 and now stands at 488,884, the data also showed. The Omicron cases jumped to 10,050 after an increase of 3.69 per cent since Friday.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccination, including precaution shots, to be delayed by 3 months post recovery: GovtThe country has an active caseload of 21,13,365 infections, the highest in 237 days.  It currently accounts for 5.43 per cent, the ministry further said.The daily positivity rate is at 17.22 per cent, while the recovery rate saw a slight fall and now stands at 93.31 per cent.As many as 2,42,676 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of total recoveries has reached 3,63,01,482.Also Read | 'Delhi averted Covid-19 danger': Health minister Satyendra Jain as cases dip steadilyThe weekly positivity rate has increased 16.65 per cent, the ministry data also showed.The country has administered 161.16 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses so far. Also, 71.34 crore samples have been tested for the Covid-19 so far, out of which 19,60,954 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-3-37-704-new-covid-cases-488-deaths-in-24-hours-101642825649571.html
22-01-2022||India||PM Modi to unveil Netaji statue at India Gate on Sunday||NEW DELHI: Ahead of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary on January 23, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced that a grand statue of the legendary freedom fighter will be installed at India Gate “as a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him”.“At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him,” PM Modi tweeted.He further said, “Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary.”The statue will be placed in the canopy and will replace the Amar Jawan Jyoti, which will be merged with the eternal flame of the National War Memorial Torch on Friday. The dimensions of the upcoming statue will be 28 feet*6 feet, people aware of the development said.Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted that the statue is a befitting tribute to Subhas Chandra Bose. “ Netaji is an epitome of India’s true strength and resolve. Congress has left no stone unturned to forget the immortal contributions of India’s brave son,” he tweeted.Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said that nothing that the Prime Minister does will undo the historical betrayal of Netaji by Hindu Mahasabha under Sawarkar.“When Netaji was organising the INA to liberate the North East from the British rule, Sawarkar exhorted recruitment of Hindu Mahasabha in the British army. That same army then indulged into large-scale killing of INA soldiers. If the PM were to read the shameful history of his ideological forefathers, he would first apologise to the nation.”Last week, a government official said that the Republic Day celebrations from this year will start on January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, in line with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government’s “focus to commemorate important aspects of our history and culture.”Last year, the central government announced that January 23 will be celebrated as Parakram Diwas or day of valour.Ahead of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary this year, Chandra Bose, who is a member of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to have the freedom fighter’s image on currency notes. He also suggested declaring January 23 a national holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-unveil-netaji-statue-at-india-gate-on-sunday-101642824761127.html
22-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to interact with DMs of various districts, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to interact with DMs of various districtsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with various district magistrates on Saturday to take their direct feedback on the progress and status of implementation of various government schemes and programmes, his office has announced. The meeting will be held via video conferencing at around 11am, the PMO said in a statement. Read more…‘Stealth Omicron’: All you need to know about fast-spreading sub-strainA new sub-variant of Omicron has raised fears that more transmissible strains of the coronavirus could spark larger Covid-19 waves globally. The health authorities in the UK have designated the sub-variant, called BA.2, as ‘variant under investigation’. Read more…Kashmiri Pandit activist's murder plot: Delhi police nab arms dealer Hazi Shamim | WATCHDelhi police arrested a 55-year-old man was arrested for his alleged involvement in a conspiracy to kill a social activist who is vocal about the issues of Kashmiri Pandits. The accused has been identified as Hazi Shamim alias Shamim Pistol, a resident of Muzzafarnagar in Uttar Pradesh. Shamim is a notorious illegal arms supplier and has been supplying arms for more than 15 years. Watch video for more.'We are trying to get better': KL Rahul pinpoints 'mistakes' behind India's ODI series defeat against South AfricaSkipper KL Rahul praised South Africa for putting up an impressive display at home but also pinpointed India's flaws after his team suffered a seven-wicket loss in the second game and lost the three-ODI series on Friday. The Indian bowling unit once again looked toothless against the opposition, which chased down the 288-run target with ease at Boland Park, Paarl. Read more…Suriya's Jai Bhim and Mohanlal's Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham enter Oscars 2022 raceTwo Indian films--Suriya-starrer Jai Bhim and Mohanlal's Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham--have officially been included in the long list of films eligible for the Oscars 2022. On Thursday night, the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences, which conducts the Academy Awards (also known as the Oscars), released the list of 276 films eligible for the awards this year. Read more…Shehnaaz Gill looks oh-so-gorgeous in yellow lehenga set: Check out viral pics hereActor and singer Shehnaaz Gill made Indian ethnic wear look oh-so-stunning with her latest pictures from a breathtaking photoshoot. The star took to Instagram to post several photos of herself serving major bridesmaid fashion goals in a beautiful yellow lehenga set. It is a perfect look for attending your best friend's Mehendi or haldi function and making heads turn during the festivities. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-interact-with-dms-of-various-districts-and-all-the-latest-news-101642819949200.html
22-01-2022||India||PM Modi to interact with DMs of various districts today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with various district magistrates on Saturday to take their direct feedback on the progress and status of implementation of various government schemes and programmes, his office has announced. The meeting will be held via video conferencing at around 11am, the PMO said in a statement.The interaction is called to review the performance and ascertain the challenges that are being faced by the local officials, according to the release.It is also aimed at achieving saturation of various schemes by various departments in the districts in mission mode, in convergence with all stakeholders, the PMO stated.The central government has continuously taken several steps to overcome the asymmetry in growth and development across the country under the leadership of PM Modi, the PMO also said. "The meeting is in line with the same commitment of the Centre towards raising the living standards of all citizens and ensuring inclusive growth for all," it also stated.The meeting comes at a time when the country is battling a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases, in which the number of daily cases has jumped to nearly 3.5 lakh. The last time the daily cases crossed the 3-lakh mark was during the second wave of the country in April last year.On Friday, the country recorded 3,47,254 new cases of the Covid-19, according to the Union health ministry data. The country also recorded 703 fatalities in a span of 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 488,396. The overall caseload stands at 3,85,66,027.On Friday, the central government said that Covid vaccination, including precaution doses, for individuals having lab test proven coronavirus infection will be deferred by three months after recovery.The suggestion is based on scientific evidence and recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, Union health ministry additional secretary Vikas Sheel said in a letter sent to all states and Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-dms-of-various-districts-today-101642814953310.html
22-01-2022||NA||Breaking News Highlights: Congress leader Bhupinder S Hooda tests positive for Covid-19||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Southern states continue to report high daily Covid casesThe southern states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka continued to report high single-day Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Karnataka logged 42,470 fresh cases, while Tamil Nadu and Kerala reported 30,744 and 45,136 infections, respectively.Congress leader Bhupinder S Hooda tests positive for Covid-19कोविड के शुरूआती लक्षण दिखने पर आज मैंने RT-PCR टेस्ट करवाया, जिसकी रिपोर्ट पॉज़िटिव आयी है।डाक्टरों की सलाह के अनुसार मैंने खुद को घर पर आइसोलेट कर लिया है।पिछले दिनों मेरे सम्पर्क में आए सभी लोगों से अनुरोध है कि कृपया अपना टेस्ट करवाएं और जरूरी सावधानी बरतें।Congress leader Bhupinder S Hooda took to Twitter on Saturday to inform that he has tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He added that he has isolated himself at his home as per the directions of his doctor.TMC released second list of seven candidates for Goa polls 2022TMC releases the second list of candidates for the upcoming #GoaElections2022 pic.twitter.com/UxwQ5eu7rXMamata Banerjee-led the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday released its second list of seven candidates for the forthcoming Goa assembly elections.Mumbai witnesses further decline in its Covid tally with 3,568 cases#CoronavirusUpdates22nd January, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/ZYsuR1fuftMumbai on Saturday logged as many as 3,568 new Covid-19 cases, which is a further drop from Friday's 5,008 infections, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data.Delhi's Covid tally rises slightly with 11,486 casesDelhi's Covid tally rises slightly with 11,486 cases, while the case positivity reduces further to 16.36%. New deaths also increased marginally after 45 people succumbed to the virus as opposed to 38 on Friday.SP leader Azam Khan moves SC seeking interim bail to campaign for UP assembly polls 2022Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan moves Supreme Court, seeking interim bail to campaign in forthcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. He remains lodged at the Sitapur jail with multiple cases against him, according to ANI.Employment most important issue in upcoming polls: SidhuCongress Punjab chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday said that employment is the “most important issue” for the Congress party in the upcoming assembly elections. “We will create skill-oriented entrepreneurship in the state and connect it to sports,” he told ANI.AAP released sixth list of candidates for Goa assembly polls 2022Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) releases sixth list of candidates for #GoaElections2022 pic.twitter.com/bfct95Oi6hThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday released the sixth list of candidates for Goa assembly elections.Delhi records wettest January in 27 years on SaturdayDelhi on Saturday recorded the wettest January in 27 years. Furthermore, with 14.7 degrees Celsius maximum temperature, the national capital recorded the lowest maximum day temperature of the season.Election Commission extends ban on physical rallies, roadshows till January 31The Election Commission of India (ECI) has extended the ban on physical rallies and roadshows in all poll-bound states till January 31 in wake of the Covid-19 situation in the country.Bail plea of Bulli Bai app case accused Vishal Jha rejectedCourt while passing the order said that the allegations against the applicant are grave in nature as it is a direct onslaught upon the dignity and modesty of the women of a particular community.Session court in Patiala dismisses anticipatory bail petition of Bulli Bai app case accused Vishal Sudhirkumar Jha.Kerala HC restrains actor Dileep's arrest till Jan 27Kerala high court on Saturday passed an interim order in which it restrained actor Dileep's arrest till January 27. However, the court has directed the actor to appear before the investigation team for the next three days. The order was passed after a day long hearing. Notably, probe is underway against Dileep in actress assault case from 2017.Fire breaks out at Bengal's thermocol factory, 3 tenders at spotWest Bengal | Massive fire breaks out in a thermocol factory in the Rajapur area of Domjur police station in Howrah. 3 fire tenders have reached the spotDetails awaited pic.twitter.com/tId0JD9mwnA fire has broken out at a thermocol factory in the Rajapur area of Domjur police station in West Bengal's Howrah district, according to ANI, As many as three fire tenders have reached the spot.Myanmar junta sentences deposed leader Suu Kyi's lawmaker to deathA military court in Myanmar on Saturday sentenced Phyo Zeyar Thaw, a lawmaker from Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) party to death, according to a report by Al-Jazeera.Schools won't reopen in Pune for next week: Maha Dy CM PawarMaharashtra deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday that over 16,000 Covid-19 cases were reported in the city on Friday, thus the administration has decided not to reopen schools in the district for the next one week. “Covid numbers are not likely to come down in Pune, for at least the next eight days,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Accused in Clubhouse chat case remanded to police custody till Jan 24All three accused in Clubhouse chat case Akash Suyal, 19, Jaishnav Kakkar, 21 and Yash Parashar, 22 have been remanded to police custody till January 24, cyber police officials said. They were arrested from Haryana on Friday for making inappropriate and abusive remarks against Muslim women on Clubhouse, audio chat application. The accused men were produced before the Bandra holiday court on Saturday.PM Modi announces ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each for kin of those who died in Mumbai fire incidentPrime Minister Narendra Modi has announced ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF for the families of those who died in Mumbai's Kamala Building fire incident, according to a statement by the PMO. “The injured would be given ₹50,000 each,” the statement added.Maharashtra govt to give ₹5 lakh compensation to families of Kamala Building fire incident• Govt will give ₹5L compensation to families of those citizens who lost their lives in this unfortunate fire.• There were reports about 2 hospitals refusing treatment, however both hospitals informed me that they have admitted & treated some of those injured in this fire.Maharashtra government to give ₹5 lakh compensation to families of those who lost their lives in the Mumbai high rise fire incident, Aaditya Thackeray announces on Twitter.Amit Shah launches district-level Good Governance Index for Jammu and KashmirUnion Home Minister Amit Shah virtually launches the District Good Governance Index (DGGI) in Jammu and Kashmir.First part of $200 mln US defence aid arrives in UkraineThe first shipment of the United States' $200 million security support package for Ukraine arrived in Kyiv, the US Embassy said on Saturday.Akhilesh Yadav to fight UP polls from Karhal, confirms SP general secretarySamajwadi Party chief national general secretary Ramgopal Yadav at Akhilesh Yadav's press conference that just began announced: "I am making a formal official announcement now. Our national president Akhilesh Yadav will contest the Karhal assembly constituency in Mainpuri..and he will win with massive mandate on the seat."UP polls: Mayawati releases second list of candidates, announces new sloganBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati released the second list of 51 candidates her party will field in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Read MoreOver 10 people injured in 6.4 magnitude earthquake in JapanOver 10 people were injured as a result of a powerful 6.4 magnitude earthquake that hit southwestern and western Japan, media reported on Saturday.Govt has identified 122 districts lagging on 1-2  parameters: PM ModiGovernment has identified 122 districts in 22 states lagging on just one or two parameters; they should take it as challenge to address that, says PM Modi. ‘Ensure time-bound delivery of govt benefits to every citizen': PM Modi to DMsThe Prime Minister asks district magistrates to make plans for taking various government benefits to every citizen in their districts in time-bound manner. Mumbai building fire: Congress' Rahul Gandhi  asks party workers help victimsThe tragic news of fire in a Mumbai high rise is disturbing. My condolences to the family of those who’ve lost their lives.Wishing a speedy recovery to the injured. I appeal to Congress workers to be of every possible assistance, writes Rahul Gandhi on Facebook.‘Evaluate challenges': PM Modi in virtual meeting with DMsEvery district needs to learn from success of others and also evaluate their challenges, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in meeting with district magistrates. Covid-hit Gujarat clamps night curfew in 17 towns: What's allowed, what's notThe Gujarat government has announced night curfew in 17 more towns and extended its implementation in eight metro cities till January 26. The decision was announced by chief minister Bhupendra Patel on Friday taken to keep the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in check. Read More Prosenjit Chatterjee tests negative for Covid-19Bengali film superstar Prosenjit Chatterjee on Saturday announced that he has tested negative for Covid-19.UP election: After major hint on Congress CM face, a clarification from Priyanka GandhiAfter dropping a major hint on Congress’ chief ministerial candidate for Uttar Pradesh, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday clarified that she never said she was the CM face for the upcoming assembly elections. Read MoreMumbai building fire: Death toll rises to 6The death toll in Mumbai fire incident rises to six, reports ANI qouting  Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Quad summit announced, to be held after Australian elections in MayWith US President Joe Biden accepting Japanese Prime Minister Kishida Fumio’s invitation to visit Tokyo in the first half of 2022 on Friday, the Quad summit is expected to take place in May with free and open Indo-Pacific, Covid-19 response, climate, clean energy, and infrastructure on the agenda. The last Quad summit was held on September 24, 2021, in Washington. Read MoreJanata Dal (Secular) chief HD Deve Gowda test positive for Covid-19Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) president HD Deve Gowda tested positive for Covid-19. He has no symptoms and his health is stable, says his office in a statement. Assam govt issued a new SOP for Republic Day celebration in the state The Assam government on Saturday issued an SOP for Republic Day amid Covid-19 surge. As per the order, a total of 1,000 people will be allowed to attend the programme at state level and 500 at the district level. Pre and post Republic Day celebration to be avoid, reads the SOP.Can you get infected with Omicron twice? White House medical adviser answersTop US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci on Friday said it is extremely unlikely for people to get re-infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus for at least several months. Read More2 dies, 15 injured in Mumbai building fireTwo persons lost their lives and and 15 others are injured  in a fire incident in Mumbai. “It's an unfortunate incident," ANI qouted Maharashtra BJP president and MLA, Mangal Prabhat Lodha, as saying. India reports 3,37,704 new Covid cases, 488 deaths in 24 hours; active cases over 2.1 millionIndia has reported 3,37,704 new Covid cases and 488 deaths in 24 hours. The active cases over 2.1 million, according to the Union health ministry's data. Fire breaks out in a 20-storeys- building near MumbaiTwo people were injured in a major (level 3) fire at Kamala Building, in Nana Chowk near Gowalia tank. Fire on 18th floor of ground+20 storey building.Fire was reported at 7.28 am on Saturday, and declared level 3 at 8.10am. Thirteen fire engines, 7 jumbo tankers on the spot.The injured have been sent to Bhatia hospital, and the condition is awaited.AG clears contempt action against NarsinghanandAttorney general of India KK Venugopal has granted consent to initiate contempt proceedings against controversial Hindu priest Yati Narsinghanand over his remarks made against the Supreme Court in an interview last week. Read MoreUP polls: Amit Shah to hold door-to-door campaign in Kairana todayTo give a boost to Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) campaign in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Union home minister Amit Shah will take part in meetings, dialogues and contact programs on Saturday, along with party chief Jagat Prakash Nadda, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh and other leaders. Read MoreChirag's party writes to Bihar guv for president's rule to prevent hooch tragedyLok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) chief Chirag Paswan on Friday said the party has written to Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan to recommend the president’s rule in the state to prevent deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor. Read More Political rallies in UP: ECI to take a decision todayThe Election Commission of India (ECI) will review the Covid situation in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Saturday to take a decision over the ban imposed on political rallies, road shows and padyatras in view of the Covid surge. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-22-2022-101642813199446.html
22-01-2022||India||Chirag's party writes to Bihar governor for president's rule to prevent hooch tragedy||Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) chief Chirag Paswan on Friday said the party has written to Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan to recommend the president’s rule in the state to prevent deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor. Bihar, a state with stringent prohibition law against the sale and consumption of alcohol, frequently witnesses deaths resulting from the consumption of illicit liquor. Bihar’s Saran district reported 15 deaths this week in alleged hooch tragedies.“We have written to the governor to recommend the president's rule in Bihar in order to stop more deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor,” news agency ANI quoted Chirag Paswan as saying.Pawar, a bitter critic of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, however, recently supported the prohibition drive even as some partners of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) demanded a review of the liquor ban. Former Bihar chief minister and HAM-S president Jitan Ram Manjhi questioned the alcohol ban in Bihar, requesting the chief minister to rethink the implementation of the prohibition laws."The chief minister should rethink the implementation of prohibition. Only poor people are being caught and harassed. Those who are involved in the illegal liquor trade racket are not being arrested. I have a difference of opinion with Nitish ji on this issue. 70 % of the people who are being caught are poor,” Manjhi had said.Saran hooch tragedy: Toll climbs to 15, SHO suspendedNitish Kumar banned the sale of liquor in the state and criminalised its consumption in 2016. The government has been facing criticism over the frequent hooch tragedies and mounting legal cases and huge pendency. HT reported that the government is now considering relaxing some of the stringent provisions to provide relief for first-time offenders.The excise and prohibition department has also initiated an exercise to conduct a social audit of the impact of the liquor ban on the lives of women and people in general. The survey will be undertaken by the panchayati raj chair at Chanakya Law University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirags-party-writes-to-bihar-governor-for-president-s-rule-to-prevent-hooch-tragedy-101642812690161.html
22-01-2022||India||Covid-19 vaccination, including precaution shots, to be delayed by 3 months post recovery: Govt||The Centre Friday said that Covid vaccination, including precaution doses, for individuals having lab test proven coronavirus infection will be deferred by three months after recovery.In a letter to all states and union territories, Union Health Ministry Additional Secretary Vikas Sheel said that requests have been received from various quarters for guidance in regard to the administration of precaution dose to the eligible persons having Covid illness."Please note that: -In case of individuals having lab test proven SARS-2 COVID-19 illness, all Covid vaccination including Precaution dose to be deferred by 3 months after recovery," he said."I request you to kindly direct the concerned officials to take note," Sheel said in the letter.The suggestion is based on scientific evidence and recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, he said.Covid-19 vaccination of adolescents aged 15 to 18 years started from January 3, and the administration of precaution dose for Health Care Workers (HCWS), Front Line Workers (FLWs) and persons aged 60 years and above with co-morbidities has started from January 10.The prioritisation and sequencing of this precaution dose is based on the completion of nine months i.e. 39 weeks from the date of administration of the 2nd dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-including-precaution-shots-to-be-delayed-by-3-months-post-recovery-govt-101642808590555.html
22-01-2022||India||BJP alleges conversion bid after TN girl dies by suicide||The Thirukattupalli police  on Friday said they have arrested the warden of a missionary school hostel   in connection with the suicide of a Class 12 girl, with the BJP alleging that the girl was harassed because she refused to convert to Christianity. The police, however, maintained that they haven’t reached any conclusion and were still carrying out an investigation.The 17-year-old died on Wednesday after hospitalisation.  According to the FIR, the warden allegedly forced the student to clean the hostel rooms. A purported video of the girl has gone viral in which she indicated that she might have been harassed by the hostel staff because her parents refused to convert her. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video.“As of now, we cannot consider that video as a dying declaration,” Thanjavur’s superintendent of police, Ravali Priya Gandhpueni, said, adding that the “the initial statement of the girl’s parents did not have any angle of conversion.”TN’s BJP chief K Annamalai, however, said the police are trying  to change the narrative. “There is a videographed confession statement of the girl. How did the SP come to the conclusion that it’s fake?”Help is just a call away:Snehi - 011 65978181Sumaitri - 011 23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-alleges-conversion-bid-after-tn-girl-dies-by-suicide-101642804919225.html
22-01-2022||India||SC tells Supertech to refund Emerald Court homebuyers||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered real estate firm Supertech to refund the money collected from homebuyers for its 40-storey twin towers in Noida’s Emerald Court project by February 28. The towers were declared illegal and ordered to be demolished by the Supreme Court on August 28 last year.Close to 18 homebuyers filed contempt petitions in the Supreme Court alleging inaction by the real estate developer that had to refund the payments made by buyers, along with 12% interest.Earlier this month, the court took serious exception to the delay and threatened to send its directors to jail.In its order passed on Friday, a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Bela M Trivedi said, “In our view, the refund due and payable arises from the judgment of this Court. At this stage when the court is exercising contempt jurisdiction, the solution has to be consistent with the tenor of judgment to enable refund with interest.”To reconcile the difference in amounts of final payment, as calculated separately by Supertech and the homebuyers, the court took the assistance of advocate Gaurav Agrawal, who assisted it as amicus curiae and worked out the sum payable to each of the contempt petitioners after deducting the amount already paid.The bench accepted the calculations made by Agrawal for 12 contempt petitioners and disposed the matter with a direction asking Supertech to refund the said amount as per the computation made by Agrawal on or before February 28.Almost 252 homebuyers were awaiting refunds after the court ordered demolition of the towers last year.The demolition process has also been finalised and this issue is being separately monitored by the top court.Advocate Abraham C Mathews who appeared for some of the homebuyers urged the court that the sums payable by Supertech were in the average range of ₹30 to ₹60 lakh.The two towers facing demolition (Apex and Ceyane) have 915 flats of which 633 were booked. Of them, only 252 flat buyers had to be paid refunds as 133 homebuyers chose to re-invest in other Supertech projects and 248 took an early refund.The court told Supertech that deadline for refunds applied equally to those homebuyers who have not filed contempt petitions.The bench said, “Homebuyers entitled to receipt of compensatory payment should not be compelled to move contempt proceedings.” However, it clarified that payments towards refund, if already paid, shall be considered while making the balance amount to homebuyers.Senior advocate S Ganesh who appeared for Supertech assured the court that necessary steps will be taken within a week to ensure the refund as directed. He said that if bank details of buyers are known, the same could be electronically transferred.Some homebuyers complained to the court that tax was being deducted at source (TDS) by Supertech before releasing the money to homebuyers. Advocate Sumit Agrawal appearing for a group of homebuyers said, “The interest on the principal amount is in the nature of compensation (not income).” Ganesh informed the court that the company cannot afford to be in default during tax assessment and any exemption in this regard must come from the court.The bench refused to pass any order saying, “It is not a live issue before us. Even the income tax department is not part of these proceedings. At best we have said it is compensatory interest.”Ganesh informed the court that in the event of demolition of the towers, the court should nudge the Noida Authority to return the ₹25 crore that the company deposited while purchasing extra FAR (the floor area ratio) for constructing the towers. “We have given an application to the Noida authority seeking a refund as there is no usage of FAR. But they are sitting on our application,” he said.The court told Supertech that such a matter cannot be raised in a contempt plea.In a lighter vein, the bench remarked, “You need not to be protected from Noida (Authority). They were with you all along.” In its judgment, the Court noted the collusion between Supertech and Noida officials which led to the construction of the two towers in violation of the National Building Code 2005, which mandates a minimum distance of 16 metres between two residential towers.The order to demolish the two Supertech towers was first issued by the Allahabad high court in 2014 on a plea filed by the Emerald Court owners’ association who said that while purchasing their flats, what was shown as green area was now sought to be converted into residential towers, amounting to breach of trust by the developer. Supertech approached the apex court challenging the high court decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-supertech-to-refund-emerald-court-homebuyers-101642802078141.html
22-01-2022||India||‘You are serving her cause’: Supreme Court’s advice on plea against Kangana Ranaut||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday refused to order clubbing of all criminal cases pending against actor Kangana Ranaut over her offensive social media posts against the Sikh community.Stating that “we respect the beliefs and sensitivities of the religious community”, a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Bela M Trivedi said, “For every criminal wrong, there is a remedy under criminal law. We should be circumspect in jumping in under Article 32 which gives us wide powers. The wider the power is, the greater the responsibility.”The court was hearing a petition filed by Mumbai-based lawyer Sardar Charanjit Singh Chanderpal who vented his anger over the tweets by Kangana which, he said, sought to portray Sikhs as “Khalistanis” for taking part in the stir against the now-repealed farm laws.“How can a person go on and on ranting against a community. Can a person be permitted to be so reckless that she says that we should adopt Indira Gandhi (former Prime Minister) as our guru as she crushed us like mosquitoes,” Charanjit said.The bench said, “The more you publicize, the more you cause damage to yourself. You are serving her cause by publicizing her statements….One way to deal with it is to ignore, that we are not advising you. You have a remedy under law.”The petitioner, who appeared in person, told the court that he has already instituted a complaint against the actor in a lower court and filed an application to oppose her petition in the Bombay high court for quashing one of the cases lodged against her. He informed the court that other cases have also been lodged against Kangana Ranaut in other states which he was seeking to transfer to Khar police station in Mumbai.The bench refrained from expressing any opinion on clubbing of FIRs as the petitioner chose to withdraw this prayer. However, the court observed, “Rest assured, we do not subscribe to these statements. You can withdraw this petition with permission to pursue your legal remedies…We have tread with great caution on the tweets (by Ranaut) as that is still a matter of investigation.”There is a case registered against Kangana Ranaut in Mumbai’s Khar police station accusing her of outraging religious feeling feelings of Sikhs punishable under section 295A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Separate FIRs have also been registered by Maninder Singh Sirsa, the president of Delhi Gurdwara Management Committee (DGMC), Amarjeet Singh Sandhu of Dadar’s Shri Guru Singh Sabha Gurudwara, and Jaspal Singh Siddhu, the president of the Supreme Council Navi Mumbai Gurudwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-are-serving-her-cause-supreme-court-s-advice-on-plea-against-kangana-ranaut-101642798419495.html
22-01-2022||India||9 Silger protesters on way to Raipur placed in isolation after 4 test +ve: Cops||RAIPUR: Nine tribals, part of a continuing protest in Silger village over an alleged fake encounter last year, were ‘detained’ in Chhattisgarh’s Kondagaon district on Thursday when they were on their way to Raipur to detail their grievances to the governor, rights activists said. The allegation has been rebutted by the police which insists they were only questioned for violating Covid-19 protocol and placed under isolation after four of them tested positive for Covid-19 infection.Police said that the nine were neither detained nor arrested.The Silger protest started around eight months back, on May 12, after the establishment of a camp in Mokur which comes under Silger village Panchayat (Sukma district), on May 10. Later, on May 17, security forces allegedly opened fire on protestors in which three protestors were killed. Later, one more protestor succumbed to injuries in the firing. “At few places in Bastar range for the last few months, protests and demonstrations are being conducted under various banners. Considering the spike in Covid-19 cases since the first week of January 2022, all these leaders and convenors of the protests have been asked to disperse as section 144 CrPC has been invoked. But they were ignoring all the safety protocols and going ahead with their activities which are highly detrimental to public health and lives of thousands of innocent villagers,” said Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P. Police said that nine Silger protestors were brought to record their statements when four of them were found to be Covid-19 positive. “Based on the ground reports, notices were issued to the organisers of such rallies and protests to give an explanation in this regard. While nine people belonging to one such group were brought for recording their statement, four tested Covid positive. All those four Covid positive persons along with five other associates, who were in primary contacts, have been kept in an isolation centre as per the prescribed protocol,” Sunderaj said adding that they haven’t been arrested nor kept in detention.Their family members are being informed about the situation. Once they are out of the isolation period, their statements will be recorded with regard to violation of section 144 CrPC, he added.Rights activists raised questions over the police action against the tribals.“Why was the team of activists taken out of the bus at Kondagaon while all the other passengers in that bus, as well as other buses, were allowed to proceed to Raipur? Why was information about them not shared with others who were asking about their welfare on Thursday? All of us were frantically trying to find out how they were, who had stopped them and why but the district police chief and additional superintendent of police (ASP) Kondagaon were not receiving calls or replying to written queries over WhatsApp. Late at night on January 20, the Kondagaon collector too said he had no knowledge about the incident even though it was nearly 24 hours since they were picked up. If there was no malafide, why the secrecy?,” said Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist working in Bastar. “Such a paternalistic attitude is offensive and irresponsible. Does the state really think that it can stop citizens from exercising their democratic right to dissent in this manner? Covid is being used as a weapon even in the third wave in Bastar,” she added.
22-01-2022||India||‘One Modi cannot change a country, need more icons like him’: Himanta Biswa Sarma||SILCHAR: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to uplift our nation but he is an individual at the end of the day. One Modi cannot change the entire nation and we need to look for more icons like him to become the world’s best country,” said Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma in his address to students of Assam University in Silchar on Friday.Addressing the students at an event to mark the 29th foundation day of Assam University, Silchar, Himanta Biswa Sarma was sharply critical of India’s education policy in the decades after Independence, saying it was too influenced by Western culture and made students selfish.“We are the oldest living civilisation… But post-Independence, our country adopted policies influenced by western culture. Like the west, our society lost its soul and selfless children became selfish individuals after completing education.”Sarma continued. “India’s old Gurukul education system used to emphasise character-building of students and the children used to become better individuals after finishing education. We need that kind of education system and the present central government is making new education policy based on this idea,” he said.Himanta Biswa Sarma also appealed to students to become entrepreneurs and explore new ideas to increase the overall productiveness of Assam. “Assam is dependent on other states for basic requirements. Unless we export more than what we consume, Assam cannot become a powerful state such as Gujarat and Rajasthan. Students should adopt a mindset to become an employer rather than looking for job after finishing studies,” he said.Sarma announced a grant of ₹25 crore for the university and asked the institute to prepare a list of requirements and send it to him soon. Assam University vice-chancellor Professor Dilip Chandra Nath and MP Rajdeep Roy also said that the country’s new education policy will be influenced by India’s old Gurukul education system.Rajdeep Roy said, “Galileo was criticised when he claimed that earth revolves around the sun. But saints in India worshipped Nava Graha (nine planets) and the sun many thousands of years back. This shows how advanced they were. Our education system should carry the legacy of our glorious civilisation.”Himanta Biswa Sarma, accompanied by Silchar MP and other ministers, visited Silchar Medical College and Hospitals (SMCH) before going to Assam University. Sarma inaugurated a Cathlab in the cardiology department of the hospital, a first in Barak Valley part of Assam.A hostel for residential doctors was also inaugurated at the premises of SMCH where Himanta Biswa Sarma interacted with the media. On a question about BJP’s preparations for Manipur assembly elections, Sarma said that he is now chief minister of Assam and it won’t be easy for him to go there frequently.“It was different in past because I was more independent. Now I am the chief minister of Assam and I have to follow some protocol. Northeast Democratic Alliance (NEDA) is active and we have selected Assam minister Ashok Singhal to look after Manipur election on behalf of NEDA,” he said.Sarma also announced a greenfield airport in the Cachar district. It’ll be made at Dalu tea garden under Udharbond assembly constituency in Cachar. He also expressed concern about repeated firing incidents along the Assam-Manipur border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-modi-cannot-change-a-country-need-more-icons-like-him-himanta-biswa-sarma-101642796319014.html
22-01-2022||India||Farmland in Odisha’s Sambalpur contaminated by breach in slurry pond||Bhubaneswar: Several acres of farmland near an integrated steel plant in the western Odisha district of Sambalpur were submerged in iron ore slurry after the tailing pond wall was breached on Thursday evening, locals said.No loss of life has been reported so far but a security guard is missing. Officials said farmland at Banjhiberana village next to the 2.5 MTPA steel plant of JSW Bhushan Power and Steel Limited at Thelkoloi area of Sambalpur district came under several inches of sludge containing iron ore slurry due to the breach.Rengali tehsildar Damayanti Sahoo who visited the spot said she could see at least 20-30 acres of farmland submerged under the iron ore slurry while two ponds were contaminated.“In one of the ponds, I could see dead fishes floating. Tomorrow, we will do a thorough survey of the damage,” said Sahoo.A company official said the iron slurry generated from beneficiation plant is pumped to the pond from where further disposal and waste recovery is carried out.“But due to breach of the wall of the pond, thick low-grade Iron ore slurry spread into the compound of tailing pond and further to some adjacent land. As of now, the slurry discharged from the pond is under control and no more discharge of slurry is taking place. For better handling of slurry, a project is being carried out to install a paste thickener to reduce the volume of slurry,” the official said.Soon after the mishap, heavy machinery was pressed into service to remove the collapsed boundary wall of the company. Workers were trying to stop the flow of water and repair the wall.A resident of Banjhiberena village said the crop in his field was completely damaged. “The farmland has been totally contaminated. I don’t know how I can grow another crop,” the villager said.A JSW official who inspected the site said the company will hold discussions with villagers and compensate those who suffer losses.Officials at the regional office of the state pollution control board have not commented on the slurry pond breach.The breach in the slurry pond comes in the wake of a similar breach in the fly ash dyke of Reliance’s Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project in Singrauli, Madhya Pradesh in April 2020 that left two people dead.The Sambalpur-based steel plant, initially promoted by Sanjay Singal, was acquired by Sajjan Jindal-led JSW Steel Ltd in March last year after its principal lender, State Bank of India, filed a case of insolvency before National Company Law Tribunal. JSW, which paid Rs19,350 crore to BPSL’s lenders, has renamed the company JSW Bhushan Power and Steel Limited.In October last year, residents of Thelkoloi village staged a demonstration protesting the alleged dumping of fly ash in open areas by the company. The villagers complained that the ash was causing respiratory problems and irritation in the eye, forcing the villagers to stay indoors. Besides, drinking water sources are also getting contaminated due to fly ash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmland-in-odisha-s-sambalpur-contaminated-by-breach-in-slurry-pond-101642794038816.html
22-01-2022||India||Pregnant rape victim dies by suicide in Tamil Nadu||A 16-year-old tribal girl, who was allegedly raped by her neighbour, died by suicide after she found that she was pregnant, Tamil Nadu Police said on Friday.While the accused was arrested, the principal of the school (established under the Union ministry of tribal affairs) where the girl studied, and the hostel warden were also held for failing to report the crime, they added. Providing details, police said the girl claimed that she was repeatedly raped by her neighbour in her village in Tiruvannamalai district last year when she was at home due to the Covid-induced restrictions. “After the government lifted the restrictions, the girl returned to the residential school and on December 22, she fainted in the campus. She was taken to a nearby hospital where she and the warden were informed about her pregnancy. The warden informed the headmaster who in return summoned the child’s parents. They asked them to take her home but did not reveal her condition,” a senior police officer in Tiruvannamalai said, preferring anonymity.After her parents brought her home, the child attempted suicide on January 7. Her parents rushed her to Tiruvannamalai government hospital where doctors informed them about her pregnancy, the officer said. “She was in the hospital for more than 10 days and was unconscious most of the time,” the officer said.When she regained consciousness, she revealed that she was repeatedly raped by her neighbour and sought to end her life after she became pregnant. The girl died during treatment on January 18, the officer said.On the basis of the girl’s statement, her neigbour, the school headmaster and the warden were arrested under sections 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the POCSO Act, 2012, section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act 1989 on January 17, police said. The accused were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody, they added.“The accused neighbour claimed he was in a relationship with the girl. We are yet to establish if the relationship was consensual,” another investigating officer said. “The girl was almost at the end of her second trimester... She also tested positive for Covid-19 and was on ventilator support,” the officer added. Thiruvannamalai superintendent of police Allatipalli Pavan Kumar Reddy said a report was sent to the Chengalpattu district tahsildar on January 18 in this regard. It is unclear whether the Union tribal ministry has been informed about the crime. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pregnant-rape-victim-dies-by-suicide-in-tamil-nadu-101642793738114.html
22-01-2022||India||Goa elections: PWD minister steps down, to contest as independent||Goa minister Deepak Prabhu Pauskar on Friday resigned from the state cabinet and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after he was dropped from the party’s list of candidates for the upcoming assembly elections. Pauskar, who defected from the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party to the BJP in 2019, announced that he will contest as an independent from Sanvordem constituency after the ruling party decided to field Ganesh Gaonkar, a former BJP MLA, from the seat.“I have resigned as an MLA and a minister and as a member of the BJP. I have decided to contest as an independent. I had enrolled more than 16,000 members for the BJP from my constituency and more than 60% of them have now resigned along with me. I will work to be re-elected as an independent,” he said. The BJP on Thursday named 34 candidates for the upcoming assembly elections but dropped one sitting lawmaker and two ministers from the list. The party also left out the son of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, Utpal Parrikar, and nominated nine of the 15 former Congress and MGP lawmakers who have defected to the ruling party since 2017. Pauskar, a one-time MLA, was made minister of public works department in 2019 after party leader Sudin Dhavalikar was evicted from the state cabinet. He was, however, accused by his own party MLAs of large-scale corruption and favouritism in selection of candidates during recruitment for the department in December last year. While the recruitment process was halted by the state government, a three-member committee of officers was also set up to probe the allegations.Besides Pauskar, former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar also quit the party and announced he would contest as an independent from Mandrem constituency he represented between 1999 and 2017, after the BJP fielded Dayanand Sopte, who shifted from the Congress in 2018 in the constituency. “I will give up my responsibilities and roles in the party and contest as an independent. I have a feeling that I will be the people’s candidate this time. The current candidate has been able to achieve very little and is facing anti-incumbency,” Parsekar said. “Within the next two days, I will announce my candidature,” Parsekar added.The party is also facing dissent in Canacona where deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes, who defected from the Congress along with nine other MLAs in 2019, was denied a ticket as the BJP decided to field former MLA Ramesh Tawadkar from the seat. Fernandes on Friday evening announced he would contest as an independent. Likewise, Savitri Kavlekar, wife of deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, also quit the party against its decision to deny her a ticket fromSanguem constituency. She sought to know why she was denied a ticket when the same was given to health Minister Vishwajit Rane’s wife, Divya, andPanaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate’s wife and revenue minister, Jennifer, for the polls. “It is unfortunate that some are leaving the party after being denied the tickets,” party leader Narendra Sawaikar said. Reacting to the developments, Congress leader and Panaji candidate Elvis Gomes said: “It is a symptom of how the BJP has corrupted from within and is no longer the same party that it was once. Ideologues are quitting the party due to the toxic environment. It is an internal matter for the BJP and will have no bearing on the Congress prospects.” “The BJP has chosen candidates on the basis of winnability and in the bargain, several candidates, many of whom are long time members of the party, have been left out and sidelined by the party. They are being egged on by their supporters to contest as independents much of this advice is misguided,” a former MLA, who did not wished to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-pwd-minister-steps-down-to-contest-as-independent-101642793080156.html
22-01-2022||India||In letter to PM Modi on IAS cadre rule change, Ashok Gehlot quotes Sardar Patel||JAIPUR: Two Congress chief ministers, Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot and Chhattisgarh’s Bhupesh Baghel, on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to scrap the proposed change to the cadre rules for the three All India Services, arguing that the proposed amendments will hurt the spirit of cooperative federalism, create uncertainties for officials and impact their ability to discharge their duties impartially, particularly during elections.The letters by chief ministers comes a day after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee put out her second letter to PM Narendra Modi that described a new version of the proposed amendments even “more draconian” than the Centre’s initial proposal.First, West Bengal, and now Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, have argued that the proposed amendment will ensure that the Centre can unilaterally requisition services of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers serving in the states without the concurrence of the officer concerned or the state government.हमारे देश के संविधान निर्माताओं ने अखिल भारतीय सेवाओं की संकल्पना जन कल्याण तथा संघवाद की भावना को ध्यान में रखकर की थी। इस संशोधन से लौहपुरूष सरदार वल्लभभाई पटेल द्वारा ‘स्टील फ्रेम ऑफ इंडिया’ बताई गई सेवाएं भविष्य में कमजोर होंगी।2/2Under existing rules, officers of the three All India Service (AIS) - the IAS, Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service officers - are attached to a state (or a group of smaller states) as a cadre where they serve unless they opt to serve in the union government. When they do exercise this option, the state concerned has to concur to their request before they can even be considered for a posting by the Centre.In his letter to PM Modi, Ashok Gehlot said the proposed amendments will violate the constitutional boundaries prescribed for central and state governments, impact the spirit of All India Service officers posted in the state working fearlessly and faithfully, and weaken the AIS, which were described by the country’s first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel as the “steel frame of India’.Gehlot went to quote from Sardar Patel’s speech during the debate on the All India Services in the Constituent Assembly on October 10, 1949, to underline the importance of shielding the officers from uncertainties and pressures. “If you want an efficient All India Service, I would advise you. I request you to give an opportunity to the services to express themselves freely. If you are a premier, it will be your duty to allow your secretary, or chief secretary, or other services under you to express their opinion without fear or favour… Without it, you will not have united India. A good All India Service would be one that has the freedom to speak their mind, which has a sense of security that you can stick to your word, and where their rights and privileges are protected”.माननीय @PMOIndia को पत्र लिखकर अवगत कराया है कि छत्तीसगढ़ सरकार अखिल भारतीय सेवाओं के काडर नियमों में संशोधन का पुरजोर विरोध करती है एवं मांग रखती है कि पूर्वानुसार काडर नियमों को यथावत रखा जाए। pic.twitter.com/Psw6K7IoKeGehlot said after this amendment, the central government will be able to call officers of the All India Service on deputation to the Centre without the consent of the officer concerned or the state government.Bhupesh Baghel, the second chief minister of a Congress-ruled state, echoed the Rajasthan chief minister.“They would be in dilemma while discharging their duties and due to political interference, it will not be possible for them to work impartially, particularly at the time of elections. It may lead to a collapse of the administrative system in states and a situation of instability could be created,” Baghel added, according to news agency Press Trust of India.Apprehending the possibility of misuse of the amended rules in the near future, Baghel said, “There were many instances in the past wherein officers of the All India Services were targeted unnecessarily. There are adequate provisions in the present rules for maintaining a balance and coordination between state governments and Centre.” The Chhattisgarh government strongly opposes any amendments in the existing rules, the CM said.
22-01-2022||India||Delhi court takes note of Raghav Chadha’s defamation complaint||A Delhi court has taken cognisance of a defamation complaint file by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator and co-incharge of party’s Punjab affairs, Raghav Chadha, against a Patiala resident, Saurabh Jain, for allegedly calling him “dalal”, “baiman” and “goonda” in media interviews.On January 19, Metropolitan Magistrate Rishabh Kapoor listed the matter on April 26. In his complaint, Chadha has claimed that Jain has made intentional and deliberate imputations against him on various social media platforms, leveling false and unsubstantiated allegations of corruption and deceit against him.“In view of the submissions made on behalf of the complainant coupled with the material available on record, this court while taking cognizance of the matter deems it appropriate to list the matter for examination of complainant and witnesses. Accordingly, put up for pre-summoning evidence on April 26,” the court said in its order.The complaint, filed through advocate Prashant Manchanda, further said that Jain, a resident of Patiala, “in a premeditated manner with the malevolent schemes to execute and further his vested political designs has deliberately and intentionally made both direct as well as implied false, conceited, frivolous and baseless defamatory imputations against the complainant with a view to tarnish his reputation and impeccable goodwill as well as of other leaders of Aam Aadmi Party”.The complaint also accused Jain of trying “to derail the positive work undertaken by” Chadha and the AAP in Delhi, Punjab and other states “for subserving the interests of the public and the citizenry at large”.It further claimed that the defamatory imputations/publications unleashed by the accused “warrants to be out rightly rejected with the contempt it deserves”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-takes-note-of-raghav-chadha-s-defamation-complaint-against-patiala-resident-101642792058606.html
22-01-2022||India||Karnataka lifts weekend restrictions based on low hospitalisation rate||The Karnataka government on Friday decided to lift the weekend curfew put in place to combat the rising Covid-19 cases but retained other restrictions -- night curfew and 50% occupancy in commercial establishments.“The weekend curfew imposed from Friday 10 pm to Monday 5 am in the state is herewith withdrawn. However, night curfew will continue to be imposed from 10 pm to 5 am in the entire state as per the existing guidelines on all days. This measure will be further reviewed based on number of cases and hospitalisation,” said a state government order released on Friday.State revenue minister R Ashok said the decision was taken based on the low hospitalisation and economic arguments against the curbs. “Weekend curfew has been removed. But if the hospitalisation rate increases above 5%, then these restrictions are likely to return,” he said.Home minister Araga Jnanendra said the government will be forced to bring back stricter restrictions if people do not behave responsibly.The order on weekend curfew came after Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai held a meeting on Friday with experts, cabinet ministers and other senior officials to review all existing restrictions that came into effect just after Christmas last year.“It is reiterated that Pubs/clubs/restaurants/bars/hotels/eating places in hotel etc, will function with 50% of the seating capacity, strictly adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour and entry to such places will be restricted to fully vaccinated persons. Cinema malls/multiplexes/theatres/rangamandiras/auditorium and similar places to operate with 50% of its seating capacity strictly adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour and entry to such places will be restricted to fully vaccinated persons,” the order added.According to Ashok, hospitalisation in the state remains well below 5% of the active caseload even as the case count breached 300,000.Karnataka reported 48,049 new infections in a 24-hour-period, taking the active caseload to over 3.23 lakh, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Bengaluru’s active caseload rose to 2.23 lakhs with nearly 30,000 cases for a second day in a row. The positivity rate was hovering around 20%, data shows.Though there were differing opinions on considering different restrictions for different parts of the state, depending on positivity rate, Ashok said that it was decided to consider Karnataka as a unit and the same rules would apply across the state.Ashok said that as on January 20, there were over 2.93 lakh active cases and around 2.86 lakh were in home isolation.Of the 5,333 people who needed hospitalisation, 340 were in the ICU and 127 needed oxygen, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-lifts-weekend-restrictions-based-on-low-hospitalisation-rate-101642791759012.html
22-01-2022||India||Govt dismisses CoWIN data leak reports; will start probe||Union health ministry on Friday dismissed reports of a data leak from the CoWIN portal that is used to manage the Covid vaccination drive in the country. “There have been several media reports claiming that the data stored in Co-WIN portal has been leaked online. It is clarified that no data has leaked from Co-WIN portal and the entire data of residents is safe and secure on this digital platform,” read a ministry statement. “It is also clarified that while Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will enquire into the substance of the news, prima facie the assertion is not correct, as Co-WIN collects neither the address of the person nor the RT-PCR test results for COVID-19 vaccination,” it added. The health ministry was responding to reports saying personal data of thousands of people in India was leaked from a government server that included their name, mobile number, address and Covid test result, and the information could be accessed through an online search.The leaked data reportedly was put on sale on a website called Raid Forums. A post claimed to have personal data of over 20,000 people. The data on that website shows name, age, gender, mobile number, address, date and result of Covid-19 report of accounts. Cyber Security researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia also tweeted that personally identifiable information (PII) including name and Covid-19 results are made public through a content delivery network (CDN). He said that Google has indexed lakhs of data points from the affected system.“PII including Name, MOB, PAN, Address etc of #Covid19 #RTPCR results & #Cowin data getting public through a Govt CDN. #Google indexed almost 9 Lac public/private #GovtDocuments in search engines. Patient’s data is now listed on #DarkWeb. Need fast deindex,” Rajaharia said in his tweet.The sample document shared on Raid Forums shows that the leaked data was meant for upload on Co-WIN portal. With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-dismisses-cowin-data-leak-reports-will-start-probe-101642791642787.html
22-01-2022||India||NCP MP Amol Kolhe under fire for portraying Godse in movie||Mumbai Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and member of parliament (MP) Amol Kolhe is under fire for portraying Nathuram Godse in an upcoming Hindi movie called ‘Why I killed Gandhi’.Kolhe, the Lok Sabha lawmaker from Shirur, is a popular TV actor, who shot to fame after playing Chhatrapati Shivaji in a TV series, is facing criticism from his own party, as well as allies in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. State housing minister and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad said that Kolhe should not have acted in a movie glorifying Godse.“The movie is all about the glorification of Godse…He should have avoided playing the role in the first place,” Awhad said.The Hindi movie is set to release on OTT platforms on January 30, the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The controversy started after a 2.20-minute trailer of the movie was released on social media. In it, Kolhe can be seen making a statement in a court justifying his decision to assassinate Gandhi.NCP chief Sharad Pawar tried to draw a curtain on the entire controversy and said that playing Godse doesn’t make Kolhe anti-Gandhi. He also said that he doesn’t see it as an attempt to glorify Godse.“Playing a character doesn’t mean that he (Amol Kolhe) can be called anti-Gandhi. The entire country is unhappy, sad and agitated over whatever Godse did. I don’t see it as an attempt to glorify him,” Pawar said, adding that t when Kolhe played the role, he was not a part of NCP.Kolhe joined the party in 2019; the film was made in 2017 (and never had a theatrical release).Awhad wasn’t mollified, though: “Whoever tries to glorify the person who killed Gandhi is our ideological opponent…While playing a role, one has to immerse in the character and ultimately shoot Gandhiji. When you see Richard Attenborough’s Gandhi, then you see the actor living the life of Gandhi. Accepting the role of Godse was a wrong decision.”Clarifying his stand on social media, Kolhe on Thursday said that although the film is being released now, it was shot in 2017. He also urged people to differentiate between ‘reel life’ and ‘real life’.“Sometimes, one comes across roles where you do not agree with the ideology but they challenge you as an artist. Nathuram Godse’s role was one such. I am not a votary of Gandhi’s assassination and never ever tried to glorify Nathuram Godse. As an artist, one must respect the freedom of expression and as a person, the freedom of thought! I hope that people look at this work with an open mind,” Kolhe posted on his Facebook account on Thursday.He also told ABP Majha that in 2017, he was not active in politics. However, Kolhe drew criticism from MVA allies as well. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that there is an attempt going on to glorify Godse and Kolhe must remember that he is a public representative now.“We won’t allow the movie to be released in Maharashtra,” he said on Friday.Opposition leaders sought to know whether Kolhe and NCP accept Godse’s ideology or not. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said, “Amol Kolhe is a good actor and has the right to freedom of expression and play any character. The point here is whether he accepts the ideology of Godse because his party chief opposes Godse’s ideology. Even I don’t accept his (Godse’s) ideology.”
22-01-2022||India||CISF wants airlines to enforce one handbag policy||New Delhi: Citing delays in security clearance and congestion at airports, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has sought instructions to airlines directing them to ensure passengers are only carrying one hand bag. In a letter to the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), CISF inspector general Vijay Prakash has said carrying multiple bags is leading to increased time in security clearance at the airport, which in turn is leading to congestion. “As per BCAS AVSEC Circular Nos. 06/2000 & Lt12000, no passenger should be permitted to carry more than one hand bag other than those items already listed in the circular, including lady’s bag. However, it has been seen that passenger on an average carry 02-03 Nos of hand bags to the screening point. This has led to increased clearance time as well as delays, congestion in PESC [Pre-embarkation security check] point and inconvenience to passengers. It is therefore felt that enforcement of the aforesaid Circulars must be ensured by all stakeholders / airlines,” the letter stated.A senior CISF official who did not want to be named said, “Security clearance is delayed when passengers carry more than one hand bag. This results in congestion and also causes hindrance in security checks. Apart from the 11 items allowed to be carried besides one handbag by the BCAS, we have requested airlines to inform and restrict their passengers to rules.”Another CISF official familiar with the matter said, “Some of the passengers seem to have forgotten the concept of ‘one hand bag’ and this letter is reiteration of what is already the rule. The list of items allowed apart from one hand bag includes readings materials, umbrellas, laptops and other few items that may have an urgent requirement. Earlier, when bag tags were mandatory, passengers could not take more than what is allowed, however, hand bags are no more controlled items and hence passengers have started taking more than allowed.”The official added, “The moment you increase more than one hand bag, you increase the load of the screeners. Carrying more than the allowed number of hand bags puts pressure on the screening system and also causes trouble to passengers as it leads to delay.”CISF asked BCAS to inform airlines to depute staff to guide passengers and verify the number of hand bags before allowing them for security checks. “All airlines may be directed suitably to inform pax [passengers] and to display ’one hand bag rule’ on their tickets / boarding passes very conspicuously,” the letter stated.“Airport operators may be instructed to place hoarding / banner/ board / standees displaying the contents of the ‘One hand bag Rule’ near the the check-in counters, vantage locations before security hold area (SHA) at airports, so that passengers get sensitised and if required, have an option to switch their extra hand bags to registered baggage,” the letter concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisfwants-airlines-to-enforce-one-handbag-policy-101642791398995.html
22-01-2022||India||Bal Puraskar winners to be awarded with digital certificates on January 24||In a first, winners of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar (PMRBP) will receive digital certificates using ‘blockchain technology’ during a virtual ceremony scheduled on Monday. The winners of last year’s Bal Puraskar, who could not get certificates after the ceremony was shifted to online mode due to Covid-19 pandemic, will also receive digital certificates this time.In an official communication sent to all secretaries on Thursday, secretary of Union women and child development (WCD) ministry, Indevar Pandey, said the award ceremony will be held virtually this year as well in view of the surging Covid-19 cases.“On the occasion of National Girl Child Day on 24th January and as a part of the Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, the Prime Minister would interact virtually with the winners of PMRBP 2022. The children along with their parents and respective district magistrates would join the event from their respective district headquarters,” the secretary said in the communication.He added that the government has roped in a blockchain-based system for the transfer of certificates. “During the function, the Prime Minister would give digital certificates to the winners of PMRBP using blockchain technology. The certificates would also be given to the winners of PMRBP 2021, who could not be given the certificates last year due to Covid-19 situation,” the communication added.Last year, 32 children were awarded.The blockchain is an emerging technology that works on the principle of decentralisation. This effectively means that the control is not in the hands of a central agency, but to a distributed network of nodes. This will help in keeping the data safe even if any specific node is compromised. The information in a blockchain is recorded and stored sequentially along with an exact timestamp. The technology is already being used in the financial sector and has been powering currencies like bitcoin.In September last year, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had introduced the blockchain-based system in order to go completely paperless and deliver secure, transparent and tamper-proof result certificates to students. In December, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kanpur also launched a system to award blockchain-based educational degrees in digital form to students.Till 2020, the winners of the PMRBP, under which children in the age group five-18 years are honoured for their exceptional abilities and outstanding achievements, were receiving physical certificates during a ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhawan. The award is given in six fields -- innovation, scholastic achievement, sports, arts and culture, social service, and bravery. Each awardee is conferred with a medal, a cash prize of ₹1 lakh and a certificate.
22-01-2022||India||Supreme Court asks Centre on plan to create Indian Environment Services||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre whether it was planning a dedicated Indian Environment Service in the national bureaucratic set-up, as recommended by a committee headed by former Cabinet secretary TSR Subramanian in 2014.Issuing notice on a petition filed by a lawyer Samar Vijay Singh, a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh said: “A prayer has been made in the petition for creation of an independent Indian Environment Service at the all-India level. The prayer arises from the recommendation of TSR Subramanian Committee. Prima facie it is doubtful if a mandamus (judicial command) can be issued but an enquiry can be made whether the government proposes to act as per the recommendation of the committee.”The petition was argued by senior advocate K Sultan Singh, who pointed out that matters of environment require some level of sensitivity and domain knowledge. “It has been noticed that while commissioning projects at the field level, matters of environment have not been adequate attention,” Singh said.The bench was initially not inclined to entertain the petition. “Should we now take over the governance?” it said when the petitioner opened arguments.But the top court passed the order issuing notices after brief consultation on going through the report and its recommendations.The high-level committee was constituted in August 2014under the chairmanship of Subramanian by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEF & CC) to review environmental laws in the country, and to bring them in line with the current requirements. The report, submitted on November 18, 2014, recorded the fact that India had a strong environmental policy and legislative framework but weak implementation has resulted in environmental governance being criticised by conservation experts and the judiciary.As a step for the future, the committee said, “An Indian Environment Service may be created, as an all-India Service, based on qualifications and other details prescribed by MoEF&CC/ DoPT/ UPSC.” The committee also proposed that necessary institutional framework be created for this purpose.Officers dealing with environment clearances and policies currently come from the all India civil services conducted by the UPSC.The report said, “Current approval systems and monitoring mechanism function in a quasiamateurish manner, leading to sub-optimal management of environmental issues. It is now proposed that a new Indian Environment Service be created, as an All India Service, which will act as an expert group to man positions in this field in the public and quasi-governmental sectors over the next decades.”A parliament standing committee, however, rejected the report as it noted that the three-month period given to the HLC for reviewing six environmental laws was “too short”, and recommended a new committee be constituted.Drawing strength from the Subramanian report, the petition said, “Looking at the current administrative set-up, it can be inferred that the government servants might not be able to spare special time for environmental causes…Seeing the scientific and technical nature of the environment sector, it can be assumed that officers with a background in environmental science can come up with better solutions for numerous issues.”The petition also sought directions from the court to set up an Indian Environmental Service Academy in order to train officers for enforcing environment laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-centre-on-plan-to-create-indian-environment-services-101642791098604.html
22-01-2022||India||EC to take call today on whether to extend ban on election rally||The Election Commission would meet on Saturday to decide whether the ban imposed by it on physical rallies and roadshows to prevent the spread of coronavirus should continue.Announcing dates for elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur on January 8, the poll panel had announced a ban on physical rallies, road and bike shows, and similar campaigning events till January 15.On January 15, the Commission extended the ban until January 22.It had, however, granted a relaxation for the political parties to the extent that indoor meetings of maximum 300 people or 50 per cent of the capacity of the hall, or the prescribed limit set by state disaster management authorities can be held.The poll panel will hold a series of virtual meets on Saturday to seek inputs from the Union Health Ministry, experts, the five poll-bound states and respective state chief electoral officers to arrive at a decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-to-take-call-today-on-whether-to-extend-ban-on-election-rally-101642790921970.html
22-01-2022||India||Lakhimpur Kheri case: 4 farmers charged over killings of BJP workers, driver||Uttar Pradesh Police on Friday filed a charge sheet against four farmers for allegedly murdering a driver and two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers when violence broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 and left eight people dead.This is the second charge sheet filed in the case that shook the country, led to the arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, and caused a logjam in Parliament as Opposition members pushed for the minister’s removal last month.Uttar Pradesh Police on Friday filed a charge sheet against four farmers for allegedly murdering a driver and two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers when violence broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 and left eight people dead.This is the second charge sheet filed in the case that shook the country, led to the arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, and caused a logjam in Parliament as Opposition members pushed for the minister’s removal last month.|#+|Police said in the 1,300-page charge sheet filed in local court, four farmers, who were identified as Gurvinder Singh, Kamaljeet Singh, and Gurpreet Singh and Vichitra Singh were named.“The first three were charged under sections 302 (murder), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147(rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons), 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 325 (causing grievous hurt) 427 (mischief causing damage of property) and 436 (mischief with fire),” said senior public prosecutor SP Yadav.Vichitra Singh was charged under sections 109 (offering bribe), 114 (abettor present when offence committed), 427(mischief) 436 (mischief with fire) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach), added Yadav.Four farmers and a journalist died when an SUV owned by Ajay Mishra ran over farmers from behind in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. In the ensuing violence, three more people — two of whom were Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and one was the driver of the car — were killed.Police officers aware of developments said investigators found direct involvement of the three farmers in the killings of the driver and two BJP workers. The police submitted evidence in form of video footage, mobile phone locations and call detail records. “The charge sheet states that the farmers attacked the driver and BJP workers with sticks and intention to kill them and intentionally set the vehicle on fire,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.After the October 3 violence, two First information Reports (FIR) were filed. One was registered by a farmer, Jagjeet Singh, which named Ashish Mishra and other unidentified people. The second was filed by BJP worker Sumit Jaiswal and mentioned unidentified miscreants. Police identified and arrested seven farmers regarding the second FIR, who were arrested in October. Police said in the investigation, adequate proof was not found against three of them, and they will be released.On December 14, a court in Uttar Pradesh added stringent sections of the IPC and Arms Act, including attempt to murder, to the First Information Report (FIR) after a special investigation team (SIT) said that incident was “well planned” and “deliberate”.On January 3, the SIT filed a 5,000-page charge sheet against Ashish Mishra and 13 others, booking them under charges including murder (302 IPC), criminal conspiracy (120B IPC) and others. The investigators charged Ashish Mishra with attempt to murder and said that he was present at the spot when violence broke out. The minister and his son had maintained that they were not near the spot that day.Yadav said a final report was filed against three farmers -- Ranjeet Singh, Sonu alias Kanwarjeet and Avatar Singh – who were named in the FIR but against whom sufficient evidence was not found.“While the four farmers against whom charge sheet has been filed will remain in jail, release order of the other three has been sent to jail from the court,” informed Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-case-4-farmers-charged-over-killings-of-bjp-workers-driver-101642790920654.html
22-01-2022||India||Can’t reinstate judge who complained of harassment: Madhya Pradesh HC||The Madhya Pradesh high court has declined to reinstate a former woman judicial officer who quit in 2014 alleging sexual harassment by a high court judge in the state, and has told the Supreme Court that an “amicable solution of the matter is not possible”.Following an inquiry in 2017, the high court judge was given a clean chit in the sexual harassment case but the woman judicial officer’s sudden transfer was held to be unjustified, prompting her to seek her job back through a petition in the top court.Submitting its affidavit, the high court administration has maintained that the full court (comprising all judges of the high court on the administrative side) considered the possibility of her reinstatement four times since January 2018, and reached the same decision each time that she cannot be reinstated after resigning from her job voluntarily.The affidavit also said that the woman’s request for transferring her to Rajasthan or Haryana from Madhya Pradesh cannot be accepted since the high court is not agreeable to reinstating her at all.“The proposals and suggestions of the petitioner were not acceptable to the high court and amicable solution of the matter has not been possible. It is submitted that any amicable settlement or solution has not been in the writ petition, and it is prayed that the petition may kindly be finally heard/adjudicated,” stated the response from the high court administration.The reply was filed earlier this week, following the Supreme Court’s appeal last yearto the chief justice and other judges of the high court to consider reinstating the former woman judge on humanitarian grounds, and to also consider her plea to transfer her to Haryana or Rajasthan if it was not possible to give her job back with seniority in Madhya Pradesh.The Supreme Court’s February 2020order came on the former judicial officer’s petition filed in 2018. Her petition cited the report submitted by the inquiry panel constituted by the Rajya Sabha into her accusations of sexual harassment against a high court judge, who has since retired.The inquiry panel was set up in 2015 after 58 members of the Rajya Sabha gave a notice to move a motion to impeach the high court judge.The report by the committee, comprising Supreme Court judge justice R Banumathi (now retired), the then chief justice of the Bombay high court Manjula Chellur, and senior advocate KK Venugopal (now Attorney General), was tabled in the Rajya Sabha in December 2017.The report concluded that the allegations of sexual harassment could not be “proved beyond reasonable doubt”. The panel, however, added that the decision to transfer the woman judge “mid-session” was “not justified’.“Under these circumstances, the complainant probably had no option than to submit her resignation since her elder daughter was pursuing Board XII exam. In these circumstances, we find that the transfer of the complainant to Sidhi has become unbearable for her to continue in service, resulting in her resignation,” the report said.On two or three occasions in the past, the Supreme Court urged the Madhya Pradesh high court to consider her case on humanitarian ground, but all the judges in the high court decided unanimously against reinstating her through full court decisions.On Friday, advocate Arjun Garg appeared for the high court administration and informed a Supreme Court bench, headed by justice L Nageswara Rao, of the latest affidavit. He conveyed the final decision of the high court against reinstating her and pleaded that the bench should hear the case on merits.Senior advocate Indira Jaising represented the former woman judge before the bench, which also included justice BR Gavai.The court, after noting the high court’s stand, fixed the matter for final hearing on January 27.The Supreme Court does not have any administrative control over the high courts, which are also the constitutional courts with exclusive control over services of judicial officers in their respective jurisdiction.Given this limitation, the top court has been requesting the high court judges to consider her case on humanitarian ground. However, with the full court’s indisposition to reinstate the former woman judge, the Supreme Court will have to now examine the petition on its own merit, striking a balance between the limitations of a service matter with the peculiar circumstances that compelled the former woman judge to quit her job.
22-01-2022||India||Centre now allows 6 people to register on one number for Covid vaccination||Six members can now be registered using one mobile number on the CoWIN portal for Covid-19 vaccination up from the current cap of four family members, the government announced on Friday, as it tweaked the IT backbone of its vaccination drive to enable more people to register for vaccinations, and address issues. “In continuation of updates on various utility features of Co-WIN for the beneficiaries, the following features are added in the self-registration portal of CoWIN: a) registration on Co-WIN – Instead of the existing limit of 4 members, now 6 members can be registered using one mobile number on Co-WIN...” the Union health ministry said in a statement. With some registered beneficiaries receiving erroneous messages regarding their vaccination status, the government also has made a provision for revoking vaccination status in the CoWIN system.“A new utility feature has been introduced under ‘raise an issue’ in Co-WIN account through which a beneficiary can revoke the current vaccination status from fully vaccinated to partially vaccinated or unvaccinated and also partially vaccinated to unvaccinated status,” read the health ministry statement.The ministry clarified that the vaccination status can be corrected by the beneficiaries, where in occasional isolated cases, the vaccination certificates have been generated due to inadvertent data entry errors. The changes, however, may reflect only 3-7 days after submitting the online request through the ‘raise an issue’ utility on the portal. Such beneficiaries can get their due vaccine dose, as per the existing standard guidelines, once the new vaccination status is successfully updated in the system.The CoWIN platform was created by upgrading the earlier digital platform used for Universal Immunization Program (UIP) vaccine distribution based on Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system.The government has been making changes at regular intervals to the system to make it easier for the beneficiaries to avail of the facility.“From self-registration, to making changes in personal details, and to be able to download your digital vaccination certificate etc., the system has been modified over a period of time for the ease of beneficiaries; to make the process convenient for them. User feedback has also been important for us as it has helped in making the system better. Initially there were some issues but with time and improvement it is functioning very well,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named.
22-01-2022||India||Mumbai Police arrest three over Clubhouse hate chats||The cyber cell of Mumbai police on Friday arrested three men from Haryana for making objectionable and abusive comments against Muslim women on an audio chat application, Clubhouse, officials said.According to the police, two of the accused - Jaishnav Kakkar (21) and Yash Parashar (22) - were arrested from Faridabad, while the third one, identified as Akash Suyal (19), was nabbed from Karnal. All arrests were made on Thursday night. Parashar is a law student, Kakkar is studying BCom while Suyal has completed Class 12, police said, adding that all three were arrested from their native places in Haryana.Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale confirmed the breakthrough in the Clubhouse case. Police said a complaint was lodged on January 19 by a woman at the Cyber police station, following which a first information report (FIR) was registered. A video of the Clubhouse group’s vulgar and objectionable conversations was shared on various social media platforms.“In her complaint, the woman claimed that the participants of the Clubhouse chats had used objectionable remarks against women. She also complained that her photographs as well as those of her friend were used in the chat room on October 27 and November 27 last year during a discussion about women,” Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime) said.“The three accused are likely to be brought to Mumbai on Saturday on a transit remand. We will produce them before a local court and seek their remand for further investigation,” said Bharambe.A crime branch official said that two chat rooms were created in the Clubhouse app, where participants were making derogatory comments about women and using abusive language. “They also talked about auctioning female body parts,” the official added.Another senior crime branch official said on Friday that a Twitter user by the name of ‘Jaimine’ had published videos of Clubhouse app. Similarly, a video was shared from an Instagram account by the name ‘lotus watch’. These two videos of Clubhouse chat rooms went viral on January 16 and January 19. The moderator of these two groups was using an ID ‘Kira XD’, which was used by Suyal, the official said.Kakkar was known on Clubhouse by account name @jaishnav and Parashar was known as ‘Sher Singh ka Papa’, ‘Biker gang 5’, ‘pardhan@haryana_aala’, the official added.Based on the woman’s complaint, the Cyber police registered a case under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 153 (A) (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc), 195 (A) (threatening a person to give false evidence), 354 (A) (sexual harassment), 354 (D) (stalking), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 500 (defamation) and section 67 of IT Act.The cyber police, through technical investigation, traced the locations of the persons involved in creating the objectionable chatrooms and arrested the accused on Friday. The cyber police said they are also analysing the online activities of the accused.The Delhi police are also looking into the case.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi on Friday said that after successfully making a breakthrough in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case, Mumbai cyber police made another breakthrough and arrested accused in the Clubhouse case.“Kudos @MumbaiPolice, they have got cracking on the Clubhouse chats too and some arrests have been made. Say no to hate. #Clubhouse,” she tweeted.She told HT that people were discussing “how to rape and exploit women, especially Muslim women” on Clubhouse app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-arrest-three-over-clubhouse-hate-chats-101642790618844.html
22-01-2022||India||Eternal flames merge amid political conflict||The eternal flame, Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate was on Friday extinguished after 50 years and merged with the flame at the adjacent National War Memorial (NWM) in an elaborate military ceremony attended by the top brass of the armed forces, amid political finger pointing over the move aimed at creating a single site for paying homage to India’s fallen heroes and conducting all ceremonial functions.The flame at the Amar Jawan Jyoti was lit at India Gate’s arch on January 26, 1972, by the Indira Gandhi government to honour the soldiers who fell in the 1971 war with Pakistan, which ended with the liberation of Bangladesh.India Gate, a British-era monument, was built in the memory of around 90,000 soldiers of the British Indian Army who fell in World War I and the Afghan war. However, only names of 13,218 soldiers, including British men and officers, are inscribed on it, officials said on the condition of anonymity.Air Marshal BR Krishna, the chief of integrated defence staff to the chairman, chiefs of staff committee (CISC), presided over the two ceremonies that involved a tri-service guard of honour and the shifting of the flame from Amar Jawan Jyoti to the sprawling NWM, a monument dedicated to soldiers who fell in post-Independence wars and operations.Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated NWM almost three years ago, on February 25, 2019, and since then, more than 3.1 million people have visited the memorial and paid homage to the country’s fallen heroes whose names are inscribed on its walls. As on date, the names of 26,466 brave warriors are inscribed on the memorial, including the ones who fell in the 1971 war.The decision to shift the eternal flame triggered a political slugfest with the Congress accusing the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government of erasing history and the Centre, in its counter offensive, blaming the Opposition party for spreading misinformation and questioning why it did not build a national war memorial despite being in power for decades.Former servicemen were divided on the matter, with some of them speaking out in favour of the move saying two eternal flames in the same venue did not make sense and it was a wise call to shift the flame to NWM, and some others criticising the decision and seeking its recall.“Some people cannot understand patriotism and sacrifice. It is a matter of great sadness that the immortal flame for our brave soldiers will be extinguished today,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote on Twitter, leading to a flurry of reactions.It is ironic that people who did not construct a national war memorial for seven decades are making a hue and cry when a permanent and fitting tribute is being given to India’s fallen heroes, said a senior official, one of the people cited above.“It was an odd thing to see that the flame at Amar Jawan Jyoti paid homage to the braves of the 1971 war but none of their names are engraved there,” the official added.The controversy surrounding the eternal flame has erupted at a time when the government has started work on an overarching plan to take NWM to the people through a large-scale communication exercise, a move that has been welcomed by former servicemen, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The defence ministry has sought the help of the information and broadcasting ministry for the elaborate exercise.“NWM is the nation’s icon for paying tributes to our braves. It bears the name of every single soldier who has died in the service of independent India. It has a flame that represents each of those men. No flame is getting extinguished. Both flames are being merged,” defence secretary Ajay Kumar told a news channel.The need to construct a national war memorial was first highlighted in 1961 but the government approval came only in October 2015, said a second official.Congress leader Manish Tewari likened the extinguishing of the flame at Amar Jawan Jyoti to removing history. “Extinguishing Amar Jawan Jyoti tantamount to extinguishing history. For it commentates sacrifice of those 3,483 brave soldiers who cleaved Pakistan into two parts and redrew the map of South Asia post-partition,” he tweeted.Some people also asked why it wasn’t possible to have two eternal flames at India Gate in the memory of the country’s fallen braves.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), was among the veterans who supported the move to merge the flames.“I don’t want to get into the politics, but with all ceremonies now happening at NWM, it’s appropriate that the flames be merged. Now that we have NWM, it is appropriate that the Amar Jawan Jyoti be there,” Hooda said.Lieutenant General Satish Dua (retd), a former CISC, also found nothing wrong with the development. “Now NWM will become the officially designated place to pay homage to the fallen brave hearts…This is not insulting or degrading to any war hero,” Dua added.Some veterans, however, asked the government to reconsider its decision.“Sir, the eternal flame at #IndiaGate is part of India’s psyche. You, I & r generation grew up saluting our brave jawans there. While #NationalWarMemorial is great, the memories of #AmarJawanJyoti are indelible. Request rescind decision,” Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd) tweeted, tagging the PM.Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor said the government had no respect for democratic traditions and established conventions, and it was “snuffing out” the sanctity of the Amar Jawan Jyoti. Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Kumar Jha said such moves were “neither good politics nor good optics”.The government believes a lot more can be done to publicise the war memorial, attract more visitors and allow them to form a conscious connect with the sacred site and the fallen braves. The defence secretary on January 11 chaired a meeting that focussed on this issue.(With inputs from Malavika Murali and Isha Sahai Bhatnagar)
22-01-2022||India||Cosmetic makers can’t be mandated to put veg, non-veg labels, HC told||Labelling cosmetics as vegetarian and non-vegetarian cannot be made mandatory for manufacturers and they may do so voluntarily or on their own discretion, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) has told Delhi high court.In an affidavit filed before a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, the CDSCO said that the Drugs Technical Advisory Board (DTAB) has not “agreed for mandating green (for vegetarian) or red (for non-vegetarian) dot on every packet of cosmetic as it may complicate the regulation and add regulatory burden on the stakeholders”.The board, however, opined that labelling items such as oaps, shampoos, toothpastes and other cosmetics and toiletries can be made voluntary and left on the manufacturer to decide, the drug regulatory body said. Subsequently, an advisory stating that “manufacturers of cosmetics may indicate red/brown or green dot on packages of soaps, shampoos, toothpastes and other cosmetics and toiletries on voluntary basis for its vegetarian or non-vegetarian origin respectively” was issued on September 10 last year, it added. The CDSCO’s affidavit was in response to a plea by Ram Gau Raksha Dal, a non-governmental trust, which sought labelling the products, including food items and cosmetics” as vegetarian or non-vegetarian, not only on the basis of its ingredients but also on the substance used in the manufacturing process. The petition, filed through advocate Rajat Aneja, said that it is the fundamental right of any citizen to know whether or not the food they consume, cosmetics and perfumes they use, clothes/garments they wear, contain, or are manufactured by using, components or parts derived from the body of an animal.Taking note of the plea, the high court on December 9 had made it mandatory for all food business operators to make a “full and complete disclosure” of all the ingredients that go into the making of any food item. The court ruled that “every person has a right to know as to what he/she is consuming and nothing can be offered to the person on a platter by resort to deceit, or camouflage”.The court also said that the ingredients used in the manufacturing process should not only be written in code, but also by source of origin -- plant or animal, made naturally or manufactured in a laboratory. It also threatened action against food operators who fail to comply with the order. The court, however, did not mention anything about cosmetic products. In its affidavit, CDSCO said that at a meeting of the DTAB on April 13 last year, the board emphasised that there is no clarity and system to certify vegetarian and non-vegetarian in cosmetic products across the country. The matter is slated for hearing on January 31. 
22-01-2022||India||Countdown begins for Supertech towers: Anatomy of an implosion||The two 32-storey towers of Supertech Emerald Court (Apex and Ceyane) in Noida will be the tallest ones to be demolished in the country so far. Experts say that the country is fairly new to the concept of skyscrapers and has only started building them. However, there is little expertise or experience in demolition of skyscrapers. While there are a few different techniques for demolition, the technique of “implosion” is most used and best suited for demolition of such tall structures in a densely populated area. In this technique, small explosive devices are placed at multiple locations in the building in a manner that the debris falls within the premises. After being admonished by the Supreme Court regarding delays, the builder and Noida Authority have finally assigned the task of demolition to Edifice Engineering earlier this week. HT speaks to Uttkarsh Mehta, partner, Edifice Engineering, about how this piece of history will unfold. So, when are the buildings coming down? According to the action plan that we have submitted to the authority and the builder, once we have the work order and all the paperwork is complete, we will start our survey on the ground and the entire preparation will take about three months. We are hoping that the day will be sometime around mid-May. After the blast, it will take around three months for us to clear the debris and remove the steel. What are the preparations and survey that you need to do now? There are two kinds of preparations – one is preparing the building or structure itself and the other preparation is for the neighbouring buildings or to the surroundings. We also need No Objections Certificates (NOCs) from all involved authorities like the DM, police, fire department. We also need a clearance from Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) in Agra to transport and use the explosives. Additionally, we have to run a campaign to inform all the people in the neighbourhood about Dos and Don’ts during the blast. We will also have continuous meetings with all government departments to prepare an evacuation plan for all those living within 50 metres radius and for the halting of traffic in 250 metres’ radius for the blast duration. We will also discuss how emergency services will be allowed in the area during the blast duration. All this will be done in consultation with Central Building Research Institute (CBRI).What does the blast process involve? After the survey, our expert will prepare a ”blast design” for the structure to fall from all perspectives such as safety, vibration and other factors. The design will answer questions like which columns have to be blasted? Which walls have to be removed beforehand? At what floors the explosives will be placed? What will be the diameter and depth of the hole (in which they are placed)? What is the quantity of explosives needed? The building has to fall straight down like a pack of cards with minimum flying debris. That’s our biggest challenge. Maybe after a month of starting the survey, we will be able to decide on a blast date in concurrence with all authorities. Pre-structural analysis of all building in the radius of 50 metres will be done. We will survey for any existing damage to any of the structures and we will be checking them after as well to see if there was any impact of the blast. There are apprehensions among people who live close by, especially in Emerald Court that is just about nine metres away from the twin towers. What will be done to ensure safety? From our initial analysis of the location, we will have to build a passage between the twin towers and Emerald Court to avoid any flying debris. When we saw the site, there is a driveway between the two buildings that is already weakened. It has cracks and exposed reinforcement. We may have to remove the driveway entirely so that the debris falls straight in the basement. The driveway will then have to be reconstructed later, which is already a demand from the residents there. Our other option is to strengthen it but that is not very feasible. Additionally, we will use empty containers anchored to the ground and stacked up to three floors as an additional safety layer to protect the Emerald Court buildings from any flying debris. What other safety measures will be followed? We use at least four layers of geo-textile fabric or cloth to cover the entire building that has to be demolished so that there is no flying debris. Every part of the building to be blasted will be covered with wire mesh and then with geo-textile fabric. Every floor and pillar that will be blasted will also be completely covered by geo-textile fabric. A layer of the cloth will also be placed to cover the entire building.For ATS and other buildings in the surroundings, we will cover them with geo-textile fabric as well, which is mostly for dust control. Our assessment is that there will hardly be any flying debris that will leave the twin tower compound itself.During such implosions there is also a large dust cloud. Is there any way to control dust? Yes, there is a dust cloud and it is the only negative thing about this technology. While doing this inward blast there is a huge dust cloud and it usually dissipates within 6-7 minutes. How much time it will take to dissipate and how far it will go also depends on the wind speed and wind direction at the time of the blast. However, there is no way to control or minimise it from our practical experience. Fire tenders, mist guns and other solutions have been tried but have only been about 10% successful in controlling dust. However, we will ask the Noida Authority to be ready with mechanical sweeping machines. While sending advisory to neighbourig residents, we will mention that they should keep all doors and windows closed, switch off their ACs and keep the external unit of their ACs covered if possible so that the dust is not sucked in. (The Apex and Ceyane buildings were planned to have 40 floors, but went in litigation after 32 floors were constructed. The two buildings have 915 flats and 21 shops)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/countdown-begins-for-supertech-towers-anatomy-of-an-implosion-101642790439163.html
22-01-2022||India||Weekend, night curfews to remain in Delhi; offices can reopen||Private offices have been allowed to reopen with 50% on-site staff from next week but the weekend and night curfews will continue in the Capital, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority announced on Friday, notwithstanding a request from the city’s elected government that sought these curbs to be rolled back on the back of a sustained fall in the number of cases.The city recorded 10,756 new cases on Friday, comprising 18.04% positive results of tests carried out in the last 24 hours. These numbers are a major improvement from the peak of 28,867 cases and 30.64% test positivity rate in this wave logged on January 13 and 14 respectively.“The grave danger of the coronavirus has subsided in Delhi… Experts had warned that Delhi can record one lakh cases daily during this wave, but that danger has been averted. We will take a call on lifting of more restrictions within three-four days,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said, after announcing that the administration wrote to DDMA seeking relaxation in curbs.The government asked the agency, which is led by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and is the authority on Covid-related rules – to withdraw the weekend curfew, lift the odd-even restriction on standalone shops, and allow private offices to call back 50% of their staff.In an order issued later in the day, DDMA accepted only the last suggestion. “It is clarified that the night curfew from 10pm to 5am everyday and the weekend curfew from 10pm of Friday till 5am of subsequent Monday shall remain unchanged…” the order said.Private offices, it added, shall be allowed to function with up to 50% attendance with immediate effect although officials will be advised to work-from-home as much as possible.Maharashtra announced earlier this week that it will allow schools to reopen, a decision also taken by Mumbai, from next week. Karnataka on Friday lifted its weekend curfew, while letting one for the night remain, after observing low hospitalisation rates.In Delhi, orders to close private offices came on January 11, a day after the city shut the last of non-essential activities, such as dining out. Earlier, on December 28, the city ordered schools and gyms to close as cases began to rise.In that time, the hospital infrastructure has been strengthened and crucial scientific assumptions has been confirmed: the Omicron variant that is driving the surge is less likely to lead to serious disease and people who have taken vaccine doses are protected.“Of the 43 fatalities recorded on Thursday, coronavirus was the primary cause in only three,” Jain said on Friday. The Capital has reported 396 deaths due to the infection in January so far. According to officials, most of these patients had serious comorbidities and Covid was not the primary cause of death.A person from Baijal’s office said the decision to continue the restrictions was taken because the positivity rate was still over 21% as on Thursday. “The Delhi government’s proposal of private offices working with up to 50% staff has been agreed with by the LG. With regards to weekend curfew and opening of markets, it has been suggested that the status quo should be maintained since positivity rate is still hovering above 21% and number of daily positive cases are more than 12,000. Once the situation improves, a review would be done by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority along with member experts and a final decision will be taken,” said this person, asking not to be named.But it has been clear for a few days that Delhi’s numbers are southbound. For instance, Friday’s health bulletin, which came hours after the DDMA order, showed that positive cases have fallen to 10,756 and the positivity rate to 18.04%. And almost 83% of the beds in dedicated Covid hospitals are unoccupied.Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, in a press conference on Friday, said the curbs must now be eased. “When Covid cases were on the rise in the city, it was important to impose various restrictions for the safety of people. But now the peak of Covid cases has passed and the cases are declining considerably. On January 12, the Capital reported the highest number of cases this season, which was nearly 28,000. About 8-10 days back, the positivity rate was around 31%, but now it has come down to 17%. Seeing the current graph of cases, we are currently in the situation to relax restrictions,” Sisodia said.“Now that the cases are coming down, it would be wrong to restrict people from moving out to earn for their survival,” he added, speaking before the order was issued.After the order, officials of the government said it was unfortunate that the LG rejected the strong demand of traders and business community. “LG has rejected the proposal of elected government despite the fact that Covid cases are reducing at a very fast pace. When all markets of Gurugram and Noida are open, why should the business community of Delhi be made to suffer by BJP’s Central government,” Delhi government said in a statement.Traders said they are planning to launch a protest against the LG if the odd-even restrictions are not lifted within three days. Chamber of Trader and Industry chairman Brijesh Goyal said the elected government has the right to act in the interest of the people of Delhi. “Delhi’s traders are deeply disappointed by the LG’s decision. We request DDMA chairman LG Anil Baijal to lift the odd-even restrictions from the markets and end weekend curfew keeping in mind the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of traders and lakhs of employees and laborers,” said Goyal.Confederation of All India Traders general secretary Praveen Khandelwal wrote a letter to the LG seeking reconsideration of the DDMA’s decision. “The traders of Delhi are facing acute financial crisis for last two years. Dine-in facilities in restaurants should be allowed with 50% seating capacity and non-vaccinated persons should not be allowed to enter any restaurants,” said Khandelwal.Community medicine experts backed the traders demands. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said: “Now the third wave is receding in Delhi and most of the part of India, further imposing night curfew and restriction of commercial activities will not benefit in decreasing cases but may further delay the downfall of curve. With less movement of individuals, the infection spread will slow down. Due to restrictions the movements of individuals will be lower and thus the dip will also be slow. Omicron is known to be mild with high transmissibility therefore economic losses due to it are not justified.”The Aam Aadmi Party, which is in government, too hit out at the LG separately. “LG is a representative of the BJP led central government and it is clear that the BJP wants to destroy every single business running in Delhi... The wages of the poor people working at these shops have also been deducted due to the decline in sales, hence causing them to struggle even more. Meanwhile the BJP in Delhi is running a false campaign, plotting a conspiracy in which they are sending messages to Delhi’s market associations that CM Arvind Kejriwal is disrupting Delhi’s businesses,” said party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj.Leader of opposition in Delhi assembly, BJP's Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said he has been demanding for the past few days that the DDMA should ease the restrictions and give relief to the traders. “I have written a letter to the LG today (Friday) requesting him to reconsider the decision to continue the weekend curfew in Delhi and odd-even restrictions for markets. The proposal of Delhi government should be approved with the condition that it will ensure strict implementation of the Covid rules in the markets,” Bidhuri told HT.
22-01-2022||India||‘Anti-India’ content: Govt cracks down on 35 YouTube channels||The ministry of information and broadcasting issued orders to take down 35 Pakistan-based YouTube channels and two websites for “spreading anti-India fake news in a coordinated manner over digital media”, exercising powers granted to it under the new information and technology rules.“These channels were toxic and spreading anti-India propaganda,” secretary of information and broadcasting Apurva Chandra said in a press conference. “More and more such channels will continue to be blocked. Not only intelligence agencies, we urge the people to come forward and notify us of (such) content.”Union minister of information and technology Anurag Thakur said after the Cabinet meeting that any social media account trying to mislead the public would also be taken down. “Any account that is trying to spin a conspiracy or mislead the people will be actioned,” he told reporters.The channels, according to the ministry, have over 12,123,500 subscribers and over 1,320,426,964 views. They include Khabar with facts, Khabar Taiz, Information Hub, Flash Now, Mera Pakistan With, Hakikat Ki Duniya and Apni Dunya Tv.“These channels were spreading misinformation about the Indian army, including conspiracies that the death of chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat was an assassination,” said joint secretary in the I&B ministry and the designated officer for take downs, Vikram Sahay. “These threaten the sovereignty and the integrity of India.”According to the ministry, the YouTube channels, websites, and other social media accounts blocked were used by “Pakistan for spreading anti-India fake news about sensitive subjects related to India”. “These include topics such as the Indian Army, Jammu and Kashmir, and India’s foreign relations with other countries. It was observed that rampant fake news was spread through the YouTube channels regarding the demise of the former Chief of Defence Staff Late General Bipin Rawat. These YouTube channels had also started posting content to undermine the democratic process of the upcoming elections in five states,” the ministry said in a press release. “The channels propagated content to encourage separatism, divide India on the lines of religion, and create animosity among the various sections of the Indian society. Such information was feared to have the potential to incite the audience into commission of crimes adversely affecting public order in the country.”The last round of blocks in December 2021 was actioned on a global level, with YouTube taking down the channels across the world and not just in India.The blocking directions have been issued using the emergency powers granted to the secretary of the I&B ministry, who on being notified by the authorised officer, can order an immediate takedown of content under the new social media and intermediary guidelines. The interim order will be placed in front of the inter-departmental committee for review.The interdepartmental committee forms the apex of the three-tier redressal mechanism, which includes a self-regulatory mechanism, followed by regulation by industry bodies. The committee, in a first, also has members from the industry body — one member each from the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry and Confederation of Indian Industry, one member from the Bar Council of India and a member from the Press Council of India. Besides these, the committee also has members from the ministry of women and child development, ministry of law and justice, ministry of home affairs, ministry of electronics and information technology, ministry of external affairs and ministry of defence.The guidelines have been challenged by various media consortiums in court for leading to censorship of news content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antiindia-content-govt-cracks-down-on-35-youtube-channels-101642790257848.html
22-01-2022||India||Centre to introduce guidelines on relocation of tigers soon||India’s National Tiger Conservation Authority will soon come out with guidelines or standard operating procedures (SOP) for the reintroduction of tigers that can used by other Tiger Range Countries, environment ministry officials said on Friday, hours after environment minister Bhupender Yadav spoke at the 4th Asia Ministerial Conference on tiger conservation organised by Malaysia and coordinated by the Global Tiger Forum.Yadav said in his address that India achieved a remarkable feat by country’s doubling the tiger population from 2006 in 2018, fours years ahead of its goal. He said that the budgetary allocation for tiger conservation has increased from ₹185 crore in 2014 to ₹300 crore in 2022, and added that a Project Tiger-like model was being replicated for the lion, dolphin, leopard, snow leopard and other small wildcats, while the country is on the threshold of introducing cheetah in its historical range.Ministry officials said success with the tiger relocation could be replicated elsewhere.“We have successfully translocated a tiger in the western part of Rajaji Tiger Reserve last year. Similar reintroduction has been planned for Kanha Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh. The SOP will be shared with all Tiger Range Countries,” said a senior environment ministry official who asked not o be named.The Conservation Assured |Tiger Standards (CA|TS) accreditation has been already awarded to 14 tiger reserves in India (Manas, Kaziranga, Orang, Satpura, Pench, Kanha, Panna, Valmiki, Dudhwa, Parambikulam, Mudumalai, Bandipur, Anamalai and Sundarbans). CA|TS is a set of criteria which allows tiger sites to check if their management will lead to successful tiger conservation as per the international standards. Other than India, only one tiger reserve each in Russia and Nepal, and two in Bhutan have the CAITS status.The 12 TRCs other than India are Bangladesh, Vietnam, Cambodia, Bhutan, Thailand, Indonesia, Laos, China, Malaysia, Russia, Nepal and Myanmar.India has the highest number of tigers in the wild-- 2,967 tigers, or seven out of every 10 in the world, according to the All India Tiger Estimation Results released in 2019. The number reflects a 33% increase over 2014 when there were 2,226 tigers in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-introduce-guidelines-on-relocation-of-tigers-soon-101642790019020.html
22-01-2022||India||AG clears contempt action against Narsinghanand||Attorney general of India KK Venugopal has granted consent to initiate contempt proceedings against controversial Hindu priest Yati Narsinghanand over his remarks made against the Supreme Court in an interview last week.In the interview, given on January 14, Narsinghanand had said that those who believe in the Constitution, the Supreme Court, the politicians and the Army will “die a dog’s death”. Following this interview, Mumbai-based social activist Shachi Nelli wrote to AG Venugopal seeking permission for initiating contempt action against the controversial Hindu priest.Narsinghanand is the Juna Akhara Mahamandaleshwar and was arrested on January 16 in connection with the hate speeches and a call for genocide against religious minorities made at a 3-day religious event he organised in Haridwar in December.The AG’s permission is needed under Rule 3(a) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court of India, 1975 for bringing a contempt action under the Contempt of Courts Act 1971.Responding to Nelli’s letter on Friday, AG Venugopal said, “I have gone through your letter and watched the video of the statements made by Yati Narsinghanand which have been explained to me. I find that the statement made by Yati Narsinghanand is a direct attempt to lower the authority of the Supreme Court in the minds of the general public. This would certainly amount to Contempt of the Supreme Court of India.”Accordingly, he said, “I grant consent to initiate proceedings for criminal contempt of the Supreme Court in terms of Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act.”After receiving the response, Nelli tweeted, “The Attorney General has granted consent to initiate proceedings for criminal contempt against Yati Narsinghanand. I will be proceeding accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-clears-contempt-action-against-narsinghanand-101642789659284.html
22-01-2022||India||UP elections: BJP names 26 women in its second list||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday declared 85 more candidates for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. It has thus far named a total of 195 candidates in four tranches. The latest BJP list for Uttar Pradesh was announced shortly after chief minister Yogi Adityanath launched the party’s theme song “UP phir maangey bhajapa sarkar (UP again seeks BJP government).” The list has 26 women and candidates belonging to other backward classes (OBCs). In total, of the 195 seats for which it has named candidates, the BJP has named 26 women.The BJP has retained candidates in at least 30 of the 195 seats for which it has announced candidates thus far. Riya Shakya, an OBC candidate, is among the 15 women on the list and will contest from Bidhuna assembly constituency in Auraiya, a seat held by her father Vinay Shakya, who is among the 14 BJP lawmakers, including three ministers who defected to the Samajwadi Party (SP) last week. The Samajwadi Party is expected to field a majority of BJP rebels on its symbol but has not named its candidate on the Bidhuna seat yet. If it does name Shakya, the move would set up an interesting father-daughter contest. Uttar Pradesh goes to polls between February 10 and March 7 to elect 403 lawmakers.The results will be announced on March 10. On January 11, Riya Shakya released a video that went viral in which she claimed that her lawmaker father had been abducted, a claim subsequently denied by Auraiya police and her father. The BJP’s new list comprises several turncoats: Ramvir Upadhyaya, who was among the Brahmin faces of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), from Sadabad assembly constituency in Hathras; formerl Congress lawmakers Rakesh Singh from Harchandpur and Aditi Singh from Rae Bareli ; Nitin Agarwal, formerly of the Samajwadi Party from Hardoi; Hari Om Yadav, the SP’s Sirsaganj MLA who had joined the BJP in Delhi a few days back. The list also includes former chief of UP Anti-Terrorist Squad (UP ATS) Asim Arun, a Jatav dalit, who recently quit the Indian Police Service (IPS) with nine years of his tenure remaining. He has been fielded from Kannauj, a reserved seat. When he quit, Arun was the police commissioner of Kanpur and his induction into the party has come in for sharp criticism from the opposition Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal. Another Dalit IPS officer Brij Lal, who joined the BJP after retirement, is already a Rajya Sabha member from UP. The BJP has finalised its seat-sharing arrangement with its OBC allies, Apna Dal and Nishad party, though it has not made the details public yet.
22-01-2022||India||Expelled minister Harak Singh Rawat, daughter-in-law join Congress||Weeks before the Uttarakhand assembly elections, expelled Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Harak Singh Rawat on Friday joined the Congress, along with his daughter-in-law Anukriti Gusain, in New Delhi in presence of former chief minister Harish Rawat.Rawat is the second cabinet minister and third BJP legislator to switch to the Congress in the last four months. In October last year, Yashpal Arya and his son Sanjeev Arya quit the BJP and joined the Congress.Elections to the 70-member Uttarakhand legislative assembly will be held on February 14. The counting of votes will be done on March 10.Soon after joining his old party, Congress, 61-year-old Rawat said he has joined the party unconditionally. He also said he will work for the party as a worker and ensure it wins the state assembly elections. He expressed his gratitude to the Congress high command for allowing him to rejoin the party.“When Congress will win with full majority on March 10, that will be my apology (for deserting the party in 2016),”Rawat told reporters in Delhi after joining the Congress.He was dismissed from the Uttarakhand cabinet and expelled from the BJP for six years on Sunday for “anti-party activities”. The last five days have witnessed drama over Rawat’s political future. Congress insiders said the delay in his joining the party was due to opposition from many Congress leaders, especially those close to Harish Rawat, the former chief minister of the state.Rawat was one of the 10 MLAs who left the Congress to join the BJP in 2016, which led to the toppling of the Harish Rawat-led government in the state. Congress functionaries, on condition of anonymity, said the party wants to use Rawat in the elections against the ruling BJP, but delayed his reinduction so as to not send a wrong signal to party workers.The functionaries added that the party will give a ticket to only one person from his family, with speculation rife that his daughter-in-law will be named as a candidate.Rawat’s daughter-in-law Anukriti Gusain is a social worker and model and has won multiple beauty pageants, including Miss Grand International India 2017 and Miss Asia Pacific World 2014. She also runs an NGO in Uttarakhand that works for women and children.Recently, former CM Harish Rawat had said that those who played a role in toppling his government in 2016 should apologise before joining the Congress. On Tuesday, Rawat said he was ready to apologise as many times as it takes to his elder brother (Harish Rawat). He said he will “apologise keeping in mind the interests of Uttarakhand and its people”, for whom he wants to work continuously.On XXXXXX Pradeep Tamta, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member, said, “What happened in 2016 was a murder of democracy.” “What is the need to take ‘dhaagdaar’ (stained people) when the Congress is coming to power.”Rawat, a leader from Garhwal’s Thakur community, was first elected as an MLA in 1991from Pauri and became the youngest minister of then undivided Uttar Pradesh. From 1991 to 1993, he was tourism minister in Uttar Pradesh. Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000.In 2002, Rawat was elected as an MLA from Lansdowne assembly segment and was made cabinet minister of key departments. In 2007, he was re-elected form Lansdowne and was elected as the leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand legislative assembly. In 2012, he won the election from Rudraprayag assembly segment. After switching to the BJP in 2016, he won the 2017 election from Kotdwar assembly seat.Uttarakhand BJP spokesperson Suresh Joshi said, “Till yesterday, Harish Rawat was calling him (Harak Singh Rawat) a murderer of democracy. Today he and Congress accept the same leader. Harish Rawat should explain the reasons for his change of heart in front of the public, otherwise he should apologise to public for the statements he made earlier.”“ Now people will not trust Harish Rawat or any other Congress leader,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-elections-expelled-minister-harak-singh-rawat-daughter-in-law-join-congress-101642788878522.html
22-01-2022||India||UP elections: Priyanka says she is Congress’s face in state||Weeks before the Uttar Pradesh assembly election, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra made it clear that she is the face of the party in this state poll but didn’t confirm if she would contest the election. “Can you see any other face from the Congress? It’s my face that’s visible everywhere,” she said at an event held to release the party’s manifesto for the youth of the state, when asked who would be the face of the party in the UP election. But she didn’t confirm if she would be fighting the election and said, “If such as decision is taken, you will get to know.” Gandhi Vadra’s announcement is significant as the Congress has not projected a CM candidate in any of the five election-bound states, inviting criticism from within the organization, and from rivals, including the Bharatiya Janata Party, the incumbent in all five states, which has named its CM candidates. Analysts said that the Congress does not have a realistic chance in the election, but that Gandhi Vadra’s comment clearly showed her willingness to shoulder and accept responsibility. The party’s manifesto for the youth released on Friday focused on employment in both government and private sectors, weeks after it announced promises for women including a 40% reservation in party poll tickets. The focus on women and young people is seen as an attempt to counter the issue of caste-and religious-identity in a state where the Congress has never seen power in the post-Mandal era. She also announced that the party is open to be a part of a non-BJP coalition to keep the BJP out, if the situation arises, but the Congress’ poll promises would have to be at the core of such a coalition. Speaking at the launch of the manifesto for the youth, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi accused the Union government and said, “Our understanding and belief is that India requires a new vision. If you want to propose a new vision you need to start in UP. It’s a step towards giving a vision to the country.” Pointing a finger at parties that have been in power in Uttar Pradesh, Gandhi said, “Young people have understood that in last 25 years they didn’t get anything.” The Congress’ poll promises for the youth include filling 1.2 million government posts currently lying vacant and generating another 8 lakh private jobs along with promotion of local skills. Gandhi Vadra added: “This is strategy, not empty words. The question is, how to give you employment. In UP, every 24 days, 880 people lose jobs. In the last five years, 16 lakh (1.6 million) youth lost jobs. Youth of UP needs a new vision and Congress is only party that can give this.” She added: “We will remove the problems to generate employment. We will curb the scams in public job exams. The vacancies amount to 1.5 lakh posts in primary schools; 8000 teachers’ posts are vacant in higher education; 6000 doctors’ posts; and 100,000 police posts will be filled.” The Congress has also promised to appoint 20,000 anganwadi officials and 27,000 anganwadi helpers , 32,000 teachers for physical education, and 4000 Urdu teachers. Gandhi Vadra added that the current state government’s plan of “one district, one product” would be revised and the Congress would promote a cluster approach to support local industries. Fees for job exams would be waived and a single-window scholarship portal would be launched, she said. . Among other promises in the manifesto are: opportunities for children of sanitation workers; a ₹5 lakh loan to businesspeople from the most backward classes; a de-addiction centre with headquarters in Lucknow; a youth festival annually to showcase local talent; and world-class cricket academies for cricket and other sports. EXPERT COMMENT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-priyanka-says-she-is-congress-s-face-in-state-no-word-on-if-contesting-101642788820422.html
22-01-2022||India||Punjab elections: BJP announces names of 34 candidates in first list||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday announced its first list of 34 candidates, including 13 Sikhs, nine Dalits and two women, for the February 20 assembly elections in Punjab.BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said the party has given representation to all sections of society and the first list included 12 people from farmer families, nine from Scheduled Castes, and some professionals.“Tickets have been given to 12 candidates who belong to farmers’ families, eight tickets to members of the SC community, 13 tickets to Sikhs. The list has doctors, lawyers, sportspersons, farmers, youth, women, and former IAS,” Chugh said.The party’s first list includes former Congress minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi who joined the BJP recently.On its traditional strongholds such as Jalandhar Central, Jalandhar North, Fazilka and Hoshiarpur, the party has mostly banked upon its old guards by fielding Manoranjan Kalia, KD Bhandari, Surjit Jyani and Tikshan Sud, respectively.State BJP chief Ashwani Sharma, whose nomination from Pathankot assembly segment was looking certain, was not fielded by the party. Instead, the party has fielded sitting MLA Dinesh Babbu from the seat.Three Congress leaders, who shifted to the BJP recently, were also given tickets. These include former minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi, from Hindu-dominated Ferozepur Urban seat, and Nimisha Mehta, once a close aide of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, from Garhshankar seat. Mehta joined the BJP immediately after he was refused a ticket from the Congress. The saffron party is fighting the polls for the 117-assembly seats in alliance with Punjab Lok Congress led by Capt Amarinder Singh and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). 
22-01-2022||India||Goa elections: Parrikar’s son, Utpal, quits BJP; to contest as independent||Utpal Parrikar , the son of former Union minister and four-time Goa chief minister the late Manohar Parrikar, resigned from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday, and announced that he will contest the upcoming assembly elections as an independent candidate from Panaji, the seat represented by his father from 1994 until his death in 2019.Utpal Parrikar, 40,was denied a ticket by the party leadership, which chose to instead field Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate, who won the seat in 2019 on a Congress ticket in a by-election held to fill the vacancy resulting from Parrikar’s death.“Utpal’s prowess in Panaji is still something he has to prove on ground. During the last few elections, his father won Panaji through tacit alignment with Monserrate. But Uptal’s decision will have a broad impact on the BJP, especially because it’s claim of being a party which wants to take forward Parrikar’s legacy has now been found hollow in the wake of Utpal’s moves,” Mayabhushan Nagvenkar, journalist and author of the book ‘Manohar Parrikar: An Extraordinary Life’, said.“People of Panaji did not vote for Manohar Parrikar just because he is MP. They voted for him because he stood for some values. The time has come for me to also stand for those values. I would like to announce that I will be contesting as an independent candidate from Panaji constituency,” Parrikar said on Friday.“I tried my best even during last elections and this election to convince my party that I enjoy not only the support of all the workers, who have built this party for the last 30 years, who toiled with my father to build this party in Panaji. They are also toiling with me today. I have also enjoyed their support and the support of the general population of Panaji. In spite of that, for some reason I have not been able to get the candidature of Panaji constituency. It has been given to someone who has opportunistically come into the party within the last two years,” he added.The BJP offered Utpal two other seats to pick from, but he rejected both and questioned state in-charge Devendra Fadnavis who earlier said that the party does not hand out tickets just because someone is Manohar Parrikar’s son.“If the party does not hand out tickets just because you are somebody’s son then why was I being offered other seats? I am not asking for the ticket because I want something on the platter,” Parrikar said.When asked whether he would support the BJP in the future in a possible post-poll scenario, he said that he will place such decisions before the people of Goa at the right time.Parrikar also welcomed the support he was receiving from other political parties, notably the Shiv Sena, which said that should he decide to contest, other parties should support him. “Any support required to fight the type of candidate I am fighting is welcome,” he said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had offered to field Utpal from Panaji if he joined the party, however, he said he had not considered joining another party.“As far as political party is concerned, only party available to me is the BJP. The other platform is as an independent -- my own platform-- which I had to do unfortunately in these circumstances for the values I believe in,” he said.The ruling BJP, in its first list of candidates on Thursday, ignored Parrikar’s claim for the Panaji seat and instead chose Monserrate, who joined the BJP from the Congress in 2019 along with nine other MLAs. Monserrate, who is facing trial for multiple charges including rape and rioting, was preferred on grounds of “winnability” with the party’s state in-charge Fadnavis saying that he was given the ticket because he was the “sitting MLA”.“A sitting MLA has been given a ticket in Panaji. Parrikar’s family is our family. They are close to us. I had given Utpal Parrikar two options, from where he could contest. BJP has respected the Parrikar family,” Fadnavis said.“The BJP had ample grounds to reject Babush’s claim for a ticket -- his history of jumping parties, his criminal background, his unabashed desire for power. They could have given the ticket to another person for whom giving the ticket would be easier to justify. It didn’t have to be a choice between Utpal and Babush. Besides the bad press, the decision could yet prove to be a strategic blunder,” senior journalist Vasudev Pagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-parrikar-s-son-utpal-quits-bjp-to-contest-as-independent-101642788698387.html
22-01-2022||India||From Jan 26, 1950: Biggest liberal experiment in democratic govt||When people in Britain try to understand and appreciate the written Constitutions of other countries, they are always at a disadvantage because they do not live under such a Constitution and have no direct experience of it. Of course Britain has its system of government, Constitutional law, Constitutional usages, customs and conventions, but its people have not attempted to define, describe and codify these rules in a single, comprehensive, agreed document. Yet though the people of Britain have not given themselves a Constitution they have given Constitutions to every other community within the Commonwealth. By this process of Constitution making the people in the U.K. have come to learn a good deal about the problems involved in contriving a system of government for other members of the Commonwealth. Of no country is this more true than of India. In the long process by which the Government of India Act of 1935 was framed, people in Britain learned much of the difficulties of making a Constitution for India, and anyone who followed the discussions of these years, in which Indians and British alike strove to devise a good government for India, will be slow to criticize the work which the Indian Constituent Assembly has done. It has been a tremendous task and to have produced any Constitution at all which can command so wide a measure of agreement is a great achievement. PARLIAMENTARY FORM Perhaps the first point which interests a British student of the Indian J Constitution is the fact that the Constituent Assembly should have chosen the Parliamentary form of executive---the cabinet system as understood in British countries-in preference to the non-Parliamentary or presidential form of executive which prevails in the United States. It was a difficult choice and there was much to be said on both sides, as the members of the Constitutional Assembly realized full well. It is impossible to prophesy how the system will work. So much will depend on factors such as the shape of the party system to come and upon the working of universal suffrage. India needs a strong and stable executive, but there can be no certainty that the Parliamentary executive will be strong. France provides sufficient evidence of that. Yet on the whole it was the wiser choice---if one may venture an opinion upon so controversial and uncertain a matter. The presidential executive, if one may generalize from experience in North and South America, is usually too strong or too weak; it seldom strikes the happy meaning. The Cabinet system has usually had a better record in this respect. Undoubtedly British students of government will follow the working of the Cabinet system, both at the Centre and in the States of the Indian Union, with the greatest interest and sympathy. They will feel, perhaps-as is only human-some gratification that the framers of the Indian Constitution should have chosen a form of executive which is distinctive British in its origin and development. These common institutions must surely strengthen the day-to-day working of the Commonwealth; they will help us to understand each other. Second matters of major interest to a British student are the Constitution provisions which deal with the relations between the Union and the States. Inevitably he looks back to the Act of 1935 and compares its provisions with those now adopted. The Constituent Assembly has thought it wise to adopt, as did the Act of 1935, three legislative lists--Union list, State list and concurrent list. There were no doubt good reasons for this, but I have always felt disappointed that it was deemed unavoidable. Since it is intended that the residual powers in the Union should rest with the Centre, why is it necessary to do more than enumerate the powers of the States, and the concurrent powers, and then to say that all that is left rests with the Centre? Would not two lists suffice? The problems of interpreting these three lists, set out in such detail, will surely provide some complicated cases for the Supreme Court. The experience of Canada is a solemn warning against over-enumeration, and the concurrent list in Canada is, in any case, very limited. The Constituent Assembly had to consider a variety of factors in deciding this matter. It is unfortunate, however, that the Assembly could not have adopted a much simpler and shorter method of dividing the powers. FEDERAL FEATURES On the whole it seems evident that the Constituent Assembly intends the Union to be more centralized than was proposed by the Act of 1935, although in that case also there were methods of intervention permitted to the Centre in the affairs of the provinces which reminded one more of the Canadian conception of federation than of the United States one. The new Constitution goes further still. It establishes, indeed, a system of government which is at most quasi federal, almost devolutionary in character; a unitary State with subsidiary federal features rather than a federal State with subsidiary unitary features. That, however, is what appears on paper only. It remains to be seen whether in actual practice the federal features entrench or strengthen themselves as they have in Canada, or whether the strong trend towards centralization which is a feature of most Western governments in a world of crises, will compel these federal aspects of the Constitution to wither away. To an outside observer, however, it would seem wise on the part of the Constituent Assembly to have placed the stress on unity, for in the immediate future at any rate India needs not only a strong executive but equally, a sense of unity and direction. Therefore, the Indian Constitution may not be strictly speaking “federal.” in the sense in which the Constitution of the United States is called “federal.” it does not follow that it is any the worse for that. Federalism is not necessarily good government: it is at the most a device which may secure good government in some cases. The framers of the Indian Constitution may have done well in not following slavishly any existing federal Constitution. They have chosen rather to make use of such elements in federal Constitutions as they thought likely to be of value to them. LIBERAL CONSTITUTION Finally, the Indian Constitution is a liberal Constitution. There is something heroic these days in a people declaring publicly that they have established their government in order to secure to all its citizens justice, liberty, equality and fraternity. These words have an old-fashioned, 19th century ring about them, yet they need re-assertion these days. The British student will feel perhaps that the Constitution contains rather too much assertion of abstract rights, for like the Irish Constitution, the Indian Constitution undertakes to guarantee a wide range of rights and privileges to the people. Difficult to justify to the practical minded British observer, perhaps, is the large section embodying the “Directive Principles of State Policy. “As these principles cannot be enforced in any court they amount to little more than a manifesto of aims and aspirations. In this matter of declarations of rights and of directives of State policy, the Indian Constituent Assembly has followed the Irish Constitution and European practice rather than the less colourful and more legalistic documents which serve as Constitutions for the other members of the Commonwealth. One thing is certain. If these declarations of liberal principles, strange as they may seem in a legal document to British eyes, help the Indian Constitution on its way and assist its people in working their government, they are more than justified. This is the biggest liberal experiment in the government of men by themselves that has ever been tried. We will wish it all success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-jan-26-1950-biggest-liberal-experiment-in-democratic-govt-101642787079052.html
