23-01-2022||India||HT This Day: Jan 24, 1979 - Charan Singh, J. Ram become Dy PMs today||Hindustan Times CorrespondentNEW DELHI- Cutting short his Gujarat tour, former Home Minister Charan Singh returned to the Capital late this evening to be appointed one of the two Deputy Prime Ministers tomorrow. The swearing-in ceremony is scheduled for 9-30 a.m. Defence Minister Jagjivan Ram will be simultaneously elevated as the other Deputy Prime Minister.The preliminaries for the Rashtrapati Bhavan function were formalised today. Prime Minister Morarji Desai called on President Sanjiva Reddy and was with him for half an hour reviewing the current developments.The earlier efforts to administer the oath of office to Mr Charan Singh today itself did not succeed because the Prime Minister had not completed his round of consultations with his Cabinet colleagues.. Mr Charan Singh too could not cancel his departure, although he postponed it by a few hours after a State plane was made available to him.While the junior Ministers who had resigned in protest against Mr Charan Singh's ouster may return to the government later, Mr Rabt Ray, one of the general secretaries of the Janata Party and a staunch supporter of Mr Charan Singh, is expected to join the Cabinet as Health Minister tomorrow.Instead of waiting for the budget session to be over as proposed earlier, Mr Charan Singh will takeover the finance portfolio immediately. The present incumbent, Mr H. M. Patel will get Home currently being handled by the Prime Minister.The suggestion made by several supporters of Mr Desai that Mr Jagjivan Ram be shifted to Home, did not appeal to the Prime Minister. First, he felt that by giving Home to Mr Patel no snajor reallocation would be required immediately. In any case, Mr Patel had to be given an important portfolio when finance was being taken away from him.Apart from incidentally meeting the wishes of Mr Charan Singh, as conveyed by him through party president Chandra Shekhar, Mr Desai is reluctant because Mr Jagjivan Ram's performance as Defence Minister has been widely appreciated and the Prime Minister does not want to disturb him.As regards Mr Charan Singh's re-entry in the government, both, Mr Jagjiven Ram and his close associate Petroleum Minister H. N. Bahuguna reportedly told the Prime Minister that they did not want to come in the way of any solution that he might have conceived to get over the differences in the party. However, they are be. lieved to have expressed their misgivings about the functioning of the Cabinet, in view of certain "out-dated notions" entertained by Mr Charan Singh.It was also pointed out by some others that the appointment of Mr Charan Singh as Deputy Prime Minister after all that he had said about the Prime Minister and the government as a whole might be misunderstood by other segments of the party as a convenient tool to get things done by threatening a split This may have far-reachin consequences.The Prime Minister pleaded with all these dissenters that no hard and fast rule could be applied in such delicate matters. After all, the interest of the country as a whole had to be taken. And, in any case, Mr Charan Singh was not coming on his own terms.Some other party MPs expressed the fear that Mr Charan Singh might translate the plan of Mr Raj Narain and try to wreck the Government from within. He might act like Mr Liaqat Ali Khan who was Finance Minister in Nehru's interim Cabinet.Mr Desal asked all these sceptics not to harbour any misgivings. The formula as finally evolved should be given a fair trial.Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ravindra Varma was among those who are understood to have expressed their reservations. At the same time, he assured his full co-operation in the efforts to forge greater cohesion and unity.Mr S. N. Mishra and some other ardent supporters of Mr Charan Singh had consultation among themselves. While they agreed to wait and watch, some of them felt they had been let down by their leader. They also wondered if the proposed meeting of the erstwhile BLD on Jan. 28, would take piece at all.UNI adds:On his return from Ahmedabad tonight, Mr Charan Singh was received by three former Ministers of State, Mr Jagbir Singh, Mr Narsingh and Mr Ram Kinkar. Mr Rabi Ray and All-India Kisan Sammelan general secretary Narendra Singh were also present.From the airport, Mr Charan Singh drove to his Tughlaq Road residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-24-1979-charan-singh-j-ram-become-dy-pms-today-101642960437540.html
23-01-2022||India||Cracks in Bengal BJP widen as 2 former vice-presidents are charged with indiscipline||Fissures in the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got wider on Sunday afternoon when the leadership issued show-cause letters to two of its former state vice-presidents, charging them with making statements against the party. The two leaders, Jay Prakash Majumdar and Ritesh Tiwari, were dropped from the state committee on December 22 when the Bengal unit announced the names of 11 new vice-presidents, five general secretaries, 42 organizational district unit presidents, 12 state secretaries, the new morcha (front) presidents and the heads of several cells. The rejig made not just some veterans, who were left out, unhappy but also left leaders from the Dalit Matua community, headed by Union minister of state Shantanu Thakur, upset. The dissidents have united under Thakur’s leadership. “I will continue to lead every dissident. Can the state leadership take disciplinary action against all of them?” Thakur, who has demanded the removal of Bengal general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty, holding him responsible for the crucial organizational changes, said after the show-cause letters were issued.Old-timers such as Pratap Banerjee, Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury, Union minister of state Dr Subhas Sarkar, Raj Kamal Pathak and Debasish Mitra were also dropped from the panel of vice-presidents. Jay Prakash Majumdar was made a spokesperson while the others were left with no portfolio. A known hardliner, general secretary Sayantan Basu, was dropped as well. Most of these leaders left the Bengal BJP’s WhatsApp groups. Following some protests, Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar dissolved the cells and departments on January 13 but that did not change the scenario. “Information about the show-cause letters were given to the media on Saturday night and when the letters were issued on Sunday, the media got the copies before the intended recipients. This poses a serious question on who should be held responsible for breaching party discipline. I have never made any public statement against the party. My reply will reach the leadership in due time,” Majumdar told HT. Tiwari said: “The letter I received shows how ignorant the current office-bearers are. It was issued by an office secretary who wrote that he had been directed to do so by the state president. The letter does not mention when and how I breached discipline, under which section of the party’s rules the action was taken and what is the deadline for sending my reply.” “This is a conspiracy by those who became leaders after 2019. They represent the tatkal (instant) BJP. They neither have any base in the organization, nor followers on the streets. They can’t even organise a procession. I am in the party for 32 years. I will give my reply in an appropriate manner,” Tiwari told HT. Senior state BJP leaders said that Shantanu Thakur held a meeting with Majumdar and the other dissidents for more than two hours on Sunday evening. During the day he also held a meeting with Matua community leaders in his Bongaon Lok Sabha constituency where a picnic was also held. This was the second picnic Thakur held in less than 10 days. The dissident camp got agitated because neither Majumdar nor Tiwari had made any anti-BJP statement before the media on January 15 when Thakur held his first press conference with the dissidents at the Kolkata Port Trust guest house in the state capital. The duo remained silent even on January 16 when Thakur held his first picnic with the disgruntled leaders. Dissidence in the BJP has emerged even in Purulia and Bankura districts where the party performed well in the panchayat, Lok Sabha and assembly polls in 2015, 2019 and 2021 respectively. The central leadership in Delhi has been informed about the rumblings. Refusing to speak on the show-cause letters, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “I am not aware of the details. This is an internal matter of the party.” The involvement of a Union minster has made the dissidence a serious issue for the party, some veteran Bengal BJP leaders said. Thakur said earlier this week that implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is the principal demand of the Matuas and they want to discuss it with BJP central leaders and Union home minister Amit Shah. Subrata Thakur, the minister’s brother, is the legislator from Gaighata in North 24 Parganas. Shantanu Thakur and four legislators left all WhatsApp groups of the West Bengal BJP on January 4. The Centre has said that it is in the process of framing laws for the CAA which the Parliament passed in 2020. The law offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before 2015. The Matuas are a part of the large Dalit Namasudra community that migrated from East Pakistan (Now Bangladesh) during India’s partition in 1947 and the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War to escape religious persecution. The TMC insists that the law is unconstitutional as it links citizenship to faith in a secular country. 
23-01-2022||India||No brains, totally incompetent: Former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh attacks Navjot Sidhu||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday attacked state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu saying he had “no brains" and that he had advised party president Sonia Gandhi five years ago not to induct “this incompetent man" in the party. Talking to reporters after announcing the first list of his party's Punjab Lok Congress candidates from 22 constituencies, Singh also alleged that Sidhu did not act against chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and some other Congress leaders out of his "sense of loyalty to the party" despite getting inputs of their involvement in illegal sand mining in the state."When the Congress chief had told me (over five years ago) to check how Sidhu was, I had said this man is absolutely unfit to be a member of the Congress party. Yet they went ahead and inducted him," news agency PTI quoted him as saying."From day one, I have said the man has no brains. He is just a waste of time. I had said all this to the Congress president when she had asked me how will he suit us (the party)," Amarinder Singh continued.“Sidhu was the only minister I dropped because he was totally incompetent. He did not clear and handle his files.”Amarinder Singh, who broke ties with the Congress last year following a bitter tussle with Navjot Sidhu, claimed that the Punjab Congress chief did not act against Channi in a #MeToo case as the woman IAS officer did not pursue her complaint, PTI further reported.Amarinder Singh’s newly-launched PLC is jointly contesting the February 20 Punjab assembly polls in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and SAD (Sanyukt). Asked if he had said he would fight against Sidhu, Singh said, “I had said we will not allow him to win. Because he is a totally incompetent man". He recalled how Sindhu once told him in Delhi that he does meditation daily for six hours and he wondered if he was a stable person. "He told me that he does meditation daily for six hours and talks to God for one hour. When I curiously asked what does he talk to God, he replied ‘just the way we talk’," said Amarinder, adding he had told Sonia Gandhi later that Sidhu did not seem to be a stable person. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-brains-totally-incompetent-amarinder-singh-attacks-navjot-sidhu-101642955740781.html
23-01-2022||India||None can change history of Bengal, India, says Mamata; slams BJP on Netaji’s birthday||From shifting of the Amar Jawan Jyoti in Delhi to dissolution of the Planning Commission of India, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee picked every weapon in her arsenal on Sunday to target the Central government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) while celebrating the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Kolkata. Hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi was scheduled to light up the holographic image of Netaji at India Gate, Banerjee, who garlanded Bose’s old statue in the Maidan, accused the Centre of destroying India’s federal structure and downplaying the history of Bengal and the nation. Banerjee did not name any BJP leader during her 40-minute speech but the targets of her attack were apparent. She even referred to the proposed changes in the service rules for Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers and freezing of the bank account of the Missionaries of Charity, the institution set up by Saint Teresa in Kolkata where she worked all her life. Demanding a national holiday on January 23, Banerjee criticized the Centre for winding up the Planning Commission of India that Bose had envisaged. After coming to power in 2014, the first National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government led by Modi dissolved the Planning Commission of India and replaced it with the Niti Aayog. “Whether it is the clarion call of ‘Jai Hind’ raised by Netaji, the national anthem composed by Rabindranath Tagore or the national song penned by novelist Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, Bengal has been the torchbearer. Why is Bengal being ignored today in this manner? Nobody can ignore Bengal. I challenge them. Nobody can wipe out the history of Bengal and India. Those trying it will burn their hands. Lighting a torch or setting up a statue of Netaji does not bestow the respect he deserves. Why is Netaji’s disappearance shrouded in mystery 75 years after Independence?” asked Banerjee. “This (Central) government had promised to reveal the truth but it did nothing. Our government released all documents on Netaji that we had in our archives,” she added. Announcing that her government will set up its own planning commission, Banerjee said: “Bengal is the holy ground of our freedom movement. India could not have won Independence without Bengal. I say this with pride.…… To know Netaji, you have to first know his source of inspiration, Swami Vivekananda… Today some people want to divide the nation in the name of Hindus and Muslims. I will urge them to read the works of Netaji and Swami Vivekananda.” “I urge these people to know Gandhi, Ambedkar and Netaji. Rishi Aurobindo propagated the federalism we talk of today. None of them said nationalism can be established by dividing the country. Netaji said nationalism lives in unity. We will not accept those who try to make us forget history. It is necessary to include our history in school and college textbooks,” said Banerjee. “Gandhi was born in Gujarat and he ended all communal riots. When India was embracing her Independence in 1947, Gandhi was not present in Parliament. He was in Kolkata, holding a fast to end the riots,” said Banerjee. “Bengal’s history is India’s history. Bengal’s history is world’s history… Most of our freedom fighters were from Bengal and Punjab. Today you are doing politics with a war memorial. We salute all soldiers who laid down their lives. They cannot be divided on the lines of religion,” said Banerjee. “I recently attended a seminar. Historians present there said all efforts are being made to distort history. Are we supposed to sleep when this happens? India must rise. Hindustan must march forward. It must love Netaji, Ambedkar, Gandhi, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Bhagat Singh and Birsa Munda. A leader must lead for all. He must be accepted by all. He must be one who respects all and inspires all without looking at their political colour. Today you are trying to preach religion. Netaji’s right-hand man (in the INA) was Shahnawaz Khan. We did not choose him (Khan),” said Banerjee. “Vivekananda had food with a Muslim family. Leaders often visit Belur Math to pay homage to him. Do they know that there is a darga (mausoleum) inside Belur Math? Go and visit it once,” the chief minister said without making any reference to the visits of the Prime Minister and Union home minister Amit Shah. “We have to give proof of our religious identity. I don’t need any character certificate from the BJP party or anyone. I need my certificate from the people of this soil. Would it harm anyone if our tableau on Netaji was allowed at the Republic Day Parade? Why is there an allergy for Bengal? In the past, our tableau on Gandhi and Rabindranath were rejected. Today you are setting up a statue under pressure from us. What were you doing all these years? See our statue at Red Road. It is alive, not an artificial image. Setting up a statue does not end your responsibility,” said Banerjee. “You have spent crores on statues. Have you ever read the history of India? Have you protected our history? Today, everyone is afraid to speak up. Everybody is scared,” she said. “Despite being a Muslim, poet Kazi Nazrul Islam composed some immortal Shyama Sangeet (songs dedicated to Goddess Kali) that your blunt religious system cannot produce…. The bank accounts of the Missionaries of Charity were frozen recently. Luckily, we came to know of it and the accounts were restored. The matter was discussed even in other nations,” she added. “You are destroying our federal structure. You are withdrawing the original service rules for IAS officers. One fine morning you may recall our chief secretary to Delhi. Who will work here in that case? We will fight for our federal structure,” she added. “Netaji does not belong to Bengal alone. He belongs to the world and, to India…… We will set up a second university in his name and a monument dedicated to the Azad Hind Fauj. The present government of India dissolved the Planning Commission that Netaji envisaged. I cannot find words to condemn this act. What Netaji thought of is required even today. We will set up a planning commission in Bengal. Netaji may not find his place in Delhi, he will always be remembered in Bengal,” said Banerjee. Announcing a series of programmes, the chief minister said her government will set up Jai Hind Bahini in schools and colleges on the lines of the National Cadet Corps and several museums dedicated to Netaji and other freedom fighters. The Bengal BJP was quick to lead a counter attack on the chief minister. “TMC carries the legacy of the Congress which insulted and opposed Netaji and forced him to quit the Congress. These leaders have no right to make such statements. TMC’s Planning Commission will only help some people make money while the state’s debt burden will increase,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. Leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, said, “No wonder Banerjee wants another holiday on Netaji’s birthday. She has already sent the entire state on a long holiday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/none-can-change-history-of-bengal-india-says-mamata-slams-bjp-on-netaji-s-birthday-101642958283790.html
23-01-2022||India||Parakram Diwas: Subhas Chandra Bose's resignation letter from Indian Civil Service goes viral||On the occasion of Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary, a copy of the freedom fighter's resignation letter from the Indian Civil Service (ICS) is going viral on social media. Senior Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Parveen Kaswan, too, took to Twitter to share the copy of Bose's resignation letter from the ICS.Also Read | Netaji's statue will inspire democratic values, future generations, says PM Modi“On April 22, 1921, Subhash #Bose resigned from Indian Civil Service to participate in Freedom struggle. For a greater cause. He was 24 years old then. His original resignation letter from service. Tribute on his birth anniversary,”  On April 22, 1921 Subhash #Bose resigned from Indian Civil Service to participate in Freedom struggle. For a greater cause. He was 24 years old then. His original resignation letter from service. Tribute on his birth anniversary. pic.twitter.com/Sm9oQ9NIy7Bose, who was born on January 23, 1897, in Cuttack, wrote in his letter to Edwin Samuel Montagu, the then Secretary of State for India, that he desired to have his name removed from the list of probationers in the Indian Civil Services.Also Read | PM Modi unveils Netaji's digital statue at India Gate, R-Day celebrations begin“I may state in this connection that I was selected as a result of an open competitive examination held in the year 1920. I have received an allowance of 100 pounds only up till now. I shall demit the amount to the India office as soon as my resignation is accepted,” the letter read.Subhas Chandra Bose appeared for the ICS exam in August 1920, and was placed fourth. He was to appear for a final test the following year. However, before that, he made up his mind not to take the final exam.Also Read | ‘We modernised NDRF’: PM Modi confers SC Bose Aapda Prabhandan PuraskarsMeanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday unveiled a hologram bust of Bose which will stand at Delhi's iconic India Gate till the completion of a granite statue of the former commander of the erstwhile Indian National Army (INA) which, once built, will be erected at the same place.The day also marked the beginning of the annual Republic Day celebrations, as announced by the Union government earlier this month. Also, since last year, January 23 has been observed as ‘Parakram Diwas’ as a tribute to Subhas Chandra Bose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parakram-diwas-subhas-chandra-bose-s-resignation-letter-from-indian-civil-service-goes-viral-101642952545581.html
23-01-2022||India||Assam orders probe into police firing at former student leader; opposition targets CM||The Assam government on Sunday constituted a one-man-inquiry commission to probe the incident of police firing on a former student leader in Nagaon district a day earlier. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced setting up of a one-man inquiry committee comprising additional chief secretary Pawan Borthakur to probe the shooting. The committee will submit its report in a week. Kirti Kamal Bora, a former general secretary of students’ union of Nagaon College, was shot by police after he allegedly attacked a police team which was probing a narcotics case. The youth, who sustained a bullet injury on his leg, is admitted at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH). While the police allege Bora was shot at after he attacked a police team and some vials of heroin were found in his possession, his family members maintain the youth is innocent and accused the police of targeting him without reason. “I had earlier issued strict instructions to the police to deal with criminals with a firm hand. But if any innocent is hurt by police actions, it won’t be tolerated. Measures will be taken against policemen, if they are found involved in wrongdoing,” said Sarma. Earlier Assam Police had informed that the police personnel involved in the shooting of Bora have been sent to police reserve with immediate effect and assured that if there’s any lapse, “guilty personnel will be taken to task”. “Police in police clothes were questioning a person suspected of carrying drugs. At that time, Bora reached the spot and asked the police team if they were police personnel. When the team members replied in affirmative, Bora started attacking the policemen,” Nagaon police superintendent Anand Mishra told journalists. “It was while trying to overpower Bora that the police team resorted to firing. If they had not done it, there could have been a fatal injury. If there is any lacuna on the part of the police it will come out during investigation,” he added. Bora was a member of the All Assam Students Union (AASU) and on Sunday its members and representatives from other student groups staged protest rally against police in town and outside Nagaon police station demanding the arrest of the policeman responsible for shooting the youth. “I strongly condemn police action against Bora, an innocent youth. Incidents such as this one has created an atmosphere of police terror in the state. It is an example of a brutal state. We want strict action against those guilty and warn police to refrain from such things in future,” AASU chief advisor Samujjal Bhattacharya tweeted. Saturday’s incident has led opposition parties in state to target the state government and specifically Chief Minister Sarma who had earlier directed the police to be strict with criminals and even shoot at those who tried to flee from custody or attack police personnel. “I visited Bora’s home on Sunday. He comes from a simple family and was trying to earn a living by giving tuitions. Police attack on such a youth is a reflection of licence to shoot given to the police by the CM,” said Congress state president Bhupen Kumar Borah. “We have been witnessing such extra-judicial shootings in the state in past months. Today it was Bora, but tomorrow it could be anyone of us. Public should come out against such police acts,” he added. Raijor Dal president and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi condemned the shooting and demanded the arrest of the accused policeman. He also sought suspension of the Nagaon superintendent of police. On January 11, the Gauhati High Court had directed the Assam government to file a detailed affidavit within two weeks on alleged fake encounters by the state police since May last year. Hearing a petition filed by lawyer Arif Jwadder, a division bench of Justices Sudhanshu Dhulia and Soumitra Saikia directed that a detailed counter affidavit should be filed by Secretary (Home) or Additional Secretary (Home). In his petition filed in December, Jwadder mentioned that 80 incidents of fake encounters had happened in the state since May 2021 (since the new government under Sarma took charge) and they resulted in 28 deaths and left 48 injured. 
23-01-2022||India||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan asks PM to roll back new civil service cadre rules||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to drop the proposed amendment in deputation rules for the Indian Administrative Service and Indian Police Service officers.Many opposition-ruled states including West Bengal and Maharashtra have already expressed their strong reservations over the proposal saying it will weaken federal structure of the country. In the letter the CM said deputation rules are already loaded in favour of the Centre and the proposed amendment “will induce a fear psychosis among civil servants and create hesitancy among them to implement policies formulated by states ruled by parties that are politically opposed to the policies of the party at the Centre.”“The present deputation rules are themselves heavily loaded in favour of the Union and bringing further stringency will weaken the very root of co-operative federalism. The government of Kerala is of the opinion that the proposed amendments may be dropped,” he said in the letter adding it will weaken the federal polity of the country.He said in the federal setup, the state governments are at par with the Union government because both are elected by the people, though the division of authority in the Constitution gives the Centre jurisdiction over a wide range of subjects.“We need to recognise that in a vibrant democratic and federal polity, states and Centre can be ruled by political formations with different ideologies. But these governments function within the framework of the Constitution,” he pointed out in the letter. At least five states have sent letters to the Union government opposing the proposed changes. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee has sent two letters in this regard saying the “Centre was taking the matter to non-federal extremes.” The proposed amendments to the cadre rules 1954 seek to change the norms for central deputation of IAS and IPS officers from different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-asks-pm-to-roll-back-new-civil-service-cadre-rules-101642952703569.html
23-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Beijing on alert as mass Covid-19 tests ordered for residents, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Beijing’s local government on Sunday ordered mass tests for all the residents of a district in the capital as the number of cases in the city continued to rise less than two weeks ahead of the Winter Olympic Games, scheduled to begin on February 4. Read moreA day after the Kerala High Court stalled his arrest till January 27, Malayalam actor Dileep and four other accused appeared before the crime branch in Kochi on Sunday for questioning in connection with an alleged plot to kill police officers who investigated the actor abduction and assault case. Read morePost the 2017 Champions Trophy, the duo of Kuldeep Yadav and Yuzvendra Chahal became regular faces in the Indian XI. The duo wreaked havoc on opposition batting attacks for the next two years; however, post the World Cup in 2019, both players suffered a decline in their performance with Kuldeep Yadav slowly losing his place in XI across all formats over the next year. Read moreOn Sunday, as the Indian cricket team played South Africa at Cape Town, the official broadcaster of the match panned the camera to the stands showing Anushka Sharma and Vamika cheering for Virat Kohli, revealing the couple's daughter's face. Read moreThe end of a friendship can be as painful as that of a romantic relationship. Getting "dumped" by a dear friend can at times be tougher to deal with emotionally than breaking ties with a person you dated perhaps briefly. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-beijing-on-alert-as-mass-covid-19-tests-ordered-for-residents-and-all-the-latest-news-101642950710635.html
23-01-2022||India||Kerala crime branch interrogates Malayalam actor Dileep, four others||A day after the Kerala High Court stalled his arrest till January 27, Malayalam actor Dileep and four other accused appeared before the crime branch in Kochi on Sunday for questioning in connection with an alleged plot to kill police officers who investigated the actor abduction and assault case. Dileep reached the crime branch office in Kalamassery around 8.50 am and a senior officer said the questioning session will be recorded to avoid further charges in the high-profile case. The court had asked him to appear before the investigating team for three consecutive days. It also directed officials to file a report on the interrogation in a sealed cover by Thursday and asked all accused to co-operate with the investigation fully. The crime branch registered a fresh case against Dileep and others two weeks back following the disclosure of director Balachandra Kumar that the accused assembled at the house of the actor in November 2017 and hatched a conspiracy to kill police officers involved with the probe. The actor, who is the seventh accused in the actor abduction and assault case, and others, moved the court for anticipatory bail after a fresh case was registered against them. After the director’s revelations, the Kerala government also approached the Supreme Court two weeks back with a plea to extend the trial for six more months. The new FIR was filed against Dileep, his brother Anoop, another relative Suraj, and two others (Appu and Babu) and they were charged under Indian Penal Code sections 116 (abetment of offence), 118 (concealing design to commit an offence), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Kumar, a former friend of the actor, claimed last month that he was in possession of the video of the assault on the woman actor and that the accused had tried to influence many witnesses in the case. He also alleged that he had met the main accused in the case, Pulsar Suni, at the residence of actor Dileep in 2016 when he had gone there to discuss a film project. Later, the prosecution recorded his statement under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. A leading woman actor was waylaid, kidnapped and sexually assaulted by a criminal gang in Kochi while she was returning home after a shooting assignment in 2017. Six months after the incident Dileep was arrested and made an accused in the case. The prosecution alleged that the attack was planned at the behest of Dileep to settle an old score with the woman actor. In four years, the high-profile case witnessed many twists and turns. While opposing his bail plea, the prosecution on Saturday said he was the first in the country to give a contract to rape a fellow actor with whom he had some disagreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-crime-branch-interrogates-malayalam-actor-dileep-four-others-101642950186417.html
23-01-2022||India||Netaji's statue will inspire democratic values, future generations, says PM Modi | Top quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled the hologram statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at India Gate in New Delhi as a tribute to the late freedom fighter on his birth anniversary on Sunday. This came just three days ahead of Republic Day, the celebrations for which began on Sunday, a day earlier, in a shift from the tradition when the celebrations were held between January 24 and January 26.Speaking at the event, PM Modi paid tributes to Netaji and recollected one of his sayings – Never lose faith in the dream of independent India, there is no power in the world that can shake India –  to assert that his government has set a target of building a new India before 2047, the 100th year of independence.  Here are top quotes from the Prime Minister's address during the event:>“It was my good fortune that our govt got the opportunity to declassify files related to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose...I pay my tribute to NDRF & SDRF personnel who lost their lives while serving the nation.”>Modi underlined that his government strengthened and modernised the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). “International agencies hailed our initiatives in the disaster management sector,” he added.“We have laid emphasis on reform as well as an emphasis on Relief, Rescue and Rehabilitation. We modernized NDRF, expanded it across the country. Space technology and other best possible practices have been adopted for planning and management.”>"Netaji used to say "Never lose faith in the dream of independent India, there is no power in the world that can shake India." Today we have a goal to fulfill the dreams of an independent India. We've a target to build a new India before 100th year of independence, 2047.">"Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose refused to bow before the British,”said Modi, adding the grand statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose will inspire democratic values and future generations.After unveiling the hologram statue, PM Modi also conferred the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskars, for the years 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022. The award is announced every year on January 23. The award carries a cash prize of ₹51 lakh and a certificate in case of an institution and ₹5 lakh and a certificate in case of an individual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netajis-statue-will-inspire-democratic-values-future-generations-says-pm-modi-top-quotes-101642948156613.html
23-01-2022||India||Trying to solve border issues made by Cong’s unplanned creation of NE states: Assam CM||Accusing the Congress of creating border issues in northeast through unplanned creation of new states, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday that his government is trying to correct those mistakes. The CM’s statement came following opposition from Congress and other parties to the recent agreement between Assam and Meghalaya to sort out differences in 6 disputed areas through a give and take formula of land swap. As part of the deal, of the total disputed area of 36.79 sq km in the 6 areas Assam would get 18.51 sq km while Meghalaya would get 18.28 sq km Besides Meghalaya, Assam has border disputes with Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Nagaland. As per Assam assembly records, the total area of border disputes with all four states is around 690 sq km. “Before criticizing us, Congress should realize that Meghalaya was carved out of Assam by them. We had to give up Shillong, which was our capital, and set up a new capital in Dispur,” said Sarma. “Not just Meghalaya, Congress was responsible for creating Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Nagaland by dividing Assam. If they had not done it, or sorted out the boundary issues at the time of creation of these new states, we wouldn’t have been facing disputes till now,” he added. Sarma said that creation of new states within northeast was part of a Congress plan to weaken the region. He said the party hurriedly created new states in the region without trying to sort out disputes. “As a result of Congress’s policies, people in northeast are suffering and we are fighting among ourselves. It was the design of Congress to keep the region in a weak and defensive position,” he said. “If states fight amongst themselves, we can’t go to Delhi and ask for something together as a region. It was Congress’s game plan. We are trying to correct that after 50 years. People in northeast want to live in peace. We have to create such an atmosphere. We owe it to our future generations,” Sarma added. Sarma informed that border talks would soon take place between Assam and Arunachal Pradesh and with Mizoram in the near future. Since the border dispute with Nagaland is pending in Supreme Court, he expressed the hope that it would get sorted in another 2-3 years. Earlier, Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the two biggest opposition parties in the state assembly, had opposed the land swap deal with Meghalaya and urged the BJP-led Assam government to discuss the issue in detail in the assembly before taking any hasty decision. Two regional parties, Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad stated that while the Assam government is trying to portray that each state would get nearly 50% share of the 6 disputed areas, in reality Meghalaya would gain control of half the areas it had encroached while Assam will only get back half of its land, which the neighbour had earlier captured. 
23-01-2022||India||‘We modernised NDRF’: PM Modi confers Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabhandan Puraskars||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday conferred the ‘Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskars’ on the occasion of ‘Parakram Diwas,’ the birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose. The awards were conferred for the years 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, as the nation observed the 125th birth anniversary of the freedom fighter.Also Read | Subhas Chandra Bose Jayanti: PM Modi unveils Netaji's digital statue at India Gate, Republic Day celebrations beginPK Tiwari, Commandant, 8th battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) received the honour for the year 2019. For 2020, Uttarakhand's Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre and KM Singh, a former director general of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), received the award.Also Read | In unveiling of Netaji's statue, PM Modi's message to the worldThe Sustainable Environment and Ecological Development Society (SEEDS) and Dr Rajendra Kumar Bhandari shared the award for 2021. Meanwhile, the awardees for the current year were the Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management (GIDM) and Professor Vinod Kumar Sharma.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi confers the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskars, for the years 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 pic.twitter.com/9z9Zcof6UCAddressing the gathering, Prime Minister Modi hit out at previous governments, who, he said, tasked the agriculture department with disaster management, adding that even international agencies lauded his government for its initiatives in this sector. “We have laid emphasis on reform as well as on relief, rescue and rehabilitation. We modernised the NDRF, expanded it across the country. Space technology and other best possible practices have been adopted for planning and management,” remarked PM Modi. Earlier disaster management was handled by the agricultural dept. Our govt strengthened NDRF. International agencies hailed our initiatives in the disaster management sector, PM Modi said after unveiling a hologram statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on Parakram Diwas pic.twitter.com/ltl4Vh9ackWe have laid emphasis on reform as well as an emphasis on Relief, Rescue and Rehabilitation. We modernized NDRF, expanded it across the country. Space technology and other best possible practices have been adopted for planning and management: PM Modi pic.twitter.com/E5ZIKXNOzSInstituted to recognise and honour contributions in the field of disaster management, the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar (literally SC Bose disaster management awards) are announced annually on January 23, the birth anniversary of Bose.Also Read | 5 things to know about sculptor Adwaita Gadanayak who will make India Gate Netaji statueThis award is given in two categories--individual and institution. For an institution, it carries with it a cash prize of ₹51 lakh, while an individual gets ₹5 lakh and a certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-modernised-ndrf-pm-modi-confers-subhas-chandra-bose-aapda-prabhandan-puraskars-101642943345913.html
23-01-2022||India||Bhim Army chief announces alliance of 35 smaller parties ahead of UP polls||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, who also heads the Azad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram), announced an alliance of 35 smaller political parties for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. The new alliance has been named the Samajik Parivartan Morcha. Azad, who had announced he would contest the election from the Gorakhpur urban assembly seat against chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said the alliance will not field a candidate against Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav who will contest from Karhal in Mainpuri district.“The Azad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram), the political outfit of the Bhim Army, has formed a pre-poll alliance with 35 smaller political parties to contest the assembly elections,” Chandrashekhar Azad said at a press conference at the party’s state unit office in Lucknow on Sunday.The alliance will field candidates on all the 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, he said. The announcement by Azad comes a day after the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday announced the launch of Bhagidari Parivartan Morcha of five political parties. Owaisi had said the alliance had kept its doors open for other smaller parties, including Bhim Army. Azad said the ASP will not tie up with the big or established political parties, but will form an alliance with the smaller political parties who are fighting for the rights of the Dalits, OBCs (other backward classes), tribals and Muslims. The alliance will release its manifesto for the assembly elections soon, he said.Prominent OBC leaders who joined the alliance included Babu Ram Pal and Raj Kumar Saini. Azad said he will launch his election campaign for the Gorakhpur urban assembly seat within a week.Before that, he will hold a virtual meeting with party workers in Gorakhpur and the work to establish committees at booth level has started, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhim-army-chief-announces-alliance-of-35-smaller-parties-ahead-of-up-polls-101642944542033.html
23-01-2022||India||BPF to be part of BJP, other ruling parties in Assam assembly, says Himanta Biswa Sarma||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said that the opposition Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) would henceforth be part of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its other coalition partners inside the state assembly. A former friend and ruling partner of the saffron party, BPF and BJP had parted ways in 2020 during elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). While BJP joined hands with the United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL) to come to power in BTC and continued the association in the 2021 assembly polls, BPF became part of the Congress-led alliance. Following the assembly poll debacle, BPF had dissociated itself with the Congress-led alliance. “Considering the present political atmosphere and after due deliberations in order to ensure smooth passage of bills in the legislature we have decided to welcome BPF as a friendly party inside the state assembly,” Sarma said. “From now BPF MLAs would be part of the treasury benches in assembly. This understanding is with the BPF legislature party and is restricted to the assembly and we have not reached any political agreement with the party,” he added informing that UPPL’s consent was taken before the move. With the new development, the strength of the ruling alliance in the 126-member state assembly rose to 81 (BJP-62, UPPL-7, Asom Gana Parishad-9 and BPF-3) while the opposition’s numbers came down to 44. One seat is lying vacant. On a separate note, Sarma welcomed the move by banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) not to call for boycott of the coming Republic Day celebrations. The insurgent outfit, which had earlier announced unilateral ceasefire of its activities, had refrained from boycotting Independence Day celebrations. “I welcome the positive step and believe that through such confidence building measures we will be able to sit for peace talks with the outfit in future,” he said. The CM announced setting up of a one-man inquiry committee comprising additional chief secretary Pawan Borthakur to probe the shooting of a former student leader by the police in Nagaon district on Saturday night. The committee will submit its report in a week. Kirti Kamal Bora, a former general secretary of the students’ union of Nagaon College, was shot by police after he allegedly attacked a police team which was probing a narcotic case. The youth, who sustained a bullet injury on his leg, is admitted at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH). “I had earlier issued strict instructions to the police to deal with criminals with a firm hand. But if any innocent is hurt by police actions, it won’t be tolerated. Measures will be taken against policemen, if they are found involved in wrongdoing,” said Sarma. 
23-01-2022||India||Subhas Chandra Bose Jayanti: PM Modi unveils Netaji's digital statue at India Gate, Republic Day celebrations begin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday (January 23) evening unveiled a grand, digital statue of freedom fighter and leader of erstwhile Indian National Army (INA) Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to mark the latter's 125th birth anniversary. The hologram statue has been installed at the India Gate canopy, which once housed the statue of King George V, the imperial icon of the country that Netaji fought all his life.After unveiling Netaji's statue, Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted the fact that Subhas Chandra Bose had refused to bow down before the British in all his years of struggle. “Soon, the hologram statue will be replaced by a grand granite statue,” the Prime Minister said. “Netaji's statue will inspire democratic values and future generations.”Also Read | In unveiling of Netaji's statue, PM Modi's message to the worldUnion home minister Amit Shah, who was also present at the event, said that the unveiling of the statue marks another step towards reviving Netaji's forgotten legacy in the history of India's freedom struggle. “Today marks a new beginning for the nation,” the home minister said, in his tribute to the life and works of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “This is not just a granite statue but also a befitting tribute to the legendary Netaji, who gave everything for India’s freedom.”Earlier this day, Prime Minister Modi had expressed his happiness at the fact that there is “immense enthusiasm” in the country regarding the unveiling of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's hologram statue.I am glad to see the immense enthusiasm towards the unveiling of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s hologram statue at India Gate this evening at 6 PM. At the same programme, the ‘Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskars’ would also be conferred. https://t.co/7RJzLrLC7aSeven awards in total were also presented during the ceremony. According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the central government has instituted the annual Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar to recognise and honour “the invaluable contribution and selfless service rendered by individuals and organisations in the field of disaster management.”The event comes across as especially historic since the country is celebrating its ‘Amrut Mahotsav’ this year, marking 75 years of Independence from British colonial rule. At the same time, the Prime Minister kickstarted Republic Day celebrations in a mark of respect for the date on which the Constitution of India came into effect turned the nation into a newly-formed republic.Also Read | 5 things to know about sculptor Adwaita Gadanayak who will make India Gate Netaji statueThis is the first time that India is beginning Republic Day celebrations from January 23 instead of January 24, to include the birth anniversary of late freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. It will end on January 30, the day Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated.Born on January 23, 1897, ‘Netaji’ (the title meaning ‘respected leader’ that Bose later earned) played a crucial role in India's freedom movement. Now, this grand statue of the freedom fighter seals his place in India's historic landscape as the nationalist hero who defied colonial rule and resisted the British as the leader of the Azad Hind Fauj, the army that faced the maximum attrition from the imperialists but never surrendered.The original statue, the digital version of which was unveiled today at the India Gate, was sculpted by Awaita Gadanayak, the director-general of the National Gallery of Modern Art.According to officials, the decision to install Netaji's statue was not taken in the spur of the moment by Prime Minister Modi but through intensive deliberations with the culture ministry and those manning historical archives. It is also befitting that Netaji, overlooking the Raisina Hills, will be taking salute of the Republic Day parade every year hence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subhas-chandra-bose-birth-anniversary-pm-modi-unveils-netaji-s-digital-statue-at-india-gate-republic-day-celebrations-begin-101642938153073.html
23-01-2022||India||Mamata rakes up promise by Centre to unravel Netaji mystery||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee attacked the Centre questioning Subhas Chandra Bose's whereabouts and its promise to unravel the mystery behind the disappearance of Bose, fondly remembered as Netaji.Mamata maintained that her government, on its part, "digitised all files related to Netaji at our disposal" to make these available in public domain.Sharpening her attack further, Mamata said the Narendra Modi led-Central government can't proclaim love for Netaji by just installing a statue of him.“Till today we don't know about Netaji's whereabouts. They (Centre) had said that when they come to power, they will work on it but nothing happened. In fact, we (state) have released & declassified all files on Netaji Bose,” news agency ANI quoted Mamata Banerjee as saying at an event in Kolkata.Also read | Shots fired at Netaji’s birthday celebration in Bengal town; TMC, BJP trade chargesOver the Centre's rejection of Bengal's Republic Day tableau on the legendary freedom fighter, the TMC supremo iterated that no reason was cited for summarily rejecting the tableau."We will roll out the tableau during the Republic Day parade on Red Road here. You (People) will see how vibrant and creative it is, summing up the spirit of Netaji’s valour and our 75th Independence The Centre cannot absolve itself of the injustice done to Bengal by rejecting its tableau," she said during her speech, reported news agency PTI.Without naming any party, the CM also said that attempts to change and distort the history of the country should be resisted.Also read | 'His sacrifice will forever inspire every Indian': Tributes pour in on Netaji's 125th birth anniversary"Those making such attempts should be asked if they have read the works of Netaji, his speeches. Remember his most trusted lieutenant in INA was a Muslim. The ones peddling the ideology of division and hatred must first learn about Gandhij, Netaji and B R Ambedkar," the TMC chief maintained.Mamata also made her opposition clear over the Centre's move to merge the flame of Amar Jawan Jyoti with the National War Memorial."The Centre is doing politics over this matter. We pay homage to all martyrs and freedom fighters. The Centre cannot create differences among soldiers who lost their lives for the nation. I challenge no one can delete the history of Bengal and India. If they do so, they are playing with fire."Netaji was born on January 23, 1897 and played a crucial role in India's freedom struggle.While there is a controversy over Bose's death in a plane crash in Taipei on August 18, 1945, the Central government had in an RTI (Right to Information) in 2017 confirmed that he had died in the incident, reported ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-rakes-up-promise-by-centre-to-unearth-netaji-mystery-101642937754344.html
23-01-2022||India||Ban opinion polls immediately: Samajwadi Party sends petition to ECI||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday wrote to the Election Commission of India (ECI) seeking a ban on opinion polls being aired by several television news channels.State president of the SP, Naresh Uttam Patel in a short letter to the ECI wrote: “Ban, with immediate effect, the opinion polls being run on television news channels”. Patel, also marking the copy of the letter to the chief electoral officer (CEO), UP, wrote in Hindi: “The dates for the elections to the UP assembly were declared on January 8 and the nomination filing for the first phase of the polls is already over. The state is going to have polls in seven phases for which the last date of polling is on March 7 and counting of votes will be held on March 10. Several television news channels are running opinion polls that are misleading the voters, and the elections are getting affected. At the same time it is also an open violation of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) for elections...So for free, fair, fearless polls it is necessary to ban opinion polls on television news channels with an immediate effect.”Samajwadi Party spokesperson Abdul Hafiq Gandhi said: “What’s the point in having an election, if TV channels are issuing verdicts like this that might affect voters’ mindset? It is necessary to ban the opinion polls to make it a level playing field for all in the fray. We all are well aware of the history of opinion polls and how off the mark they often turn out to be. And also the credibility of such survey has been under dispute.” “When these surveys happen, who does them; I have never come across any surveyor of any such opinion polls. Then there also is an issue about such poll surveys sample size. How could a tiny sample size against the vast population of the state, reflect a true picture of the entire state. Surveys must be banned,” the SP spokesperson emphasised. 
23-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Omicron-driven Covid-19 wave to peak by Feb 6, study says, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India's R-value declines further, current Covid-19 wave to peak by Feb 6: IIT MadrasThe existing, Omicron-driven wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country is likely to peak in the next 14 days, by February 6, a study conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras has concluded. The result is based on the institute's analysis of the national ‘R-value,' which, it said, declined further in the week of January 14-21. Read MoreVice president Venkaiah Naidu tests Covid positive, goes into self-isolationVice president of India M Venkaiah Naidu tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday. In a post from his official Twitter handle, Naidu tweeted saying he has tested positive for the coronavirus infection and that he'll be going into self-isolation for a week. He also advised his close contacts to get themselves tested and isolate to cut the further spread of the virus. Read MorePM Modi to unveil digital statue of Subhas Chandra Bose at India Gate canopyPrime Minister Narendra Modi today will unveil the digital statue of freedom fighter and leader of erstwhile Indian National Army (INA) Subhas Chandra Bose at the India Gate canopy, which once housed the statue of King George V, the imperial icon of the country that Netaji fought all his life. Home minister Amit Shah and culture minister G Kishan Reddy will also be present on the occasion as India celebrates the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji. Read MoreSyed Modi International: PV Sindhu wins women's singles title, beats Malvika Bansod 21-13 21-16Indian shuttler P V Sindhu clinched the Syed Modi International women's singles title after beating compatriot Malvika Bansod in the final. The two-time Olympic medallist eased past her young compatriot in the final that lasted 35 minutes. Playing in a depleted field due to multiple COVID-19 cases, top seed Sindhu hardly broke her sweat to beat Bansod 21-13 21-16 in a lop-sided title clash. Read MoreCervical cancer: 6 lifestyle changes to prevent the diseaseCervical cancer is a type of cancer that occurs in the cells of the cervix — the lower part of the uterus that connects to the vagina. It is commonly caused due to prolonged infection with human papillomavirus (HPV), a sexually transmitted infection. However, it is also a kind of cancer that is highly preventable. Read MorePriyanka Chopra, Nick Jonas get best wishes from Natasha Poonawalla on becoming parents, feature in yacht party photosActor Priyanka Chopra and her husband, singer Nick Jonas were congratulated by their friend Natasha Poonawalla with unseen photos of the couple. Taking to her Instagram account, Natasha shared photos from the couple's New Year vacation, which she was also part of. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-omicron-driven-covid-19-wave-to-peak-by-feb-6-study-says-and-all-the-latest-news-101642937297819.html
23-01-2022||India||Shots fired at Netaji’s birthday celebration in Bengal town; TMC, BJP trade charges||A scuffle between Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers over garlanding a statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at Bhatpara in Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district on Sunday afternoon marred the celebration of the freedom fighter’s 125th birth anniversary. TMC legislator from the district’s Naihati assembly constituency, Partha Bhowmick, alleged that security personnel of the BJP’s local Barrackapore Lok Sabha MP Arjun Singh fired seven rounds while the latter accused ruling party workers of opening fire, hurling bombs and ransacking his car. The allegations were raised after a quarrel between TMC and BJP workers over garlanding a statue of Netaji. The programme was organised by the TMC-controlled Bhatpara municipality. Singh alleged that he was stopped from garlanding the statue and subsequently attacked. “Arjun Singh is trying to unleash terror in this region. His security personnel fired seven rounds although not even a stone was hurled at him. I am asking local people to be on the alert. Singh’s men may try to create more disturbance,” said Bhowmick. Even as video footage captured by local television channels showed one of Singh’s security personnel loading a pistol and pointing it at some people who confronted the MP, police said the allegations of firing were being probed but there was no evidence of any clash or ransacking. “The fiasco started after a minor scuffle between two men. Only one man was injured. It has been alleged that shots were fired but no cartridge case was found from the spot. We are looking into this. The Member of Parliament went to the celebration without informing the administration, which is mandatory according to protocol. Policemen deployed at the spot said there was no violence or bombing,” said Manoj Verma, commissioner, Barrackpore Police. “Does the TMC hold exclusive rights to honouring Netaji? I was targeted. My security personnel were attacked with guns and bombs. My car was damaged. What can the police commissioner do? He is helpless. It is the job of the local police to track my movements and provide security cover but it is never done,” said Singh. Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar rushed to the spot. “A bullet narrowly missed one of the Central Industrial Security Force personnel accompanying Singh. We demand a probe by the Centre. Singh enjoys ‘Z’ category security cover,” said Majumdar. BJP central leaders targeted chief minister Mamata Banerjee who was celebrating the occasion in Kolkata at that time. “West Bengal under Mamata Banerjee has become lawless. From the gory post-poll violence under her watch which saw men maimed and killed, women raped, there isn’t a day her goons don’t run amok. Today, BJP MP Arjun Singh was attacked while garlanding Netaji’s statue, her police looked on,” tweeted Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s national information technology cell and co-in-charge of the state unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shots-fired-at-netaji-s-birthday-celebration-in-bengal-town-tmc-bjp-trade-charges-101642936860270.html
23-01-2022||India||Vice president Venkaiah Naidu tests Covid positive, goes into self-isolation||Vice president of India M Venkaiah Naidu tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday. In a post from his official Twitter handle, Naidu tweeted saying he has tested positive for the coronavirus infection and that he'll be going into self-isolation for a week. He also advised his close contacts to get themselves tested and isolate to cut the further spread of the virus.“The Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, who is in Hyderabad, tested COVID positive today,” read a post on the official Twitter handle of the Vice President of India. “He has decided to remain in self-isolation for a week. He has advised all those who came in contact with him to isolate themselves and get tested.”Earlier in the day, the vice president had paid his floral tributes to “Netaji” Subhash Chandra Bose in Hyderabad on the occasion of the latter's 125th birth anniversary on January 23. “He [Netaji] personified selfless devotion to the cause of motherland,” the vice president said. “The entire nation fondly remembers and salutes the legendary leader on Parakram Divas today.”Meanwhile, India registered 3,33,533 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, slightly lower than the previous day, showed the Union health ministry's data updated on Sunday morning. The death toll spiked to 4,89,409 with 525 new fatalities.Also Read | Is Omicron ‘subvariant’ more virulent? Concerns over BA.2 as India reports 530 samples to GISAIDThe state of Telangana, where the vice president is at, had reported as many as 4,393 new Covid-19 cases yesterday, which pushed the cumulative infection tally to 7,31,212. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) saw 1,643 cases followed by the districts of Medchal Malkajgiri (421) and Ranga Reddy (286), said the state health department bulletin.Notably, India is the world's second worst-hit country by the coronavirus pandemic after the United States.More than 1.6 billion vaccine doses have also been administered so far under nationwide vaccination drive. This takes into account 71,10,445 vaccine doses administered in the last 24 hours, including 5,42,321 booster or ‘precautionary’ doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-tests-covid-positive-goes-into-selfisolation-101642935930549.html
23-01-2022||India||Chinese have confirmed presence of Indian teen on their side, says Indian Army||The Indian Army on Sunday informed that their Chinese counterpart has communicated about the presence of an Indian teenager on their side—five days after a 17-year-old Arunachal Pradesh youth went missing after being allegedly abducted by China’s Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA). “The Chinese PLA has confirmed that they have found an Indian boy on their side. Further details, including about his identity, are awaited,” said Lt Col Harsh Wardhan Pande, PRO (Defence), Tezpur, Assam. Though there is no clarity yet on whether the boy located by the Chinese side is Miram Taron, a resident of Zido village of Upper Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh, allegedly abducted on Tuesday by PLA, Indian Army authorities are hopeful that he is the same youth who went missing. Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Arunachal-East, Tapir Gao, had tweeted earlier that the teenager was abducted from inside Indian territory at Lungta Jor under Siyungla area (Bishing village) of Upper Siang district. As soon as the news of his disappearance spread, the Indian Army got in touch with PLA and stepped-up efforts to bring him back. Sources said that once the identity of the youth is known, it could be around one week more before he is returned to India. 
23-01-2022||India||5 things to know about sculptor Adwaita Gadanayak who will make India Gate Netaji statue||Sculptor Awaita Gadanayak, the director-general of the National Gallery of Modern Art, will be sculpting the proposed statue of freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to be installed at India Gate. PM Modi will unveil the digital version of the statue at 6pm on Saturday. The statue will be put at a place where the statue of George V was there till 1968. Once completed, the statue will be seen from Raisina Hills. Adwaita Gadanayak is a noted sculptor and he sai he is delighted that PM Modi chose him for this grand responsibility.Here are 5 things to know about Adwaita Gadanayak> Adwaita Gadanayak was born and brought up in Neulapoi village of Dhenkanal district in Odisha.> Gadanayak pursued art education from BK College of Arts and Crafts and completed his masters from Delhi Art College.> Gadanayak also studies art at Slade School of Fine Arts in London. The celebrated sculptor received many awards: National Lalit Kala Akademi Award in 1993; Odisha Lalit Kala Akademi Award in 1999 etc.> The sculptor's most famous projects include Gandhi's Dandi March statue in Rajghat. His works have found place in London as well.> In 2016, he became the director generation of the National Gallery of Modern Art. Before that, he was heading the School of Sculpture at Bhubaneshwar's KIIT University. At the university campus, he created a sculptor park.The work for carving the statue has begun as soon as PM Modi made the announcement of a Netaji statue at India Gate. Black jade granite stone from Telangana will be used for the statue and the design has been prepared by the ministry of culture. Till the statue is completed, a hologram statue of Netaji would be present at the same place, which will be unveiled on Sunday on the 125th birth anniversary of the Azad Hind Fauj founder. A hologram is a photographic recording of a light field, rather than an image formed by a lens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-things-to-know-about-sculptor-adwaita-gadanayak-who-will-make-india-gate-netaji-statue-101642932966686.html
23-01-2022||India||India's R-value declines further, current Covid-19 wave to peak by Feb 6: IIT Madras||The existing, Omicron-driven wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country is likely to reach its peak in the next 14 days, by February 6, a study conducted by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras has concluded. The result is based on the institute's analysis of the national ‘R-value,' which, it said, declined further in the week of January 14-21.‘R-value’ is the number of people who can contract a virus from a person who is already infected with it. According to the study conducted by IIT Madras, the said value was recorded at 1.57 in the latest round, as against 2.2 from January 7-13, while from January 1-6 it stood at 4 and was at 2.9 from December 25-31 last year.Also Read | India's Covid R-value dropped between January 7 and 13: 5 pointsFor individual cities, the R-value stood at 0.56 for Kolkata, 0.67 for Mumbai, 0.98 in Delhi and 1.2 in Chennai, the data showed. If this number goes below 1, the pandemic is considered to have ‘ended.’Explaining the figures, Dr Jayant Jha, Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics, IIT-M, said the wave has already peaked in Kolkata and Mumbai, which means that in the two cities, the pandemic is becoming ‘endemic.’“Therefore, as per the analysis, the peak of the current coronavirus wave is likely to come in the next 14 days, till February 6. Our previous prediction was that the peak would likely come between February 1 and 15,” Jha further said.Also Read | Omicron is transmitting in community, dominant strain in metro cities: CentreIIT Madras' Department of Mathematics and its Centre of Excellence for Computational Mathematics and Data Science jointly conducted the research, putting into use the ‘computational model.’In the last 24 hours, India recorded 333,533 fresh Covid-19 infections, 259,168 recoveries and 525 related deaths. The cumulative case tally stands at 39,237,264 including 36,560,650 recoveries, 21,87,205 active cases and 489,409 deaths.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-r-value-declines-further-current-covid-19-wave-to-peak-by-feb-6-iit-madras-101642931918713.html
23-01-2022||India||Thinking people hurt: Chidambaram on removal of Gandhi's favourite hymn||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Sunday the government's move to drop Mahatma Gandhi's favourite hymn 'Abide with me' from this year's Beating Retreat ceremony has hurt the "thinking and sensitive" people. 
23-01-2022||India||Republic Day 2022: Full text of Preamble to the Constitution of India||India on Sunday kicked off its Republic Day celebrations with 'Parakram Diwas,' a day dedicated to iconic freedom fighter Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. January 23 is also Netaji's birth anniversary.January 26th is significant for the country's political history as it is the day when the country formally adopted its constitution in 1950. It replaced the Government of India Act (1935) as the governing document of India and thus, turning the nation into a newly formed republic.What is Preamble to the Constitution of India?The Preamble to the Constitution of India is an introductory statement that presents the key principles of the Constitution. It was adopted on 26 November 1949 by the Constituent Assembly and came into effect on 26 January 1950, celebrated as the Republic day in India.Full text of Preamble to the Constitution of IndiaWE, THE PEOPLE OF INDIA, having solemnly resolved to constitute India into a SOVEREIGN SOCIALIST SECULAR DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC and to secure to all its citizens:JUSTICE, social, economic and political;LIBERTY of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship;EQUALITY of status and of opportunity; and to promote among themallFRATERNITY assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the Nation;IN OUR CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY this twenty-sixth day of November, 1949, do HEREBY ADOPT, ENACT AND GIVE TO OURSELVES THIS CONSTITUTION.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2022-full-text-of-preamble-to-the-constitution-of-india-101642929406796.html
23-01-2022||India||₹20 lakh fine imposed on Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport over poor runway maintenance||India's aviation regulatory body, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) imposed a fine of ₹20 lakh on Kolkata's Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport (NSCBIA) for violating safety norms by neglecting runway maintenance."After the regulator started safety auditing for airports a few months back, the audit report found that NSCBIA has committed serious safety norms violations, especially on the runway maintenance work. It has been decided to impose a fine of ₹20 lakh," a senior official from DGCA confirmed to ANI.The DGCA's audit report suggested that the Kolkata airport has been negligent in the maintenance of the runway as per the mandated safety requirement.The Regulatory has issued a show-cause notice to the airport in case of serious violation of security rules at the airport."According to the audit report, the maintenance of the runway at Kolkata airport was not done as per the guidelines, the lights on the runway were not fixed properly and Foreign Object Debris (FOB) was reported on the runway, which could have been a part of an aircraft's safety during landing and takeoff was a concern," DGCA official told ANI.The Airports Authority of India (AAI) did not comment on ANI's queries regarding the DGCA action, but AAI sources told ANI that, "An internal committee has been constituted to look into the said incident."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-20-lakh-fine-imposed-on-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-international-airport-over-poor-runway-maintenance-101642928624414.html
23-01-2022||India||Republic Day celebrations begin today: Dress rehearsal in full force at Rajpath | In photos||Ahead of Republic Day, a full dress parade rehearsal was held at Rajpath in New Delhi on Sunday. The rehearsal commenced from Vijay Chowk on the route towards Red Fort for the parade scheduled on January 26.Out of a total of 21, only 12 tableaux of selected states and union territories, along with nine ministries are showcasing at the Republic Day parade this year. The Centre had reduced the number of tableaux due to limited time and space in order to follow the necessary Covid-19 protocols.Chief ministers of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala had voiced against the decision after their tableaux were not selected for the parade.Notably, the Indian Navy's marching contingent for this year's January 26 parade will comprise 96 personnel and three platoon commanders led by one contingent commander, forming a total of 100 personnel. As per Lieutenant Preeti posted at INS India, the Navel tableau is in pursuance of Combat Ready, Credible and Cohesive.The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will have two tableaux at the Republic Day parade this year displaying indigenously developed sensors, weapons and electronic warfare systems for light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas and air independent propulsion (AIP) systems for Indian submarines.The Army will be represented by a mounted column of cavalry, 14 mechanised columns, six marching contingents and a flypast by advanced light helicopters of its aviation wing at the Republic Day parade. The mechanised columns of the Army will show one PT-76 tank, one Centurion tank, two MBT Arjun MK-I tanks, one OT-62 TOPAS armoured personnel carrier, one BMP-I infantry fighting vehicle and two BMP-II infantry fighting vehicles.Among the states, the Uttar Pradesh tableau is set to feature a replica of Kashi Vishwanath Dham, showcasing the glorious history and culture of the ancient city at this year's Republic Day parade. It will also showcase the state government's ‘One District One Product’ (ODOP) programme which seeks to preserve, develop and promote indigenous products, arts and handicrafts and create employment opportunities.Haryana's tableau for the Republic Day parade is themed 'Haryana- Number One in Sports' to showcase the pride of India in the field of sports. On the posterior side, a life-size replica of Olympian Neeraj Chopra in javelin throwing posture will be showcased on the tableau. On both sides, activities of players from selected sports of Haryana like Boxing, Weight-lifting, Shooting, Discus-Throw and Hockey have been depicted in the high relief.Karnataka's tableau for this year's January 26 parade is themed 'Karnataka, the cradle of traditional handicrafts'. Meanwhile, Gujarat's tableau at the Republic Day parade in Delhi is set to showcase the massacre of 1,200 tribal freedom fighters of Sabarkantha district by the British.In a first, Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this week announced that Republic Day celebrations will begin a day early from January 23 to include the birth anniversary of late freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Usually, the celebrations begin on January 24.In order to facilitate smooth passage of the parade, the Delhi Police has restricted the movement of traffic on certain roads in the national capital. Delhi Police had issued a traffic advisory in the city for roads as well as the metro.On Day 1, the Prime Minister will unveil the hologram statue of the freedom fighter at India Gate in Delhi on Sunday at around 6 pm. As per reports, the Republic Day celebrations will end on January 30, the day Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-celebrations-begin-today-dress-rehearsal-in-full-force-at-rajpath-in-photos-101642919974356.html
23-01-2022||India||Explained: The protest against JSW steel project in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: More than 12 years after it signed a memorandum of understanding with Odisha government to build the largest integrated steel plant in India, Korean steelmaker Posco had to abandon its project in the face of popular resistance from a small village that formed the epicentre of protest. Dhinkia, the seaside village, one of the 8 villages in Erasama block of Jagatsinghpur district which were to be acquired by Odisha for the Posco steel project, forced the Korean company to retreat in 2017. A little more than four-and-a-half years later, the same village is now at the epicentre of protests against Sajjan Jindal owned JSW Utkal Steel that plans to construct a 13.2 million tonne per annum integrated steel project at the same site which would be fed iron ore from the company’s proposed 30 MTPA iron-ore grinding plant in Keonjhar district via a 312 km-long slurry pipeline. A 52 MTPA captive jetty located near the mouth of Jatadhar river mouth will also cater to the import and export requirements of the company. While people of Dhinkia village are still carrying on the fight against any industrial activity on their farmlands, on January 14, the protest took a violent turn after 12 platoons of Odisha police cracked down on hundreds of people resulting in injury to over 20 including women and children. Many villagers are still hiding wary of police arrest. Following two separate PILs in the Orissa high court, the court on Thursday directed the state government to submit a status report on the situation by the month end. What lies at the heart of protest? The JSW project requires 2,950.31 acres of land of which 2,700 acres was acquired by the government for the failed Posco project in 2013 and subsequently reserved for JSW after the company announced setting up of the 13.2 million tonne per annum steel plant in 2020. Though technically 2677.8 acres of the land is shown as forest land in government records, most of it is undulating sand dunes where people have built betel vineyards that does not take much capital, but brings in a steady stream of income for the impoverished villagers. Dhinkia grampanchayat which led the protest against Posco between 2005 and 2017, formed 30 per cent of total land requirement of the Korean steel project. But wisened by the past experience, the government by a sleight of hand has carved Dhinkia village into three separate revenue villages - Mahala and Jogisahi, Patana and Dhinkia- thus minimising the scale of protest. A public hearing held on December 20, 2019 turned out to be a ‘farce’ as many of the project-affected village residents did not participate in the meeting. The Dhinkia palli sabha also passed a resolution against the project that year. Activists allege that the government now has to deal with 45.56 acres of land in Dhinkia village alone having demolished betel vines in rest of the two hamlets. In the current phase of land acquisition for JSW project, 425 betel vineyards out of 625 tragetted have already been demolished by the district administration. The January 14 violence occurred after the villagers of Dhinkia wanted to resist the demolition of betel vineyards breaching a wall of police cordon. While the project has the forest clearance in place, Prashant Paikray of Jindal Pratirodh Sangram Samiti says the way the government is pushing through without the necessary environmental clearance smacks of an autocratic attitude of the government. “When the Indian Oil Corporation built its 15 million tonne refinery in early 2000, people of Dhinkia lost 62 acres of farmland. While the compensation ranged between ₹80000 to ₹1.03 lakh per acre, villagers agreed to give land when they were promised jobs. Even those from local villages who lost their homestead land did not get permanent jobs in the refinery which they were promised. With little education and skill level why would they trust JSW Steel or for that matter any company,” asked Paikray. Activist Prafulla Samantra points out to the distrust against industrialisation to the poor records of the Odisha government in rehabilitation. A 2018 study done by two professors from Koraput’s Central University of Odisha on development in villages displaced by Nalco, found that the living condition of the displaced people actually turned worse over the years. “There is lack of any employment. Villages lacked civic amenities while children were deprived of schooling. Most of the displaced people lived in semi-pucca house and source of drinking water continued to be either open well, handpump or pond water,” said Samantra quoting the study. Will JSW meet the same fate as Posco? Unlike Posco project where the state government dithered over taking a proactive approach, perhaps wary of the Tata Singur controversy in neighbouring Bengal that buried the CPI(M) government, in the case of JSW project, Naveen Patnaik seems to be interested in grabbing that last chance in big ticket industrialisation. Patnaik has become the butt of criticism after the Periodic Labour Force Survey showed that employment in Odisha declined by 19.3 lakh during 2011–12 and 2017–18 with many graduates and matriculates migrating to neighbouring states for livelihood. Amid the spiralling protests, JSW Steel officials said they have announced a rehabilitation project better than the state’s R&R in which the betel vine owners would get compensation of Rs. 17500 per decimal while the government rate was Rs. 6,000 per decimal. Additionally, a bonus of ₹50,000 per betel vine, irrespective of size would be provided after demolition. Besides, a door-to-door survey in the land losing villages have been done to identify one eligible member between the age group of 20-30 years for giving them direct or indirect engagement to one member in any of JSW group companies, associated company or contractors of the plant or project agencies, in a phased manner. For the time being, any work in the project site may lead to escalation of violence like that of January 14 as at least six of the leaders protesting the project, including Debendra Swain, the main leader, continues to be behind bars with police charging him with several cases under IPC including attempt to murder and criminal intimidation among others. On Friday, around 13 Opposition political party leaders approached the local police to talk about the release of protesters. The Congress leader who visited Dhinkia alleged that by escalating violence in Dhinkia, Naveen Patnaik is avenging the setbacks he received in the Posco project by using police force in Dhinkia against the villagers. Despite the government intent on acquiring the land for the steel project, much will depend upon how deftly the government handles the protest and how the public resistance shapes up in the coming days and the backing they receive from human rights organisations and political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-the-protest-against-jsw-steel-project-in-odisha-101642928278147.html
23-01-2022||India||Omicron is transmitting in community, dominant strain in metro cities: Centre||The expert committee (INSACOG) which studies various strains of SARS-CoV-2 and their genome sequencing has concluded that Omicron, the variant driving the third wave of the pandemic, is in the community transmission stage in India and has become the dominant strain in multiple metros. The observation was made early this month in its latest bulletin of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics or Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium or INSACOG."Omicron is now in community transmission in India and has become dominant in multiple metros, where new cases have been rising exponentially. BA.2 lineage is in a substantial fraction in India and S gene dropout based screening is thus likely to give high false negatives," it said.Community transmission of Omicron in Delhi: What this new study claimsWhile most Omicron cases so far have been asymptomatic or mild, hospitalisations and ICU cases have been increasing in the current wave. The threat level remains unchanged, the expeSeveral states earlier said that Omicron was spreading in the community as patients without foreign travel history, without being a contact of anyone who has travelled abroad contracted the Omicron variant.Omicron, the variant first detected in South Africa on November 24 last year, is driving the third wave of the pandemic in the country. It has emerged as the dominant variant, replacing Delta, the variant which drove the second wave of the pandemic in India. In metro cities, Omicromn has already become the dominant strain, while in districts it is on its way to replacing Delta.The first few cases of Omicron in the country reported in December 2021 were among foreign travellers. Within weeks, Omicron spread rapidly indicating that the variant is not anymore confined within the person-to-person transmission, but has spread in the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-is-transmitting-in-community-dominant-strain-in-metro-cities-centre-101642924579041.html
23-01-2022||India||In unveiling of Netaji's statue, PM Modi's message to the world||Prime Minister Narendra Modi today will unveil the digital statue of freedom fighter and leader of erstwhile Indian National Army (INA) Subhas Chandra Bose at the India Gate canopy, which once housed the statue of King George V, the imperial icon of the country that Netaji fought all his life. Home minister Amit Shah and culture minister G Kishan Reddy will also be present on the occasion as India celebrates the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji.While both PM and HM are slated to speak on the occasion, the installation of the granite statue of Netaji under the canopy is in recognition of the leader of INA as one of the foremost freedom fighters of India. INA was the army that faced maximum attrition (26,000 out of total 90,000 died) but never surrendered to the British. Its officers and men were captured and put on trial but never signed any surrender document before the British.From this evening, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s statue will be put at the place where the statue of George V used to reside till 1968. The imperial ruler for whom the 1911 Delhi Durbar was held with practically all the ruling prince and noblemen in India present to pay his obeisance to the newly crowned Emperor of India. It is also befitting that Netaji will be taking salute of the Republic Day parade every year hence.The installation of Netaji’s statue is not merely all about nationalistic pride, it is also a message to the world as India stands up to pay respects to a revolutionary leader who was with the losing side in World War II. According to officials, the decision to install Netaji's statue was not taken in the spur of the moment by Prime Minister Modi but through intensive deliberations with the culture ministry and those manning historical archives. According to a former foreign secretary, Netaji’s statue is also an assertion of India which will henceforth not be judged by yardsticks of western/chopsticks culture, or specifications. 
23-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Congress urges Thackeray to ban ‘Why I killed Gandhi’movie and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress urges Thackeray to ban ‘Why I killed Gandhi’ movie, AICWA writes to PM ModiCongress will request Maharashtra chief minister Uddav Thackeray to ban a movie titled ‘Why I killed Gandhi’, the party’s state unit chief Nana Patole said on Sunday. Read more Kejriwal says ED planning to arrest Satyendar Jain before Punjab electionAam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he the party has intelligence information that the Enforcement Directorate is planning to arrest Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain ahead of the Punjab Assembly Elections 2022. Read more‘He should forget and forgive’: Shoaib Akhtar backs Kohli to bounce back strong, says ‘there are lobbies against him’Almost two weeks after relinquishing Test captaincy, former Pakistan speedster Shoaib Akhtar has backed Virat Kohli to bounce back stronger. The Rawalpindi Express described the past few months as “tight” for Kohli and believes many lobbies have been formed against the 33-year-old which ultimately led to him stepping down as Team India captain in all the formats one after the other. Read more Shraddha Kapoor is perfect bridesmaid for best friend's wedding in chic lavender gown: All pics and videosActor Shraddha Kapoor's best friend of over 12 years and make-up artist Shraddha Naik got married on a quaint hilltop in Lonavala last month. Read more  Priyanka Chopra says her pet peeve is 'when female characters are written as weak just because they're female'In a recent interview, Priyanka Chopra revealed that female characters being written as ‘weak or emotionally marred’ as opposed to the male characters is her ‘pet peeve’. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-urges-thackeray-to-ban-why-i-killed-gandhi-movie-and-all-the-latest-news-101642920188139.html
23-01-2022||India||Congress urges Thackeray to ban ‘Why I killed Gandhi’ movie, AICWA writes to PM Modi||Congress will request Maharashtra chief minister Uddav Thackeray to ban a movie titled ‘Why I killed Gandhi’, the party’s state unit chief Nana Patole said on Sunday. The movie has triggered huge controversy since it is based on the statement submitted by Mahatma Gandhi’s killer, Nathuram Godse, to the special court explaining his reason behind assassinating Gandhi.Nana Patole said it is unacceptable if Mahatma Gandhi’s murderer is portrayed as a hero, reported news agency ANI. Highlighting India’s global image, Patole noted the country is known through Gandhi and his ideology of non-violence. He said the Congress party will oppose the movie’s release and will request the chief minister to impose a ban on it in Maharashtra.All India Cine Workers Association (AICWA) has, meanwhile, written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding a complete ban on the movie saying the film glorifies “Nathuram Godse the traitor and killer of the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi.”“Gandhiji is someone who is admired by entire INDIA and the world, Gandhiji's Ideology is a symbol of Love and Sacrifice for each and every Indian," the letter read."Nathuram Godse…doesn't deserve an inch of respect by anyone in this country, the actor who played the role of Nathuram Godse…is a sitting MP in Lok Sabha and is under the oath of Indian Constitution, if this movie releases the entire nation will be shocked and devastated by the display of the heinous crime which occurred on January 30, 1948," it further stated.The movie 'Why I killed Gandhi' is set to release on Limelight OTT on January 30, Gandhi's death anniversary, which is observed as Martyrs Day.Nationalist Congress Party MP Amol Kolhe, a leading Marathi actor who has played Godse in the movie, is facing criticism from a senior party colleague and also political opponents over the role. Kolhe, however, asserted he is a "firm believer" in Gandhian thoughts and maintained he took up the controversial role only to challenge himself as an artist. The actor-politician said he does not support the ideology of Godse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-urges-thackeray-to-ban-why-i-killed-gandhi-movie-aicwa-writes-to-pm-modi-101642918914327.html
23-01-2022||India||Kejriwal says ED planning to arrest Satyendar Jain; but he won't whine like Charanjit Channi||Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the party has intelligence information that the Enforcement Directorate is planning to arrest Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain ahead of the Punjab Assembly Elections 2022. "We got the information from our sources that in the coming few days, before the Punjab election, the ED is coming to arrest Satyendar Jain. Centre had raided Jain twice before and found nothing. Now if they want to come again, they are welcome. Because it is the election season and when the BJP sees it is losing, they deploy all central agencies. So it is evident that there will be raids, arrests will be made," Kejriwal said."We are not scared because we are on the path of the truth and these obstacles are bound to come. Please send all other agencies like income tax, CBI, Delhi Police etc. We have all been raided before. 21 MLAs have been arrested in past. In this case too, maximum Satyendar Jain will be arrested and then will get bail in a few days. We are not scared to be arrested," Kejriwal said.Full coverage of Punjab Assembly Elections 2022"But we won't whine like Charanjit Singh Channi because we have not done anything wrong. Channiji is distraught because he has something to hide. People now know what he has done in 111 days. We don't have anything like that. All central agencies are welcome to not only Satyendar Jain's place but also at my place, Manish Sisodia's place and you can also raid Bhagwant Mann," Kejriwal said.In the run up to the Punjab elections, the ED recently raided chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey's house in connection with an old sand mining case. Channi said the Centre is misusing the central agencies only to intimidate him.Satyendar Jain's past case under ED, CBIIn 2017-18, Jain came on ED radar in connection with a money laundering case. The case was filed by the CBI which claimed that Jain could not explain the source of funds received by four companies in which he was a shareholder. These four companies included Prayas Info Solutions, Akinchan Developers, Managalyatan Projects and Indo-Metal Impex Pvt Limited. Jain and his wife were alleged holders of one-third of the shares of these companies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-says-ed-planning-to-arrest-satyendar-jain-before-punjab-election-101642919941851.html
23-01-2022||India||Missing boy from Arunachal found, China's PLA informs Army||The Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) on Sunday informed the Indian Army that they have found a missing boy from Arunachal Pradesh and following due procedure for his release or return. “The Chinese Army has communicated to us that they have found a missing boy from Arunachal Pradesh and the due procedure is being followed,” said PRO Defence, Tezpur Lt Col Harshvardhan Pandey, as reported by ANI.It is yet to be confirmed if the person found is Miran Taron, the 17-year-old boy who the Army had sought assistance for.Further details are awaited.Who is Miran Taron?According to the officials, the teenager is a native of Zido village in Upper Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh. He was allegedly abducted by the PLA on earlier this week. The district authorities said that Taron, along with a few others, was hunting in the bordering region between two countries when the incident took place.The Army contacted the PLA as soon as it received the information about the missing boy.A similar incident took place in September 2020 when the PLA had abducted five youths from Arunachal Pradesh's Upper Subansiri district and released them after about a week. The latest episode happened at a time when India and China are engaged in a nearly two-year-long standoff in eastern Ladakh.Notably, India shares a 3,400 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh.So far, officials from both sides have held 14 rounds of military-level talks, but no resolution has been found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-boy-from-arunachal-found-china-s-pla-informs-army-101642918542347.html
23-01-2022||India||VIMSAR principal’s office properties attached over unpaid dues of retrenched staff||The official car of the principal of a leading government medical college and hospital in western Odisha, and two buses, numerous furniture, several computers and computer peripherals belonging to the college were attached by officials of a court on Saturday after a civil court ordered for its auction to pay wages amounting to ₹80 lakh to three of the 27 contractual employees who were laid off in 2007. Swetambar Purohit, the lawyer for the three entrenched contractual employees of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR) in Burla, said the order of a civil court in Sonepur district for sealing of movable properties of the principal’s office was executed by the staff of senior judge, civil division, Sambalpur. “Armed with the orders of the civil judge senior division of Sonepur that passed the order for attachment of movable properties listed by the contractual employees for auction, the staff of the local court sealed the official car of the principal, two buses of the college, two pairs of table and chair, two sofa sets, 16 computers, 6 wooden tables, a glass table, 41 steel almirahs, 20 wooden almirahs, 7 printers and three xerox machines. It took more than 11 years to get justice for the three workers,” said Purohit. “Once these properties are auctioned off, the money accrued from them would be paid to the three employees who had moved court”. The authorities of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in September 2007 removed 27 contractual employees from services without any notice. Three of them - a gatekeeper, an attendant and a sweeper - first moved the State Administrative Tribunal against the dismissal. Though the tribunal ordered for their reinstatement, the medical college and hospital authorities did not act following which the retrenched employees moved a labour court under Industrial Disputes Act. Though the hospital authorities contended that they did not come under ID Act, the labour court in 2016 asked them to pay the workers their arrear dues and reinstate them in their previous positions. When the VIMSAR authorities refused to act on the labour court orders, the three workers moved Orissa high court seeking execution of the labour court orders. The Orissa high court initially asked the workers to approach a civil court in Sambalpur for redressal of their grievances, but later allocated the case to the civil judge senior division in Sonepur district as several courts in western Odisha were on strike. The case lingered for 2-3 years in civil court in Sonepur till the Orissa high court asked them to dispose the cases quickly following which the warrant of attachment of movable property in execution of decree of money was acted upon. Court officials said once the movable properties are auctioned off, former gatekeeper-cum-electrician of VIMSAR, Khirod Kumar Sahoo will get ₹29.6 lakh as arrears from the proceeds. Rebati Kanta Kalet, who was a sweeper in 2007, would get ₹25.31 lakh while former attendant Sambhunath Sahu would get ₹25.46 lakh. “If the proceeds from the auctioned amount does not meet the cost, then another case regarding auction of immovable properties of VIMSAR authorities would be initiated,” said the lawyer of the former employees. He added that the remaining 24 employees who were retrenched can also seek judicial remedy by approaching the labour court as a precedence has been set by the three employees. However, legal cell officer of VIMSAR, Ashok Panigrahi said he welcomed the court order, but sealing the office at this juncture will affect Covid management with more than 20 doctors testing positive. “Our case is sub judice in the high court and it will be heard soon,” he said. The principal of VIMSAR, Dr Jayashree Dora refused to comment on the sealing of her office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vimsar-principal-s-office-properties-attached-over-unpaid-dues-of-retrenched-staff-101642918437130.html
23-01-2022||India||PM Modi to address 85th edition of Mann Ki Baat radio programme on Jan 30||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation in the 85th episode of his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat' on January 30 at 11:30 am.This will be the first edition of the year."This month's Mann Ki Baat, which will take place on the 30th, will begin at 11:30 am after observing the remembrances to Gandhi Ji on his Punya Tithi," said Prime Minister's Office (PMO)."Mann ki Baat" is the Prime Minister's monthly radio address, which is broadcast on the last Sunday of every month. The programme will be broadcast on the entire network of AIR and Doordarshan and also on AIR News and mobile app.Earlier, the Prime Minister had called citizens to share their views for this edition of 'Mann ki Baat'."On the 30th of this month, the first #MannKiBaat of 2022 will take place. I am sure you have lots to share in terms of inspiring life stories and topics. Share them on @mygovindia or the NaMo App. Record your message by dialling 1800-11-7800," PM Modi said in a tweet.The first episode of the programme was broadcast on October 3, 2014.In his last episode of Mann Ki Baat, which was broadcast on December 26, the Prime Minister with an aim to encourage people to follow the 'Swachh Bharat' initiative had said that the resolve of cleanliness will be fulfilled only with discipline, awareness and dedication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-85th-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-radio-programme-on-jan-30-101642916213023.html
23-01-2022||India||Taslima says her surrogacy tweets have nothing to do with Priyanka Chopra, Nick Jonas||A day after Bangladeshi author Taslima Nasreen kicked up a storm on Twitter through her different opinion on surrogacy, the author on Sunday clarified that her opinion, which is against the practice of surrogacy, has nothing to do with Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas, who became parents via surrogacy a day before. "I love the couple," Taslima said. Calling surrogate children readymade babies, Taslima drew ire on social media and many social media users pointed out that it is insensitive. Taslima contended that her opposition is from a different point of view. 
23-01-2022||India||Rainfall likely in several states today with no change in minimum temperature. Check details||No significant change in minimum temperatures over most parts of Northwest India, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra is expected during the next 24 hours, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The Met department said in its weather forecast that Gujarat is likely to witness a fall in minimum temperatures by 4-6 degrees Celsius over the next two days and no significant change thereafter.A Western Disturbance (WD) is lying as a cyclonic circulation over north Pakistan while an induced low-pressure area is lying over central parts of West Rajasthan and neighbourhood with associated cyclonic circulation extending up to lower tropospheric levels.Under the influence of these synoptic situations, moderate rainfall or snowfall accompanied with isolated thunderstorms, lightning, and hailstorm is likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on January 23. Isolated heavy rainfall or snowfall is also very likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.Widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorms, lightning, or hailstorm is very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh on January 23 reduce thereafter to isolated rainfall.Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Sikkim are predicted to receive scattered to fairly widespread rainfall for the next two days, with maximum activity on January 23. Isolated thunderstorm with lightning and hail is very likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Gangetic West Bengal on Sunday. The IMD has also predicted isolated and scattered light rainfall over Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.“Fairly widespread/widespread light/moderate rainfall very likely over Northeast India during 23rd-25th January. Isolated thunderstorm with lightning very likely,” the IMD said.Meanwhile, light intensity intermittent rain/drizzle would continue to occur over and adjoining areas of Yamunanagar (Haryana), Saharanpur, Deoband, Nazibabad, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnaur, Hastinapur, Chandpur, Amroha, Moradabad, Garhmukteshwar (Uttar Pradesh) during the next two hours, according to the latest updated by IMD.“Light intensity intermittent rain/drizzle would continue to occur over and adjoining areas of Saharanpur, Deoband, Nazibabad, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnaur, Hastinapur, Chandpur, Kithor, Amroha, Moradabad, Garhmukteshwar, Sambhal (U.P.) during next 2 hours,” it tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-likely-in-several-states-today-with-no-change-in-minimum-temperature-check-details-101642914559267.html
23-01-2022||India||Who is Dharmendra Pratap Singh, India's ‘tallest man’, who has joined Akhilesh's party?||Amid BJP's tall leaders in Uttar Pradesh like Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan, joining the Samajwadi Party, now literally the tallest man of India, Dharmendra Pratap Singh, has joined Akhilesh Yadav's party. Singh claims to be the tallest man in the country with a height of 8 ft 1 inch. The party has tweeted a photo of Singh posing with Samajwadi Party leaders including Akhilesh Yadav.The world record of the tallest man is 11 inches more.Here are a few things to know about Dharmendra Pratap Singh> The tallest man of India is a resident of Narharpur Kasiyahi village of Pratapgarh district.> While his joining the Samajwadi Party has again brought him to the limelight, he is very famous for his height. His name is mentioned in the Guinness World Records.Full coverage of Uttar Pradesh Assembly Election 2022 समाजवादी पार्टी की नीतियों एवं श्री अखिलेश यादव के नेतृत्व पर आस्था जताते हुए आज प्रतापगढ़ के श्री धर्मेन्द्र प्रताप सिंह ने समाजवादी पार्टी की सदस्यता ग्रहण की।https://t.co/JUSa85GaNO pic.twitter.com/mWIcv50LbJ> This is his official debut in politics, but he was affiliated with the Samajwadi Party and he remained an attraction in election campaigns as people want to take photos with him.> Dharmendra Pratap Singh has two sisters and brothers. He once said though he is famous for his height, it is a hindrance in his life as well. No one wants to marry him and neither does anyone give him any job. He said earlier he cannot enter offices and buildings.> For a living, Dharmendra Pratap, who holds a masters degree, used to go to Delhi and Mumbai to allow people to click photos with him.> Dharmendra Pratap has suffered long after a car accident in 2013. In 2019, he underwent a challenging hip replacement surgery in Ahmedabad's KD Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-dharmendra-pratap-singh-tallest-man-of-india-who-has-joined-akhilesh-s-party-101642914211284.html
23-01-2022||India||4-member committee to probe Mumbai building fire incident; report in 15 days||A four-member committee has been formed to probe the Kamala building fire incident which resulted in multiple casualties in Mumbai, Maharashtra, news agency ANI on Sunday reported citing an order from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The investigation will be presided over by a deputy municipal commissioner level officer and a report will be submitted to the BMC commissioner in 15 days, the order stated.A massive fire broke out inside the 20-storey Kamala building in Mumbai on Saturday morning. The incident claimed the lives of six people and left 23 injured. The firefighting officials received the first information about the fire at 7.28am. It took the fire brigade about two and a half hours to bring the level 3 (massive) fire under control and almost five hours to fully douse it.It was the fourth high-rise fire in three months in Mumbai to have resulted in casualties.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the kin of those who lost their lives. He also announced ₹50,000 for injured persons.The Uddav Thackrey government also announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh for the family of the deceased and assured proper investigation into the incident."The fire incident that occurred at the Kamala building in Mumbai's Tardeo area will be investigated. Our guardian minister of Mumbai Suburban Aaditya Thackeray and Mumbai City guardian minister Aslam Shaikh will look into it," deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said in a statement on Saturday.According to fire department officials, the firefighting system at the Tardeo’s Kamla building, also known as Sachinam Heights building, was not operational at the time of the fire. "The internal firefighting system of the building was not working, and the building has not even submitted its biannual fire safety audit to the fire brigade," said Hemant Parab, chief fire officer of the Mumbai fire brigade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4member-committee-to-probe-mumbai-building-fire-incident-report-in-15-days-101642912323697.html
23-01-2022||India||'His sacrifice will forever inspire every Indian': Tributes pour in on Netaji's 125th birth anniversary||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior ministers on Sunday remembered Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary. "India gratefully pays homage to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary. The daring steps that he took to fulfill his fierce commitment to the idea of a free India — Azad Hind — make him a national icon. His ideals and sacrifice will forever inspire every Indian," the President's office tweeted.Paying tributes to the iconic freedom fighter, the Prime Minister said, "Every Indian is proud of his monumental contribution to our nation." "I bow to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his Jayanti," he tweeted.Union minister for home affairs Amit Shah also remembered Netaji for his "unparalleled struggle" for the motherland. "He shook the foundation of foreign rule by organising the youth with his extraordinary patriotism, indomitable courage and stunning speech. His unparalleled sacrifice, tenacity and struggle for the motherland will always guide the country," he said."I bow to the great leader of independence Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary, " the home minister tweeted.Meanwhile, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee appealed to the central government that Netaji's birthday should "be declared a national holiday to allow the country to pay homage to the national leader.The central government has already declared Netaji's birth anniversary as "Parakram Diwas," a day of valour. To honour the leader, the government decided to start the Republic Day celebrations from January 23.PM Modi is scheduled to inaugurate a hologram statue of Netaji at the India Gate. It will remain there till the time the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-sacrifice-will-forever-inspire-every-indian-tributes-pour-in-on-netaji-s-125th-birth-anniversary-101642909499809.html
23-01-2022||India||Covid-19: India adds 3,33,533 new cases, 525 deaths in last 24 hours; daily positivity rate at 17.78%||India registered 3,33,533 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, slightly lower than the previous day, showed the Union health ministry data updated on Sunday morning. The death toll spiked to 4,89,409 with 525 new fatalities.The daily active cases surged by 73,840, taking the active caseload to 21,87,205. The active cases account for 5.57 per cent of total infections. A total of 2,59,168 recoveries were recorded in the last 24 hours, the health bulletin stated.At the same time, the daily positivity rate increased marginally to 17.78 per cent, as compared to Saturday when it stood at 17.22 per cent. The weekly positivity rate stands at 16.87 per cent.Notably, India is the world's second worst-hit country by the coronavirus pandemic after the United States.More than 1.6 billion vaccine doses have been administered so far under nationwide vaccination drive. This takes into account 71,10,445 vaccine doses administered in last 24 hours, including 5,42,321 booster or ‘precautionary’ doses.Also Read | Positive or negative: Self-test kits causing Covid confusion?Among the worst-hit cities, Delhi witnessed a marginal rise with as many as 11,486 fresh infections on Saturday. A total of 45 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, the highest since June 5 last year.Mumbai, on the other hand, logged a 28 per cent drop in new Covid-19 cases as the city reported 3,568 infections on Saturday. This accounts for an 83 per cent decline from Mumbai's all-time high just two weeks ago. Maharashtra continues to be at the top spot of India's Covid-19 hierarchy with 46,393 cases in the last 24 hours, driven by the Omicron surge. Kerala takes the second spot with 45,136 cases, followed by Karnataka with 42,470 cases, Tamil Nadu with 30,744 and Gujarat with 23,150 cases.Meanwhile, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have reported more than 10,000 cases in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-adds-3-33-533-new-cases-525-deaths-in-last-24-hours-daily-positivity-rate-at-1778-101642909042280.html
23-01-2022||India||Mamata urges PM Modi to declare Netaji’s birth anniversary as national holiday||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday urged the central government to declare Netaji Subash Chandra Bose’s birthday as a national holiday. The repeated request comes days after the central government decided to start the Republic Day celebrations from January 23 in order to include Bose’s anniversary, which has been declared as ‘Parakram Diwas’ (day of valour) by the Centre.“We again appeal to the Central Government that Netaji’s birthday be declared a National Holiday to allow the entire Nation to pay homage to the National Leader and celebrate #DeshNayakDibas in most befitting manner,” Mamta Banerjee said in a tweet.Paying homage to the iconic leader, Banerjee said, “he is an epitome of patriotism, courage, leadership, unity and brotherhood. Netaji has been and will continue to be an inspiration for generations”.This year on Republic Day, West Bengal will exhibit a tableau on Netaji that will also feature other prominent freedom fighters from the state to commemorate the 75th year of India’s Independence.West Bengal is soon going to have a separate Bengal Planning Commission, Banerjee proclaimed.“Drawing inspiration from Netaji’s thoughts on National Planning Commission, a Bengal Planning Commission will be set up to help the state in its planning initiatives”, she added.ALSO READ| Subhas Chandra Bose 125th birth anniversary: Unveiling of Netaji's statue, floral tributes at Central HallHighlighting some long-term initiatives of the state government, Banerjee said a national university with international collaborations, Jai Hind University, is being set up with 100 per cent state funding.The government of West Bengal is all set to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji as 'Desh Nayak Dibas' in a befitting manner all over the state following all the Covid-19 protocols, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-urges-pm-modi-to-declare-netaji-s-birth-anniversary-as-national-holiday-101642909033341.html
23-01-2022||India||11 killed, 30 injured in two separate road mishaps in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: At least 11 persons were killed and more than 30 injured in two separate road mishaps in Odisha on Saturday after a coal-laden truck hit a bus from its rear while a SUV carrying members of a bridegroom’s party rammed into a truck. In the first incident, six persons including a one-year-old girl and her parents were killed when the bus they were travelling from Manitri in Mayurbhanj district to Bhubaneswar was hit by a coal-laden truck on National Highway 16 at Soro on Saturday afternoon. The bus, ‘Shantilata’, was on its way to Bhubaneswar from Udala. At 1.10 pm, it stopped near Bidu Chhak on NH-16 to board passengers when a coal truck rammed it from behind. The impact was so severe, both the bus and the truck fell off the road and landed in a ditch by the highway. “While three persons died on the spot, three others died while undergoing treatment. Health conditions of six others are stated to be critical,” said Dilip Choudhury, owner of the bus. At least a dozen more passengers in the bus were injured while the driver and helper of the truck are said to be critical. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced compensation of ₹2 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. He also directed officials to ensure that the injured get the best medical treatment. Earlier in the day, five of a bridegroom’s party including a father-daughter duo were killed and five others seriously injured when the SUV they were travelling back to their home collided head on with a truck on a bridge over Mahanadi River in Sonepur district late Friday night. Sonepur SP Sitaram Satpathy said 10 people from Nimna and Panchmahala village under Ullunda block of Sonepur district were returning after attending a marriage function at Kaudiamunda village when the Bolero jeep they were in ran into the truck over the Mahanadi bridge at around 1 am. Ashish Pandia and his daughter Siddhi Pandia were killed on the spot along with Pramod Pandia, Trayambak Meher and Subham Pandia. Five others were rescued from the badly mangled vehicle by police and other rescue teams with the help of gas cutters. Fatalities rate in road accidents in Odisha is 33.33% higher than the national average. While 48 die in every 100 road accidents in Odisha, the national average is 36. There has been steady increase in number of fatalities from 2014 (3,931) to 2020(4,738), an increase of about 21%. As per State Road Safety Council officials, over-speeding contributed to 69 per cent of the deaths followed by violation of helmet law (41 per cent) and hit and run cases (20 per cent). The SC has recently pulled up the State government for not adopting a focused approach for preventing fatalities by enforcing stringent measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-killed-30-injured-in-two-separate-road-mishaps-in-odisha-101642909378474.html
23-01-2022||India||Morning brief: Arunachal Pradesh’s Sela tunnel project enters decisive phase and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Arunachal Pradesh’s Sela tunnel project enters decisive phase: Defence ministryThe Sela tunnel project in China-bordering Arunachal Pradesh, which will allow faster deployment of weapons and soldiers to forward areas in the Tawang sector, has entered a decisive phase, defence ministry has announced. Is Omicron ‘subvariant’ more virulent? Concerns over BA.2 as India reports 530 samples to GISAIDBritish health authorities have identified hundreds of cases of the latest version of the Omicron variant, dubbed BA.2, amid concerns over its transmissibility. Read MorePlea in SC seeks protection for Hindus against hate speechesA Hindu organization has approached the Supreme Court demanding equal protection for Hindus against hate speeches made by Muslim leaders in the past. Read More‘Deeply concerning’: US on alleged Russia plot to install pro-Kremlin leader in UkraineThe White House on Saturday called the UK government assessment of the Kremlin’s plan to install pro-Russian leader in Kyiv “deeply concerning”, saying it stands with the democratically elected Ukrainian government. Read More‘It’s time to look at somebody else': Gavaskar suggests dropping senior pacer for 3rd ODI, names replacementIndia's medium-pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar has proved to be ineffective in the first two ODI against South Africa at Boland Park in Paarl. Read MoreNagraj Manjule on shooting Unpaused Naya Safar segment Vaikunth: ‘It made me depressed’Nagraj Manjule doesn't like the word debut. When you point out to him that he has just made his Hindi debut, he brushes it away. Read MoreDeepika Padukone or Parineeti Chopra: Who wore the elegant all-white sharara set better?Actor Parineeti Chopra is currently staying busy as she shoots for the reality TV show Hunarbaaz, on which she is a judge along with Karan Johar and Mithun Chakraborty. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/morning-brief-arunachal-pradesh-s-sela-tunnel-project-enters-decisive-phase-says-defence-ministry-and-all-the-latest-news-101642907459529.html
23-01-2022||India||Is Omicron ‘subvariant’ more virulent? Concerns over BA.2 as India reports 530 samples to GISAID||British health authorities have identified hundreds of cases of the latest version of the Omicron variant, dubbed BA.2, amid concerns over its transmissibility. The UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) designated the Omicron variant sub-lineage as a variant under investigation due to increasing numbers of BA.2 sequences both domestically and internationally.Britain has so far confirmed 426 cases of Omicron BA.2 by conducting Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS), the earliest case reported on December 6, 2021. With 146 confirmed cases of BA-2. London has reported the highest number of Omicron subvariant in the UK, followed by the South East (97).While there is still uncertainty around the significance of the changes to the viral genome, early analyses, according to UKHSA, suggest an increased growth rate compared to the original Omicron lineage BA.1.“[H]owever, growth rates have a low level of certainty early in the emergence of a variant and further analysis is needed,” the health agency added.A total of 40 countries have reported 8,040 sequences of Omicron sublineage to GISAID, a primary source that provides open access to genomic data of influenza viruses and the coronavirus. The first sequences were submitted from the Philippines. With 6,411 sequences, most samples of BA-.2, so far, have been uploaded from Denmark. India has reported 530 samples of Omicron subvariant, followed by Sweden with 181 and Singapore with 127.‘Stealth Omicron’: All you need to know about fast-spreading sub-strainIs it more virulent?Dr Meera Chand, Covid-19 Incident Director at UKHSA, said the nature of viruses is to evolve and mutate so the emergence of new variants is expected as the pandemic goes on.“So far, there is insufficient evidence to determine whether BA.2 causes more severe illness than Omicron BA.1, but data is limited and UKHSA continues to investigate,” Chand said.French epidemiologist Antoine Flahault expressed surprise over the rapidity with which the sub-variant of Omicron has taken hold in Denmark, reported AFP."(France) expected a spike in contaminations in mid-January: It didn't happen and perhaps that is due to this sub-variant, which seems very transmissible but not more virulent" than BA.1, he said, stressing that countries have to be alert to the latest development as scientists ramp up surveillance.Citing early observations from India and Denmark, Tom Peacock, a virologist at Imperial College, London, said that there is no dramatic difference in severity compared to BA.1.In a series of tweets, he stressed that "we do not currently have a strong handle on ... how much more transmissibility BA.2 might have over BA.1. However, we can make some guesses/early observations."He added that the latest variant should not call into question the effectiveness of existing vaccines.
23-01-2022||India||Light rainfall in Delhi, adjoining areas; snowfall in Vaishno Devi shrine||The national capital, along with various other parts of Northern India, continued to receive light showers on Sunday. With this, the minimum temperature is likely to remain 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal across the western Himalayan region, east-central and east and northeast India, according to the early morning weather bulletin by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD)."Light intensity rain/drizzle with moderate intensity rain over a few places would occur over and adjoining areas of many places of Delhi, NCR," the weather department said in a tweet. The IMD has also predicted dense fog in isolated pockets over Delhi and its adjoining areas.In nearby Uttar Pradesh as well, the IMD has predicted light rainfall with dense fog. "Light intensity intermittent rain/drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of Saharanpur, Deoband, Nazibabad, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnaur, Khatauli, Sakoti Tanda, Hastinapur, Chandpur, Daurala, Meerut, Modinagar, Kithor, Amroha, Moradabad, Garhmukteshwar," the IMD said."Very dense fog is reported at northwest Madhya Pradesh (Gwalior 25m visibility) and Dense Fog over Balasore (north coastal Odisha) and Dibrugarh (Assam) with 50 m visibilities," the IMD tweeted.Cold wave conditions prevailed in the Himalayan region, with Himachal Pradesh expected to experience bad weather till January 24. The Met department has issued a warning of heavy rains in Una, Bilaspur, Sirmaur and Kangra districts till Monday with a prediction of snowfall in higher regions.In Jammu and Kashmir, the cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi in Jammu and Kashmir was covered under a thick layer of snow after a fresh snowfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rainfall-in-delhi-adjoining-areas-snowfall-in-vaishno-devi-shrine-101642902684906.html
23-01-2022||NA||Breaking News Highlights: Mumbai's fresh Covid cases fall to 2550, daily toll rises to 13||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Kerala records 45,449 new cases of Covid-19 disease, 38 deaths in 24 hoursKerala reported 45,449 new cases of the Coronavirus disease in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of active cases to 2,64,638.The state also recorded 38 related deaths and 27,961 recoveries on Sunday.Japanese envoy to India extends wishes on 125th birth anniv of NetajiSatoshi Suzuki, ambassador of Japan to India, on Sunday extended his wishes on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.Satoshi said in a video message, "I wish to extend my sincere congratulations on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. As COVID-19 protocols prevent me from joining you in person in Kolkata on this memorable occasion. Kindly, allow me to convey my message through this video."Mumbai logs 2,550 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths in last 24 hoursMumbai logs 2,550 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths in the last 24 hours.PM unveils Netaji's digital statue at India GatePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday evening unveiled a grand, digital statue of freedom fighter and leader of erstwhile Indian National Army (INA) Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to mark the latter's 125th birth anniversary. Read more Delhi reports 9,197 fresh Covid-19 cases, 34 new deathsDelhi has reported 9,197 fresh cases of the Coronavirus dieases (Covid-19) and 34 related deaths in the past 24 hours.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu tests positive for Covid-19, goes into self-isolationउपराष्ट्रपति श्री एम वेंकैया नायडु आज कोविड टेस्ट रिपोर्ट में पॉजिटिव पाए गए। वे आजकल हैदराबाद में हैं। कोविड प्रोटोकॉल का पालन करते हुए उन्होंने स्वयं को एक सप्ताह के लिए अलग आइसोलेट रखने का निर्णय किया है।Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu has tested positive for Covid-19 and undergone self-isolation.DRDO releases video showcasing technologies developed for armed forces#WATCH | Ahead of the Republic Day parade, DRDO releases a video showcasing the technologies developed by the organisation for the armed forces.(Source: DRDO) pic.twitter.com/m6SJyoBzSTThe Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has released a video showcasing the technologies developed by the organisation for the armed forces.Punjab Lok Congress chief Amarinder Singh releases 1st list of candidatesPunjab Polls | Out of 22 candidates- 2 candidates from Majha, 3 from Doaba and 17 from Malwa region. The second list is likely to be released in two days: Punjab Lok Congress' Captain Amarinder Singh pic.twitter.com/AH6t54CeI8Punjab Lok Congress chief Amarinder Singh has released first list of 22 candidates for the upcoming assembly polls.Prominent PDP leader Yashpal Sharma passes awayProminent PDP leader and former member of legislative council Yashpal Sharma died after suffering a heart attack at his residence in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir early Sunday, PTI quoted officials as saying.PM Modi offers tribute to Netaji in Central Hall at Parliament HousePrime Minister Narendra Modi offers tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary in the Central Hall, Parliament House.India reports 3,33,533 Covid cases in last 24 hours, positivity at 17.78%India registered 3,33,533 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, slightly lower than the previous day, showed the Union health ministry data updated on Sunday morning. Read moreNDRF Twitter handle hacked on Saturday, says rescue force; details awaitedNational Disaster Response Force (NDRF) Twitter handle was hacked on Saturday, January 22. We will look into it right away, said NDRF DG Atul Karwal as reported by news agency ANI.PM Modi to unveil Netaji statue at India Gate todayTo honour Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary on January 23, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unveil the grand statue of the legendary freedom fighter at India Gate “as a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him”. Read more‘Every Indian is proud’: PM Modi tweets in honour of Netaji JayantiI pay homage to Shri Balasaheb Thackeray on his Jayanti. He will be remembered forever as an outstanding leader who always stood with the people.President Kovind pays homage to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversaryIndia gratefully pays homage to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary. The daring steps that he took to fulfil his fierce commitment to the idea of a free India — Azad Hind — make him a national icon. His ideals and sacrifice will forever inspire every Indian.“India gratefully pays homage to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary. The daring steps that he took to fulfil his fierce commitment to the idea of a free India — Azad Hind — make him a national icon. His ideals and sacrifice will forever inspire every Indian,” the President tweeted.Tamil Nadu observes complete lockdown todayThe Tamil Nadu government announced a Sunday lockdown, restricting all activities barring only essential services, in view of a sharp increase in coronavirus cases and the highly transmissible Omicron variant. The lockdown started at 10pm on Saturday as part of the night curfew and will end at 5am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-23-2021-101642896783884.html
23-01-2022||India||Administer vaccine doses three months after Covid-19 recovery: Centre to states||The health ministry has asked states to delay vaccine doses, including booster shots, by three months for people who have recently suffered a coronavirus infection.“Please note that: in case of individuals having lab test proven Sars-2 Covid-19 illness, all Covid vaccination including precaution dose to be deferred by three months after recovery,” additional health secretary Vikas Sheel said in a letter to the states on Friday.“I request you to kindly direct the concerned officials to take note and also ensure effective dissemination of the information to service providers as well as the general public through all forms of media,” the letter added.Covid-19 vaccination of children aged 15 to 18 years started from January 3, and administration of the booster dose for health and front-line workers, and people aged 60 years and above with comorbidities started from January 10 under the national Covid vaccination programme. India calls the third shot a “precaution dose”. The prioritisation and sequencing of booster doses is based on the completion of nine months (39 weeks) from the date of administration of the second dose, according to health ministry guidelines.In several countries administering booster doses, the gap is six months, which science has shown is the time when antibodies generated by the vaccine start decreasing. To be sure, immunity is a complex mechanism and driven by more then just antibodies. Science also says people can get vaccinated soon after they recover from a Covid infection, although many countries do prescribe a gap.Sheel said the letter was written because several states and UTs them wanted guidance on how to go about vaccinating either those with an active illness, or those who have recently recovered. In a briefing on Thursday, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the guidelines are clear -- the vaccine is to be administered three months after recovery.“Our guidelines clearly state that three months after recovering from Covid infection, an individual can take his or her second or precaution dose. This is based on current evidence, and will be changed if there is enough scientific evidence to suggest a change. Our expert panel, NTAGI, is closely looking into it, and regularly deliberating over it,” he said. NTAGI is short for National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India.The health ministry’s directive of maintaining a gap of three months post recovery is based on the recommendations made by the same expert panel.
23-01-2022||India||Two terrorists killed in Shopian gunfight||Two terrorists were killed on Saturday in a gunfight with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, police officials said.A police spokesperson said that based on a specific input regarding the presence of terrorists in village Kilbal area of Shopian, a cordon-and-search operation was launched. “During the search operation, as the joint search party proceeded towards the suspected spot, the hiding terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which was retaliated effectively leading to an encounter,” he said.The slain terrorists, identified as Sameer Ahmad Shah of Shopian and Rayees Ahmad Mir of Pulwama were associated with terror outfits Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and The Resistance Front (TRF), said police.In another development, Awantipora police along with 55RR and 185BN CRPF arrested a terrorist associate linked with terror outfit JeM in Awantipora. He has been identified as Umer Farooq Bhat of Awantipora, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-killed-in-shopian-gunfight-101642887221967.html
23-01-2022||India||Bury proposed amendments to IAS (Cadre) rules: Jharkhand CM to PM Modi||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to set aside the proposed amendments to the IAS (Cadre) rules, 1954, saying the proposals were “draconian” and against the spirit of ”cooperative federalism”.In a letter to the Prime Minister, Soren said that shortage in central ministries can be addressed ‘from the pool of other 30-odd All India Services’ the Centre has at its disposal.The Union government has proposed an amendment to IAS (Cadre) rules, which will enable it to post IAS officers on central deputation, bypassing reservations of state governments.“The Jharkhand government had received a proposal from the Centre seeking certain amendments in the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954 and the state already communicated its disagreement on it,” the letter read. “In the meantime, we have received another draft of the proposed amendments in the cadre rules of All India Services which, prima facie, appear to be more draconian than the previous proposal,” Soren added in the letter.“I feel constrained to write this letter to express my strong reservations and apprehensions about these proposed amendments and strongly urge you to bury it at this stage only,” the letter read.The development after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote a second letter to Modi, asking him to withdraw the proposed changes to IAS (Cadre) rules. Banerjee said it goes against the “foundation of our federal policy and the basic structure of Constitutional scheme”. Earlier, Banerjee had written to the Prime Minister on January 13, urging him to not go ahead with the proposal.In his letter, Soren also said the move is likely to further strain the already stressed Centre-state relations. “It has immense potential to be misused for harassment of officers and vendetta politics against the state government.”“If the objective is to meet the shortage of officers, it is not a desirable move because the state government exclusively get the services of only three category of officers i.e. IAS, IPS & IFS whereas the Government of India gets a huge pool of officers from a poool of more than 30-odd other All India Services for which the UPSC males recommendations without fail. The shortage in ministries could be easily met from this pool of officers,” Soren said.The CM reiterated that Jharkhand currently has only 140 IAS officers (65%) working in the state against the sanctioned strength of 215, while 95 IPS officers (64%) are working the affairs of Jharkhand against the sanctioned strength of 149.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bury-proposed-amendments-to-ias-cadre-rules-jharkhand-cm-to-pm-modi-101642877684266.html
23-01-2022||India||How an Irish soldier’s dream pioneered India’s gold rush||When Tesla Motors decided to set up an office in India, the location selected was on Bengaluru’s Lavelle Road. Tesla, a pioneer in its own right, setting up its office on Lavelle Road was poetic as the road is named after another pioneer — Michael Fitzgerald Lavelle — the man considered as father of India’s gold rush. Lavelle, a retired Irish soldier from the British Army, wanted to make the second chapter of his life worthwhile. Little did he know, his quest will lead to the discovery of world’s second deepest goldmine — Kolar Gold Fields (KGF).In 1871, Lavelle came across a four-page article from the 1804 Asiatic Journal. The article was based on a report by Lt John Warren, who was serving His Majesty’s 33rd Regiment of Foot.As per the report, in 1799, after Tipu Sultan was defeated in the battle of Srirangapatanam, a deal was struck to hand over all the land seized from Tipu’s empire to the Mysuru princely state. Prior to this handover, a survey of the lands was ordered, and Lt Warren was a part of the team. As he was heading for the survey, he began hearing rumours about presence of gold in Kolar. Villagers turning up with bullock carts filled with mud and later washing it to isolate gold dust intrigued the officer, following which he ordered an investigation. The probe found that for every 120 lbs or 56 kg of earth, one grain of gold could be extracted using the villagers’ crude methods and with the help of professionals. Excited about the 67-year-old report, Lavelle left for Kolar to try his luck. “During his stay at New Zealand, he got acquainted with the gold mining process there,” said S Srikumar, author of Kolar Gold Field: Unfolding the Untold. “He visited the present KGF area in 1871 to do some preliminary investigations and successfully prospected certain locations, but kept the results a secret,” he added. In 1873, he wrote to the Maharaja’s government seeking a licence to mine. “Should I be successful in my search, it will be of greatest value to the government; in case I fail, it will cost the government nothing as the only assistance I require is the right to mine…” he wrote in the letter to the chief commissioner Mysore and Coorg. After securing a 20-year lease to mine in the Kolar, on 2 February 1875, Lavelle started the era of modern mining in India. Over the years he began running out of funds while conducting the gold mining operations. However, a novel written on Lavelle’s ventures came to his rescue. His vision of creating fields of gold had become the premise of the novel – Living Dangerously by FE Penny. Owing to the novel’s popularity in 1877, one Maj Gen Beresford of the Madras Staff Corps in Bangalore came to support Lavelle’s business. He along with three others – McKenzie, Sir William and Col William Arbuthnot – formed a syndicate with several other army officers called ‘The Colar Concessionaries Company Limited’, which took over the mining operations. The syndicate roped in a company that brought state-of-the-art mining engineering to India. The arrival of these engineers from Norwich, England started the golden era of KGF. Following this, Lavelle retired from mining and returned to Bengaluru.His successful expedition and the resultant prosperity made him a popular figure in the Bengaluru English circuit and the British Commandant renamed the street where he lived as Lavelle Road. He was rewarded with a grant of seven acres between Grant Road (now Vittal Mallya Road) and Lavelle Road. Lavelle built a bungalow over two acres on Grant Road. The property was called Oorgaum House in memory of Lavelle’s village where he had started the first mining expedition. In 1918, Lavelle left for England and sold this building to Peter George D’Souza, a high-ranking civil servant in the provincial government of Mysore. Even though the building made way for apartments over the years, Lavelle’s name remained the one constant. 
23-01-2022||India||18-year-old UP resident quizzed over hate chat on Clubhouse||Delhi Police have identified an 18-year-old man from Lucknow for allegedly creating the audio chat room on Clubhouse where participants were last week heard making offensive and derogatory comments against Muslim women, leading to a public outcry, officers aware of the matter on Saturday said.The suspect was identified as Rahul Kapoor, who joined the group using the ID “Bismillah” (in the name of God). Police said Kapoor, who joined the investigation in Delhi on Saturday afternoon, revealed the identity of the other five participants after which they too joined the investigation. The statements were recorded. Police have also seized their cell phones and other documents connected to the case.“We sent a team to Lucknow after identifying Kapoor as one of the participants. He is a first-year student. He created an ID by the name of Bismillah. He then created the chat room on the instructions of a person called Sallos. He handed the moderator keys to Sallos,” said KPS Malhotra, chief of the Intelligence Fusion Strategic Operation (IFSO) unit, which is Delhi’s Police’s cyber cell.Police said that Kapoor’s father works as an accountant at Lucknow’s Army Public School.Delhi Police on January 18 registered an FIR (first information report) against unknown persons in the case related to an offensive chat on Clubhouse, an audio based social media network. A portion of the conversation, which was shared across social media platforms, showed the participants making offensive and derogatory comments about Muslim women.Though HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the two-minute-twenty-second clip, the screen showed there were 70 to 80 participants in the chat room at the time, including users going by the names Sallos, Bismillah, Kira, Aanchal, Roma, Harsh, Jerry, Kavya, Mank and K.DCP Malhotra said the five other participants too have joined investigation. “Sallos is a class 12 student. He is 17 years old. He had initially created an account in Clubhouse by the name of Alcoholic Singh and later changed it to Sallos. Anchal Anand, a resident of Kerala is another participant. She had participated in a chat with another user Roma. But in the said chat Anchal had passed general remarks. Her phone and notepad have been seized. Roma Makkar is a resident of Nizamuddin. She is a yoga coach. She has admitted that the voice in the video is hers but said that she was there before the offensive comments were made.”Police identified participant Kira (mentioned above) as Naumaan Jabber, a resident of Jodhpur. Police said Naumaan had shared the details of his account with Akash Suyal(arrested by Mumbai police). “There is also a first year B Com student Harsh Pal of Dehradun. We have seized his phone and laptop too. He claimed that he was there in the chatroom for 10 minutes but did not take part in the chat. Rahul has already told us that the person behind user name Sallos is a 17-year-old, whom he knew virtually. Sallos spoke filthy in the chat and then left the group that day. His phone has also been seized.”On Friday, Mumbai Police’s cyber cell arrested three people from Haryana over the same case. Police said the three also participated in the controversial conversation. Mumbai Police registered an FIR in the case on January 19. The Mumbai police and Delhi Police are conducting separate probes.Of the three arrested by Mumbai Police, B.Com student Jaishnav Kakkar, 21 and law student Yash Parashar, 22, are from Faridabad, and Akash Suyal, 19, is a Class 12 student from Karnal.Explaining why Delhi police are yet to arrest any of the six suspects, DCP Malhotra said, “The controversy erupted over a video of the chat discussion on Clubhouse. Before proceeding, we want to ascertain the authenticity of the video recording. We want to build a water-tight case. We have to rule on any voice modulation in the video so that the case does not get affected during trial. The only evidence in the case so far is the first source who recorded a video of the audio conversation. That is the only evidence of the vulgar remarks. Club house also does not record the audio conversation.”This is third such case in the last eight months where offensive photographs or messages have been posted to target Muslim women on social media. The first was the “Sulli Deals” app (named after an offensive and derogatory term to describe Muslim women), on GitHub in July. The second one was the Bulli Bai app that also surfaced earlier on GitHub earlier this month. Both the apps featured doctored photographs of Muslim women and attempted to “auction” the women.Police in Delhi and Mumbai have so far arrested five people for creating the two apps. Police have maintained that two alleged app developers, Neeraj Bishnoi, a B.Tech student, and Aumkareshwar Thakur, a freelance web developer, were “self-radicalised”.In the latest case, the audio clips where participants made offensive comments towards Muslim women were shared on Monday (January 17). The clips were widely circulated, leading to a public outcry. While Delhi Police filed its case suo motu (on its own), the case in Mumbai was filed on the complaint of a woman who.Clubhouse, developed in the US, is an audio-only social media platform where participants can communicate with each other by creating specific groups. The firm told HT that it immediately suspended the accounts after they came to know about the chat room.The officials of Clubhouse, in their interactions with the media, have said that there are at least 2 million active users of the audio chat app in India.“Clubhouse is a place for people around the world to spend time with friends, meet others, engage in discussion and learn. There is absolutely no place for hate or abuse on the platform. We invest significantly in keeping our community safe and take swift action at any violation of our policies. There are hundreds of thousands of rooms created daily, the vast majority without incident. If and when a violation of our Community Guidelines is reported and confirmed, swift action is taken i.e. suspended or permanently removed from the platform, depending on the severity of the incident. In this instance, the room was reported and those involved in organizing were quickly actioned. As always, we can’t predict what humans will say but we can respond quickly once they violate our guidelines,” said a Clubhouse spokesperson, who refused to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18yearold-up-resident-quizzed-over-hate-chat-on-clubhouse-101642876963944.html
23-01-2022||India||Abide With Me hymn missing from Beating Retreat lineup||Abide With Me, a decades-old staple tune at the Beating Retreat ceremony and said to be a favourite of Mahatma Gandhi, does not figure in the lineup announced by the government on Saturday for the January 29 musical extravaganza that will feature a raft of military bands marking the end of Republic Day celebrations.The Christian hymn, composed by Henry Francis Lyte in 1847, finds no mention in an Indian Army hand out released on Saturday with details of the ceremony, staged on the eve of Gandhi’s death anniversary.This is the first time the hymn will be dropped. There were plans to not feature it in the ceremony in 2020, although it was restored at the last minute after reports of it being left out led to a controversy.“Soldiers relate to Abide With Me as it has been a part of our military culture. The tradition should continue,” said former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia.A defence ministry spokesperson did not comment on why the composition has been omitted in the 75th year of India’s Independence, a move that could trigger a fresh political row on the back of the eternal flame controversy.The eternal flame, Amar Jawan Jyoti, at India Gate was extinguished on Friday after 50 years and merged with the flame at the adjacent National War Memorial (NWM), amid political finger pointing over the move aimed at creating a single site for paying homage to India’s fallen heroes and conducting all ceremonial functions.Beating Retreat has traditionally ended with Abide With Me. This year, military buglers will play the iconic patriotic song Sare Jahan Se Acha in the end. The other popular tunes that will be played at the ceremony include Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja, Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon and Hind Ki Sena.Beating Retreat will feature bands from the Indian Army, Indian Air Force, Indian Navy and Central Armed Police Forces, apart from buglers and pipes and drums bands. The ceremony involves the lowering the flags against the backdrop of the setting sun and a simultaneous lighting up of the Rashtrapati Bhawan, South Block, North Block and Parliament House.A new show with 1,000 drones is expected to add sparkle to Beating Retreat. It is being organised by a startup, Botlab Dynamics, supported by Indian Institute of Technology Delhi and the department of science and technology. Only the US, Russia and China have the capability for a show with 1,000 drones, officials have said.The government on Saturday also released the schedule of the 73rd Republic Day Parade, India’s biggest ceremonial event that is being conducted in the shadow of the third Covid-19 wave and will be witnessed by fewer spectators at Rajpath.The Indian Army’s participation in the 90-minute parade will include a mounted column of 61 Cavalry (one of the world’s last remaining horse-mounted cavalry regiments), 14 mechanised columns and six marching contingents, apart from Param Vir Chakra and Ashoka Chakra awardees.The parade will begin at 10.30am, instead of the traditional timing of 10am, for better visibility to the parade and the fly past. The fly past, consisting of 75 aircraft in India’s 75th year of Independence, will feature flying formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna heli-borne operation.Vintage army equipment to be showcased during the parade includes the Centurion tank that took part in the 1971 India-Pakistan war, OT-62 Topas armoured personnel carrier and the 75/24 Indian field gun, alongside modern tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns.The blend of old and new equipment seeks to demonstrate the army’s evolution over the years, as was done during the Army Day parade on January 15. The Republic Day parade will feature a total of 16 marching contingents, including those from the IAF, navy and paramilitary forces, and 25 tableaux of various states, government departments and the armed forces.The Indian Navy’s tableau will depict the naval uprising of 1946, which contributed to India’s struggle for independence, said Lieutenant Mayank Bhagour. It will also feature models of the indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant, the light combat aircraft and some warships.Before the parade starts, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the country in paying homage to India’s fallen braves at NWM, a monument dedicated to soldiers who fell in post-Independence wars and operations. The memorial was inaugurated by Modi almost three years ago, on February 25, 2019. As on date, the names of 26,466 brave warriors are inscribed on the memorial, including the ones who fell in the 1971 war.The spectator count at the parade will be massively curtailed this year due to Covid-related restrictions, with only 5,000 to 8,000 people to be allowed entry to Rajpath to witness the display of the country’s military might and cultural heritage.Only fully vaccinated adults and single vaccinated children of age 15 and above will be allowed entry.The January 26 parade was attended by around 25,000 spectators amid the ebbing first wave last year, compared to around 125,000 people who would usually showed up at Rajpath to watch the event in the pre-pandemic era.
23-01-2022||India||Kashi Vishwanath corridor to feature in Uttar Pradesh’s Republic Day tableau||Uttar Pradesh’s tableau at the Republic Day parade will showcase the cultural revitalization of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor in Varanasi and the state’s one district, one product scheme. Last year, UP’s tableau was on the Ram Temple being built in Ayodhya.“The UP tableau’s theme was approved by the tableau committee in New Delhi,” a state government official said on condition of anonymity. “This time it’s a dual theme – Kashi Vishwanath Corridor and ODOP. The tableau is being constructed in Delhi ahead of the Republic Day parade.”ODOP is the state government’s flagship scheme to promote traditional, signature crafts and products specific to particular districts, such as brass work of Moradabad, woodcraft of Saharanpur and carpets of Bhadohi.The Kashi Vishwanath corridor, inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 13, has been redeveloped and beatified at a cost of over ₹700 crore. It comprises 24 buildings, including the Kashi Vishwanath temple complex, tourist facility centre, auditorium, cafeteria, virtual gallery, Vedic library, Kashi museum, communal kitchen, and seven gates.Last year, the UP tableau featured the grandeur of the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya, the temple town’s culture and Ayodhya as a symbol of social and religious harmony. The tableau had showcased Ayodhya as a major religious tourism destination in India and featured a model of the temple, scenes from Ramayan and the new tradition of annual Deepotsav.The proposed tableaux of the opposition-ruled states of West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Odisha have been rejected, sparking controversy.
23-01-2022||India||Plea in SC seeks protection for Hindus against hate speeches||A Hindu organization has approached the Supreme Court demanding equal protection for Hindus against hate speeches made by Muslim leaders in the past.In an application seeking intervention in a petition where the court has sought response from Uttarakhand, the central government and Delhi police against hate speeches by Hindu religious leaders at a religious gathering in Haridwar and Delhi, the Hindu Front for Justice produced a list of hate speeches by Muslim leaders and clerics, some of which supposedly called for genocide against Hindus, against which no action was taken.“Every citizen of India is equally entitled to equal protection of the laws and therefore, the concept of majority or minority must not be introduced while analysing incidents of hate speech,” said the application filed by advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain.Seeking judicial review on what constitutes hate speech, the application by the organization and two of its members said, “Hate speech is given by individuals with an intention to cause unrest in society, provoke violence and communal tension. A speech with an intention to protect the members of a particular community with theme of self-defence cannot come within the ambit of hate speech.” To decide this issue, the applicants sought intervention in the proceedings pending before the top court.On January 12, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana had issued notice on a petition filed by senior advocate Anjana Prakash and journalist Qurban Ali demanding action against the participants of a religious congregation held in December at Haridwar, where calls were made for violence against Muslims. The petition also produced contents of another hate speech made at an event in Delhi organized by the Hindu Yuva Vahini and informed the court that similar events were planned in the coming months as well. The matter has not come up for hearing since.As a counterblast, the application by the Hindu Front for Justice highlighted speeches made by All India Majlis-e-Ittihadul Muslimeen leaders Akbaruddin Owaisi and Waris Pathan, who made speeches in 2013 insulting Hindu gods and goddess, and supposedly said, “We (Muslims) are 25 crore and you (Hindus) are 100 crores. Remove the police for 15 minutes and see the result.”The application produced video links and news clippings showing instances of hate speech by Muslim clerics. An Islamic cleric from West Bengal was shown in videos threatening to kill lakhs if Rohingyas were deported. No action has been taken against such provocative hate speech, the applicants said.“The provocative speeches delivered by Muslim leaders have created an atmosphere of fear and unrest in Hindu community. Such statements remind us the working of Muslim League, which resulted in the partition of the country,” the plea stated.The application sought the court’s intervention to prevent Muslim leaders from spreading hatred and violence against Hindus. “In view of the historical facts prevailing in the world and particularly for last more than 1,200 years in India, after independence, the Hindus are bound to take an exception of the hate speeches given by some members of Muslim community and they are fearful that a section of society is working for “Gajwa-e-Hind,” which means to Islamize the entire country,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-seeks-protection-for-hindus-against-hate-speeches-101642876663923.html
23-01-2022||India||Dissent in Bengal BJP spreads to districts where it performed best in polls; rejig stalled||Dissent in the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) against appointment of many new leaders and removal of some old-timers during the recent organizational changes has spread to some of the districts where the party recorded its best performance in recent years. Rattled by the development, state leaders have been compelled to put the formation of state and district-level committees on hold although BJP national general secretary (organization) B L Santhosh wanted the process to be completed by mid-January said some of the office-bearers. “Dissidence has now emerged even in Purulia and Bankura districts where the BJP did well in the panchayat, Lok Sabha and assembly polls in 2015, 2019 and 2021 respectively. The central leadership in Delhi has been informed about the rumblings but no line of action could be charted till Friday night,” a top state BJP leader told HT on condition of anonymity. The rumblings started soon after December 22 when the Bengal unit announced the names of 11 new vice-presidents, five general secretaries, 42 organizational district unit presidents, 12 state secretaries, the morcha (front) presidents and the heads of several cells. The rejig made not just some veterans, who were left out, unhappy but also left leaders from the Dalit Matua community, headed by Union minister of state Shantanu Thakur, grumbling. Following some protests, Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar dissolved the cells and departments on January 13 but that did not change the scenario. Bengal’s tribal population stood at 5.29 million during the 2011 census, accounting for about 5.8% of the total population. In sharp contrast, the SC population, according to the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment, stood at 21.4 million, or 23.51 % of the total population of 91.3 million, which is now projected to be 101.9 million. The highest concentration of the tribal population is found in the districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, South Dinajpur, West Midnapore, Bankura and Purulia. The scheduled tribe (ST) population has 16 assembly seats reserved for it. For the much bigger scheduled caste (SC) population, which is spread across Bengal, 68 assembly seats, out of the state’s 294, are reserved. Analysts and political leaders maintain that without the support of the SC and ST communities the BJP could not have set the record of winning 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and 77 assembly seats last year. In Bankura district, the BJP won both Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and seven of the 12 assembly seats in 2021. Amarnath Shakha, the BJP legislator from Onda in Bankura and Nirmal Dhara the lawmaker from Indus, left all WhatsApp groups of the BJP in December along with four other legislators after two new organizational district presidents were appointed. On Thursday, Shakha and Dhara wrote to the Union home ministry requesting recall of their security cover provided by the Centre. “I made the request for personal reasons,” said Shakha, claiming that he was not leaving the BJP to join another party. Even as Dhara made a similar claim, state BJP leaders said the two legislators, along with two others from Bankura district, Niladri Sekhar Dana and Dibakar Gharami, had shot an email to BJP national president J P Nadda seeking removal of the Bankura and Sonamukhi organizational district unit presidents, Sunil Rudra Mondal and Billeswar Singha, who are young leaders. In the adjoining Purulia district, the BJP controls all three Lok Sabha segments and six of the nine assembly constituencies. One of the MPs, Dr Subhas Sarkar, was made a Union minister of state last year. Five BJP legislators from Purulia have written a similar mail to Nadda demanding removal of the new district unit president Vivek Ranga, reportedly calling him an outsider. State BJP leaders said the unhappy legislators include Narahari Mahato, Kamala Kanta Hansda and Sudip Mukherjee. None of them commented on the mail. In West Midnapore district, where the BJP’s national vice-president and former state president Dilip Ghosh represents the Midnapore Lok Sabha seat, a Yuva Morcha (youth front) leader joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday along with his followers. In Birbhum district, where the BJP could wrest only one of the 11 assembly seats last year, several leaders have left the party’s WhatsApp groups. “These are rumours. There is no rebellion here,” said Anup Saha, Birbum’s sole BJP legislator from Dubrajpur and a newly-selected national vice-president. A state BJP leader said that Sheikh Shamad, the BJP’s minority cell leader in Birbhum, a district with 37.06 % Muslim population according to the 2011 census, left the party last week. “There is unhappiness among Muslim workers and leaders in Jalpaiguri district in north Bengal and at Baruipur in South 24 Parganas district in south Bengal. The party had to put in a lot of effort to get them on board,” said the state leader, requesting anonymity. “I am not aware of the two letters reportedly sent to the central leadership from Purulia and Bankura. These are internal matters of the party and will be settled internally,” Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya told HT. These developments took place days after union minister of state and Dalit Matua leader Shantanu Thakur on Monday organized a picnic with his followers and a section of disgruntled BJP leaders who were removed from the state committee. Thakur and his brother Subrata, the legislator from Gaighata in North 24 Parganas district, said implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is the principal demand of the Matuas and they will discuss it with BJP central leaders and Union home minister Amit Shah. The Matuas are a part of the large Hindu Namasudra community that migrated from East Pakistan (Now Bangladesh) during India’s partition in 1947 and the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War to escape religious persecution. The Centre has said that it is in the process of framing laws for the CAA which the Parliament passed in 2020. The law offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before 2015. The TMC insists that the law is unconstitutional as it links citizenship to faith in a secular country. Shantanu Thakur and four legislators left all WhatsApp groups of the West Bengal BJP on January 4, saying the Matua community was not properly represented in the new committees. On January 15, Thakur demanded the removal of Bengal BJP general secretary (organization) Amitava Chakraborty without naming the latter. He said Chakraborty was responsible for the rejig and had brought in people of his choice. On January 17, huge posters, demanding Chakraborty’s removal, appeared around the Bengal BJP headquarters at Muralidhar Sen Lane in central Kolkata. In one poster, he was accused of being the agent of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s election strategist Prashant Kishor. While Chakraborty avoided the media, Samik Bhattacharya said the former was above the bickering and was being unnecessarily dragged into a controversy. “Chakraborty sent a report to the central leadership after the posters appeared,” said a state BJP leader who did not want to be named. Amid speculation in political circles that some of the dissidents many eventually switch allegiance and join the ruling party, TMC leaders said the rumblings carry proof of the BJP’s organizational weakness. “Buoyed by the Lok Sabha results, the BJP thought it had built a massive organizational structure in Bengal. But this structure stood on a feeble foundation which is now crumbling. The BJP’s troubles started with the disgruntled old-timers and Matua leaders and has not spread to the districts. The party will collapse like a house of cards,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy. Though the BJP captured 77 seats in the assembly polls last year, its tally in the Bengal legislative assembly has now effectively come down to 70. Five BJP legislators have joined the TMC since June although none have resigned from the party yet. The ruling party also wrested the Santipur and Dinhata seats from the BJP in the by-polls that were held as the BJP’s winning candidates wanted to retain their Lok Sabha seats. The BJP had welcomed many TMC turncoats who could not win elections. Among them, Rajib Banerjee, a former minister, and Sabyasachi Dutta, the former mayor of Salt Lake, returned to the ruling party last year. Experts feel that the dissidence is the fallout of disillusionment. “Many BJP leaders had assumed that they would come in power in Bengal. The rumblings and dissent are an expression of their frustration,” said Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay. 
23-01-2022||India||Haryana’s tableau to showcase its golden boy Neeraj Chopra, other champions||Chandigarh: Haryana will celebrate its champion athletes when its tableau rolls past Rajpath this Republic Day, and a life-size image of India’s only track & field gold medallist, Neeraj Chopra, will be showcased as one of the centrepieces of the state’s sporting revolution.Chopra, the javelin thrower who won a historic gold at the Tokyo Olympics last year, is at the Chula Vista Training Center in San Diago, US for training. .Officials aware of the details of the state’s R-Day offering said that Chopra’s life replica will be the on the rear of the tableau, where the athlete will be seen in a famous posture -- hurling the javelin.Ten eminent elite athletes -- Olympic medal-winning wrestlers Bajrang Punia (bronze, 2020 Tokyo) and Yogeshwar Dutt (bronze, 2012 London); para athletes Sumit Antil ( gold, 2020 Tokyo) and Yogesh Kathuniya (silver, 2020 Tokyo), para archer Harvinder ( bronze, 2020 Tokyo), national women’s hockey captain Rani Rampal, former national women’s hockey captain Mamta Kharb, wrestler Deepak Punia (fourth, 2020 Tokyo), and para athletes Rampal and Ranjeet, who participated in 2020 Tokyo Games, will be on the tableau deck during the parade. Two wrestlers, Ashu (bronze medallist at the 2020 Asian Championships in 67kg Greco Roman) and Anil (who won gold in the 96kg Greco Roman at the 2010 CWG in New Delhi), will demonstrate a live wrestling bout on the deck aboard the tableau as it goes past the main stage. The tableau will also feature sporting disciplines in which athletes from Haryana are particularly proficient -- boxing, weightlifting, shooting, hockey, among others. Amit Agrawal, additional principal secretary to the chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, said since one distinct achievement of the state is highlighted on Republic Day, it was decided to highlight Haryana’s sporting glory on the back of India’s most successful Olympic Games. The national contingent returned with one gold, two silvers, and four bronze from Tokyo 2020 and five golds, eight silvers, and six bronze medals from the 2020 Tokyo Paralympics.“The tableau has to feature something special and unique, and so we decided to go with sport,” Agrawal said, adding that it was a matter of honour that sportspersons from Haryana, which has only 1.3% of the geographical area and 2.09% of the population of the country, have brought laurels for the country in several international competitions.Of the seven medals won by India at Tokyo Olympics, sportspersons from Haryana won four. Even before Tokyo, Haryana has been n the forefront of India’s sporting revolution. Four out of six Indians who won medals at 2012 London Olympics were from Haryana. The state also gave India two medallists at Beijing 2008 and one in Rio 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryanas-republic-day-tableau-to-showcase-its-golden-boy-neeraj-chopra-other-champions-101642876313350.html
23-01-2022||India||Ruckus at hotel in MP over stay of interfaith couple||Members of a right-wing organisation allegedly created ruckus at a hotel in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain district on Friday night after they said a room was rented out to an interfaith couple and the owner was “promoting love jihad”, police said on Saturday.The incident comes days after three members of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad dragged a Muslim man and his Hindu travelling companion out of an Ajmer-bound train, at Ujjain railway station, accusing the former of “love jihad”.Hindu Dharma Jagran Manch president Anish Arjhare said: “The 23-year-old Hindu woman belonging to Bhopal had come to Khandwa with a 23-year-old Muslim man from Burhanpur. They tried to book a room in a hotel, but were denied by at least 10. We later came to know that they were given a room at a local hotel in Khandwa, and approached the police to take action. We also called the family members of the woman as there was a possibility that the man had misguided her, but the police refused to take any action.”The police refused to take action against the couple, citing breach of privacy.“We inquired about the couple and they have come here according to their wish. The woman, who is pursuing an MBA from Bhopal, said she was not forced to come here and she doesn’t want any action. We didn’t call the parents because it would be a breach of privacy of the woman. I have asked Hindu Jagran Manch members to maintain their privacy and allow them to stay without any interference,” Kotwali police station in charge Baljeet Singh Bisen said.The police also did not file any charges against the right-wing group. “No action was taken against them as nobody filed any complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruckus-at-hotel-in-mp-over-stay-of-interfaith-couple-101642876311507.html
23-01-2022||India||‘Smoke, screams surrounded us’: Mumbai Fire survivors recount horror||The residents of Sachinam Heights in south Mumbai said the fire in the high-rise building that killed six people and injured 15 broke out around 7 in the morning while most of them were asleep.The residents said the fire probably began inside the wire duct that runs from the ground floor to the top of the 20-storey building, which is also known as the Kamala building in the neighbourhood. Although the fire was confined between the 19th and 20th floors, the entire building was engulfed in smoke, they said.“I opened the door at 7 am to collect milk that was delivered by the milkman. I saw the entire corridor of my floor filled with thick smoke that was coming out from the wire duct. We understood there must have been a fire. We woke up the remaining members and rushed out of the building,” said Nanda Chavan, a resident of the fourth floor.Chavan’s sister Shubhangi Salkhar, along with her husband Dilip and 10-year-old son Dhaval, is admitted at the Bhatia hospital. Chavan said her sister and her family reside in the 13th floor of the building.“After we came down, I started to look for my sister and her family members, but couldn’t find them,” she said. “After half an hour, we saw fire brigade personnel bringing them down.”Kamlakar Dalvi (64), a member of the managing committee of the building who stays on the fourth floor, said that the fire broke out around 7 am in the morning, when most residents were fast asleep.“The morning water comes between 7-8 am regularly, and I was going to check the water valve when I saw smoke and heard screams from our neighbours as well. We alerted the remaining flats on our floor and managed to get out of the building,” said Dalvi. “The fire brigade arrived around 7:30 am and started the rescue operation. As most of the members were sleeping, rescue operation became haphazard, as many of us had to go from door to door and alert the people.”A resident requesting anonymity said that the building was constructed in 2013, and between 2013 and 2016, there was an ongoing court case between the builder and some tenants who used to live on the plot earlier, another resident said, requesting anonymity. The building is a redevelopment project and the plot on which it is built used to be a slum, where Dalvi lived earlier.After the fire broke out, the residents took refuge inside the banquet hall of Matru Mandir society, adjacent to the Kamala building. Nearly 200 residents are staying inside the banquet hall at present and members of the Matru Mandir society have arranged basic civic amenities and food for the people. Also, many residents shifted to their neighbours’ and relatives’ places.“There were fire extinguishers in the building, but most of the residents didn’t know how to operate them, so we had to rush out,” said Dalvi. “Also, the fire safety alarm wasn’t working and we couldn’t hear any warming bell.”Another resident, Vijay Aperaj (61), said that after the fire broke out, the building went dark as the electricity was cut off.“All the electrical appliances stopped working and we opened the doors to check. We saw smoke coming out of the duct and also felt a burning smell,” said Aperaj. “We rushed out from the building immediately with all our family members. The interiors became suffocating.”There are two refuge floors inside the building, one on the eighth and the other on the fourteenth floor. However, Dalvi said the residents preferred to go downstairs instead of going to the refuge floors.There are 135 flats in the building, eight on each floor. Out of these, four are 315 sq ft and two are 225 and 250 sq ft each. The building is quite cramped and there is not much space between the flats.The building is located in a lane adjacent to Tardeo Road. The firefighting vehicles were parked at the entry point of the lane from where the water pipes were pulled inside and evacuation operation was carried out.A senior fire brigade official, present at the spot said that evenAlthough the exact cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, preliminary findings suggest there could have been a short-circuit inside the wire duct, a fire brigade official said.“The fire system was defunct and two flats have been severely damaged and there have been some serious loss of properties as well,” the official said, declining to be named. “The fire system in the building was defunct. Had it been working, the proportion of loss could have been lower.”Meanwhile, Gamdevi police has registered an accidental death report in connection with the incident.“We have registered an accidental death report in the matter, as six people have died and several others have been injured. We will write to all concerned departments like the fire brigade and BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport), and depending on their reports, decide on the further course of action,” said police inspector Rampyare Rajbhar of Gamdevi police station.“We are presently recording statements of the victims and eyewitnesses,” Rajbhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smoke-screams-surrounded-us-fire-survivors-recount-horror-101642876063977.html
23-01-2022||India||PM calls for doorstep delivery of services||District administrators must ensure doorstep delivery of services in every village through the Digital India mission by creating the necessary infrastructure, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday in a virtual interaction with district magistrates from different states and Union territories.The Prime Minister reviewed the central government’s aspirational districts programme, launched in January 2018 to quickly and effectively transform 112 most underdeveloped districts in the country. DMs must work on timebound targets to increase ease of living for the people, Modi said, asserting that India’s goal is to achieve 100% reach of its services and facilities.Modi spoke of the significant strides made in these regions over past few years.“During the last four years, Jan Dhan accounts have increased by 4-5 times in almost every aspirational district. Almost every family has got a toilet and electricity has reached every village,” Modi said. “For development in aspirational districts, a direct and emotional connect between the administration and the public is very important. An important aspect of this campaign is technology and innovation. Excellent results have been obtained by the use of technology and innovation in fields such as malnutrition, clean drinking water and vaccination in some districts.”The Prime Minister asked the DMs to identify priorities at the block level and set targets for timely delivery of projects, government programmes and services. He directed that detailed guidelines be developed for field visits, inspections and night halts for officials to ensure proper implementation and monitoring.He also emphasized the importance of integrating districts with the economic mainstream.“It should be a mission for you to get your district recognised at a national and global level,” Modi told the bureaucrats posted in various districts across the country. “For this, you all need to implement the mantra of vocal for local in your districts. You need to identify the traditional products and skills of your districts and strengthen the value chains.”The country is witnessing a silent revolution in the form of Digital India, Modi said.“No district should be left behind in this. Digital infrastructure should reach every village and it should become a means of doorstep delivery of services and facilities,” the Prime Minister said. “I urge NITI Aayog to devise a mechanism wherein all DMs can interact with each other on a regular basis to learn from each other and imbibe the best practises for their districts. Central ministries should also document the challenges faced by districts during this journey.”The virtual conference was also attended by the chief ministers of Gujarat, Karnataka, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.The aspirational districts programme leveraged competitive and cooperative federalism, driven by the Team India spirit, said Amitabh Kant, chief executive of NITI Aayog, the government’s think tank. “Best practises like smart classroom initiative from Banka, Bihar; Mission Aparajita to prevent child marriages from Koraput, Odisha, etc., were replicated by other districts as well,” he said.The government has now set a mission to uplift 142 selected districts on the lines of the focussed work done in the aspirational districts, said Nagendra Nath Sinha, secretary at the ministry of rural development.“The Centre and the states will work together to uplift these identified districts to address pockets of underdevelopment,” Sinha said. “15 sectors corresponding to 15 ministries and departments were identified. In the sectors, key performance indicators (KPIs) were identified. The aim of the government is to ensure the KPIs in the selected districts surpass the state average in the next one year, and that they come at par with the national average in two years.”“Each concerned ministry and department has identified its set of KPIs, on the basis of which districts were selected,” Sinha said. “The initiative is aimed at achieving saturation of various schemes by various departments in the districts in mission mode, in convergence with all stakeholders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-calls-for-doorstep-delivery-of-services-101642875889599.html
23-01-2022||India||Positivity rate, active cases drop in Capital||From around one in three people who were testing positive more than a week ago to fewer than one in six on Saturday, the test positivity rate as well as the hospitalisation rate in the Capital has continued to drop, offering yet more signs that the current Covid outbreak is now under control.The number of new cases, according to the health bulletin on Saturday, were 11,486, up 6.7% from Friday’s number – but taking into account the 17.7% higher number of tests, the new cases translate to a drop in positivity rate from 18.04% to 16.34%.In all, 2,504 people with Covid-19 were in hospitals across the city. This number hit a peak of 2,784 on January 17, and has consistently dropped since then. The beds occupied on Saturday represented a little over 16% of the capacity available in the city at present. Even at its peak, the number of new cases in the current wave posed no threat to the city’s health care infrastructure – at least 80% of the Covid-19 earmarked hospital beds were vacant throughout, with more surge capacity being available if needed.The city’s active cases on Saturday were down at 58,593, the lowest since January 8. This brings the hospitalisation rate as a share of active cases to a mere 4.2%.“We have averted the worst of this wave but we are still cautious and are keeping a close watch on the numbers. We have also slashed the testing costs so that people can come forward and get themselves tested easily now. Even as the numbers are now declining, we urge people to continue to wear masks and follow all Covid protocols,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.An expert said the trends, including the high hospital vacancy rates, reinforce the conclusion that the situation is stable, and make the case for some restrictions to be rolled back.“The restrictions can be removed because it doesn’t help much, except for just creating a psychological consolation among people. The longer we impose the restrictions for, the longer it will take for the decline in cases,” Dr Jugal Kishore, head of department of community medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital said.Delhi on Saturday recorded 45 Covid deaths, the highest in the Omicron wave so far. While details of these particular fatalities were not available, audits of fatalities by the government and assessments by a major private hospital network showed most fatalities this month to have been in people who were either unvaccinated or suffered from significant comorbid conditions.The last time such a high death count was reported was on June 5, when the fatalities were 68.Experts pointed out that the trend was particularly encouraging because with the new testing guidelines the positivity rates are bound to be higher than past test programmes since the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) now advises tests to be targeted at those with symptoms.“The revised ICMR guidelines said that in a community setting testing should be done for people who are either symptomatic or have been exposed to a confirmed Covid case, especially people above 60-years and those with comorbid conditions. So, we are supposed to test people that are likely to test positive,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).On Friday, Jain described the drop in numbers as a sign that the “the grave danger of the coronavirus has subsided in Delhi” and said more decisions would taken on lifting more restrictions shortly. The minister said his government had written to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority headed by the lieutenant governor, who rejected two of the three demands -- to roll back the weekend curfew and allow all shops in a market to open.Several states have rolled back curbs at similar levels of outbreak. Karnataka on Friday removed the weekend curfew after recording hospitalisation rate as a share of active cases of under 5%.Maharashtra, earlier in the week, too decided to roll back some curbs, including allowing schools to reopen.Schools in the Capital have been closed since late December.There is now a growing clamour for the government to allow some more businesses to open, especially over the weekends. “When there was a need for such restrictions, all traders and market associations welcomed the weekend lockdowns and odd-even restrictions for shops. Even this time, when the third wave began, we did not say no and implemented all DDMA orders. But I must say that we are stretching the restrictions too far now because the positivity rate is declining, and most people are vaccinated,” said Ashwani Marwah, general secretary, Traders Association Lajpat Nagar (TALN).“On January 15, when we were recording peak Covid infections, the positivity rate was 30.64%. Within a week, we have managed to bring down the positivity rate to half. This is also an indication that we were proactive in calling some curbs early, which also controlled the spread,” a senior health department official said, describing the trends as a big relief.A senior administration official indicated that some curbs -- night curfew, weekend curfew, and shops opening on an odd-even basis in markets -- may be rolled back next week after a meeting of the DDMA.(With Inputs from Sweta Goswami)
23-01-2022||India||Blaze in Mumbai high-rise: 6 killed, several battle for life||A major fire in a 20-storey building in south Mumbai early on Saturday left six people dead and 24 injured, including eight who are in critical condition, even as the Mumbai fire brigade took five hours to douse the blaze that broke out on, and was contained to, the 19th floor of the building in crowded Tardeo locality.Three of those dead — Hitesh Mistry, his sister, Moushmi and mother Meena Mistry — were residents of flat 1904, which is suspected to be the flat where the fire broke out. It was completely gutted in the blaze. Among the others who lost their life in the tragic incident included 75-year-old Manjuben Kantharia, who was a resident of the 19th floor, and Purushottam Chopdekar, a resident of the 16th floor. One of the deceased was yet to be identified as the body was charred beyond recognition. The civic body has conducted a DNA test to ascertain the identity of the person.Thirteen fire tenders and seven water tankers were deployed to douse the fire, which was first reported at 7.26am on Saturday. The city’s chief fire officer Hemant Parab said that the building’s fire safety system, including its sprinkler system and fire alarms, was not functioning and the fire department is investigating the cause of the fire.Municipal commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Iqbal Singh Chahal on Saturday ordered an enquiry and directed the civic administration to submit its report within 15 days.This is the fourth such incident of such a magnitude in a Mumbai high-rise in as many months, prompting the BMC to direct the chief electrical inspector to carry out an electrical audit of all high-rise buildings with a height of 15m and above.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths and announced an ex gratia amount of ₹2 lakh to the families of the deceased and ₹50,000 to those injured. “Saddened by the building fire at Tardeo in Mumbai. Condolences to the bereaved families and prayers with the injured for the speedy recovery,” he tweeted.Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, who visited the tragedy site on Saturday afternoon, accompanied by the Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, announced an ex gratia amount of ₹5 lakh for the families of the deceased.Most of the 400 residents in the building were able to rush out soon after the fire broke out, even as thick smoke filled the passageways. Firemen told Hindustan Times that none of the residents congregated at the refuge areas located on the 8th and 15th floors. The smoke was able to descend rapidly due to a duct that ran down the building and opened on to each floor. In many floors, the shaft door of the duct was not properly sealed.At least 30 people rescued by the fire department were rushed to different hospitals. While 17 people were discharged after treatment, at least eight people are critically injured. The Kantharia family suspected that the unidentified deceased person could be their son, Kirit.Kamlakar Dalvi (64) had woken up to fill water, which is released by the municipal body between 7am and 8am every day, when he first heard the screams. When he opened the door of his fourth floor flat, he saw the passageway filled with thick smoke emerging from the duct door. Waking up his family, he rushed out along with other neighbours towards the ground floor.At 7.26am, the Mumbai Fire Brigade’s control room received a frantic call: a massive fire had broken out on the 19th floor of a high-rise in Tardeo, located in the cramped lanes of Nana Chowk in Mumbai Central area. By 7.42am, the blaze was declared a Level 3 fire and 13 fire engines as well as seven water tankers from 12 stations — the nearest three minutes away — rushed to the spot.The firemen had to enter the building wearing breathing equipment in order to douse the fire. To start with, the fire blazed on the 19th floor of the 20-storey building. The skyline surrounding the building is a warren of wires and accessing the window of the flat where the fire blazed would have been difficult.The building itself was located inside a lane whose width was only enough for one fire engine to enter at a time.CFO Hemant Parab said the building’s firefighting system was defunct. “The fire-fighting system inside the building was defunct. The sprinklers were not working and the extinguishers were outdated as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blaze-in-mumbai-high-rise-6-killed-several-battle-for-life-101642875644109.html
23-01-2022||India||EC extends rally ban, but eases some curbs||As the country grapples with the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission of India on Saturday extended its ban on political rallies and road shows in the five election-bound states till January 31, while allowing exceptions for candidates contesting in the first two phases of the polls.The election watchdog has decided to relax some of the guidelines for candidates who will be contesting in the first phase on February 10 and the second phase on February 14, after consulting the Union health secretary, and chief secretaries, chief electoral officers and health secretaries of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.Candidates in Uttar Pradesh, which will vote in the first phase, will now be allowed physical meetings in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 people , but only from January 28 to February 8.“Since contesting candidates for Phase 1 elections will be finalised on January 27, 2022, Commission has decided to allow physical public meetings of political parties or contesting candidates in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 persons or 50% of the capacity of the ground or the prescribed limit set by SDMA (state disaster management authority), whichever number is lesser, from January 28, 2022 till February 8, 2022 (excluding the silence period),” the commission said in a statement.Similar relaxations have been issued for the second phase of the polls, which will be held in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Goa on February 14. The revised guidelines will be applicable for the second phase candidates from February 1 till February 12.Elections to the five states were announced on January 8, even as India was in the midst of the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic driven by the Omicron variant that is highly infectious, but causes milder symptoms and results in fewer hospitalisations and deaths.According to the HT dashboard, the seven-day average of cases has risen from 14,418 on January 1 to 302,981 on January 22, although early hotspots such as Delhi and Mumbai are beginning to see a dip in cases. According to a HT dashboard on hospitalisations across 13 states and Union territories, 86.5% of Covid-19 bed capacity in hospitals remains unoccupied.While announcing the elections, the election commission barred rallies from January 8 till January 15, and then extended the ban by a week till January 22.Last week, it relaxed the norms and allowed indoor meetings of a maximum 300 people, or 50% capacity of the meeting hall, or limits prescribed by state disaster management authorities.Political parties, meanwhile, have been focusing on ramping up digital campaigns and events in keeping with the commission’s guidelines. Home minister Amit Shah on Saturday took part in a doorstep campaign in Uttar Pradesh, even as Congress’ candidates for Goa took a pledge and visited several temples in the state.On Saturday, the commission also relaxed restrictions on door-to-door campaigns. Instead of five persons, now 10 persons, excluding security personnel, will be allowed.“Commission has also allowed video vans for publicity with usual COVID restrictions at designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 viewers or 50% of the capacity or the limit prescribed by SDMA, whichever is lesser, in the poll going States subject to public convenience and no hindrance to smooth flow of traffic,” it said in the statement.The decision came after an extensive review. “Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra along with election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey accompanied by Secretary General and concerned Deputy Election Commissioners held a comprehensive review of the present situation with respect to status and projected trends of Covid-19 pandemic in the five poll going states,” the statement said.“Commission also reviewed Vaccination status and action plan for expeditiously completing vaccination for 1st, 2nd and booster dose for eligible persons amongst polling personnel. Commission deliberated on relaxing restrictions for physical rallies in the wake of prevailing situation.”It said fresh instructions on campaigning will be issued after a review on January 31.In view of the restrictions, the government last month increased the expenditure limit for candidates to facilitate larger spending on virtual campaigns during the pandemic. The limit was raised by the law ministry to ₹40 lakh in large states, up from the earlier ₹30.8 lakh, in keeping with the poll body’s recommendations.The elections for five assemblies will be held in seven phases from February 10. The results will be declared on March 10, the commission announced last week.Other containment measures include curbs on the number of vehicles accompanying a candidate for the submission of nomination, which will be restricted to two instead of five.The Commission has allowed only 1,250 voters in each polling station instead of the usual 1,500. The number was capped at 1,000 for the previous two rounds of state elections. There will be mandatory sanitisation of polling stations and thermal checking of all those casting their vote. The commission is also running a pilot project to live-track overcrowding of voters at various poll booths to ensure safety norms are followed.Covid patients and those who are quarantined will be allowed to cast their vote in the last hour of polling under the supervision of health authorities, the commission said. Sector magistrates will coordinate this in their allocated polling stations and record of such electors shall be maintained by the presiding officer, it said.All electoral offences will be brought to the fore and not just Covid-related offences. All violations will be dealt with by the chief secretary or the chief of the state disaster management authority of the concerned state.Last year, the commission courted controversy throughout the eight-phase West Bengal election, beginning with the prolonged duration of polls to not conceding to the opposition’s demands to club the last three phases in view of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. A police complaint was filed against the watchdog for culpable homicide by the wife of a Trinamool Congress candidate, who died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-extends-rally-ban-but-eases-some-curbs-101642875643188.html
23-01-2022||India||Kamla building’s firefighting system failed, safety audit ignored: Fire Brigade||The firefighting system at the Tardeo’s Kamla building, also known as Sachinam Heights building where a massive fire killed six people and injured 23 on Saturday morning was not operational at the time of the fire, according to Mumbai’s fire department officials.Residents said they did not hear the fire alarm go off when the fire started.The fire gutted an apartment in Kamla building at Nana Chowk. The first information about the fire was received at 7.28am. It was classified as a level 3 (massive) fire at 7.42 am, and took the fire brigade 2.5 hours to bring it under control, and almost five hours to fully douse the fire.This is the fourth high-rise fire in three months in the city to have resulted in casualties.On October 23, one person was killed in a fire on the 19th floor of a 61-storey building called One Avighna Park at Currey Road in Mumbai. Two people were killed in another fire on the 14th floor of the 15-storey Hansa Heritage building in Kandivali on November 7. One woman was killed as a fire erupted in Notan Villa in Khan on September 23. In each of these cases, the firefighting system of the buildings were not functioning at the time of the fire.Of the 324 fires reported in the city’s high-rise buildings between January 2020 and October 2021, 127 buildings, or 39.2%, did not have an operational firefighting system, HT reported in November last year.In case of the Kamla building fire of Saturday, too, chief fire officer of the Mumbai fire brigade, Hemant Parab, said, “The internal firefighting system of the building was not working, and the building has not even submitted its biannual fire safety audit to the fire brigade.”The entire building was engulfed in smoke, even though the fire completely gutted only flat number 1904 and the common passageway of the floor. Smoke spread through the building due to a duct running along the length of the building.“The building has two refuge areas, but none of the residents were found in the refuge area,” Parab said. “The fire brigade rescued about 28-29 residents using the staircase of the building.”A total of 29 people were rushed to three hospitals: Nair, Kasturba, and Bhatia hospital. Three patients among these were later shifted to Masina, Reliance and Wockhardt hospitals for treatment. Seven of these patients have been discharged, while 16 others are still undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamla-building-s-firefighting-system-failed-safety-audit-ignored-mumbai-fire-brigade-101642875525143.html
23-01-2022||India||Not fielded by BJP, Goa ex-CM Parsekar resigns from party||Former Goa chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar resigned from the Bharatiya Janata Party on Saturday and announced that he would be contesting as an independent.The three-term MLA and former state BJP president represented the Mandrem constituency in north Goa from 2002 until his defeat in 2017. He said he was taken for granted by the party and ignored in favour of a non-performing MLA.The BJP has fielded MLA Dayanand Sopte as its candidate in the Mandrem constituency. Goa will elect a new assembly on February 14. Results will be declared on March 10.“The people are disappointed in the present MLA. I was claiming for the ticket. I am a disciplined soldier of the party, so I didn’t go to town with my grievances. But they took me for granted, thinking that I will not resign,” he said. “Even now there are people who think that I will not be able to bring myself to resign from the party. But it is high time. I am resigning from the BJP.”“On January 20, it was announced that I was not getting the ticket. My supporters were intensely disappointed, but it soon became a demand that I should resign and contest as an independent,” Parsekar said.The former chief minister said that he sensed that there was popular anger in the constituency over the non-performance of the current MLA over stalled projects and a lack of new projects.Explaining the reasons why he lost, Parsekar said that during his tenure as chief minister, he got caught up in administrative work, which widened the gap between him and his voters.“At the time I didn’t campaign at all. I was the chief minister and the gap between me and the people widened. I was staying in Panjim since I had to focus on administration at the time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-fielded-by-bjp-goa-ex-cm-parsekar-resigns-from-party-101642875285504.html
23-01-2022||India||SP chief Akhilesh Yadav makes Karhal poll fray entry official||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Saturday announced that party chief Akhilesh Yadav will contest his first Uttar Pradesh assembly election from the party’s stronghold of Karhal in Mainpuri.“Our national president Akhilesh Yadav will contest the Karhal assembly constituency in Mainpuri, and he will win with a massive mandate,” SP chief national general secretary Ramgopal Yadav announced at a press conference in Lucknow, where Akhilesh Yadav was also present.On January 20, SP national spokesperson Ashutosh Verma spoke of Akhilesh Yadav contesting his first UP assembly election from Karhal, but said a formal announcement would follow.Ever since speculation on chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s candidature for the assembly polls surfaced, there has been talk about Akhilesh Yadav contesting as well. On January 15, the BJP named Yogi Adityanath the party’s candidate for the Gorakhpur urban seat in eastern UP.While Yogi Adityanath is a five-time former Gorakhpur MP, Akhilesh Yadav is the sitting Azamgarh MP. They have never contested assembly elections before. Both took the Vidhan Parishad route to become members of the UP legislature after they took office as chief ministers in 2012 and 2017Meanwhile, Akhilesh Yadav made more poll promises at the press conference.“The Samajwadi Party has taken more decisions for the public after we made (promises about) 300 units free power to domestic consumers, and free laptops to students. The SP will create 22 lakh direct employment in the sector in UP in the Samajwadi Party’s Rozgaar Sankalp, when the SP forms the government in 2022,” he said.Karhal is scheduled to go to the polls on February 20 in the third phase of the seven-phase UP assembly elections and Gorakhpur in the sixth phase on March 3.Karhal has been a Samajwadi Party stronghold since 1993, with only one exception. In the 2002 assembly election, the seat went to the BJP.The sitting Karhal MLA Sobaran Singh Yadav was with the BJP when he won the seat in 2002. Since 2007, he has been contesting the same seat on an SP ticket. Mainpuri, which includes the Karhal assembly segment, is SP chief patron Mulayam Singh Yadav’s Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-makes-karhal-poll-fray-entry-official-101642875105227.html
23-01-2022||India||Shah returns to the forefront of UP campaign with Kairana visit||New Delhi/Meerut Starting with a door-to-door campaign in Kairana, a constituency that has figured prominently in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s election discourse in Uttar Pradesh, Union home minister Amit Shah has signaled he is back in the saddle in the poll-bound state.Shah, who has been helming talks with allies, ironing out differences within the party unit, and lending an ear to disgruntled party workers, besides playing a key role in ticket distribution, will now be actively campaigning in the state, according to functionaries aware of the developments. He was in charge of the party’s campaign in the state in the 2014 election, when it won 71 of the 80 Lok Sabha seats. Shah has hit the ground along with party president JP Nadda, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, and state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh to mobilise support for the party at a time when large gatherings and rallies are prohibited (and will remain so till January 31). He is expected to address small groups and call on voters in door-to-door campaigns. “The choice of Kairana as the starting point for his campaign shows he’s invested in mobilising support and encouraging workers in the western part of the state, which is perceived as a challenging demographic for the party,” said a party functionary who asked not to be named. Kairana, where the Bharatiya Janata Party’s then MP Hukum Singh alleged an exodus of Hindu families, goes to polls on February 10. Shah met some of these families that moved out following alleged communal tension in the area in 2017. Singh’s daughter Mriganka Singh is the party’s candidate in the constituency. Of the 1.7 million- plus voters in Kairana, over 3 lakh are Muslims and 1.5 lakh are scheduled castes from the Jatav community, considered the traditional vote bank of the Bahujan Samaj Party. In his door-to-door campaign, Shah raised the issue of “palayan (Hindu exodus)” during the Samajwadi Party (SP) rule and stated that those who were forced to leave have now started returning. Shah distributed pamphlets carrying information about various welfare schemes that were launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. He also visited a 70-year-old sweet shop in the Gumbad locality of Kairana where he met those who were previously forced to migrate out of the area, but have since returned. “This is my first visit to Kairana since January 2014. I see a sea change. All welfare schemes by Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji have been implemented by CM Yogi Adityanath till the grassroots level. It’s the same Kairana from where people were migrating earlier. Today, I interacted with many of those who had migrated earlier. I met all 11 family members of the Mittal family (who fled the area but have since returned). All of them said that CM Yogi improved the law and order situation and they have no fear. That’s why I say that those who made the people migrate have now migrated themselves,” Shah said. Party functionaries are resting their hopes on Shah’s campaign in the western region to help the BJP tide over the challenges posed by the recent farmers’ agitation that found support in the area and created friction between the Jats and the BJP. The party also faces formidable opposition in the region with the coming together of the Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal. “We are hoping that the party will be able to repeat its 2017 performance in western UP ( it won 66 of the 76 seats then). Over the course of the next few weeks, Shah will cover several constituencies, meeting people and holding discussions with party workers on streamlining the election campaign,” added the first functionary.“In west UP, elections begin on February 10. With folded hands, I want to appeal to all the voters of west UP that if due to Covid-19, our cadres are unable to reach you, all of you should go out to vote early to help set up a BJP government with a massive majority for the next five years,” Shah added. Shah, also a former BJP president, is credited with scripting the BJP’s stellar show in UP in the 2014 general elections and the 2017 assembly polls, when the party saw its seat and vote share leap. From 47 seats and a 15% vote share in 2012, the party went on to win 312 of the 403 seats in 2017 and increased its vote share to 39.67%. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, it garnered almost 50% of the votes. In his recently released book, union environment minister Bhupender Yadav said that Shah opted for a four-pronged approach to turn around the party‘s fortunes in UP. The book details how he set out by building a cadre of booth level workers and recruiting about four lakh full-time workers to keep tabs on the ground. He also identified seats that the BJP just wouldn’t win and where contesting would be a waste of effort. “The third and the biggest challenge was social engineering required to navigate the caste politics of UP. Here, Shah focused attention on 30% of the backward caste voters, excluding the Yadavs, Jatavs and the Muslims, who had no political representation at the state and national levels. Finally, Shah devised various strategies to reach out to the voters. He organised election campaigns banking on (Narendra) Modi‘s popularity and his OBC status,” Yadav said in the book co-authored by him along with economist Ila Patnaik. The BJP’s ability to build a rainbow coalition of OBCs (other than the Yadavs) and some from the SC communities is believed to have helped it consolidate the Hindu vote. Similarly, ahead of the 2017 election, Shah was credited for building support through empowered booth-level committees. “Ahead of the 2017 elections, he gave clear directions to set up booth-level committees of about 10 to 20 people in every booth. The state was carved into zones and specific election campaigns were designed, keeping in view the peculiarities of each zone, which helped the party in addition to the focus on social engineering,” said a second functionary who too asked not to be named. 
23-01-2022||India||Subhas Chandra Bose 125th birth anniversary: Unveiling of Netaji's statue, floral tributes at Central Hall||Today marks the 125th birth anniversary of iconic freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose, popularly known as Netaji. The central government has decided to start the Republic Day celebrations from January 23 to include Bose’s anniversary, which will be celebrated as ‘Parakram Diwas’ (day of valour) starting this year. Floral tributes will be paid to Bose on his birth anniversary in the Central Hall of the Parliament House."On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Subhash Chandra Bose a function to pay floral tributes to him will be held in the Central Hall of Parliament House on January 23 at 1030 hours," the LS Secretariat said in a notice.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the government’s plan to install a grand granite statue of Netaji at India Gate. Till the grand statue is completed, PM Modi said, a hologram statue would be present at the place identified for the granite statue.“This would be a symbol of India's indebtedness to him," the prime minister said in a tweet. “I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji's birth anniversary," he wrote.'Here's all you need to know about Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's statue to be installed at India GateHT has learnt that Netaji's statue would be 28 feet in height and 6 feet in breadth. The jade black stone to be used for the construction of the statue will be brought from Telangana. The statue will be placed in the canopy replacing the Amar Jawan Jyoti, the “eternal flame” of which was merged with the National War Memorial Torch on Friday.The statue will be carved by Odia sculptor Adwaita Gadanayak who heads the government-run National Modern Art Gallery in New Delhi. Expressing delight over the opportunity, Gadanayak told a news channel that it was a matter of honour for him that he was chosen by PM Modi for carving the statue of Bose, reported news agency PTI.“The process of making the statue has started with the prime minister's announcement. The statue will show Netaji's strong character,” he said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subhas-chandra-bose-125th-birth-anniversary-unveiling-of-netaji-s-statue-floral-tributes-at-central-hall-101642842835445.html
