24-01-2022||India||Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM to field candidates for 24 Bihar legislative council seats||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) is set to field its nominees in all 24 constituencies for the upcoming legislative council elections, likely in February-March this year. State AIMIM chief and member of the legislative assembly from Amaur Akhtarul Iman said that the party has decided to contest all local bodies’ seats of the council alone or in adjustment with like-minded parties. “A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting attended by the party MLAs and other senior functionaries on the direction of national party chief Asaduddin Owaisi. The party will also field its nominees in the by-elections for Bochahan assembly constituency in Muzaffarpur,” announced Iman, while talking to the media in Kishanganj. This is for the first time that the AIMIM is gearing up for the upper house elections. Earlier the party had contested 20 seats in the 2020 assembly elections from north eastern districts of Bihar in alliance with Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP and Mayawati-led BSP, and won five seats. It was the first electoral success of the party in Bihar. Iman said that the massive support of the people during the past assembly polls had emboldened the party to fight the by-election at Bochahan seat, which fell vacant on the demise of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) MLA Musafir Paswan, who died in November last year after prolonged illness. The State AIMIM chief claimed that the party was approach by many leaders, who are capable enough to wrest the seats for the party in the council. “We are confident of having party members in the upper house,” said Iman. The election from local bodies constituencies to the council was due since July last year. Elected members of the panchayati raj institutions and the urban local bodies are the electors for the council elections from the local bodies’ seats, which spread across the state. The election on these seats could not be held owing to delay in PRI and urban bodies’ elections in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic. 
24-01-2022||India||KCR writes to Modi, opposes changes to IAS rules for deputation to Centre||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday expressed strong reservations against the proposed amendments to the All India Services (Cadre) Rules, 1954, by the Centre, seeking to acquire overriding powers to transfer IAS and IPS officers through Central deputation and doing away with the requirement of taking the approval of state governments.The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) wrote to the states on January 12 that the Union government proposes to amend Rule 6 (deputation of cadre officers) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules 1954.So far, 10 opposition chief ministers including KCR have opposed the proposed amendment to the rules, even though the Central government has said that the change was proposed to meet shortage of officials in Central departments and ministries.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Telangana chief minister said the proposed amendments were totally against the federal structure of the Indian Constitution, both in letter and spirit. “They will also seriously erode the All-India Service character of the IAS, IPS and IFS. We, therefore, strongly oppose the proposed amendments,” he wrote.KCR, as the chief minister is called, said considering the criticality of functions discharged by IAS officers in the states, the present rule position and practice provides for concurrence of state governments in the matter of deputation of officers to the Central government.He said the Central Government assuming the power to take officers on deputation without concurrence of the officers or state governments concerned is a dangerous move which is against the Constitutional framework and spirit of cooperative federalism.“If the proposed amendments are effected by the Centre, the state governments would be reduced to insignificant entities,” he said.Pointing out that the proposal is clearly a move to exercise indirect control by the Central government on officers working in the states, the chief minister said it amounted to interfering in the functioning of the state governments, targeted harassment of officers and their demoralisation, besides impacting accountability of officers to the state governments.KCR said the amendments were nothing but amending the Constitution of India relating to Centre-State relations. “Instead of such a backdoor method of amending the AIS Rules, Govt. of India should muster courage to amend the provisions by the Parliament,” he said.He further said the proposal showed scant regard for the administrative exigencies and requirements of the states. They threaten the spirit of mutual adjustment and accommodation between states and Central governments in the matter of shared All-India Services and will further strain the Centre-State relationship.“I demand that the Centre cease and desist from the proposed amendments in the interest of administrative fairness and federal polity of our constitution,” KCR added.
24-01-2022||India||Covid: Assam bars govt employees from attending office sans double vaccine||The Assam government on Monday issued an order wherein it imposed restrictions on entry of unvaccinated citizens at public places, except hospitals. Even government employees, both permanent and contractual, would be allowed to attend office if they are fully inoculated against the coronavirus disease, the order said.“Employees who are not fully vaccinated would not be allowed to attend office and they will have to avail leave, if available or extraordinary leave for which they would not be paid salary,” the order read.The government said all people are required to carry proof of being fully vaccinated while visiting public places.It also directed authorities to shut schools for students up to class 8. These restrictions will come into effect from 6am of January 25, the order said."The status of COVID-19 in the state has again been reviewed and it has been observed that the number of COVID-19 cases has been gradually increasing over the last few days thereby increasing the positivity rate," officiating chief secretary PK Borthakur said in the order.The Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) issued a new set of guidelines, which are to be followed to contain the spread of Covid-19, and it will remain in force until further order.Physical classes in "all schools up to class 8 in all districts shall be suspended and all such educational institutions shall migrate to virtual options until further orders", it said. Classes in schools have been allowed "on alternate days for class IX and above" in all districts. "All educational institutions including schools/colleges/universities shall continue to provide quality virtual options," the new order said."All people are required to carry proof of being fully vaccinated while visiting public places/spaces. The owners of public/private establishments shall be responsible for ensuring that only those entrants who are fully vaccinated are allowed inside and this has to be done scrupulously by checking their vaccination status. "Failure to do so shall attract penal action," the order added.The state reported ,5902 new Covid-19 cases, 5,625 recoveries and 18 deaths in the last 24 hours. The active caseload currently stood at 44,075.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-assam-bars-govt-employees-from-attending-office-sans-double-vaccine-101643044541333.html
24-01-2022||India||Bengal BJP suspends two former vice-presidents who joined dissidents||A day after the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) issued show-cause letters to two of its former state vice-presidents, Jay Prakash Majumdar and Ritesh Tiwari, charging them with making statements against the party, both were “temporarily suspended” on Monday evening, before they could reply to the letters. As cracks in the Bengal BJP widened, the party’s media cell released the suspension order issued at the direction of state president Sukanta Majumdar. “The two persons (Majumdar and Tiwari) are being temporarily suspended till the investigation into charges of violating party discipline is not over,” said the one-line order. Tiwari was attending a live television show on a popular channel when the news broke. “Sukanta Majumdar is a good person but he is under tremendous pressure from state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty and Amit Malviya (head of the BJP’s national information technology cell). This is a conspiracy to destroy the Bengal BJP. There are leaders in the current setup who have taken favours from the Trinamool Congress (TMC)….. These people have no support base. I don’t care if they expel me. I am not leaving the party. I will create such a situation that they will be compelled to apologize and take me back,” Tiwari said on the live show, virtually announcing a war on the leadership. BJP’s former state president and former governor of Meghalaya and Tripura, Tathagata Roy, said: “I am surprised. Tiwari is an old and sincere worker. The show-cause letter did not mention any charge. They were not given the opportunity to reply. It is apparent that the decision to suspend them was taken much earlier.” Neither Amitava Chakraborty nor Malviya made any statement till 9.30 pm Hours before the suspension order was issued, Tiwari alleged that the action was taken without any meeting of the state disciplinary action committee. “How could there be a meeting of the state disciplinary action committee? Sukanta Majumdar has dissolved all committees till the new ones are formed. Members of the old committee told me no meeting was held,” Tiwari told HT. Sukanta Majumdar, on the other hand, maintained during a press conference on Monday afternoon that the committee took the decision. He also said similar action might be taken against some of the other senior leaders who have criticized the party in public in recent times. “There are disciplinary action committees at various levels. All leaders are under watch,” said Majumdar. Tiwari had also alleged on Sunday that the letters were leaked to the media before the intended recipients received them. “The party will probe this. Show cause letters are e-mailed,” said Majumdar, adding that the party expects a reply as early as possible although the letters did not mention any deadline. The suspension order was issued four hours later. Jay Prakash Majumdar and Tiwari were dropped from the state committee on December 22 when the Bengal unit announced the names of 11 new vice-presidents, five general secretaries, 42 organizational district unit presidents, 12 state secretaries, the new morcha (front) presidents and the heads of several cells. Several old-timers such as Pratap Banerjee, Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury, Union minister of state Dr Subhas Sarkar, Raj Kamal Pathak and Debasish Mitra were also dropped from the panel of vice-presidents. Jay Prakash Majumdar was made a spokesperson while the others were left with no portfolio. General secretary Sayantan Basu was dropped as well. Most of these leaders left the Bengal BJP’s WhatsApp groups. The rejig led to repercussions in at least five districts and also left leaders from the Dalit Matua community, headed by union minister of state Shantanu Thakur, upset. The dissidents got united under Thakur’s leadership. Thakur demanded the removal of Amitava Chakraborty, holding him responsible for the crucial organizational changes. Following the protests, Sukanta Majumdar dissolved the cells and departments on January 13. The party also postponed the formation of district committees. Senior state BJP leaders said Thakur held a meeting with the dissidents for more than two hours on Sunday and met some leaders of the Matua community on Monday. Leaders in Thakur’s camp said he may meet BJP national president J P Nadda and Union home minster Amit Shah with the Matua community’s demand for immediate implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The law offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before 2015. The Matuas are a part of the large Dalit Namasudra community that migrated from East Pakistan (Now Bangladesh) during India’s partition in 1947 and the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War to escape religious persecution. Sukanta Majumdar said a Union minister can meet Nadda any time. “The Matua organisations are not part of the BJP. They are independent. They can always seek an appointment with Shah as he announced the Centre’s decisions on the CAA,” Majumdar added. Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said the dissidence in the BJP state unit is exposing its weakness. “Some dissident leaders may wish to switch sides but our party has not given any thought to it so far,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-suspends-two-former-vice-presidents-who-joined-dissidents-101643043970593.html
24-01-2022||India||National Voters’ Day: EC to focus on inclusive polling to mark event; awards for achievers||The 12th National Voters' Day will be celebrated on January 25, the Election Commission of India (ECI) said on Monday.In a press release, the ECI said the theme for this year's voters' day will be ‘Making Elections Inclusive, Accessible and Participative’, to envisage focus on its commitment to facilitate the active participation of voters during the elections and to make the complete process hassle-free and a memorable experience for all categories of voters.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is down with Covid-19, will deliver a virtual address during the function, news agency ANI reported. He had earlier consented to be the chief guest for the event.The function will be attended by Union minister for law and justice Kiren Rijiju as the guest of honour, the report further said.During the function, the newly enrolled voters would also be felicitated and handed over their Elector Photo Identity Card (EPIC).To mark the occasion, National Awards for the Best Electoral Practices for the year 2021-22 will be conferred on state and district-level officers for their outstanding performance in the conduct of elections in different spheres such as IT initiatives, security management, election management, accessible elections and contribution in the field of voter awareness and outreach.National awards will also be given to important stakeholders like government departments, ECI icons and media groups for their valuable contribution towards voters' awareness.Among other things, an ECI Publication 'Leap of Faith: Journey of Indian Elections', a book that narrates India's electoral history and the growth of representative and electoral principles in India as it evolved from the nineteenth to the twenty-first century, will also be released.Another publication, 'Pledging to Vote - A Decadal Journey of 'The National Voters Day in India' will also be launched, said the report.National Voters' Day has been celebrated on January 25 every year since 2011 across the country to mark the foundation day of the Election Commission of India in 1950.Dedicated to the voters of the country, the day is utilised to spread awareness among voters and promote informed participation in the electoral process.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-voters-day-ec-to-focus-on-inclusive-polling-to-mark-event-awards-for-achievers-101643038121927.html
24-01-2022||India||Bihar goes slow on Omicron testing, lone lab runs out of reagents||The molecular biology laboratory at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Bihar’s lone setup approved by the Indian SARS CoV-2 Consortium of Genomic Sequencing (INSACOG) for whole genomic sequencing, a test to ascertain the strain of coronavirus, has run out of reagents. This has slowed down the process to ascertain the strain of coronavirus, despite Omicron having reached the community spread stage, said officials familiar with the development. The other reason for the slow detection of the Omicron variant among the Covid-19 samples is the absence of the S-Gene Target Failure (SGTF), the S-Gene Mutation Amplification (SGMA) or the SARS-CoV-2 RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) diagnostic kits at government facilities, said scientists aware of the development. The Tata Medical and Diagnostics has developed a kit ‘OmiSure’ that claims to detect the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has already approved the kit. Besides being cheap, the kit, which costs ₹250, can give result within four hours while the whole genomic sequencing takes 7-10 days and its reagents cost ₹12-15 lakh for one round of test in which a maximum of 96 samples can be tested. Bihar is yet to buy the kit in absence of directions from the ICMR, said officials quoted above. The Odisha government, however, has already placed orders for procuring 5 lakh kits, said a representative of the company. Bihar, on its part, placed orders last week to purchase reagents for genomic sequencing at the IGIMS and is waiting for them to arrive. It also awaits the Centre’s approval to its recommendation to allow a private laboratory to conduct SGTF test. “We are awaiting approval from the competent authority after having recommended a private laboratory, which applied for permission to conduct the [SGTF] test,” Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health, had said during a press conference on January 18. He, however, did not respond to this reporter’s text message on Monday if the state government was getting the SGTF kits for quick detection of the Covid-19 strain. Sanjay Kumar Singh, managing director of the Bihar Medical Services Infrastructure Company Limited (BMSICL), tasked with infrastructure upkeep and purchases at government health facilities, also did not respond to calls or text message in this regard on Monday. “After two rounds of genomic sequencing at the IGIMS, indications are that Omicron is the predominant strain in Bihar,” Amrit had then said. Epidemiologists now say that Omicron has reached the community-spread stage in the state. Omicron was found in 93% (67) of the 72 samples so far tested at the IGIMS in two rounds of genomic sequencing on January 9 and 18.The ICMR-Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) also awaits the Centre’s decision after it requested its head office in New Delhi last December to allow it to have a genomic sequencing set up at its bio-safety level 2-plus laboratory in Patna. While the ICMR was yet to respond to its request, government sources said the WHO had shown interest to support it by installing a genomic sequencing setup at RMRIMS, Patna. The state government early this month decided to install an additional genome sequencing setup at the IGIMS. The procurement and installation of the apparatus will, however, take some time, despite Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar having shown interest in it. “Genetic sequencing is done for sentinel surveillance of the Covid-19 virus and is a more accurate method to track its variants. It identifies the exact presence of Omicron sub-variant (BA.1, BA.2, BA.3, etc.). The BA.2 sub-variant of Omicron is predominant in Bihar. However, sequencing has the drawback of being slow, which means it is not suitable for monitoring a rapidly spreading variant,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar Sinha, visiting professor (research), IGIMS, and a former scientist G of ICMR-RMRIMS, Patna.With 1,821 new infections of SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday, Bihar ranked 21st in terms of new infections added among Indian states and union territories. Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra were the top three. New cases have come down from the month’s peak of 6,541 reported on January 14. The total tally of active cases was 14,833, as per a government health bulletin released on Monday. The state’s positivity rate, which is the number of samples testing positive for Covid-19 out of the total tests done, had gone down to 1.73% on Sunday, while that of Patna was 8.20%, as it reported 224 cases, the highest among Bihar’s 38 districts during the day.
24-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Yemen’s Houthis threaten to expand ops against UAE, Saudi, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Yemen’s Houthi rebels targeted Abu Dhabi again on Monday and threatened to expand their operations against the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, a major escalation in hostilities with the two countries that are home to nearly six million Indians. Read moreThe Supreme Court on Monday directed the Delhi high court not to further delay the execution of an award of over ₹7200 crore payable by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to a consortium headed by Anil Ambani-led Reliance Infrastructure Limited (RInfra) which operated the Delhi Airport Metro Express till 2012. Read moreOn Sunday, as the Indian cricket team played South Africa at Cape Town, the official broadcaster of the match revealed Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli's daughter Vamika's face. Given that Virat and Anushka have been fiercely protective of Vamika's privacy, fans were livid at what they breach of privacy. Read more‘Who next after Virat Kohli to take Indian cricket forward?’. This is the biggest question hounding Indian cricket presently. With Kohli stepping down as India’s Test captain in a surprising announcement, the find for its next leader has thrown the BCCI in a quandary. Read moreAmid U.S.-Russia escalation over Ukraine, a strong message has been sent to China - stay away from Taiwan. China sees Taiwan as a breakaway province, but an overwhelming number of Taiwanese feel they have a separate nation. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-yemen-s-houthis-threaten-to-expand-ops-against-uae-saudi-and-all-the-latest-news-101643036739841.html
24-01-2022||India||SC tells Delhi HC not to delay execution of award against DMRC over Airport Express line||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Delhi high court not to further delay the execution of an award of over ₹7200 crore payable by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to a consortium headed by Anil Ambani-led Reliance Infrastructure Limited (RInfra) which operated the Delhi Airport Metro Express till 2012. The decree became ripe for payment after DMRC’s challenge against the award was dismissed by the Supreme Court on September 9.The Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited (DAMEPL) – a consortium of Reliance Energy Limited (renamed as Reliance Infrastructure) and Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles SA –had subsequently approached the Delhi high court on September 12 for execution of the award but complained of delaying tactics by DMRC. On eight occasions, the petition was listed and on January 11, the high court posted the matter to March 29. The DAMEPL approached the top court challenging this order. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai, while disposing the petition asked the two sides to appear before the high court on January 31 and request for an early disposal of the execution proceedings. “Without commenting on the submission of either side we are of the opinion that hearing of the execution application does not brook any further delay…. We request high court to dispose of the execution application without any further delay as consequence of delay is detrimental to the petitioner and respondent (DMRC).”Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi who appeared for DAMEPL informed the Court that so far, only a token sum of ₹1000 crore has been paid by DMRC on December 8 in the execution proceeding and as on January 11, the sum recoverable from DMRC is ₹6268.87 crore. Rohatgi pointed out that his clients are not willing to settle the matter out of court with DMRC and urged that a deadline should be set for DMRC to make the payment.The bench asked DMRC, “There is an award in their favour approved by this Court and now you are seeking a settlement.”Senior advocate Parag Tripathi appearing for DMRC said, “There are several issues in execution. The whole Metro operation will come to a close, not just here in Delhi but in five other cities.” He referred to a communication addressed by DMRC to DAMEPL on January 6 making an offer to consider undertaking the outstanding liability of DAMEPL and its holding company, RInfra towards banks. Tripathi informed that in this regard talks were on as DMRC will be better placed to negotiate with banks.Rohatgi opposed saying, “I am not interested in talking to them anymore. With over ₹6000 crore hard cash in my account, I will be better placed to talk to my lenders. Let them give a plan by when they will pay. I will deal with my debtors.”Tripathi informed the Court that following these negotiations, the Delhi high court had directed DMRC to place on record all assets. “We have since disclosed to the Court and they are agreeable to settle,” DMRC told the Court.The bench said, “Who is to benefit from the pendency of these proceedings. You cannot compel a party to compromise. Now that they have disagreed to settle, we will request the high court to take up the matter at the earliest.”Before the high court, the DAMEPL had stated that the total decree amount payable by DMRC as on September 10 was ₹7045.41 crore. Further, the DAMEPL in its petition before the top court said that delay of each single day was resulting in incremental daily interest on the decreed sum. Between September 10 and January 11, this amount cumulatively stands at ₹223.46 crore, DAMEPL stated in its petition filed through advocate Mahesh Agrawala.With the HC ordering the matter to be listed on March 29, the petition said, “The high court instead of executing the decree by attaching the funds to the tune of ₹6208.03 crore admittedly available with the DMRC and lying in its various bank accounts towards partial satisfaction of the decretal amounts payable under the Award, embarked on a journey of acting as a conciliation court.”The DMRC had filed an affidavit before the Delhi high court on January 10 making full disclosure of its funds that stood at ₹6208.03 crore. DMRC had entered into an agreement with DAMEPL in August 2008 for the design, installation, commissioning, operation and maintenance of the 22.7 km Airport Metro Express Line from New Delhi Railway Station to Dwarka Sector 21 via Indira Gandhi International Airport. The agreement in the nature of public-private partnership required DMRC to undertake the design and construction of a basic civil structure for the project. In May 2012, the Anil Ambani-led company complained of defects in design and quality in the installation of viaduct bearing that was denied by DMRC. A joint inspection committee was set up that gave its report in July 2012. This was followed by another letter by DAMEPL, giving 90 days for DMRC to cure the defects. On completion of 90 days, DAMEPL issued a notice terminating the agreement on 8 October 2012, accusing DMRC of defaulting on the agreement. DMRC, however, said that it had carried out the required rectifications. While the dispute between the parties was pending before the arbitral tribunal, DMRC restarted the line after obtaining a certificate from the commissioner of metro rail safety on 18 January 2013.The tribunal undertook a detailed enquiry into all aspects and found as many as 1,551 cracks in 367 girders and 80 girders with twists varying between 10 to 20 mm. The tribunal was of the opinion that these defects adversely impacted the integrity of the structure. As effective steps were not taken within the cure period of 90 days, the tribunal held that DMRC was in breach of the concession agreement. The top court’s September 9 order upheld the order of the single judge of the high court, said, “It cannot be said that the view of the tribunal is perverse. Therefore, we do not concur with the high court’s opinion that the award of the tribunal on the legality of the termination notice is vitiated due to the vice of perversity.” On November 23, the Supreme Court even dismissed the review petition filed by DMRC, making the judgment final for execution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-delhi-hc-not-to-delay-execution-of-award-against-dmrc-over-airport-express-line-101643034850089.html
24-01-2022||India||Lovlina, Covid warriors, agri-entrepreneurs among Assam’s highest civilian award winners||Tokyo Olympics medallist Lovlina Borgohain, Covid-19 warriors and agri-entrepreneurs were among the 17 distinguished personalities presented with Assam’s highest civilian honour on Monday. Governor Jagdish Mukhi handed over the awards at a ceremony held at Srimanta Sankardev Kalakshetra in Guwahati. This is the first time the Assam government has introduced a new set of civilian awards on the lines of the Padma awards. Industrialist Ratan Tata, who was named for the highest honour- Assam Baibhav-and distinguished management guru Dipak Chand Jain, (named for Assam Saurav-the second highest honour) who couldn’t attend the event would be conferred their awards later. “It’s a big day today. The state’s highest civilian awards will be bestowed on individuals, mostly from grassroots and selected through citizen-centric process, for their distinguished service to society. I hope the recognition inspires others to the cause of building a New Assam,” Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted. Besides Lovlina and Jain, distinguished educationist and scientist Kamalendu Deb Krori, bureaucrat Dr. S Lakshmanan and renowned artist Neel Pawan Baruah were conferred with the Assam Saurav awards. Along with a citation and a medal, the awards-- Assam Baibhav, Assam Saurav and Assam Gaurav-- carry a cash component of ₹5 lakh, ₹4 lakh and ₹3 lakh respectively. Those who received the Assam Gaurav awards were Munindra Nath Ngatey, Dr. Basanta Hazarika, Akash Jyoti Gogoi, Manoj Basumatary, Khorsing Terang, Boby Hazarika, Hemoprabha Chutia, Namita Kalita, Barmita Momin, Dharanidhar Boro, Kaushik Boruah, Kalpana Boro and Dr Asif Iqbal. The first set of awards honoured several of the state’s Covid-19 warriors. They included Dr. Lakshmanan and Ngatey, bureaucrats who played key roles in executing Covid-19 measures and mass vaccination and Dr Hazarika, who was key in preparing and executing Covid-19 protocols and managed nearly 3,000 critical Covid-19 patients in Guwahati Medical College Hospital. Namita Kalita, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) who has administered nearly 100,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses and Barmita Momin, an accredited social health activist (ASHA) who ensured 100% Covid-19 vaccination in a village that had earlier forced her to pay a fine as punishment for taking the vaccine were other Covid-19 warriors who were honoured. Manoj Bausmatary, who set up an eco-system for piggery as an industry in Assam, Kaushik Baruah, who is responsible for starting export of fruits and vegetables produced in the state to Dubai and European markets and Akash Jyoti Gogoi, who established one of Northeast’s biggest egg production unit were the agri-entrepreneurs conferred with the Assam Gaurav award. 
24-01-2022||India||KCR joins ranks with Mamata, Vijayan to protest proposed changes in IAS rules||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing a "strong protest" against proposed changes in service rules of officers belonging to the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) rank.In his letter, Rao said the proposed amendments militate against the federal structure of the Constitution and will erode the all-India character of such officers. Rao, who is popularly known as KCR, further said that while the current structure provides for concurrence of state governments in the matter of deputation of officers, the latest proposal would unilaterally disturb the same. Also watch | Why Mamata wants Modi govt to keep IAS cadre rules unchangedThe letter said it is clearly a move to exercise indirect control by the central government on officers working in the state. It amounts to interference in the functioning of state governments, targeted harassment of officers, besides impacting accountability of officers towards state governments.Several other chief ministers, all of them from non-BJP states – West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee and her Kerala and Tamil Nadu counterparts Pinaray Vijayan and MK Stalin – have already expressed their opposition in writing to the proposed changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-joins-ranks-with-mamata-vijayan-to-protest-proposed-changes-in-ias-rules-101643029196578.html
24-01-2022||India||‘Really exceptional’: Israeli ambassador Naor Gilon on bilateral ties with India||Israeli ambassador Naor Gilon on Monday recalled the role of soldiers of the British Indian Army in World War 1 in liberating areas that later became Israel and said India was a country where Jews had lived with total equality for more than 2,000 years. Gilon was speaking at a virtual event that he addressed along with Sanjeev Singla, the Indian envoy to Israel, to mark the launch of a commemorative logo for the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries. The Israeli envoy recalled his visits last year along with external affairs minister S Jaishankar to “some places commemorating more than 900 Indian soldiers buried in Israel”. These were soldiers “who fought during World War 1 as part of the British Indian army to liberate this area that later became Israel”, he said. Gilon said Jews have lived “for over 2,000 years in India in total equality and peacefully”. He added, “And as someone who arrived [in India] after serving quite extensive periods in Europe, I was very much surprised to see how much love and appreciation there is in India towards Israel. There is another element – there is no anti-Semitism in India, this phrase just doesn’t exist.” The envoy’s remarks came against the backdrop of a debate in India over the role of Indian soldiers who served in the British Army before independence and whether their legacy should be part of the Indian Army’s history. The debate began following the merging of the 50-year-old eternal flame or Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate with the flame at the adjacent National War Memorial (NWM) on Friday. Gilon described bilateral ties as “really exceptional” and said this was a strategic partnership “not only by name but also by action”. Both Gilon and Singla described the relations as a civilisational bond. “Israel and India enjoy really vast cooperation in a lot of fields – economically, agriculture, water, security, innovation, health, tourism, education, culture and more,” Gilon said, adding the two sides are hoping to increase activities and looking forward to a visit by the Israeli prime minister and other officials. The new logo features the Star of David and the Ashoka Chakra – symbols that adorn the flags of the two countries – forming the numeral 30 to depict the 30th anniversary of bilateral ties. The two sides launched a logo design contest last year for students of Israel’s Holon Institute of Technology and India’s National Institute of Design. The winning design, created by Nikhil Kumar Rai, was chosen jointly by the embassies and consulates of both countries. Singla said the Jewish people had thrived in India for centuries and enriched the country’ composite culture. He said the large Indian Jewish community in Israel forms an “organic link” between the two sides. Following the launch of a strategic partnership five years ago, India and Israel are now looking towards greater cooperation in areas such as innovation, AI and quantum computing, he added. India and Israel established diplomatic ties on January 29, 1992. Today, they share a very close relationship that encompasses fields such as health, agriculture, trade, science and technology, and defence and homeland security. The 30th anniversary of relations will be marked by an array of cultural events throughout 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/really-exceptional-israeli-ambassador-naor-gilon-on-bilateral-ties-with-india-101643028429806.html
24-01-2022||India||Delhi will have just 3 dry days in 2022, down from 21 last year||Delhi excise department has reduced the number of ‘dry day’ to just three in the Capital from existing 21 days.In an order issued on Monday, the excise department reduced the number of dry days to just 3 from the existing 21 dry days. Now only Republic Day, Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti would be observed as dry days. The new excise policy, notified last year, promised to reduce the ‘dry days’ but a formal order was awaited.“In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 52 of Delhi Excise Rules, 2010, it is hereby ordered that – Republic Day (January 26), Independence Day (August 15) and Gandhi Jayanti (October 2) – shall be observed as “dry day” in the national capital by all the licensees of the excise department and vends located in Delhi for the year 2022,” an order issued by the excise department said.ALSO READ | Lower legal drinking age to 21, reduce number of dry days: Delhi panelHT reported on January 20 that though Delhi had a new liquor policy, but two of the key promises made previously -- the lowering of the legal drinking age to 21, and a reduction in the number of dry days to 3 -- remained just that for now, promises. In a press conference on March 22 last year, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also the city’s excise minister, announced that the union territory’s government would embark on a new excise regime by slashing the legal age of drinking to 21, exiting the retail alcohol business, overhauling a labyrinthine tax system, and reducing the number of dry days to 3. The promise of reducing the drinking age still awaits a formal order. To implement the drinking age reduction, the excise department has to issue a separate order.The 21 dry days was one of the highest compared to most states and UTs in India.
24-01-2022||India||Punjab HC rejects anticipatory bail plea of Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia in drugs case||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia who was undergoing trial in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) case.As a next step, Majithia will move the Supreme Court for interim protection from arrest in the case. The high court heard the arguments from both sides earlier in the day and pronounced the order at 4pm.The SAD leader was granted interim protection from arrest on two accounts -- January 10 and 18. The high court had also asked him to cooperate in the probe and imposed some other conditions.When the court heard the matter last on January 18, the Punjab Police had informed the high court that Majithia was not cooperating in the probe, even though he had joined the investigation on multiple occasions.While former Union minister and Supreme Court lawyer P Chidambaram presented the state government, Majithia had roped in apex court lawyer Mukul Rohtagi and senior advocate RS Cheema.The 46-year-old Akali leader was booked on December 20 last year under the NDPS Act on the basis of a report filed by anti-drug special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in the high court in 2018. On December 24, Majithia had moved the high court seeking anticipatory bail.Majithia is the brother-in-law of SAD president Sukhbir Badal and the brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-hc-rejects-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-akali-leader-bikram-singh-majithia-in-drugs-case-101643023998968.html
24-01-2022||India||NCP chief Sharad Pawar tests positive for Covid-19||NCP chief Sharad Pawar tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Pawar, 81, informed about his health on his Twitter handle.“I have tested Covid-19 positive but there is no cause for concern. I am following the treatment as suggested by my doctor. I request all those who have been in contact with me in the past few days to get themselves tested and take all necessary precautions,” Pawar tweeted.This is the first time the veteran politician got infected with the virus.“He is fine and under home-isolation. A test was conducted after he had mild symptoms. He is likely to remain in home isolation for a week,” said a NCP office-bearer, who did not want to be named.Last month, Pawar’s daughter and Baramati Member of Parliament (MP) Supriya Sule tested positive for Covid-19 along with her husband Sadanand Sule.In 2020, twelve staff members working at Silver Oak, Pawar’s residence in south Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19. Pawar and his family members also underwent tests and their results were negative. But as a precautionary measure, Pawar remained in isolation for four days.Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up Pawar and inquired about his health.“Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji called to enquire about my health. I am thankful for his concern and good wishes,” the NCP chief tweeted later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-tests-positive-for-covid19-101643023510933.html
24-01-2022||India||Chhattisgarh police registers case against people seen in viral video||RAIPUR: The Chhattisgarh police on Saturday registered a case over a widely-circulated video that showed a group of people, allegedly from Korba district, ‘pledging’ to employ only members of Hindu community in their establishments.The people in the video, which went viral on Friday, can be heard saying “Today all of us, hardcore Hindus, residents of Banki Mongra, district Korba, Chhattisgarh are taking pledge that we will make our core as hardcore Hindu nation.... We in our establishments, our homes, and our businesses would only employ Hindu brothers so that we can strengthen our Hindutva...” On Saturday, Korba police said that a complainant reached Kotwali police station and registered a written complaint against the people seen in the video.“The complainant alleged that through the video, the accused were inciting ‘religious fanaticism’ in the area hence we have registered a case under section 153 (A) [Promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony]. The complainant has even identified one of them as Pramod Agarwal hence we have registered case against Agarwal and others,” said superintendent of police (SP), Korba district, Bhojram Patel. “We don’t know about the other accused or any organisation which is mentioned in the video. Police are investigating and more details are awaited,” the SP added. Two people were arrested in Surguja earlier this month after a video emerged in which a group of people were heard taking oath to boycott ‘Muslim vendors’.
24-01-2022||India||Evening brief from HT: WHO chief says global conditions ideal for more Covid variants and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Global conditions are ideal for more Covid variants to emerge: WHO chiefAs the world grapples with the surge of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, the World Health Organization (WHO) director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday that globally the conditions are ideal for more strains to emerge. Read more.‘Will induce fear’: Why states are opposing Govt’s proposed changes to IAS rulesKerala and Tamil Nadu are the latest among 9 states that also include NDA-ruled states to join pushback to the centre's new plans for IAF transfers. Watch here.Here's when Omicron-driven Covid infections are set to decline in IndiaCovid-19 infections, led by the Omicron variant, are expected to decline across the country by February 15, with a wide vaccination coverage having played a key role. Read more.Suspected Maoist killed in encounter with security forces in ChhattisgarhA suspected Maoist was killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in the Abujhmad forest of Chhattisgarh’s Left-wing insurgency-hit Narayanpur district on Monday, police said. Read more.'They are very casual, gifted games to South Africa': Madan Lal slams India batters; 'Must take more responsibility'Former India bowler Madan Lal has come down heavy on the team's performance in the recently concluded tour of South Africa, calling out the players for their "casual" approach and their inability to learn from their mistakes. Read more.See pics of Akshay Kumar’s new ₹7.8 crore Mumbai flat with four car parking spacesAkshay Kumar has bought an apartment in the Khar suburb of Mumbai for ₹7.8 crore, according to a report. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evening-brief-from-ht-who-chief-says-global-conditions-ideal-for-more-variants-101643021121779.html
24-01-2022||India||Double-engine govt euphemism for dictatorship, says Yashwant Sinha||Former Union finance minister Yashwant Sinha on Monday said that the BJP’s oft repeated slogan of a double-engine government is a sinister euphemism for dictatorship in which a single party is seeking absolute control of a nation as large and diverse as India. Addressing the media in Goa, the senior leader of the Trinamool Congress, said that while the slogan was hollow with the two engines pulling in different directions, it was also a serious issue. “If the Central government or the BJP speaks about a double-engine government, it means they want to run a dictatorship in Goa. It implies that there will be no government of another party anywhere. They are speaking about double engines vis a vis the state government,” Sinha said. “Tomorrow, they will speak about double and triple engines when it comes to panchayats. How can this work? Our country has so much diversity that a double engine can never work. Double engine is a wrong slogan,” he added.The BJP has been seeking votes claiming that if elected to power, Goa will be run by a ‘double engine sarkar’ (government) which implies that the Centre and state government would be working together. Sinha, however, said the engines were pulling in different directions. “Sometimes what happens with a double-engine phenomenon is that one engine goes one way and the other goes in a different direction. Double engine can pull you in different directions also. We are talking about a double-engine government,” he added. The former finance minister also said that the Trinamool Congress’ pre poll announcements, which were criticised for being impractical considering Goa’s precarious economic scenario and schemes, were definitely doable within the limits of Goa’s budget and he promised that if elected to power, he would personally monitor the roll out of the schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doubleengine-govt-euphemism-for-dictatorship-says-yashwant-sinha-101643020509000.html
24-01-2022||India||Here's when Omicron-driven Covid infections are set to decline in India||Covid-19 infections, led by the Omicron variant, are expected to decline across the country by February 15, with a wide vaccination coverage having played a key role.An ANI report, quoting government sources, said vaccination helped majorly in reducing the impact of the third wave in the country, which was comparatively mild in comparison to the second phase of the pandemic that saw an immense increase in hospitalisations putting the health infrastructure on the verge of collapse.“Covid cases in the country to decline by Feb 15. The cases have started reducing and stabilising in some states and metro cities. Vaccination has reduced the impact of the third wave. The Union health ministry is coordinating with the states and UTs. About 74% of the adult population is fully vaccinated,” the report quoted a source as saying.India registered 3,06,064 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Monday, adding about an eight per cent decline from the average daily cases reported in the last four days.Also read | Global conditions are ideal for more Covid variants to emerge: WHO chiefAs many as 439 related deaths were registered in the same time span, the lowest in five days.At present, Karnataka has the highest number of active cases with 3,57,826 infections, followed by Maharashtra ( 2,97,115) and Kerala (2,65,349).Over 162 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive thus far.Last week, the government said deaths are significantly less in the third wave of the pandemic in comparison to the second wave, and the current surge is not witnessing an increase in severe illness or death following high vaccination uptake, reported news agency PTI.It also said that 94 per cent of India's adults have been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine, while 72 per cent are fully vaccinated.A study conducted by a private healthcare group has found 60 per cent of the patients who died during the current wave of the pandemic were either partially or fully unvaccinated. The study by Max Healthcare further said the deaths reported were largely among those aged over 70 and those suffering from multiple comorbidities such as kidney diseases, heart diseases, diabetes and cancer."In our hospitals, 60 per cent of the 82 deaths so far were seen among the partially or unvaccinated population," news agency PTI quoted the hospital as saying in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heres-when-omicron-driven-covid-infections-is-set-to-decline-in-india-101643015404857.html
24-01-2022||India||NCP chief Sharad Pawar tests positive for Covid-19, says no cause for concern||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Monday said he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He further wrote on Twitter that there is no cause for concern and that he is following the treatment as suggested by his doctor.“I request all those who have been in contact with me in the past few days to get themselves tested and take all necessary precautions,” the veteran politician added.I have tested Covid positive but there is no cause for concern. I am following the treatment as suggested by my doctor.I request all those who have been in contact with me in the past few days to get themselves tested and take all necessary precautions.A number of political leaders have been infected by the virus in its latest phase over the past few weeks. A day ago, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said he will be undergoing isolation for a week as he had contracted the virus. He also requested his close contacts to get themselves tested and to isolate.As many as 875 staff members of the Parliament House have tested positive for Covid-19 in recent weeks. With days to go for the Budget session that kicks off from January 31, a decision will be taken if both the Houses of Parliament will sit simultaneously or in different shifts.On Saturday, it was reported that former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) chief HD Deve Gowda tested positive for coronavirus. Manipal Hospitals in Bengaluru said in a statement that he is clinically stable and is responding to treatment.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, and his Bihar counterpart Nitish Kumar have  also been hit by the viral disease recently.Meanwhile, India's Covid-19 case count continued to see a spike for the fifth straight day on Saturday after as many as 306,064 infections were recorded, according to the Union health ministry's morning update. The death toll also saw a rise with 439 new fatalities, reaching a cumulative tally of 4,89,848.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-isolates-self-101643014688723.html
24-01-2022||India||Suspected Maoist killed in encounter with security forces in Chhattisgarh||RAIPUR: A suspected Maoist was killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in the Abujhmad forest of Chhattisgarh’s Left-wing insurgency-hit Narayanpur district on Monday, police said. A combing operation was underway in the forest even as the slain Maoist was yet to be identified, they added.Police superintendent (Narayanpur) Girja Shankar Jaiswal said that the gun battle began around 1 am on Monday when a team of the District Reserve Guard was out on a patrol. “The encounter lasted for 20 minutes and after it stopped, the body of the Maoist and a muzzle-loading gun were recovered from the spot,” said Jaiswal. He added a cache of Maoist-related items was also seized from the site of the gun battle.Six suspected Maoists were earlier killed in four separate exchanges of fire between the Maoists and security forces in the Bastar region of the state last week.
24-01-2022||India||Kerala to probe trans activist’s suicide after sex reassignment surgery||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Six months after the suicide of a 28-year-old trans activist following alleged medical complications after a sex reassignment surgery in a private hospital, the Kerala government on Monday ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident. The government has directed the additional director of health to make a detailed inquiry and submit a report in a month’s time. After the suicide of the activist, who was also the first radio jockey from the transgender community, her male friend also committed suicide and LGBTQ community members have been seeking a probe into their deaths for quite some time. She also contested the last assembly elections from a constituency in Malappuram district but later withdrew her papers. Days before her death, she posted a message in social media about her “botched operation and how painful after-effects immobilised her”. The activist’s friends said she underwent a sex reassignment surgery in a private hospital in Ernakulam in 2020 but after some time many problems started haunting her. Though she approached the same hospital it failed to address her woes, they said adding severe physical discomfort later led to her suicide. Her body was found hanging in an apartment and three days after the incident her male partner was also found dead in Kochi in a similar way. “There is no uniform protocol in sex reassignment surgeries and LGBTQ community members often end up in traps set up by private hospitals. We need ethical committees to end this exploitation. We need a proper protocol, standard and treatment methodology,” said Syama S Prabha, state transgender justice board member. Activists working in the area say Section 15 of the Transgender Act stipulates the government to provide various health care facilities for community members such as sex reassignment surgeries, hormonal therapy and treatment and separate sero surveillance centres but implementation of them are lethargic and abysmal. “Hospitals need qualified healthcare professionals associated with sex reassignment surgery equipped with queer affirmative surgical and counselling practices. We need a health manual guided by world professional association for transgender health guidelines,” said another activist Renju adding for many private hospitals such surgeries are mere money making exercise. Kerala is the first state to formulate a transgender policy in 2015 aimed at ending discrimination and bring them to mainstream. In 2017 it also set up a transgender justice board to deal with their complaints and a separate column called “third sex” was introduced in birth and death registration forms in the state. It was also made mandatory for all government buildings to have separate washrooms for the third sex. According to transgender board there are at least 35,000 third sex and trans persons in Kerala. Five years back, the Kochi Metro gave job to 23 transgenders, though some of them have left. Despite some initial moves, activists working in the area say more is required to bring them into mainstream and they need recognition, not sympathy. In 2019, a hostel for transgender persons was opened in Kochi. (Suicide is no solution to anything. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: 0484-2540530, 0471-2533900) 
24-01-2022||India||Bihar: 10-year-old girl killed, four in family injured after house catches fire||ARA: A 10-year-old girl was killed and four others in her family were seriously injured after their house at Sonvarsha situated under Charpokhri police station of Bhojpur district caught fire from the spark of bonfire kept in a room on Sunday midnight, police said. The incident took place around 1 am when they were sleeping. The victim was identified as Kajal, 10-year-old daughter of Rajesh Ram. The others who are under treatment at Ara sadar hospital are her brothers and their 35-year- old mother Rachna Devi. According to Surendra Ram, in the late evening of Sunday, her daughter in law Rachna Devi was warming her hands with her sons and daughters using bonfire in an earthen pot. Later on, all of them went to sleep. He was sleeping some metres away in his ‘dalan’. In the night, flames started coming out from his house. He and other villagers rushed to the house. All the victims were brought out from the house. With the help of the villagers, the victims were rushed to Ara sadar hospital where Kajal died during the treatment. The in-charge SHO of Charpokhri police station Raja Ram Prasad said that the police team visited both the incident site and the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-10-year-old-girl-killed-four-in-family-injured-after-house-catches-fire-101643013848437.html
24-01-2022||India||PM Modi interacts with PMRBP awardees, gives message of responsibility to his 'young friends'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday interacted with the awardees of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar (PMRBP) and said that they are receiving this accolade at a time when the country is celebrating 75 years of Independence.Speaking to his 'Young Friends' through video conferencing, PM Modi said, “This award also brings in big responsibilities. The expectations of your friends, family and society have increased. You should be inspired and not pressurised by these expectations."“Today, we feel proud when we see the CEOs of all the big companies of the world are young Indians. We also see the youth doing well in the world of startups. We feel proud when we see our youth innovating, taking the country forward,” Modi said.He added that all girls are doing wonders in specific areas where they were not allowed to work earlier and this is the identity of new India that never holds itself back from innovating.The Prime Minister also lauded the contribution of children towards the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in India and the Centre's Swacch Bharat Abhiyan.“You inspired your families to take up the cleanliness campaign. I also urge you to promote the government's 'Vocal for Local' campaign,” Modi told the awardees.The Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar is given to children above the age of five and not exceeding the age of 15 for outstanding achievements in the fields of innovation, sports, arts and culture, social service among others.The award is conferred by the President in a ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. However, the event could not be organised due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The awardees of both 2022 and 2021 will receive certificates using block-chain technology. "This technology is being used for the first time for giving certificates of awardees,” according to an official statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-interacts-with-pradhan-mantri-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-awardees-101643009302840.html
24-01-2022||India||Assam’s oldest literary body attempts to reconnect with youngsters||GUWAHATI: Over a century after it came into being, the Asam Sahitya Sabha, Assam’s oldest literary-cultural organisation, is attempting a reconnect with the state’ youths in a bid to stay relevant with the times. Headed now by Kuladhar Saikia, a retired IPS officer and a Sahitya Akademy Award winner, the organisation has started a series of events called Swadesh Swabhiman where young minds deliberate on relevant issues with the guidance of some of the state’s noted academicians and scholars. Constituted in 1917 with the aim of development of Assamese language, literature and culture, the Asam Sahitya Sabha has been closely associated with the independence movement and all important events in Assam’s history in the past century. But over the years, the organisation’s image has taken a beating with accusations of it becoming aloof from the society and being a select club of intellectuals and writers with not much connect to present happenings. Swadesh Swabhiman is an attempt to respond to those views. “The basic reason behind starting the programme was to encourage the young generation to debate, discourse and study and give them a platform. They are asked to choose a topic related to Assam, research on it and speak about it within five minutes,” said Asam Sahitya Sabha president Saikia. “The idea was to find young talents who are able to do research on a relevant topic and voice that out through strong communication skills at any platform anywhere. We want to form a group of people who can reflect on issues and represent the state,” he added. Since the starting in November, the Asam Sahitya Sabha has organised three editions of Swadesh Swabhiman where topics have ranged from naval strategy of Ahom rulers, history of textiles and jewellery in Assam to the state’s famed mobile theatre and food habits. “One important objective behind the programme was to make the Asam Sahitya Sabha accessible to the young generation by bringing in new ideas and using new technology. We can’t think of advancement of language and literature without participation by young generation,” said Saikia. “I believe, the century-old organisation must open our windows and doors to allow youths to enter and take a lead as well. Otherwise, we will become old and irrelevant. The Asam Sahitya Sabha is not only about literature or writers, it’s an organisation for all who loves Assam and should be all-inclusive,” he added. In order to help students and youths taking part in the event, the Asam Sahitya Sabha selects resource persons who are academicians and scholars of repute who guide the students on selecting topics for their speeches and point out how to do value addition in them with inputs. “I was enthused on hearing about the idea and immediately agreed on being on board. This is a very good initiative and will give us a select group of youths who can be good public speakers and may become good intellectuals in future,” said Alok Buragohain, former vice-chancellor of Dibrugarh University and academic chairperson of Guwahati-based Royal Global University. “The Asam Sahitya Sabha had become a moribund organisation. Besides being a bridge with youths, this initiative is a revival of sorts for it. The organisation was started by youths and now it’s reconnecting with today’s youths. This would help shed the image of being a closed group with limited access for outsiders,” he added. While the Asam Sahitya Sabha is organising the event and giving the platform, students from various reputed colleges in Assam and those studying outside the state are also getting involved in holding the lectures and helping with preparations. “I was involved with co-curricular activities and debates while studying in Cotton College in Guwahati. When Saikia Sir was looking for a few students to start Swadesh Swabhiman, I got a chance to be its part,” said Barnil Medhi, a student of Botany at Hindu College in Delhi. “Prior to this it was also our feeling that there was disconnect between Asam Sahitya Sabha and students and youths. This programme will help bridge that gap a lot, but a lot more still needs to be done. We want to take this initiative to all corners of the state,” he added. After taking part in the first edition of the event held at Cotton College in November last year where he spoke on comparison between architecture in Assam in the past with that of the other parts of India, Medhi has been involved in organising the next two editions where he also performs the role of an anchor. “I had been associated with the second and third editions of Swadesh Swabhiman as one of the speakers. This initiative has helped us with a platform to do research and communicate with others and also get intellectual guidance from experts,” said Ananya Saikia, a student of psychology in Guwahati’s Handique Girls College. The Asam Sahitya Sabha will soon publish the speeches delivered at the Swadesh Sabhiman events so that they can help others learn more about the state. The organisation is also trying to popularise storytelling among children. It started a bi-weekly programme with All India Radio (AIR) where popular stories from the state are aired and conducted storytelling workshops. 
24-01-2022||India||Afternoon brief from HT: Roads shut and power supply disrupted in Himachal Pradesh from snowfall and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Severe cold, fog grips north India; roads closed in Himachal due to snowfallSeveral roads in Himachal Pradesh have been closed and a number of power supply and water supply schemes disrupted due to heavy snowfall in the state. Read more.Delhi Police issues guidelines for people attending Republic Day paradeThe Delhi Police on Monday issued guidelines for people who will be attending the Republic Day parade in the national capital on January 26 (Wednesday). Read more.Covid outbreak in Parliament: 875 staff members test positive for coronavirusAhead of the Parliament’s Budget Session that starts on January 31, at least 875 staff members of the House, as well as Rajya Sabha chairperson and Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, have tested positive for Covid-19, the Parliament secretariate said. Read more.Viral: BSF jawan does 47 push ups in 40 secs; another does one-handed in snowVideo of a BSF jawan doing push ups on a ground covered in thick snow has gone viral on social media. Watch here.Anushka Sharma, Virat Kohli break silence as Vamika's pics go viral: 'We were caught off guard, our stance remains same'Actor Anushka Sharma and cricketer Virat Kohli put out a statement after pictures of their daughter Vamika were clicked at a cricket stadium. Read more.Virat Kohli issues statement after visuals of daughter Vamika surface: ‘Would appreciate if her images aren’t clicked’Former India captain Virat Kohli issued a statement after images of his wife Anushka Sharma holding their daughter Vamika were widely circulated on social media. Read more.Ola Electric raises ₹1,490 crore fund, valuation now at ₹3.73 thousand croreIndian electric two-wheeler manufacturer Ola Electric has raised more funding to increase its valuation to $5 billion. Read more.Loved Mira Rajput's vegan silk kaftan dress in mirror selfie that burned up Instagram? It is worth ₹51kActor Shahid Kapoor's wife, Mira Rajput, is known for championing homegrown labels and vegan fashion statements. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-brief-from-ht-roads-shut-and-power-supply-disrupted-in-himachal-101643007459704.html
24-01-2022||India||National Girl Child Day: History, objectives and celebrations this year||India is celebrating National Girl Child Day on Monday (January 24). It is an initiative undertaken by the ministry of women and child development with an objective to provide support and opportunities to the girls of India.Several Union ministers have extended their wishes on the occasion, listing the measures taken by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre for “women-led development”.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda also extended his wishes, saying that the Centre is taking steps “to educate women and make them self-reliant”.Objectives of National Girl Child DayAccording to women and child development ministry, National Girl Child Day is meant to create awareness about the rights a girl owns and to give them opportunities like everyone else, and to support the girl child of the nation and remove gender-based biases.It also calls for promoting awareness about the inequalities that a girl child faces and educate people about girl’s education.The main focus is on changing society’s attitude towards girls, decrease female feticide and create awareness about the decreasing sex ratio, the ministry further said.History of National Girl Child DayThe government of India, in 2008, declared January 24 to be celebrated as the National Girl Child Day every year with the objective of raising the consciousness of the society towards the girl child so that she can be valued and respected.Steps taken by the government to fulfill the objectives of National Girl Child DayThe women and child development ministry listed a number of steps taken by the government in this regard, like:• Save the Girl Child,• Beti Bachao Beti Padhao,• Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana• CBSE Udaan Scheme• Free or subsidized education for girl child,• Reservation for women in colleges and universitiesThe day is marked by various events all across the country, though the ministry has decided to organise all the programmes in virtual mode this year in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2022On the occasion of National Girl Child Day and as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually interact with Rashtriya Bal Puraskar awardees. The programme will recognise the exemplary achievements of the children.The winners of the award, along with their parents and concerned district magistrate of their respective district, would join the event from their district headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-girl-child-day-history-objectives-and-celebrations-this-year-101643005208065.html
24-01-2022||India||Five killed, four injured in accident along Pune-Ahmednagar highway||PUNE: Five persons were killed and two severely injured after a truck lost control and rammed into oncoming vehicle on the other side of the median along Pune-Ahmednagar highway on Sunday night, said police.The deceased were identified as Swapnil Pandit Kendale, 24, a resident of Kandiwali, Mumbai, Leena Raju Nikase and Tejas Raju Nikase, 24, both residents of area near Dandekar bridge in Pune city, Vitthal Popat Hingade, 38, Reshma Vitthal Hingade, 35, both residents of Parner, Ahmednagar.“The accident happened around 6:15pm. The truck lost control and broke through the divider. The driver has run away. Those in Ertiga were returning to Pune after attending a wedding in Ahmednagar and the couple on one of the bikes was heading towards Mumbai. The person on the other bike was a local,” said API Ranjit Pathare.Those injured were identified as Siddharth Sanjay Kendale, Asha Raju Nikase, Raju Sitaram Nikase, and Rohan Uttam Barvekar, according to the police.Of the six members of Nikase family travelling in the Ertiga car, two died on the spot while others have sustained severe injuries.The police are on a lookout for the truck driver. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act was registered against him at Shikrapur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-killed-four-injured-in-accident-along-pune-ahmednagar-highway-101643004367863.html
24-01-2022||India||Severe cold, fog grips north India; roads closed in Himachal due to snowfall||Several roads in Himachal Pradesh have been closed and a number of power supply and water supply schemes disrupted due to heavy snowfall in the state. Several parts of India, including Himachal Pradesh, are reeling under the cold wave conditions due to dry northwesterly winds which are bringing cold air from the snow-clad Himalayas.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Sunday, wave conditions will prevail over Delhi, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh for the next few days.The IMD has predicted heavy rainfall or snowfall over Jammu & Kashmir-Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on January 24 and 25.Himachal Pradesh has been blanketed with snow since Sunday. Four national highways are among roads that have been closed in the state."Due to heavy snowfall, 731 roads including four National Highways closed, 1365 power supply schemes disrupted, 102 water supply schemes disrupted and 3220 electricity supply schemes were disrupted, out of which 1,955 have been restored," the state disaster management authority said.Due to heavy snowfall, two of the four teenage boys, who went for a trek in Kangra were found dead. "We are recording the statements of the two rescued boys who got injured due to a fall," Kangra ASP Puneet Raghu told news agency ANI.National capital Delhi, meanwhile, witnessed a foggy morning on Monday, with the minimum temperature settling at eight degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature is likely to be around 16 degrees Celsius, according to IMD.Cold wave conditions prevailed in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur too. The MeT department further said that dense fog prevailed in isolated pockets over East Uttar Pradesh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-cold-fog-grips-north-india-roads-closed-in-himachal-due-to-snowfall-101643003455222.html
24-01-2022||India||National Girl Child Day: Amit Shah, other ministers extend wishes||A number of Union ministers and leaders wished the country on National Girl Child Day, which is being celebrated on Monday (January 24). Union ministers Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Hardeep Puri posted their wishes on social media.“Prime minister @NarendraModi Ji changed the thinking of women's development into the resolve of women-led development and opened the doors of opportunities. Today the daughters of the country are illuminating the name of India in every field. On 'National Girl Child Day', I convey my best wishes to every daughter of India, the pride of the country,” Shah said on Twitter.प्रधानमंत्री @NarendraModi जी ने Women Development की सोच को Women-Led Development के संकल्प में बदला और अवसरों के द्वार खोले। आज देश की बेटियाँ हर क्षेत्र में भारत का नाम रोशन कर रही हैं।'राष्ट्रीय बालिका दिवस' पर मैं देश की गौरव भारत की हर बेटी को शुभकामनाएं देता हूँ।He also listed schemes like ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao (BBBP) scheme, which the home minister said turned into people’s movement.The government of India had launched the BBBP scheme on January 22, 2015, to address major issues related to female empowerment in the country.“With determination, skill and ambition, the daughters of the country are making their mark in every field today. Our government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been continuously striving for 'Women Led Development’,” Gadkari posted on Koo.The government of India, in 2008, declared January 24 to be celebrated as the National Girl Child Day every year with the objective of raising the consciousness of the society towards the girl child so that she can be valued and respected.It is celebrated to raise awareness among people regarding inequalities, discrimination, exploitation faced by the girls in society.“On the occasion of #NationalGirlChildDay,we celebrate the daughters of India who,with a strong resolve & undaunted idealism,are creating an identity in every sphere. On this day, we vow to bridge the gender divide that hinders women from leading a life of independence &dignity,” tweeted Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia.The National Girl Child Day is celebrated with various programs including awareness campaigns to create a healthy and safe environment for a girl child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-girl-child-day-amit-shah-other-ministers-extend-wishes-101643002987014.html
24-01-2022||India||Covid-19: India logs over 3 lakh new cases, 439 deaths; positivity rate surges to 20.75%||Coronavirus cases in India continued to surge over 3 lakh for the fifth day in a row as the country registered 306,064 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry bulletin showed on Monday morning. The death toll surged to 4,89,848 with 439 new fatalities.Notably, as high as 60 per cent of the patients who have died in the third wave of pandemic in India were either unvaccinated or had received only a single dose.India's active caseload, driven by the Omicron surge, currently stands at 22,49,335. The active numbers are up by 62,130 since the previous day, recording 5.69 per cent of the total infections. A total of 2,43,495 people recovered from the viral infection in the last 24 hours, the health bulletin stated.The daily positivity rate showed a 3 per cent rise to 20.75 per cent as compared to yesterday's 17.73 per cent, while the weekly positivity increased to 17.03 per cent.Also Read | Omicron spread: Daily cases in US drop, anti-curbs protest continue in BelgiumMore than 27 lakh vaccine doses have been administered in the last 24 hours, recording a cumulative total of more than 1.62 billion jabs under nationwide vaccination drive.A study conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras showed that the existing Omicron-driven Covid-19 wave in India is likely to peak in the next 14 days, meaning that cases will be the highest around February 6. The result is based on the institute's analysis of the national ‘R-value,' which, it said, declined further in the week of January 14-21.The data shared in the study revealed that in individual cities like Kolkata, Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai, the R-value stood at 0.56, 0.67, 0.98 and 1.2, respectively. If this number goes below 1, the pandemic is considered to have ‘ended’, the researchers explained.Currently, Maharashtra continues to top the Covid-19 chart in India, although new cases in Mumbai have dropped significantly. The southern states of Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh hold the next few spots due to a Covid-19 surge in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-over-3-lakh-covid-19-cases-439-deaths-positivity-rate-surges-to-2075-101642997818164.html
24-01-2022||India||Covid outbreak in Parliament: 875 staff members test positive for coronavirus||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the Parliament’s Budget Session that starts on January 31, at least 875 staff members of the House, as well as Rajya Sabha chairperson and Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, have tested positive for Covid-19, the Parliament secretariate said.Naidu has self-isolated for a week in Hyderabad. “The Vice-President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, who is in Hyderabad, tested Covid positive today. He has decided to remain in self-isolation for a week. He has advised all those who came in contact with him to isolate themselves and get tested,” Naidu’s secretariat said in a tweet on Sunday. This is the second time Naidu has tested positive for the virus.Before the Budget Session, 2,847 tests were conducted at the Parliament complex and the 875 staff members tested positive.A call is expected to be made whether Lower and Upper Houses of Parliament will sit simultaneously or in different shifts in view of a spike in the Covid-19 cases.The Budget Session will be held from January 31 to April 8 with a nearly month-long recess after the first half. The Union budget will be presented on February 1 and the President will address a joint sitting of both Houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/875-parliament-staff-members-test-covid-positive-101642998247620.html
24-01-2022||India||'Long awaited correction of history': Jaishankar on Subhas Chandra Bose's statue at India Gate||Union external affairs minister Dr S Jaishankar hailed the unveiling of a holographic statue of freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at central Delhi's India Gate, saying it "is a long awaited correction of history".He also said on Twitter that this is a message from New India."The presence of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose at India Gate is a long awaited correction of history. A leader who fought imperialism and compelled decolonization is being fittingly recognized," Jaishankar said in his first tweet."This is a message from a New India. We will be true to ourselves when dealing with the world," he added in subsequent Twitter post.This is a message from a New India. We will be true to ourselves when dealing with the world.#ParakramDivasThe digital statue was unveiled on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji on Sunday. The 3D hologram will later be replaced by a 28-feet high and six-feet wide granite statue of the freedom fighter.Addressing the gathering during the unveiling ceremony, PM Modi said that Bose, who had established the first independent government in India, gave the country the confidence to achieve a sovereign and strong India.“This statue is a homage to the hero of freedom by the grateful nation and will keep on reminding our institutions and generations the lesson of national duty,” he said.Also Read | In unveiling of Netaji's statue, PM Modi's message to the worldThe hologram statue will be powered by a 30,000 lumens 4K projector. The 3D image of Netaji will be projected on a transparent holographic screen to create the effect of a hologram.The installation of the granite statue of Netaji under the India Gate canopy, which once housed the statue of King George V, is in recognition of the leader of INA as one of the foremost freedom fighters of India. INA was the army that faced maximum attrition (26,000 out of total 90,000 died) but never surrendered to the British. Its officers and men were captured and put on trial but never signed any surrender document before the British.According to officials, the decision to install Netaji's statue was not taken in the spur of the moment by Prime Minister Modi but through intensive deliberations with the culture ministry and those manning historical archives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-awaited-correction-of-history-jaishankar-on-netaji-statue-at-india-gate-101642997097888.html
24-01-2022||India||Vijayan, Stalin add voices to chorus against proposed changes to IAS rules||NEW DELHI: Chief ministers of Kerala and Tamil Nadu Pinarayi Vijayan and M K Stalin have added their voices to the chorus from non-Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states against the proposed changes to the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) Cadre Rules to allow the central government to summon any official for central deputation without the consent of the state governments.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Stalin cited natural disasters while asking him to revoke the proposal. “The States also face frequent natural disasters which demand services of IAS officers in the State more than elsewhere,” he said. “Given this situation, forcing the State Governments to depute officers would surely aggravate the governance deficit in various States due to shortage of officers and also it is an affront to the administrative framework of the States.”Vijayan urged Modi to drop the proposed amendments saying it will “induce a fear psychosis and an attitude of hesitancy among All India Service Officers to implement policies of a state government, which are formed by party/parties politically opposed by the ruling party at the Centre.” He added the deputation rules are “heavily loaded in favour” of the Union government.Earlier on January 18, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Modi expressing her “strong reservations” over the move. She urged Modi to roll back the proposed amendments saying they were “against the spirit of cooperative federalism and that it upsets harmonious arrangement between Centre and States in the matter of posting of IAS and IPS officers.”Banerjee said the move goes “against the… basic structure of India’s Constitutional scheme.” Her Jharkhand counterpart, Hemant Soren, urged Modi to set aside the proposed amendments, calling them “draconian” and against the spirit of “cooperative federalism”. Soren said the move is likely to further strain the stressed Centre-state relations. “It has immense potential to be misused for harassment of officers and vendetta politics against the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-stalin-add-voices-to-chorus-against-proposed-changes-to-ias-rules-101642997107179.html
24-01-2022||India||Wary of RJD’s apathy, Congress plans to fight all seats in Bihar council polls||PATNA: Wary of the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) reluctance to give a respectable share of seats, the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) is gearing up to field its candidates on all 24 local bodies seats of the state legislative council, the elections to which is scheduled to be held in February-March this year. “We have discussed and prepared the panel of candidates for 12 constituencies in our meeting with Bihar party in-charge Bhakta Charan Das in New Delhi on Saturday. However, the final decision, whether to stay in the alliance with the RJD or go it alone in the upcoming elections, rests on the party high command,” said BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha. Jha and BPCC campaign committee chairman Akhilesh Prasad Singh initiated the party’s plan to take a plunge into the council polls with Das after the RJD unilaterally decided to field its nominees on 20 out of 24 seats, leaving only four seats for the Congress. Apparently sulking after a humiliating defeat of the party’s candidates in recently held by-elections for Tarapur and Kusheshswar Asthan assembly seats, the Bihar Congress is anxious to resume its ties with the RJD. The coalition between the RJD and the Congress went for a toss after the former rejected the seat-sharing claim and fielded its candidates on both the seats. However, the RJD too faced the defeat. Soon after the declaration of results of the assembly by-elections, RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav announced that the RJD’s alliance with the Congress will remain and the party will be offered seven-eight seats in the council to contest. Worried about the RJD’s plan for the upcoming elections, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, who is also a Rajya Sabha member, met Lalu Prasad in Delhi on January 18 to know his mind. Senior Congress leaders said that the RJD chief asked them to wait till January 28 to formalise the seat-sharing deal on return of opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav from abroad. “Unlike the assembly by-elections, we are well prepared to meet any eventuality. We are not willing to accept anything which is unreasonable and hence unacceptable,” said Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma. Senior party leader Kishore Kumar Jha said the party high command must rethink the plan to tie up with the RJD, which always pursued opportunistic politics and thereby demoralised the Congress workers. “Organisational presence of the Congress has been wiped out from a majority of areas, including Mithilanchal, after the party started depending on the alliance with the RJD. Some of the key leaders of Bihar Congress are desperate to team up with the RJD as their kin are preparing to contest the council elections,” said Jha. Former BPCC vice president and MLC Ajay Kumar Singh said that the party had strong winning prospects in the constituencies of Bettiah, Darbhanga, Rohtas & Kaimur, Katihar, Begusarai, Jamui, Saharsa, Purnia and Nawada, owing to strong presence of dedicated party workers. Last time, Congress fielded its candidates on four seats, including Bettiah, Purnia and Saharsa and spared Katihar for the NCP. RJD and the Janata Dal (United), which was then part of the Grand Alliance (GA), were offered ten seats each.
24-01-2022||India||Dr Gagandeep Kang on covid antibody therapy: unethical, immoral, unscientific||India's top virologist, Dr Gagandeep Kang has called the prescription of monoclonal antibody therapy by the doctors in the private hospitals of the country for the treatment of Omicron variant of Covid-19 patients "unethical, immoral and unscientific" and asked the medical fraternity to "practice better medicine than this".Notably, monoclonal antibodies treatment for Covid has been excluded in the revised National Covid task force treatment.In a series of tweets, Dr Kang said that she received a call from a 90-year-old diabetic patient from Chennai who narrated to her that he was advised admission to the hospital for the antibody treatment because he was in contact with someone who tested positive for SARS-CoV2."A call from a 90-year diabetic uncle in Chennai who said he has advised admission to hospital and antibody treatment because he was in contact with someone who tested positive for SARS-CoV2 sparked this thread," she Dr Kang tweeted."We know that 90 per cent or greater infections are currently Omicron in Indian cities. We know that the licensed monoclonal antibody products in India do not neutralise omicron. Yet doctors in private hospitals are prescribing monoclonal antibody therapy (and admission)," she added in her tweet.The Doctor further pointed out that there is little data in India which is why we do not know if the percentage of vaccinated elderly with Omicron will progress."Please remember that even among clinical vulnerable, most contacts will stay asymptomatic or have mild symptoms & recover. Small no. develop severe illness (in India, we have little data so we do not know whether 5% or 20% of vaccinated elderly with omicron will progress)," she tweeted."In any case, all the ones who would have gotten better anyway will do fine--but having given antibodies, doctors will ascribe that to their treatment and the hospitals will laugh all the way to the bank. The argument I hear from well-meaning doctors (thankfully not infectious disease specialists) is that it is only one lakh and my patient can afford to buy it, so why not?" Dr Kang said in the tweet.Dr Kang said that it is unethical, immoral and unscientific to provide the antibodies treatment and asked the doctors to practise better medicine."Why not? It is unethical, immoral and unscientific. Surely, as doctors, we can teach and practise better medicine than this. And as patients, please ask for what each drug is expected to do and the evidence to back that up," Dr Kang said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-gagandeep-kang-on-covid-antibody-therapy-unethical-immoral-unscientific-101642991378651.html
24-01-2022||India||Morning brief: US advises citizens against travel to Russia and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US advises citizens against travel to Russia amid tensions on Ukraine borderThe United States has warned its citizens against travelling to Russia in the wake of tensions on the border with Ukraine. Read more PM Modi to interact with Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar awardees todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday virtually interact with the recepients of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar (PMRBP). According to an official statement, the event will start at 11.30 am. Read more Manfred Thierry Mugler, legendary French designer, dies at 73French designer Manfred Thierry Mugler, who reigned over the fashion industry in the 1980s, died on Sunday at the age of 73. His agent Jean-Baptiste Rougeot revealed that Mugler passed away because of "natural causes". Read more'Live by the sword, die by the sword': Gambhir dissects Pant's 'rash' batting approach, says 'he's not like Virat Kohli'Rishabh Pant has often come under the scanner for rash dismissals and not putting a price on his wicket. The 24-year-old dasher wears his heart on his sleeve while batting but draws criticism for his high-risk batting approach. Read more Pratik Gandhi on how casteism affects every sphere of life: ‘It’s one of the biggest demons we are fighting’In a new interview with Hindustan Times, Pratik Gandhi talks about his new show The Great Indian Murder, his experiences with the caste system, and much more. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-us-advises-citizens-against-travel-to-russia-and-all-the-latest-news-101642992573276.html
24-01-2022||India||As Maharashtra schools reopen, Aaditya Thackeray gives important clarification||As Maharashtra orders reopening its schools, state cabinet minister Aditya Thackrey said that the move is meant only for few districts. He added that the decision rests squarely on parents whether they want to send their children to schools or not.The statement from Thackeray comes after Maharashtra school education minister, Varsha Gaikwad, on Thursday said that schools in Maharashtra for classes 1 to 12 are to be re-opened on January 24 (Monday) with Covid-19 protocols.“We've not made students' physical presence mandatory in schools. A few districts are opening schools, a few districts are not. Parents may send their wards with permission. We request everyone to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour," Aaditya Thackeray was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Sunday.According to news agency PTI, about 62 per cent of surveyed parents in Maharashtra are unwilling to send their children to school. The findings were based on a survey conducted by online community platform LocalCircle and received nearly 5,000 repsponses.Schools in the state were shut in the first week of January due to the surge in coronavirus disease cases, but as the daily numbers came down, the state decided to reopen schools in offline mode.However, schools in Pune will not resume physical classes due to the rising Covid cases. Schools will remain online in the district for at least next one week, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-maharashtra-schools-reopen-aaditya-thackeray-gives-important-clarification-101642992182202.html
24-01-2022||India||Mercury set to plunge across north India, Madhya Pradesh||NEW DELHI: Minimum temperatures were expected to fall by 4-6 degrees Celsius in northwest India and Madhya Pradesh, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said as widespread light to moderate rainfall or snowfall was likely in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand.“Due to northerly winds blowing from the Himalayas, where there was widespread and heavy snowfall, minimum temperatures will fall in the plains. Maximum is also likely to fall,” said an IMD scientist.Light isolated to scattered rainfall or snowfall was also expected in parts of north India on January 24 and 25. Isolated Heavy rainfall or snowfall with hailstorm was likely in Uttarakhand on Monday while rainfall was very likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh. Dry weather was expected thereafter.Widespread light to moderate rainfall was very likely in northeast India till January 25.Dense fog was likely in isolated pockets in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan. A cold wave is likely in isolated pockets in these areas from January 25 to 27.A western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation was lying over Punjab and neighbourhood. Another cyclonic circulation was lying over Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/min-temperatures-likely-to-fall-in-northwest-india-101642992786660.html
24-01-2022||India||PM Modi to interact with Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar awardees today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday virtually interact with the recepients of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar (PMRBP). According to an official statement, the event will start at 11.30 am.Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani and minister of state Dr Munjpara Mahendrabhai will be present during the event.“Digital certificates will be conferred on PMRBP awardees for the years 2022 and 2021 using Blockchain Technology. This technology is being used for the first time for giving certificates of awardees,” the official statement read.The Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar is given to children above the age of five and not exceeding the age of 15 with exceptional abilities and outstanding achievement in fields of innovation, sports, arts and culture, social service, scholastic achievements and bravery.Such children are handed over a cash prize of ₹1,00,000, a medal and a certificate.The award is conferred by President Ram Nath Kovind in a ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. However, due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, it was not possible to organise the award ceremony and hence Prime Minister Modi will virtually interact with the winners, the above statement added.The awardees will also take part in the Republic Day parade on January 26 (Wednesday).Last year, Prime Minister Modi's virtual interaction with PMRBP awardees was held on January 25.During the interaction, PM Modi had said, “Your works, even at such a young age, are very surprising. Somebody is glorifying the country in the field of sports, or somebody is doing research and innovation from now on. The practice of enhancing India’s pride will be seen when somebody from you will become a player, scientist, political leader or CEO in the future.”He also listed out three resolutions for his young friends which were about continuity, country and humility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-pradhan-mantri-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-awardees-today-101642984844206.html
24-01-2022||NA||Breaking News: Burkina Faso President Roch Kabore resigns, reports Reuters||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Burkina Faso President Roch Kabore resigns, reports ReutersBurkina Faso President Roch Kabore has resigned -sources https://t.co/2tHW6m6akx pic.twitter.com/jy1IWNkBlfPresident of Burkina Faso Roch Kabore has resigned, reports Reuters citing sources.At 46,426, fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka dip; 32 deathsRegistering a dip in cases, Karnataka on Monday logged 46,426 new cases of Covid-19, and 32 fatalities, taking the tally to 35,64,108 and the death toll to 38,614. Read moreUttarakhand polls: Ex-CM Harish Rawat named Congress candidate from RamnagarThe Congress on Monday released its second list of 11 candidates for the upcoming Uttarakhand assembly election. Among notable faces, former chief minister Harish Rawat has been named as the party’s candidate from the Ramnagar seat. Read more2 West Bengal BJP leaders suspended from party, reports ANIWest Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Jay Prakash Majumdar and Ritesh Tiwari have been suspended from the party, reports news agency ANI. The party's state leadership had issued show-cause notices to the two leaders on Sunday for "anti-party activities".Mumbai reports 1,857 new Covid cases, 11 deaths in last 24 hoursMumbai reported 1,857 fresh cases of the Covid-19 disease and 11 related deaths in the last 24 hours. As many as 503 people recuperated from the viral infection in the same time span. Madhya Pradesh sees 10,585 Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths; positivity dips to 13%The Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh reached 9,04,744 on Monday after the detection of 10,585 new cases, while the toll increased to 10,576 with six patients succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours, an official told news agency PTI. The positivity rate reduced to 13.0 per cent on Monday from 13.4 per cent on Sunday, he pointed out.Delhi reports 5,760 new Covid-19 cases, 37.3% dip from yesterday's tallyDelhi on Monday reported 5,760 new cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 30 related deaths in the last 24 hours. The tally of active cases in the city stands at 45,140. The positivity rate has gone down to 11.79 per cent. Read moreAkhilesh Yadav to contest UP Assembly polls from Karhal constituencySamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav will contest the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls from Karhal constituency.Mansukh Mandviya to take stock of pandemic situation in 9 states/ UTs on Jan 25Union health minister Mansukh Mandviya will interact with his counterparts in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Ladakh, Uttar Pradesh, and Chandigarh on January 25 to take stock of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, reports news agency ANI.Punjab & Haryana HC rejects anticipatory bail plea of Bikram Singh MajithiaPunjab and Haryana high court on Sunday rejected anticipatory bail plea of Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia in drugs case.Julian Assange can take his fight against US extradition to UK Supreme CourtWikiLeaks founder Julian Assange will be able to go to Britain's Supreme Court to challenge a decision allowing him to be extradited to the United States to face 18 criminal charges including breaking a spying law. Read moreUttarakhand polls: LPG cylinder prices won't cross ₹500 if Congress forms govt, promises Bhupesh BaghelChhattisgarh chief minister and Congress leader Bhupesh Baghel on Monday promised that if the party forms the government in Uttarakhand in the upcoming Assembly polls, then LPG cylinder prices in the state will not cross ₹500.Delhi court slaps sedition against Sharjeel ImamA Delhi court on Monday slapped sedition and other charges against Sharjeel Imam for 'inflammatory speeches' during anti-CAA stir.NCP chief Sharad Pawar tests positive for Covid-19I have tested Covid positive but there is no cause for concern. I am following the treatment as suggested by my doctor.I request all those who have been in contact with me in the past few days to get themselves tested and take all necessary precautions.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar took to Twitter on Monday to inform that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).All Delhi metro parking lots to remain shut from Jan 25-26 for R-DayAll parking lots of Delhi metro stations will remain shut from 6am of January 25 to 2pm of January 26 as part of “security arrangements” for Republic Day, DMRC said in a statement, according to ANI.‘Have enough stock of Covid-related and non-Covid meds’: Kerala health minister as cases rise in stateKerala health minister Veena George on Monday said that the southern state have “enough stock of Covid-related and non-Covid medicines,” according to ANI. “We also have adequate staff in hospitals. Only 43% of ICU beds (Covid and non-Covid) are occupied,” she added, pointing out that there is “no need” to worry. Notably, Kerala on Sunday logged 45,449 new Covid cases, up from 45, 136 on Saturday.Fire breaks out at a chemical factory in Maharashtra, 4 tenders at spotFire breaks out at a chemical factory in Kolhapur, Maharashtra. Four fire tenders at the spot. pic.twitter.com/23JfCHMCpQA fire has broken out at a chemical factory in Maharashtra's Kolhapur. As many as four fire tenders are at spot, ANI reported.PM interacts with Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar awardeesPrime Minister Narendra Modi has begun interacting with the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar awardees. The winners will also be conferred digital certificates year 2022 and 2021 using Blockchain Technology, which will be the first time the technology will be used for such a purpose.Kejriwal launches ‘Ek Mauka AAP Ko’ campaign before pollsDelhi CM and AAP supremo Arvind Kejrwal on Saturday launched party campaign 'Ek Mauka AAP Ko' ahead of Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. He urged people of Delhi to make videos capturing development under his government and appeal to people of other states to support AAP. Kejriwal added that he will have “dinner with 50 Delhiites” whose videos go viral.‘Good to take pride in one’s religion, but not right to have hatred towards other religions': Nawab Malik on Thackeray's BJP remarkIt is a fact that the parties that made an alliance with BJP, were gradually destroyed by them. It's good to take pride in one's religion, but it is not right to have hatred towards other religions: NCP leader Nawab Malik on Uddhav Thackeray's 'Wasted 25 years with BJP' remark pic.twitter.com/i2VAGJX12JNationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Monday said that it's good to “take pride” in one's religion but it's not right to have “hatred” towards other religions, according to ANI. “It is a fact that the parties that made an alliance with BJP, were gradually destroyed by them,” he added in reference to Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray's ‘wasted 25 years’ with BJP jibe.Kejriwal to address press briefing at 12 noonDelhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal will address a press conference at 12 noon today.Actor Dileep reach Crime Branch office in Kerala for questioning in actress assault caseActor Dileep has reached the Crime Branch office in Kerala for the second straight day, as directed by the high court for questioning in a case lodged against him and five others for allegedly threatening officials probing the sexual assault of an actress in 2017More than 162.73 crore vaccines administered so far: Health ministryThe Union health ministry said on Monday that more than 162.73 crore doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 have been administered to eligible beneficiaries till now. India records 3,06,064 new Covid infections, active cases up by 73,840India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saw a slight reduction on Monday with 3,06,064 new cases recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. Uttarakhand extends Covid curbs in state till Jan 31In a letter dated Jan 22, Uttarakhand Govt extends COVID restrictions in the state till January 31. All Anganwadi Centres and educational institutions up to 12th standard to remain closed, online classes to continue pic.twitter.com/cgLdH5wbDXAll Covid-19 restrictions in Uttarakhand have been extended till January 31. Have not made physical presence of students mandatory in schools in Maharashtra: Aaditya ThackerayMaharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray has said that the state government has not made physical presence of students mandatory in schools, adding parents may send their wards with permission. Thackeray's remarks come as schools in Maharashtra are set to resume from Monday for all classes amid an improvement in the Covid-19 situation. US advises citizens against travel to RussiaThe State Department has urged American citizens to not travel to Russia due to increased threats of Russian military action and the coronavirus disease pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-24-2021-101642984352016.html
24-01-2022||India||Niti Aayog plans to set up EV charging infra at railway stations||The Niti Aayog has prepared a draft policy for the Indian Railways to set up electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure at railway stations across the country, in a bid to promote the use of such vehicles. The draft policy, which has been shared with the ministry of railways, also recommends supply of renewable energy to the charging facilities in line with Indian Railways’ aim to become net-zero carbon emitter by 2030.The policy is under discussion with the ministry of railways, said Amitabh Kant, Niti Aayog’s chief executive officer. The apex public policy think tank has recommended that while the railways can plan to put in place EV charging facilities at all stations in a phased manner till 2030, the facility can be immediately provided at 123 redeveloped railway stations.“Railway stations are landmark locations and they play a unique role in the entire transport sector, which make them strategic locations for providing public charging solutions for EVs,” Kant said. Niti Aayog officials have recently discussed the draft policy with the railway ministry officials. Rajeev Jain, additional director general, PR, railway ministry, said, “We have very recently received the communication. We are working on it.”Under the Centre’s FAME-II (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and EV) scheme, the push is towards adoption of EVs, especially in public and shared transportation, in a big way in the country. The aim is to support approximately 7,000 e-buses, 500,000 electric three-wheelers, 55,000 electric four-wheeler passenger cars and one million electric two-wheelers through subsidy, said a NitiAayog official.For this, providing a good and accessible EV charging infrastructure network is critical. While the Centre has taken several initiatives to scale up EV charging facilities, NITI officials said, railway stations can provide a secure and accessible charging infrastructure to city residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-plans-to-set-up-ev-charging-infra-at-railway-stations-101642980050942.html
24-01-2022||India||Ball in Centre’s court: Himanta on border row||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday that it was upto the Centre to decide on the recommendations forwarded by the state and Meghalaya to resolve a part of the long-standing boundary disputes between the two sides.Addressing a press conference here, Sarma said, “The ball is now in the Centre’s court. We have submitted our recommendations to Union Home Minister Amit Shah.” “It is up to them when they call us for further discussions,” he added.Sarma’s statement came following opposition from Congress and other parties to the recent agreement between Assam and Meghalaya to sort out differences in 6 disputed areas through a give and take formula of land swap.As part of the deal, of the total disputed area of 36.79 sq km in the 6 areas Assam would get 18.51 sq km while Meghalaya would get 18.28 sq kmBesides Meghalaya, Assam has border disputes with Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Meghalaya. As per Assam assembly records, the total area of border disputes with all four states is around 690 sq km.“Before criticising us, Congress should realise that Meghalaya was carved out of Assam by them. We had to give up Shillong, which was our capital, and set up a new capital in Dispur,” said Sarma.“Not just Meghalaya, Congress was responsible for creating Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Nagaland by dividing Assam. If they had not done it, or sorted out the boundary issues at the time of creation of these new states, we wouldn’t have been facing disputes till now,” he added.“If states fight amongst themselves, we can’t go to Delhi and ask for something together as a region. It was Congress’s game plan. We are trying to correct that after 50 years. People in northeast want to live in peace. We have to create such an atmosphere,” Sarma added.Sarma said border talks were likely to be held soon between Assam and Arunachal Pradesh as well as with Mizoram in the near future.Since the border dispute with Nagaland is pending in Supreme Court, he expressed the hope that it would get sorted in another 2-3 years.Sarma said that creation of new states within northeast was part of a Congress plan to weaken the region.“As a result of Congress’s policies, people in northeast are suffering and we are fighting among ourselves. It was the design of Congress to keep the region in a weak and defensive position,” he said.Earlier, Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the two biggest opposition parties in the state assembly, had also opposed the land swap deal with Meghalaya and urged the BJP-led Assam government to discuss the issue in detail in the assembly before taking any hasty decision.Two regional parties, Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad stated that while Assam government is trying to portray that each state would get nearly 50% share of the 6 disputed areas, in reality Meghalaya would gain control of half the areas it had encroached while Assam will only get back half of its land, which the neighbour had earlier captured.(With PTI inputs)
24-01-2022||India||‘Indian boy’ found in China, identity being ascertained, says army||China’s Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA) has communicated to India that they have found an “Indian boy” on their side but are yet to ascertain his identity, the Indian Army said on Sunday.The development came two days after the Indian Army sought assistance from their Chinese counterpart to trace Miram Taron, a 17-year-old native of Zido village in Upper Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh, who went missing from near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on January 18. The teen, officials believe, was allegedly abducted by the PLA when he and a few others had gone hunting in the bordering region last week. “The Chinese PLA has confirmed that they have an Indian boy on their side. Further details, including about his identity, are awaited,” Lt Col Harsh Wardhan Pande, PRO (Defence), Tezpur, Assam, said.However, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Arunachal East, Tapir Gao, who had earlier tweeted about the alleged abduction, claimed the teen found by the PLA was Taron. “I have been informed that the Chinese PLA confirmed to the Indian Army that the youth missing from Upper Siang has been located on their side. This was disclosed in a meeting with Union defence minister Rajnath Singh today as well. It could take a few more days to complete required formalities and bring him back to India.”Officials familiar with the matter also said that once the identity of the teen found by the PLA is confirmed, it may take another one week before he is returned to India.On January 19, the BJP MP tweeted that the teen was “abducted from inside Indian territory at Lungta Jor under Siyungla area (Bishing village) of Upper Siang district” by the PLA.Gao said the news of Taron’s abduction was revealed by his friend who managed to escape from the PLA. He also claimed that China has built 3-4 kms of road in that area inside Indian territory in 2018.HT tried to reach out to authorities in Upper Siang district about Sunday’s development but could not get a response immediately.It is not for the first time that Indian citizens have gone missing from the border region. In September 2020, five people from the Tagin tribe who worked as porters for the Indian Army, went missing from Upper Subansiri on the Indian side of the McMahon line bifurcating Arunachal Pradesh and the Tibet Autonomous Region.
24-01-2022||India||Harmeet Singh Kalka of Akali Dal elected DSGMC president||Harmeet Singh Kalka of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) was on Saturday elected the president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) amid heated arguments among the members.The elections took place at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib in New Delhi.The voting had to be stopped after a member revealed his vote publicly, after which former DSGMC chief Manjit Singh GK, Paramjit Singh Sarna and Harvinder Singh Sarna objected to it.The SAD (Badal) has 30 members in the House that elected the Sikh body’s chief. The House has 55 members in all but only 51 can vote as the remaining are nominated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harmeet-singh-kalka-of-akali-dal-elected-dsgmcpresident-101642970515906.html
24-01-2022||India||Archaeologist R Nagaswamy passes away in Chennai||Renowned archaeologist, art historian and Padma Bhushan awardee R Nagaswamy, who was the first director of Tamil Nadu government’s Department of Archaeology died here on Sunday. He was 91.He is survived by two sons and two daughters. His wife had predeceased him. Nagaswamy passed away at 2.30 pm in his Chennai home briefly after he expressed uneasiness, his son-in-law Baskar Kailasam told PTI.Nagaswamy was an expert witness in a London court in the famous Pathur Nataraja case and played a key role in bringing back the Chola-era bronze Nataraja to Tamil Nadu.Former Director of Archaeology, Kerala and the Archaeological Survey of India, T Satyamurthy said, Nagaswamy’s death is an irreparable loss to the field of archaeology. A great scholar in Tamil and Sanskrit, he had published numerous research papers on art of ancient Tamil country. As an archaeologist, he had excavated many sites in Tamil Nadu, including Korkai, the ancient Pandyan port.Indian art lovers would forever remember him for his unmatched services and he had trained hundreds of Tamil enthusiasts in Tamil epigraphy. His contribution by way of filing an affidavit in the Ayodhya case is remarkable, Satyamurthi told PTI.Noted epigraphist and archaeologist S Ramachandran, condoling Nagaswamy’s death said: “Nagaswamy was such a dynamic archaeologist who led from the front. He inspired generations of aspiring epigraphists and archaeologists through his field work”.“Nagaswamy founded the Institute of Epigraphy and Archaeology in 1973 in the government department. He was instrumental in bringing Tamil scholars into the realm of Tamil epigraphy and Tamil archaeology and inculcated a historical spirit in Tamil scholars,” he said.Ramachandran, who retired from the TN Archaeology Department as an epigraphist added, “No wonder Nagaswamy is hailed as the father of Tamil archaeology”.After its formation, Nagaswamy became the first director of the Tamil Nadu government’s Department of Archaeology in 1966. He retired in 1988. He was awarded the prestigious Padma Bhushan in 2018 for his outstanding contribution to archaeology.He was a recipient of various other awards, including the Tamil Nadu government’s ‘Kalaimamani’ Award. A noted scholar, researcher and art historian, he has published many books including the, ‘Masterpieces of Early South Indian Bronzes’. He has written over 40 books in Tamil, English and Sanskrit and published over 100 books through the department.Nagaswamy began his career as a curator for art and archaeology at the museum here and was later appointed Assistant Special Officer, as part of a team of officials, to facilitate the formation of the state government’s Department of Archaeology.After retirement, he engaged himself in various archaeology-related activities. He was a consultant for the Central government in the Documentation of Cultural property, Thanjavur Brahadisvara Project (UNDP programme), according to the Tamil Arts Academy, Nagaswamy’s webpage.Nagaswamy was a post graduate in Sanskrit language and literature and also held a doctorate in Indian arts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/archaeologist-r-nagaswamy-passes-away-in-chennai-101642968004522.html
24-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu crosses 200,000 active Covid cases||Tamil Nadu’s active cases breached the 200,000 mark on Sunday with detention of 30,580 new cases. Health authorities, however, said the rate of transmission was showing signs of reducing. On January 1, Tamil Nadu had 8,340 active cases and it took only 12 days for the number of people carrying the virus to cross the one-lakh mark on January 13. And it has taken another 10 days for the state to cross the 200,000 mark. The highest caseload among Tamil Nadu’s 38 districts is from Chennai. However, the daily number of cases has been reducing in the capital city which reported 6,383 on Sunday.“Chennai saw almost 9,000 cases and the infection’s spread was rapid and increasing rapidly. But in the last two days we are seeing a decrease similar to the pattern in other major cities across the country,” health minister M Subramanian told reporters. Chennai’s positivity rate has also fallen to 23.6% with districts of Coimbatore and Chengalpattu overtaking in this figure of 26.6% and 25.5%. Chennai’s test positivity rate had surged from 3.3% on January 1 to twice the state’s average in a week’s time. On January 23, Tamil Nadu’s average test positivity rate was 19.8%.Experts warn that the state administration now has to focus on districts where cases are likely to increase, especially since people travelled back to their native towns and villages during the long Pongal weekend from January 14 to 17. “Mask compliance has gone down in Tamil Nadu and it’s especially poor in the districts,” said Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology. “We know with Omicron how rapid the transmission is so the state will have to insist on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.”Last Thursday, the state health minister had said that out of 129,000 hamlets in Tamil Nadu, 24,199 had positive cases. He however said that there was no reason to panic as the state has 1.92 lakh beds earmarked and roughly around 9000 were occupied. Health authorities attributed to few fatalities and non-severity of the illness to vaccinations.From January 1 up to January 15, out of the 191 patients who died 131 were either not vaccinated or were partially vaccinated, according to the directorate of public health. Meanwhile, the state conducted its 19th mass vaccination camp on Sunday across 50,000 sites. As of Sunday, 9.04 crore people have been vaccinated across all age categories.
24-01-2022||India||Telangana: Probe ordered after tribal women file molestation, assault complaint||Police in Telangana’s Bhadradri Kothagudem district are investigating a complaint lodged by four Adivasi women alleging assault on them and molestation attempt on a minor girl by a forest guard on Friday.The tribal women belonging to Rajannagudem gram panchayat of Mulakalalapalli block filed a complaint on Saturday. At the same time, the forest official, too, lodged a counter complaint against the tribal women stating that they had violated forest rules and obstructed his duties, Mulakalapalli assistant sub-inspector Tirumala Rao told HT.“We are conducting a preliminary investigation into both the complaints. We are yet to register a case. We shall do that after gathering details,” Rao said.According to Potu Ranga Rao, state joint secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), the three Adivasi women and a 15-year-old girl, who all originally belonged to Chhattisgarh and were taking shelter in the forest areas of the district, had gone deep into the forests to fetch firewood on Friday afternoon.“A forest guard, who saw them cutting wood, shouted at them and when they revolted, he beat them up indiscriminately. In their bid to escape from him, the girl fell into a deep ditch and sustained injuries on the body. On the pretext of pulling her from the ditch, the forest guard tore her clothes and tried to molest her,” Rao alleged.The tribal women managed to escape from the spot and reached their hamlet by evening. They met the gram panchayat sarpanch and explained everything to him. “On Saturday, the sarpanch took them to Mulakalapalli police station and made them lodge a complaint with police,” the CPI (ML) leader said.As the news spread like wildfire, local left party activists and Progressive Organisation for Women (POW) workers took out a rally in Mulakalapalli town and demanded action against the forest official. “The forest guard should be immediately arrested and booked for molestation and also for violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act,” POW president G Jhansi said.State tribal welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod ordered a comprehensive inquiry into the alleged molestation of a minor girl and assault on three other women by the forest guard.“The tribal women went into the forest to fetch firewood for their domestic use. How can the forest guard obstruct them and beat them? The government will take stern action after due inquiry,” she said in a statement.District forest officer Ranjit Naik said the forest department had initiated a probe to ascertain the facts and would take appropriate action against the accused.
24-01-2022||India||Over 1,000 rain-battered roads in Chennai to be reconstructed||Coming on the back of a monsoon that averaged 75% excess rainfall and damaged Chennai’s infrastructure, more than 1,000 roads are being reconstructed in the city under careful monitoring of chief minister MK Stalin, who has visited constructed sites twice just one week. It isn’t a common sight for a chief minister to oversee road laying work but politics around Chennai’s perennial flooding situation is a key aspect which Stalin promised to fix during the northeast monsoon in November last year. “The chief minister met several people on the ground during the northeast monsoon so he is very particular that all the roads which were battered are removed completely and re-laid before the next monsoon,” said Sekar Babu, minister for Hindu religious and charitable endowments department, who accompanied Stalin on these visits. “Since he is directly inspecting road works, officials are taking this very seriously and there is no room for any substandard work or irregularities.” The minister said while road infrastructure was a prime focus, the chief minister is also engaging with a recently constituted committee headed by retired IAS officer V Thiruppugazh to devise flood mitigation plans and long-term plans for water management. Following a late night inspection on January 14, Stalin warned of action against officials in the Greater Chennai Corporation and the highway department if they laid roads without milling. When roads are laid without milling it raises the height of the road and as a result residential homes especially old buildings are below the road level so their homes are inundated during the rains. “Because of the recent northeast monsoon rains, roads were affected so a lot of emphasis has been made by the chief minister, chief secretary and senior officials that the roads should not only be laid fast but also be laid with good quality so that these roads are long lasting,” said Gagandeep Singh Bedi, commissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation. “The CM insists that milling should be done. We have put 15 IAS officers for 15 zones (into which Chennai is divided). And we have given instructions to them and the chief engineers that they should particularly check that the quantity of bitumen being poured, the temperature of the hot mix, and the road camber should conform to norms so that there is no water stagnation.” Back in November when life was thrown out of gear in Chennai due to incessant excess rains which caused flooding, there was a war of words between Stalin and former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami. Stalin had accused the AIADMK’s former municipal administration Minister SP Velumani, a close aide of Palaniswami, of just “collecting commissions” instead of taking efforts to mitigate floods. Palaniswami in turn questioned what Stalin had done when he was Chennai mayor in the 1990s. 
24-01-2022||India||Row after car showroom staff ‘misbehaves’ with farmer||BengaluruA farmer being denied basic courtesy and respect when he went to purchase a vehicle in Tumakuru district, about 60 kms from Bengaluru, has drawn criticism online with netizens accusing the carmaker and its employees of being classist.The incident has reportedly happened on Saturday evening when Kempe Gowda, a farmer from Ramanpalya, went to buy a new Bolero Pick-up truck from car-maker, Mahindra.The car salesman allegedly laughed at Kempe Gowda and his friends.“The field officer said that there is no vehicle for ₹10 and that no one comes to buy a vehicle like this,” Kempe Gowda said in a recorded video, which has now gone viral on social media.His uncle then told the salesman that ₹10 lakh would be kept before them in half an hour and if the company would then deliver the car. The salesman said that he would deliver the car in less than half hour if they were able to produce the money.The video surfaces at a time when classist and casteist remarks have become far too common in the southern state where discrimination on such grounds have become the norm in several places.Kempe Gowda is heard saying that he would not leave the issue and fight till justice is served.“This has happened to me and I am an educated person and have completed my SSLC (10th grade). If this has happened to me, imagine how farmers will be treated. This should not happen to anyone,” he is heard saying.The video also shows Kempe Gowda trying to express the humiliation he faced due to the mindset of the salesperson.The police intervened and a complaint was filed with the showroom personnel tendering a written apology.Several netizens tagged Mahindra group and its Chairman, Anand Mahindra, on Twitter but there has been no response on the platform as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-after-car-showroom-staff-misbehaves-with-farmer-101642967404704.html
24-01-2022||India||Jarkiholi, Hebbalkar slugfest intensifies||BelagaviThe political rivalry between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Gokak, Ramesh Jarkiholi, and the Belagavi rural MLA, Laxmi Hebbalkar, of the Congress continues to take bitter and personal turns, adding to the challenges of both the parties and their prospects in the border district, about 505 kms from Bengaluru.The latest in the feud is when Hebbalkar said Ramesh Jarkiholi resembled a “demon” that has gone viral on social media and added to the personal nature of politics in this region of Karnataka where constituencies are treated like fiefdoms.After laying foundation stone of a road work at Mavinakatte, a village in her constituency, Hebbalkar used the platform to express her anger against Jarkiholi. Hebbalkar alleged that Mavinakatte road work, which had been sanctioned two years ago, and was blocked by Jarkiholi. “There are such demons that come and go in life. But I will work for you until I have your blessings,” Hebbalkar said addressing a gathering.Hebbalkar did not stop just calling Ramesh a ‘demon’. She said, “Eclipses don’t spare even sun and moon. Finally I am a human being. But the moon and sun shine again once the eclipse is over.” The rivalry between the Congress and BJP has little to do with the relationship of these two elected representatives in the border district where the Jarkiholi brothers wield significant influence over the region, often by overruling their counterparts.Hebbalkar has often been at the receiving end of such targeted attacks, especially by Ramesh.The spat had sparked the fire between Ramesh, his brother Satish, and Hebbalkar who was believed to be nudged by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, leading to the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government in 2019.The collapse of the coalition rule and the next government under BS Yediyurappa, in which Ramesh was the irrigation minister, had stopped all public works, including Mavinkatti road work sanctioned to the constituency as sort of a “revenge”, people aware of the developments said.That the Jarkiholis favour family over party ideology was seen in the December 10 legislative council polls in which the fourth brother, Lakhan, who contested as an independent, won against the BJP.Ramesh and his brother Balachandra are BJP legislators while Satish is with the Congress and Lakhan is an independent MLC.Ramesh was forced to step down from the cabinet last year after he was alleged to be involved in a “sex for job” scandal. He has been busy trying to win his place back in the Basavaraj Bommai-led government.Ramesh could not be reached for comment.Ramesh had made sexist remarks against Hebbalkar when he was an accused in the sex scandal. Hebbalkar just said, “It was his (Ramesh Jarkiholi) culture”.Interestingly, it was Ramesh who had initially helped Hebbalkar in her early political career and things got sour when she moved closer to Shivakumar.Hebbalkar has over the years mustered enough support and influence to take on the Jarkiholis and was successful in getting her brother, Channaraj Hattiholi, elected to the upper house of the state legislature in the December 10 polls.Before the video leak of the alleged sex scandal, Ramesh was actively working in Belagavi (rural) constituency and attracting Hebbalkar followers towards BJP as a part of strategy to give a tough fight in the upcoming assembly elections. Even some of the zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat members had joined the BJP. Jarkiholi had openly announced spending ₹5 crore on behalf of the BJP candidate against Hebbalkar in the election. Hebbalkar too has moved to an offensive stance after being on the back foot for several years, owing to her growing influence and strength in the border district.“Both Hebbalkar and Ramesh Jarkiholi have drawn their swords and the personal nature of the political rivalry would only get more aggressive. Ramesh played a key role in Hebbalkar to become district Congress president and later get elected as legislator. But rivalry started when Hebbalkar tried to overtake Jarkiholis in PLD bank elections. Now, both are engaged in engineering strategies to defeat each other. Hebbalkar thinks her strength has doubled after her brother was elected to legislative council. However, the next assembly election will show the result of who won the rivalry”, a senior political analyst from the district said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jarkiholi-hebbalkar-slugfest-intensifies-101642967344101.html
24-01-2022||India||Kerala actress assault case: Crime branch quiz actor Dileep, four others||A day after the Kerala High Court restrained Malayalam actor Dileep’s arrest till January 27, the former along with four other accused appeared before the crime branch in Kochi on Sunday. The accused will be questioned in connection with the conspiracy to eliminate the police officer who was investigating Dileep’s involvement in a woman actor’s abduction and assault case. Dileep reached the crime branch office in Kalamassery around 8.50 am. A senior officer said the questioning session will be recorded for transparency. The court had asked Dileep to appear before the investigating team for three consecutive days. It also asked officials to submit a report on the interrogation in a sealed cover by Thursday and asked all the accused to co-operate during the investigation. The actor, who is seventh accused in the case, and others had moved the court after a fresh case was registered against them following the disclosure of film director Balachandra Kumar.Last month, Kumar had claimed that Dileep was in possession of the woman actor’s assault video and had tried to influence case witnesses. He also claimed to have met the main accused, Pulsar Suni, at Dileep’s residence in 2016. After Kumar’s revelations the Kerala government had approached the Supreme Court to extend the trial for six more months.The crime branch had registered a fresh case against Dileep, his brother Anoop, a relative Suraj, and two others Appu and Babu for allegedly conspiring to eliminate police officer Baiju Paulose.The conversation allegedly took place in November 2017 at the actor’s house in Aluva in Ernakulam district, crime branch said in its first information report(FIR). They were charged under Sections 116 (abetment of offence), 118 (concealing design to commit an offence), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).A leading woman actor was waylaid, kidnapped and sexually assaulted by a criminal gang in Kochi while she was returning home after a shooting assignment in 2017. Six months after the incident, Dileep was arrested in the case. Prosecution alleged that the attack was planned at the behest of Dileep to settle an old score with the woman.Meanwhile, the actor has decided to move the apex court on Monday with a plea to conclude the trial by February-16 deadline set by the court. In the plea he said fresh charges were framed to delay the trial. The Supreme Court is also expected to take up the state government’s plea to extend the trial by six months in view of fresh disclosure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-actress-assault-case-crime-branch-quiz-actor-dileep-four-others-101642967046123.html
24-01-2022||India||Another BJP legislator presses for expansion of CM Bommai cabinet||BengaluruAnother Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator in Karnataka on Sunday said the Basavaraj Bommai-led cabinet should be expanded at the earliest, indicating rumblings within the ruling party over the delay in the exercise.“If the party does decide to expand the cabinet, it should be done now,” said Abhay Patil, the BJP legislator from Belagavi Dakshin. “I had said this earlier as well that if the cabinet has to be expanded, it has to be done now.” He, however, said that it was up to the party to decide on who becomes a minister.“Anyone who becomes a minister should be doing so by exhibiting performance and not because they can put up a board as a former minister. It is about performance and for this adequate time should be there. Right now there is not enough time. For ministers to show their ability, they need at least two years but for inevitable reasons, it keeps going back and forth,” he added.Patil said that a minimum of six months should be given to new ministers. The statements come at a time when BJP legislators in the state are growing impatient over the cabinet expansion after several leaders from the old guard or those who have served for decades in the party were overlooked once again in favour of those who recently defected to the saffron fold in 2019.On Thursday, senior BJP legislators Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and M P Renukacharya held closed-door discussions and pushed for a cabinet rejig, by replacing what they called ineffective ministers who are in the party only for the sake of power.There is also growing discontentment after Bommai was chosen to replace BS Yediyurappa who was forced to step down over allegations of corruption in July last year. Bommai has been with the BJP for around 13 years and was picked as the chief minister while several other leaders, who have helped shape the party in Karnataka for decades, were overlooked.Speculations that the BJP high command will replace Bommai over allegations of corruption and non-performance have also died down as the party focuses its attention on poll-bound states like Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Punjab among others.A meeting of BJP legislators was also held at the residence of food and civil supplies minister Umesh Katti on Saturday evening, fuelling speculation of a growing divide within the party.The divide within the party had cost it the Hanagal assembly seat in last year’s bypolls and other crucial seats in the December MLC elections. The fear remains that if the same continues, the Congress is likely to gain from this in the upcoming elections including zilla and taluka panchayati, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the 2023 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-bjp-legislator-presses-for-expansion-of-cm-bommai-cabinet-101642966864667.html
24-01-2022||India||Over 100k suffering from Covid-related symptoms in Telangana: Survey||More than 100,000 people in Telangana were found to be suffering from one symptom or the other related to Covid-19, shows a door-to-door fever survey being conducted by the state health department for the last two days.State health minister T Harish Rao, who reviewed the progress of the fever survey in parts of Ramachandrapuram block of Sangareddy district on Sunday, said 2,962,002 families were covered under the survey for the last two days. “The authorities have distributed home isolation medical kits to more than 100,500 people, who were found to be suffering from one symptom or the other like fever, cold, cough etc. Each kit comprises a complete course of medicines required for symptomatic treatment,” he said.According to state director of public health G Srinivasa Rao, the health care workers’ teams have found till Saturday night 128,079 people having Covid-related symptoms. “The teams have so far distributed 127,372 medical kits to the people suffering from symptoms.” An official in the state health department, who preferred anonymity, said, “We cannot say that all of them are suffering from Covid-19, though the symptoms resemble that of the Omicron variant of Covid-19. They could even be seasonal symptoms due to winter. Since the symptoms are very mild and most of them are recovering within three to four days, the affected people are refusing to get tested,” the official said.The authorities, however, are advising them to remain isolated in their homes for a week and use the complete course of medicines given to them by the department.The fever survey taken up by the state health department began on Friday all over the state. In every village, teams comprising local panchayat secretary, accredited social health activists (ASHA), auxiliary nurse midwives (ANM) and anganwadi workers have been conducting the door-to-door survey to find out Covid-19-related symptoms.“All public representatives including MLAs, MLCs, mandal parishad and zilla parishad members, and gram panchayat sarpanches are supervising the fever survey. The health teams as well as the public representatives are sensitising the people to get vaccinated to conquer the virus,” Harish Rao said.Health workers are distributing fever kits to each person suffering from Covid-related symptoms along with a prescription chart on how to use the medicines. “We have kept one crore such medical kits ready for distribution so that the people don’t have to throng the hospitals for treatment,” the health minister said, adding that the fever survey would continue for another week.Saying that the fever survey was taken up with an objective to reach out the patients, Rao said anybody suffering from severe symptoms should immediately get admitted to government hospitals, instead of running around private hospitals.“More than 56,000 Covid-19 beds are vacant in the government hospitals across Telangana. Separate facilities have been made even for pregnant women who tested positive for Covid-19 or suffering from symptoms,” he said.He said the number of Covid-19 cases has started coming down in various states and hoped that the cases would come down in Telangana, too. He said people must wear masks besides washing their hands frequently.Telangana on Saturday reported 4,393 new Covid cases and two deaths. The stated had recorded 4,416 positive cases on Friday, according to the health department data.
24-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu girl suicide: BJP seeks CBI probe, Madurai Archbishop denies religious conversion||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Tamil Nadu on Sunday demanded a CBI inquiry into the suicide of a 16-year-old girl in Thanjavur district earlier this month allegedly over harassment and pressure of religious conversion and hit out against the ruling DMK government over the incident.The party on Sunday held a protest in Chennai demanding a CBI probe into matter and also sought the dismissal of the Thanjavur superintendent of police Ravali Priya Gandhapuneni who has stated that the parents of the child had not complained of religious conversion in the first complaint they filed.Meanwhile the Archbishop of Madurai, Antony Pappusamy, on Sunday released a statement urging that the incident not be given a religious colour.The class 12 student attempted suicide on January 9 due to alleged harassment by her school’s warden and was rushed to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital for treatment. She died ten days later.An undated video clip had surfaced on social media in which the girl said that two years ago, her school warden had urged her parents to convert her to Christianity with the promise of sponsoring her education. An unidentified man who is recording the video asks her if the alleged harassment happened because she didn’t convert. “Could be,” the girl responds. HT was not able to independently verify the authenticity of the video clip.On Sunday, the BJP demanded SP Gandhapuneni’s dismissal for stating that the parents of the child had not complained of religious conversion in the first complaint they filed. “This is a white lie and the SP has to be dismissed,” Khushbu Sundar, BJP’s national executive committee member, who led the protest told reporters. “Why is the chief minister M K Stalin not speaking of this child? Why has no one from the coalition spoken about this? Is it a fear that they will lose minority votes if they speak on religious conversion in Tamil Nadu?”Congress leader and commissioner of TN’s minority commission S. Peter Alphonse took to Twitter to dismiss the allegation. “Of the approximately 1000 students currently studying (in the same school), 70% are Hindus, 5% are Muslims and 25% are Christians,” he said. “Hindu teachers also work. Will conversion that has not happened in three centuries take place now? Tamil Nadu will not allow hate politics which is full of social unity and religious harmony!” The girl’s father has moved court seeking an inquiry either by the CB-CID or any other independent investigation agency. In an interim order passed on Saturday during an urgent hearing of the case, justice G R Swaminathan of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court directed the principal district judge of Thanjavur to nominate a judicial magistrate for recording the statement of the petitioner and his wife under Section 164 of Cr.Pc on Sunday.A copy should be made available in a sealed cover for the Court to examine during the next hearing on Monday, the court said.“The respondent police are restrained from harassing the person who had taken the video of the child, in which, she is found making an allegation that she was called upon to convert to Christianity. The focus of the police authorities should be on the circumstances that led to the suicide of the child and it cannot be directed against the person who had taken the video,” the court said in its orders.In his statement on Sunday, Pappusamy said that they are in support of legal action to be taken against those responsible, including the arrest of the warden. He denied that proselytising activities were being carried out in these schools which are run by nuns.“Religious political forces which have sought to find a real cause for the tragedy at the school, have resorted to the lie of proselytising to divert attention from the problems and to disturb religious harmony through false propaganda,” he said.This issue took a political and religious turn after the video began circulating on social media, most prominently shared by Tamil Nadu’s BJP president K Annamalai. “Conversion–a poisonous plant is spreading fast in Tamil Nadu,” Annamalai tweeted tagging chief minister Stalin demanding that the state bring this under control and compensate the victim’s family. A hashtag has also been trending since Friday seeking justice for the girl. Since then the BJP and Hindu outfits have been protesting over this issue.A minister close to Stalin said that there has been no bias in investigations. “We will take action against whoever is wrong. The opposition parties do not have issues to take up so they want to create trouble over this,” the minister said.Speaking to this correspondent on Friday, SP Gandhapuneni had said that the time, date and person who recorded the video has not been ascertained. “As of now, we cannot consider that video as a dying declaration. There are certain procedures to be followed to consider something as a dying declaration,” she had said.“It can only be considered as a video and based on this video; we are recording statements of the probable eye-witnesses.” She added that the parents had filed an additional petition on Thursday, regarding which, an official statement was recorded on Friday. When asked if this petition mentions a complaint of religious conversion, Gandhapuneni denied. She was not reachable for comment on Sunday.The Thirukattupalli police station recorded the child’s statement on January 15 and police registered a case under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. Police have now included 305 (abetment to suicide) under the IPC.During a press conference on Thursday, the SP had warned of action against those sharing the video revealing the identity of the victim and the family -- an offence under the JJ Act. “We cannot reveal the identity of not just children who are victims of sexual crimes but also children who are in need of care and protection,” she had said. Reacting to the SP’s press conference, Annamalai took to Twitter to say that the police are “hell bent” on changing the course of the case. “There is a videographed confession statement of the girl. Did the SP come to the conclusion it’s fake? If yes, how?”
24-01-2022||India||Mukherjee panel ignored nod for DNA test of ashes: Bose’s kin||Tokyo’s Renkoji temple gave permission to Indian authorities to conduct DNA tests on ashes said to be those of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, according to fresh translation of a letter which refutes claims that the temple was “reticent”, placing doubts on Justice MK Mukherjee Commission’s ruling that the ‘ashes were not Netaji’s’.A new translation of the Japanese letter , written by the chief priest of Tokyo’s Renkoji temple to the Indian government in 2005, revealed that permission was given to the commission to conduct the DNA test.However, for inexplicable reasons this portion of the letter was not translated and a bland edited English version was attached to the Justice Mukherjee Commission’s report on the disappearance of Bose as evidence that “on account of the Temple Authorities reticence... the commission could not proceed further (on the issue of DNA tests)”.The commission later used this to conclude that the ashes were not of Netaji’s, giving credence to speculations that he may have survived to become an ascetic or prisoner in a Russian prison.Madhuri Bose, the legendary freedom fighter’s grand-niece -- the grand-daughter of his brother Sarat Bose, told PTI, “We recently commissioned the fresh translation after we found inconsistencies in the Mukherjee Commission report and found several paragraphs in the letter written in Japanese missing from the official English version in the inquiry report.” The new translation by a Japanese language expert revealed that Nichiko Mochizuki, the chief priest of the Renkoji Temple -- a 427-year-old Buddhist temple, had written “I agreed to offer my cooperation for the testing. The same was agreed upon at the meeting with (Indian) Ambassador (M.L) Tripathi (to Japan) last year (2004)” in the omitted portion. The translation could not be independently authenticated by PTI.“We do not understand why this permission was not made public earlier or why DNA tests were not conducted,” said Madhuri Bose, who has served in the Commonwealth Secretariat and at the United Nations, besides authoring books on the Bose brothers.The Mukherjee Commission, which tabled its report in Parliament in 2006, had concluded that Bose “did not die in the plane crash, as alleged” by eye-witnesses, including his close confidantes from the INA, and that “the ashes in the Japanese temple were not of Netaji”.Eye-witnesses, including Col Habib-Ur-Rahman of the INA, had said Bose died in a plane crash in August 1945 in Taipei.Theories that he survived or was never on the aircraft that crashed gained ground as a result of the report, as also a hypothesis that he may have turned into an ascetic or imprisoned in a Russian gulag.A movie suggesting that he might have become someone called ‘Gumnami Baba’ was also made in the recent years, while several news reports indicated he might have been imprisoned by Russian leader Joseph Stalin in Siberia.“We had great faith in the Mukherjee Commission and we saw a glimmer of hope at one time that the truth about Netaji’s disappearance will come out with the final report... However many glaring discrepancies in the report forced us to look at it again,” said Madhuri Bose.“What we find is that the Japanese temple wanted a DNA test and we (India) never conducted one,” she said.The portion of the chief priest’s letter, which was omitted from the official translation, also said that after the Japanese lost the war, conditions under US-UK occupation were severe, yet the temple authorities undertook the then dangerous task of preserving Netaji’s ashes as sought by an Indian delegation, which included “Col Raman (Habib-ur-Rahman), Mr (SA) Iyer and Mrs (Sati) Sahay”, and by the Japanese foreign minister.The letter went on to say “therefore, I strongly believe these to be the same remains, the ashes of Subhas Chandra Bose without a doubt”.Mochizuki also said that his late father, then chief priest, “would sleep while embracing them (the urn with the ashes) in his arms so no tampering or harm would come to them”.Three members of the Bose family, including Netaji’s daughter Anita Pfaff, Dwarka Nath Bose -- a well-known physicist and son of his elder brother, and Ardhendu Bose -- another nephew of Netaji, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in October 2016 and December 2019, asking him to order a DNA test of the ashes at Renkoji.The letter written in December 2019 said that “in view of the fact that some Indians, also some members of our family, have previously voiced their doubts regarding the death of Netaji in Taipei, we hope the scientific evidence of such a test will bring closure to the discussion in India”.However, Madhuri Bose said no response has yet been received by the family for “a DNA test and final closure” to the mystery of Netaji’s disappearance and the ashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukherjee-panel-ignored-nod-for-dna-test-of-ashes-bose-s-kin-101642965784052.html
24-01-2022||India||Unfortunate that Shiv Sena nurtured BJP for 25 years: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said he believes that the Sena wasted 25 years in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and accused his former partner of using Hindutva for its political convenience, adding that the Sena never used it to gain power. Responding to BJP’s jibes that Sena had abandoned Hindutva for power, Thackeray said: “Today, the hollow Hindutva they display is nothing but a charade for power. It is unfortunate that we nurtured them for 25 years... We did not leave Hindutva and will never do so. We left BJP and not Hindutva. BJP is not synonymous with Hindutva... We wanted power for Hindutva. We did not use Hindutva to get power.”The chief minister was speaking during his virtual address to Shiv Sainiks on the 96th birth anniversary of the party founder and his father Bal Thackeray when he made the remarks. Thackeray’s party fell out with BJP after the 2019 Maharashtra elections and tied up with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “We supported the BJP wholeheartedly to enable them to fulfill their national ambitions. The understanding was they will go national while we will lead in Maharashtra. But we were betrayed and attempts were made to destroy us in our home. So we had to hit back,” Thackeray said. He also accused the saffron party of using and dumping its allies as per its political convenience. BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar said: “Thackeray’s speech was full of hatred for the BJP and loaded with contradictory statements. If he thinks they rotted in the alliance with us for 25 years, why were they not able to perform in the recent local body elections?” 
24-01-2022||India||Awards constituted in honour of Netaji given to ex-Japan PM, others||Former Japan prime minister Shinzo Abe, the Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management (GIDM) and Sikkim State Disaster Management Authority’s vice-chairman Vinod Sharma were conferred with awards constituted in the honour of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary on Sunday.While Abe was awarded the Netaji Award, 2022 constituted by the Netaji Research Bureau, GIDM and Sharma were awarded the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar for 2022 by the ministry of home affairs.  Abe expressed gratitude in a message read out by Consul general of Japan in Kolkata, Nakamura Yutaka. “As former prime minister of Japan and in my capacity as a member of the House of Representatives, I am determined to do my utmost to continue contributing to the development of bilateral relations,” he said.As per a statement by the home ministry, the GIDM was established in 2012 and since then it has been working to enhance the disaster risk reduction (DRR) capacity of Gujarat.Sharma, a senior professor at the Indian Institute of Public Administration and vice-chairman of the Sikkim State Disaster Management Authority, was the founder coordinator of the National Centre of Disaster Management, now known as the National Institute of Disaster Management, it said. The Centre had instituted the annual Prabandhan Puraskar to honour the contribution rendered by individuals and organisations in the field of disaster management. PK Tiwari, Commandant, 8th battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) received the honour for 2019. In 2020, Uttarakhand’s Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre and KM Singh, a former director general of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), received the honour. For 2021, Sustainable Environment and Ecological Development Society and Rajendra Kumar Bhandari who carried out scientific studies on geo hazards received the award. The award is announced every year on the freedom fighter’s birth anniversary on January 23. It carries a cash prize of ₹ 51 lakh and a certificate in the case of an institution and ₹5 lakh and a certificate in the case of an individual.For the award this year, the nominations were solicited from July 1, 2021 onwards and 243 nominations were received from institutions and individuals, as per the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/awards-constituted-in-honour-of-netaji-given-to-ex-japan-pm-others-101642965484058.html
24-01-2022||India||Goa elections: TMC’s offer for alliance not considered as it poached Congress leaders, says Chidambaram||Congress veteran P Chidambaram on Sunday said the Trinamool Congress’s (TMC) proposal of a pre-poll alliance for the next month’s Goa Assembly elections was not considered by his party as the Mamata Banerjee-led party “poached” Congress leaders in the state.His statement comes three days after TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee said that if the Congress fails to dislodge the BJP from power in Goa, then Chidambaram, who is Congress’ state election in-charge, should own up the responsibility and resign. Banerjee had also said that the TMC had approached Chidambaram with a formal offer for a pre-poll alliance for the February 14 Goa polls.Talking to reporters here, Chidambaram said there was a suggestion from the TMC for a pre-poll alliance with the Congress in Goa.“What I can say is that there was a suggestion from the TMC that we should form an alliance (in Goa). (But) Before and after that, certain incidents took place,” the senior Congress leader said.He alleged that the TMC poached Congress leaders in the coastal state.“They poached Luizinho Faleiro, and even after the proposal of alliance, they poached Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, whose name was in the Congress’s first list of the candidates. They also poached in other constituencies, like Mormugao and Vasco,” he said, without naming any leader from these two seats.The former Union minister said that after these incidents, he did not get any instructions from the top leaders in the Congress over the alliance proposal.When asked about Abhishek Banerjee’s statement against him, Chidambaram said, “I don’t want to engage with the TMC general secretary. I occupy a humble position in the Congress party and I would not like to comment.”He said that Congress leaders had met Shiv Sena and NCP leaders over a pre-poll alliance in Goa. “But there was no meeting point, so we did not take it further,” he said.The Shiv Sena and the NCP have joined hands to contest the elections to the 40-member Goa Assembly, while Congress will be fighting the polls with the Goa Forward Party (GFP). The TMC has tied up with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP).Replying to another question, Chidambaram said that Congress candidates in Goa will give their suggestion on whether to announce a chief ministerial candidate in the state.“We will take views of the candidates once nomination process is over and then communicate it to AICC (All India Congress Committee),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-tmc-s-offer-for-alliance-not-considered-as-it-poached-congress-leaders-sayschidambaram-101642965364104.html
24-01-2022||India||Mumbai air quality drops to poor as dust from Pakistan, Iran shrouds city||A day after a western disturbance and cyclonic circulation in Rajasthan triggered unseasonal rains in Mumbai, a thick layer of haze and dust engulfed the financial capital on Sunday, pushing the city’s air quality index (AQI) from to the “poor” category.As per the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily AQI bulletin, Mumbai recorded an AQI of 247 on Sunday, up from a “satisfactory” AQI of 99 a day earlier. As per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the AQI on Sunday evening stood at an index value of 333, the highest in at least six months.While several citizens believed that a dust storm had hit the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and weather experts said the haze was caused by “dust raising winds” triggered by the same western disturbance which resulted in rainfall on Saturday. It also reduced Sunday’s temperature to its lowest January maximum temperature on record – 23.8 degrees Celsius (January’s highest maximum temperature, as per historical records, was at 37.4 degrees Celsius in 2006).“Hazy skies over parts of North Konkan (including Mumbai) and North Madhya Maharashtra today was due to suspended dust particles which were carried into the region along with the westerly winds,” KS Hosalikar, scientist, surface instrument division, IMD, said.“A prominent dust event is affecting parts of Maharashtra (including Mumbai-MMR), Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. This dust event has been triggered by a recent western disturbance, which is also causing the ongoing dip in Mumbai’s temperature,” independent meteorologist Akshay Deoras, who analysed the circumstances surrounding the haze, said. Deoras explained that even though the western disturbances were present at high altitudes, they can induce a low pressure nearer to the Earth’s surface.“This western disturbance induced a low pressure zone near Rajasthan and adjoining parts of Pakistan on the night of January 21. This caused an increase in the surface wind speed over Pakistan and adjoining eastern Iran, which started blowing the dust over these regions from the early morning hours of January 22. Within a few hours, the dust was visible over the Gulf of Oman and northern Arabian Sea, following which it entered Gujarat on the same day,” he said.“Winds from the northwest direction near the ground pushed the dust into Mumbai-MMR on January 23. Apart from Mumbai-MMR, this dust has already spread across several districts of Maharashtra such as Nashik, Ahmadnagar, Pune, Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Buldhana, Akola and Aurangabad districts of Maharashtra on Sunday afternoon,” he added. Mumbai has seen multiple such dust events in the past, including a prominent one in March 2012. The source of dust has always been the arid regions of the Middle East and Pakistan, experts said. However, such events over the Middle East are generally more frequent during spring and summer season when factors such as high temperature, atmospheric instability, strong northwesterly winds and thunderstorms create ideal conditions for the triggering of dust storms. Dust storms observed in June and July are not able to impact Mumbai due to the monsoon conditions, they explained.Officials clarified that the haze witnessed on Sunday comprised more inert, crustal materials than pollutants. “This haze comprises mainly sand, because it originates from the Middle East where the conditions are sandier. It cannot be defined as smog, which comprises a more complex mixture of pollutants,” Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR, said. Sachin Ghude, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune, warned that the air quality and visibility will remain poor till at least the afternoon of January 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-air-quality-drops-to-poor-as-dust-from-pakistan-iran-shrouds-city-101642965063987.html
24-01-2022||India||Vijayan, Stalin write to PM Modi objecting to proposed amendments in IAS rules||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin and his Kerala counterpart, Pinayari Vijayan, on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to drop the proposed amendments to IAS (Cadre) Rules,1954, saying the rules will “weaken the very root of co-operative federalism”. The chief ministers of Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Jharkhand have in the past also opposed the proposed amendments which allows the Centre to summon any official (Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service and Indian Forest Service) for central deputation without the consent of the concerned state governments.In his letter to Modi, Stalin said the amendments “strikes at the very root” of the nation’s federal polity and state autonomy, “State governments are on the forefront of implementation of various programmes, including the schemes of the Union government at state level. The states also face frequent natural disasters which demand services of IAS officers in the state more than elsewhere,” he said. “Under such circumstances, forcing the state governments to depute officers would surely aggravate the ‘governance deficit’ in various states due to shortage of officers and also it is an ‘affront’ to the administrative frame work of the states,” he added. The Tamil Nadu chief minister also claimed that the proposed amendments “would cause irreparable damage to the spirit of cooperative federalism that exist between Union and the states and result in concentration of powers with the Union Government”. Vijayan said the Centre’s move will create “fear psychosis” among civil service officials to implement the state government policies.“The proposed amendments in the Deputation Rules of All India Services will definitely induce a fear psychosis and an attitude of hesitancy among All India Service Officers to implement policies of a state government, which are formed by party/parties politically opposed by the ruling party at the Centre,” he said in his letter to the Prime Minister. “The present deputation rules are themselves heavily loaded in favour of the Union and bringing further stringency will weaken the very root of co-operative federalism. The government of Kerala is of the opinion that the proposed amendments may be dropped,” he added. The Kerala chief minister said that in a federal setup, the state governments are on par with the central government because both are elected by the people, though the division of authority in the constitution gives the Centre jurisdiction over a wide range of subjects. At least five states have written to the Union government against the proposed changes so far. On Saturday, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had urged Modi to “bury” those proposals.Likewise on January 21, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel wrote to Modi, saying the amendments were in “contrary to spirit of federalism enshrined in the Constitution of India”. A day earlier, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had told the Prime Minister that the amendment will “destroy” the federal polity and basic structure of the Constitution.The chief ministers of the above states believe that amendments in the transfer rules would lead to shortage of staff even as Union government officials have claimed that the proposed changes would bridge the deficit gap between the central ministries and departments.The present rules provide that an officer, after working with states for a certain period, be made available for central deputation with the consent of the state concerned. If the Centre’s proposed amendments are implemented, the state’s consent will no longer be required in such matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-vijayan-stalin-write-to-pm-modi-objecting-to-proposed-amendments-in-iasrules-101642964583943.html
24-01-2022||India||Row, clashes mark Netaji’s birth celebrations in West Bengal||Celebrations to mark Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary in West Bengal were marked by political tussle and violence on Sunday as chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the Centre of ignoring the state and not doing enough to clear the controversy surrounding the freedom fighter’s final years. Speaking at a public event in Kolkata, Banerjee said the Centre was building a statue of Bose in Delhi but rejected a tableau that depicted his contributions to the freedom struggle. She was referring to a row that erupted last week over the Bengal tableau not finding a place at the Republic Day parade. The Centre later clarified that it was not a political decision and that only 12 out of 29 proposals were cleared. “Lighting a torch or setting up a statue of Netaji does not bestow the respect he deserves. Why is Netaji’s disappearance shrouded in mystery 75 years after Independence?” asked Banerjee. “This (central) government promised to reveal the truth but it did nothing. Our government released all documents on Netaji that we had in our archives,” she added. Since independence, at least three commissions have been set up by various governments to look into the final years of the freedom fighter who suffered a plane crash in 1945, but there has been no conclusive end to the controversy. Banerjee said Bengal was being ignored. “Whether it is the clarion call of ‘Jai Hind’ raised by Netaji, the national anthem composed by Rabindranath Tagore or the national song penned by novelist Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, Bengal has been the torchbearer. Why is Bengal being ignored today in this manner? Nobody can ignore Bengal. I challenge them. Nobody can wipe out the history of Bengal and India,” she said. She attacked the Centre over the rejection of Bengal’s tableau. “Would it harm anyone if our tableau on Netaji was allowed at the Republic Day Parade?... Why is there an allergy for Bengal? In the past, our tableau on Gandhi and Rabindranath were rejected. Today you are setting up a statue under pressure from us. What were you doing all these years?” she said. The Centre has clarified that the decision to clear proposals for tableaus is taken by an independent expert committee. “You have spent crores on statues. Have you ever read the history of India? Have you protected our history? Today, everyone is afraid to speak up. Everybody is scared,” she said. The 125th birth anniversary of Bose, who remains incredibly popular in West Bengal, was celebrated across the state but the occasion was also marred by violence. Gunshots were allegedly fired during a scuffle between Trinamool Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers at an event at Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas district. The programme was organised by the TMC-controlled Bhatpara municipality. BJP Lok Sabha MP Arjun Singh alleged that he was stopped from garlanding Bose’s statue and subsequently attacked. TMC lawmaker Partha Bhowmick alleged that Singh’s security personnel fired seven rounds during the scuffle while Singh accused ruling party workers of opening fire, hurling bombs and ransacking his car. “Arjun Singh is trying to unleash terror in this region. His security personnel fired seven rounds although not even a stone was hurled at him. I am asking local people to be on the alert. Singh’s men may try to create more disturbance,” said Bhowmick. “Does the TMC hold exclusive rights to honouring Netaji? I was targeted. My security personnel were attacked with guns and bombs. My car was damaged,” said Singh. Video footage captured by local TV channels showed one of Singh’s security personnel loading a pistol and pointing it at some people who confronted the MP, police said the allegations of firing were being probed but there was no evidence of any clash, bombing or ransacking. “The fiasco started after a minor scuffle between two men. Only one man was injured. It has been alleged that shots were fired but no cartridge case was found from the spot. We are looking into this. The MP went to the celebration without informing the administration, which is mandatory according to protocol. Policemen deployed at the spot said there was no violence or bombing,” said Manoj Verma, commissioner, Barrackpore Police. Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar rushed to the spot. “A bullet narrowly missed one of the Central Industrial Security Force personnel accompanying Singh. We demand a probe by the Centre. Singh enjoys ‘Z’ category security cover,” said Majumdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-clashes-mark-netaji-s-birth-celebrations-in-west-bengal-101642964524100.html
24-01-2022||India||In run-up to UP polls, BJP makes fresh campaign pitch with women politicians||Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur, who has been coining interesting slogans to target the main opposition Samajwadi Party, on Sunday made a fresh campaign pitch with women politicians who have joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from other parties recently. After standing at the busy Hazratganj crossing with five-member teams holding placards with slogans like women’s safety written on them, Anurag Thakur again took to the streets on a cold Sunday afternoon. This time, he was with a delegation of women leaders, three of whom have made news by joining the BJP. The delegation included Aparna Yadav, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav’s sister-in-law who recently joined the BJP in Delhi, Congress’ rebel lawmaker from Rae Bareli Aditi Singh who joined the BJP recently, and Priyanka Maurya, who till a few days ago was on the posters of the Congress’ ‘Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon (I am a woman and can accept a challenge)’ campaign. Holding placards with women safety slogans written on them, Anurag Thakur and the women politicians held door-to-door campaigns in Hazratganj and Lalbagh areas before arriving at the BJP office. Aditi Singh, named as the BJP candidate from Rae Bareli, is among the 26 women to have found a place in the list of 195 candidates that the party has declared in four tranches so far. Aditi has been fielded from the same Rae Bareli (Sadar) seat from where she won in the 2017 UP polls.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had launched a women-centric poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh, declaring 40 per cent tickets to women candidates. The BJP is also up against a spirited Samajwadi Party (SP) and is seeking to target it on issues of women’s safety. The participation of women voters has steadily increased in UP, from 47 per cent in the 60s to around 60 per cent in 2019, the reason why all parties are wooing women, say experts. There is a buzz about the Congress mulling fielding Priyanka Gandhi Vadra from Rae Bareli. Through Aditi, the BJP has targeted the Congress leader and her party’s pitch on ensuring women’s safety. Priyanka Maurya, too, has left the Congress after mocking the party’s campaign “Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon”. She has accused the party of denying her a ticket.In Aparna Yadav’s presence, Anurag Thakur hit out at the previous SP government for faring poorly on women’s security during its tenure.Aparna Yadav herself kept gesturing at her placard that read “Bahu beti suraksha aur adhikar (safety and share to daughter and daughter-in-law).” “It is the BJP where both Mulayam Singh Yadav’s bahu Aparna Yadav or Swami Prasad Maurya’s daughter Sanghmitra Maurya feel safe,” Thakur has been stating.Swami Prasad Maurya, the OBC leader that BJP imported from the BSP ahead of the 2017 UP polls, has now walked out of the BJP and joined the SP. But his daughter Sanghmitra continues to be a BJP MP from Badaun. The BJP has rolled out Kamal clubs and has entered the campaign with slogans like “Atmanirbhar naari hamara sankalp, ujjawal bhavishya yahin vikalp (committed to making women self-dependent, this is the only alternative to a brighter future)”. BJP leaders like Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the party’s state chief Swatantra Dev have all been talking of women’s safety. 
24-01-2022||India||Key aide of Sidhu booked in hate speech case ahead of Punjab elections||Punjab’s former director general of police, Mohammad Mustafa, who is a principal strategic adviser to state Congress unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, has been booked for allegedly making “communal remarks” at a public meeting in Malerkotla, triggering a political slugfest in the poll-bound state.However, Mustafa, the husband of Punjab cabinet minister Razia Sultana who is the Congress candidate from Malerkotla, has denied the charge. A video of Mustafa making the purported remarks was shared by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Sambit Patra and Shazia Ilmi on their Twitter handles on Saturday.Malerkotla senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said: “The police registered a case for provocative speech on Saturday night. We have also sent a report to the Election Commission on Sunday morning.”The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of a police officer in Malerkotla, said an official.The purported video clip was played by the BJP at a press conference on Saturday. “I swear by Allah that I will not allow them (AAP) to hold any event. I am a ‘kaumi fauji (soldier of community)’. I am not an RSS agent who will hide in the house out of fear. If they (AAP) again try to do such a thing, I swear by Allah I will thrash them in their homes,” the video purportedly showed him saying at the meeting held on January 20.Mustafa said he used the word “fitno” (mischief makers) for AAP workers belonging to the Muslim community and there was no question of warning Hindus. “There was no Hindu-Muslim context to what happened in Malerkotla to which the quoted video clip relates. It was a verbal outburst unilaterally mischievously provoked by Jhaduwalas, all Muslims,” Mustafa said in a tweet.In another tweet, he hit out at the BJP, saying his “nationalist” credentials were superior than those accusing him. “Your intended branding will not work on Mustafa, as my nationalistic credentials are far superior to yours with a history of life long fight against enemies of India and destroyers of communal harmony in the state,” he wrote.AAP leader Raghav Chadha slammed Mustafa for his remarks and alleged that the Congress was trying to disturb the atmosphere in the state ahead of the state assembly polls BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh also took strong exception to Mustafa’s remarks and demanded that party leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi clear their stand on the matter.Chugh accused Mustafa of trying to foment communal hatred in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-aide-of-sidhu-booked-in-hate-speech-case-ahead-of-punjab-elections-opposition-mounts-attack-101642963984042.html
24-01-2022||India||SP urges poll panel to ban UP opinion polls||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday wrote to the Election Commission of India (ECI) seeking a ban on opinion polls being aired by television news channels, claiming that these could affect the outcome of the elections. The state president of the SP, Naresh Uttam Patel, in a short letter to the ECI asked for a “ban, with immediate effect” on the opinion polls. Patel, also marking a copy of the letter to the chief electoral officer (CEO), UP, wrote in Hindi: “The state is going to have polls in seven phases for which the last date of polling is on March 7 and counting of votes will be held on March 10. Several television news channels are running opinion polls that are misleading the voters, and the elections are getting affected. At the same time it is also an open violation of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) for elections...So for the free, fair, fearless polls it is necessary to ban opinion polls...”By law, TV channels are allowed to run opinion polls ahead of the polls, but not allowed to run exit polls (those conducted after elections) till all phases of voting are over in a multiphase election. That would mean that legally, the TV channels are allowed to run opinion polls ahead of the polls. Election Commission officials did not immediately respond to HT’s request for comment.The ABP-CVoter opinion poll this month predicted that the BJP and its allies will win with 223-235 seats in the state, with SP and its allies coming in second with 145-157 seats. The poll predicted the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress will trail with 8-16, and 3-7 seats, respectively. The Zee-DesignBoxed poll gave similar results.This has worried the SP, considered to be the main competition to the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party. UP votes in seven phases between February 10 and March 7 with the results on March 10. SP spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said: “What’s the point in having an election, if TV channels are issuing verdits like this that might affect voters’ mindset. It is necessary to ban the opinion polls to make it a level playing field for all in the fray.”Manveer Singh Chauhan, Uttarakhand BJP spokesperson, said the party did not see any problem with opinion polls as they reflect the mood of the people. “If opinion polls are held in the right way, I think they tell you what people are thinking about different parties and governments,” he said.The party’s media incharge, Manish Dixit, hit out at the Samajwadi Party, saying, “If they had their way they would have stopped the electorate from delivering mandate in 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, in 2017 UP polls too. The Samajwadi Party doesn’t believe in constitution, nor on constitutional bodies and now has problems with poll surveys by independent news channels too.”
24-01-2022||India||Assembly polls: Multiple high-stakes battles in Goa contest||Battle lines are drawn in Goa ahead of the assembly polls with the lists declared by all major political parties well ahead of the final date of nominations serving up more than a few heavyweight clashes that will be keenly watched as the state goes to the polls. Here is a look at some of them.Panaji: Utpal Parrikar (Independent) vs Atanasio Monserrate (BJP)At the top of the list of key battles -- pitched as one for the “soul of the BJP” -- features Utpal Parrikar, the son of former Union defence minister and four-time Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar and the party’s officially nominated candidate Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate.In its statutory public declaration of the criminal antecedents of candidates, the BJP said it was choosing Monserrate because he “can best represent the aspirations of the people”. The leader faces charges of rape, rioting, and assault -- all of which he has denied. He is seeking election from Panaji for the second time, and the first time from the BJP, which he joined along with nine other Congress MLAs in 2019 as part of a mass defection.A seat that was traditionally a Congress seat turned into a BJP seat after Mahohar Parrikar first contested from the seat and won it back in 1994 thanks to a split in the vote between two rival Congress candidates. Parrikar represented the seat since then, and when he moved to Delhi to take charge as the country’s defence minister, he ensured that the BJP-nominated Siddharth Kuncaliencar won. Monserrate’s first shot at the Panaji seat proved unsuccessful, losing to the Kuncaliencar at the 2017 polls. It was at the second attempt in -- the bypoll to fill the vacancy resulting from Parrikar’s death in 2019 -- that Monserrate emerged successful as a Congress candidate defeating Kuncaliencar.Doubts remain over whether Utpal Parrikar, who has little political experience and hasn’t yet walked the length and breadth of the constituency, can be successful against a seasoned politician well-versed in the finer elements of election management, solely on the power of his surname.Hoping to benefit from the split is the Congress candidate Elvis Gomes, a former bureaucrat who served as Panaji’s commissioner across several stints, and who was earlier the state convener of the Aam Aadmi Party.Margao: Digambar Kamat (Congress) vs Manohar Ajgaonkar (BJP)In the south Goa district headquarters of Margao, former chief minister Digambar Kamat is pitted against tourism minister Manohar Ajagaonkar. Ajgaonkar, who hails from Margao and has been a municipal councillor, has never represented the constituency before. His battleground has been the North constituency of Dhargal/Pernem, which he has represented twice. Increasingly unpopular in the constituency due to anti-incumbency, the BJP leadership decided to deny him that ticket, and instead offered that he contest against the Leader of Opposition for the seat the BJP has been struggling to find a candidate for.Kamat, on the other hand, has been representing the Margao constituency since 1994 -- first on a BJP ticket and then as a Congress legislator after he switched sides in 2005. He will, however, face his toughest challenge yet against Ajgaonkar, who served in his council of ministers between 2007 and 2012.Mandrem: Laxmikant Parsekar (Independent) vs Dayanand Sopte (BJP)Former Goa chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar quit the BJP in a huff on Saturday. A leader who earned ignominy as a sitting chief minister who lost his election, Parsekar will be up against the man who defeated him in 2017. Sopte was with the Congress at the time.Parsekar is miffed with the party leadership for handing the ticket from Mandrem, a coastal constituency in North Goa that includes the picturesque beaches of Arambol and Morjim, to Sopte. Sopte, who used to be with the BJP in the past as well, shifted to the Congress prior to the 2012 assembly elections after his seat Pernem was subsumed with another during a delimitation exercise, and contested from Mandrem against Parsekar. Unsuccessful, he remained with the Congress, tried again five years later, and this time proved victorious. In 2018, Sopte resigned from the party, and was welcomed into the BJP, much to Parsekar’s displeasure. After the party’s decision to choose Sopte over him, Parsekar has said he’s going it alone.The two are up against the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party’s (MGP) Jit Arolkar, a businessman and first-time candidate whose popularity has grown over the years in the area.Poriem: Pratapsingh Rane (Congress) vs Divya Rane (BJP)Will senior Congress leader and former chief minister Pratapsingh Rane run for office one final time? The octogenarian six-timeCM has kept his cards close to his chest despite being named as the Congress candidate for the Poriem seat.Rane has never lost an election. A 10-term legislator, he is Goa’s longest-serving MLA representing his seat since 1972 -- starting with the former legislative assembly of the Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu, until Goa got full statehood in 1987. He also holds a record for having served as chief minister (first of the UT and then of the state) for 16 years in different stints between 1980 and 2007. He was assembly speaker between 2007 and 2012.Now 82, Rane has been offered lifetime cabinet status by the ruling BJP in a bid to dissuade him from contesting, but has done a series of flip flops -- first saying his workers want him to contest, and then that it was perhaps time to call it a day. Rane was present at the meeting of Congress candidates on Saturday afternoon, but wasn’t among the 36 who went to pledge before the temple, church and dargah that they will not change sides after the polls.Should he contest, Rane will be up against his daughter-in-law Divya Rane, who has been named as the BJP’s candidate. Son Vishwajit had earlier said that the matter would be resolved “internally within the family”, hinting that this clash may not materialise.Fatorda: Vijai Sardesai (GFP) vs Luizinho Faleiro (TMC)The Trinamool Congress (TMC) took everyone by surprise when, in its first list of candidates, it declared that former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro was being fielded from the Fatorda seat represented by Goa Forward Party supremo Vijai Sardesai.Rajya Sabha MP Faleiro counts the Navelim constituency, located on one side of the Margao town, as his stronghold. There is a connection between the two constituencies though. Back when Goa was a Union territory with a 30-member legislative assembly, the two constituencies were part of a single Navelim constituency. Faleiro was an MLA then too, but much has changed since.Sardesai, a two-term MLA from the constituency, is eager to defend his turf from the party he snubbed in favour of the Congress for a pre-poll alliance. Hoping to win the seat at the expense of the two is former MLA Damodar “Damu” Naikof the BJP, who is eager for a repeat in the vote split that helped him win the seat in 2007.Benaulim: Churchill Alemao (TMC) vs Venzy Viegas (AAP)Veteran Goa politician Churchill Alemao has been a mainstay of Goa’s political scene since the late 1980s. A former chief minister, he declared earlier this month that the 2022 elections will be his last.Eager to ruin his farewell party is a young and meticulous first-time contestant Venzy Viegas of the Aam Aadmi Party. A mariner by profession, having risen up to the rank of captain in the merchant navy, Viegas has been steadily gaining popularity in the constituency that has a fair share of seafarers locally referred to as “shippies” and even ensured that the party’s candidate won the district panchayat polls held a little more than a year ago.Benaulim was the lone constituency where the AAP candidate was able to save her deposit in 2017, and this time the finish line is in sight as the party contests the elections with renewed vigour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-polls-multiple-high-stakes-battles-in-goa-contest-101642963683446.html
24-01-2022||India||CII calls for lifting of curbs, offers 1% extra CSR for jabs||Indian industry has urged the government to curb social gatherings in pandemic-affected areas but to keep economic activities out of Covid restrictions, and offered an additional 1% contribution under corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds for a year as an aid to the 2022-23 Budget, specifically to fund booster doses of the vaccine.Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) president TV Narendran said Indian industry is keen to contribute to the world’s most ambitious vaccination mission.“CII suggests that 1% of mandated CSR funds be earmarked for vaccination. We also recommend that an additional 1% be added to CSR requirements in the Budget, for a specified period of 12 months, so that boosters can be made available to all age-groups.”Companies are ready to contribute an additional 1% under CSR norms to the national vaccination mission, apart from the mandated 2%, and this can be part of the Budget for a period of 12 months, he explained in a statement. .CII is an apex industry body with over 9,000 members from private as public sectors, and also has an indirect membership of over 300,000 enterprises from 294 national and regional sectoral industry bodies.CSR is mandatory for entities incorporated under the Companies Act, which says firms with a net worth of at least ₹500 crore or revenue of ₹1,000 crore or net profit of ₹5 crore must spend at least 2% of their average net profit made during the three preceding financial years on welfare activities. The CSR spend in 2019-20 was about ₹24,700 crore, with Reliance Industries, Tata Consultancy Services, and state-run Oil and Natural gas Corp (ONGC) being top three contributors.“In fact, our recommendation has been that if companies spend on vaccines for their employees, their families and members of the community, then that expense can be set-off against this additional CSR spend,” said Narendran, who is also CEO & managing director of Tata Steel Ltd.The 2% mandatory CSR is the minimum requirement; companies can spend more if they wish to, a government expert in company matters said requesting anonymity. “There are many private and public sector companies who spend more than 2% on CSR. Besides, the law allows companies to front-load their CSR spend in one year and take offset in the next two years,” he added.‘Lift restrictions’The CII president also urged states to lift restrictions on economic activities given that the occupancy rate of hospital beds due to the Omicron variant of Covid is well within the manageable level. “While vaccinations have helped in dampening the impact of Omicron on the lives of people, the present conditions are conducive to opening up the economy completely while keeping large social gatherings to a minimum,” Narendran said.According to a dashboard maintained by Hindustan Times, on Sunday, 86.7% of Covid-19 hospital beds across 13 regions were vacant.“With a bounce back in demand, the economy is expected to achieve 9.2% growth rate over 2021-22. However, this pace must continue for full recovery and faster growth in the medium term and to ensure that workers and small enterprises do not suffer,” he added.A similar demand for a roll-back of restrictions in the national capital was also made by market and trader associations, HT reported on Sunday.The Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020, followed by a 68-day nationwide hard lockdown, had a devastating impact on the economy. India’s GDP shrank 24.4% in the first fiscal quarter ended June 2020. It plunged into a technical recession – negative growth for two consecutive quarters – as it contracted 7.4% in the next three months. Thereafter, the economy saw a V-shaped recovery on the back of a ₹20.97 trillion stimulus package and policy reforms announced since March 2020. A positive 0.5% growth was reported in the third quarter, followed by 1.6% expansion in the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021.The Indian economy started the current fiscal year with a 20.1% expansion in the first quarter (April-June 2021) followed by 8.4% growth in the second quarter ended September 2021, signalling a strong revival in business activities. The new wave caused by the Omicron variant, however, threatens to slow the growth pace. In its economic outlook on December 8, the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) predicted India’s GDP growth at 9.5% in 2021-22, but cautioned “new mutations of the virus” as one of the downside risks to its outlook. The first advance estimates of NSO released on January 7, 2022, estimated India’s GDP growth at 9.2% in 2021-22, which is lower than RBI’s projection of 9.5% a month ago.CII asked states to consider curbs at micro containment zones only when hospitalisation rates are over 75%. “With a lower level of hospitalizations seen in the Omicron variant, it is possible to maintain normal economic activities and protect lives and livelihoods,” said Narendran.The industry body also urged state governments not to disrupt economic activities even in micro containment zones and allow all factories to function under certain conditions related to hygiene and safety. “There should be no distinction between essential and non-essential goods and services. All shops may be permitted to open without restrictions on timing to avoid crowding at certain times. However, crowd control is essential to enable social distancing,” Narendran said.CII hoped that the Budget, to be announced on February 1, will focus on measures for strengthening economic recovery.“The investments under National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) and Gati Shakti program must be fast-tracked and it is expected that the Budget would provide for this. These activities will be dampened if curbs on economic activity were to continue,” Narendran said in the statement.According to Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA Ltd, the third wave would adversely impact the economy. “Following the re-imposition of state-wise restrictions to curb the third wave of Covid-19, the early data for January 2022 is expectedly weak; the daily average generation of the GST e-way bills dipped to 2.1 million during January 1-16, 2022 from 2.3 million in December 2021. After a YoY growth in December 2021, the sales of petrol and diesel of state refiners slipped back to a contraction in the first half of January 2022.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cii-calls-for-lifting-of-curbs-offers-1-extra-csr-for-jabs-101642963624668.html
24-01-2022||India||Homage to Netaji on his 125th birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday unveiled a holographic statue of freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at central Delhi’s India Gate, and exhorted citizens to build a new India before the 100th year of Independence in 2047. The 3D hologram, which will later be replaced by a 28-feet high and six-feet wide granite statue of the freedom fighter, was opened to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Bose. On the occasion, the PM also conferred the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar to seven individuals and organisations. “We have a goal to fulfil the dreams of independent India. We have the goal of building a new India before the hundredth year of Independence,” the PM said. He said that it was unfortunate that after Independence, work was done to erase the contribution of many great personalities along with the culture of the country. “The freedom struggle involved the penance of lakhs of countrymen, but efforts were made to confine their history as well. But today, the country is boldly correcting those mistakes,” Modi said while citing the development of the Panchtheerth in honour of BR Ambedkar, observing Birsa Munda Jayanti to remember the contribution of the Adivasi leader, and building the Statue of Unity in honour of Vallabhbhai Patel. The PM said that the granite statue of Bose will soon be installed at India Gate. “This is a historic location and a historic occasion. Netaji refused to bow before the British. His statue will inspire democratic values and future generations,” said Modi.Addressing the gathering, he said that Bose, who had established the first independent government in India, gave the country the confidence to achieve a sovereign and strong India. “This statue is a homage to the hero of freedom by the grateful nation and will keep on reminding our institutions and generations the lesson of national duty,” he said. The hologram statue will be powered by a 30,000 lumens 4K projector. The 3D image of Netaji will be projected on a transparent holographic screen to create the effect of a hologram. “If Netaji Subhas was determined to do something, then no power could stop him. We have to move ahead taking inspiration from Netaji Subhas’s ‘Can Do, Will Do’ spirit,” the PM said. The PM also conferred the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskars for the year 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 in the investiture ceremony. This award was instituted by the Union government to recognise and honour the contribution and service by individuals and organisations in disaster management. The Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management (GIDM) and Sikkim State Disaster Management Authority’s vice-chairman Vinod Sharma were selected for the award for 2022, the government announced. The PM said that there was a transformational change in India’s preparedness to deal with disasters in the past few years. After the 2001 Bhuj earthquake, the Gujarat government was the first to formulate a state disaster management Act, which was followed by a National Disaster Management Act. “We have laid emphasis on reform as well as an emphasis on relief, rescue and rehabilitation. We have modernised the National Disaster Response Force and expanded it across the country. Space technology and other best possible practices have been adopted for planning and management,” Modi said. He said the country’s disaster preparedness played a crucial role even during Covid pandemic, as there were earthquakes, cyclones and floods in various parts of the country. But lives were saved due to quick response of the disaster management teams, he said. President Ram Nath Kovind also paid his tribute. “India gratefully pays homage to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary. The daring steps that he took to fulfil his fierce commitment to the idea of a free India — Azad Hind — make him a national icon. His ideals and sacrifice will forever inspire every Indian,” he said. Speaking at the event, Union home minister Amit Shah lauded the memory of the freedom fighter. “The hologram will be soon replaced with a granite statue. It is not just a statue but a befitting tribute to the legendary Netaji, who gave everything for India’s freedom.”Shah congratulated Modi for announcing the Bose statue and said, “For decades, efforts were made to erase the names of people who contributed to India’s freedom struggle and worked towards it.” Bharatiya Janata Party chief JP Nadda said the Modi was fulfilling the dream of new India first seen by Bose. Modi also paid floral tribute to Bose’s portrait in Parliament’s Central Hall but Congress leaders could not be seen at the function, according to some parliamentarian and a Lok Sabha functionary.Across state capitals, chief ministers paid rich tributes to Bose. In Kolkata, CM Mamata Banerjee said the Centre should declassify files to clear the controversy surrounding the freedom fighter’s final years. In Mumbai, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state minister Aditya Thackeray paid their respects to Bose.The Congress party said that if the government was serious about celebrating Bose’s legacy, it would start safeguarding freedom and rights. “Netaji would never have let the Amar Jawan Jyoti, a tribute to our soldiers, be extinguished and our martyred heroes be insulted in such a way,” the party tweeted, referring to the controversy around the merging of the eternal flames at the Amar Jawan Jyoti India Gate with that at the National War Memorial on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/homage-to-netaji-on-his-125th-birth-anniversary-101642963563312.html
24-01-2022||India||Punjab elections: Capt Amarinder Singh releases Punjab Lok Congress’s first list of candidates, to contest from Patiala||Former chief minister and Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) supremo Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday released the first list of candidates for 22 constituencies for the February 20 assembly polls in the state, and announced that he will again contest from his home constituency of Patiala Urban.The party, which also named former Indian hockey team captain Ajit Pal Singh as its nominee from Nakodar, has been allotted 37 out of the 117 seats as part of its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). The line-up announced by the former chief minister includes several former leaders from the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress, the party Amarinder quit after being removed from the chief minister’s post four months ago. However, contrary to Amarinder’s claim that several sitting MLAs and cabinet ministers will join his party, there was no sitting Congress legislator or minister on the list. Three sitting MLAs, Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi, Fatehjung Bajwa and Harjot Kamal, who quit the Congress in recent weeks, have all gone into his alliance partner BJP’s fold. “We have given a good set of candidates with clear focus on winnability while ensuring due representation across regions and various sections of the society,” Amarinder said while releasing the first list of candidates at a virtual press conference. He said discussions were continuing with the BJP on five more seats for the party. As per the present arrangement, the BJP will contest 67 and the SAD (Sanyukt) 13 seats. Of the PLC’s allocation of 37 seats, 26 are in the Malwa region, 7 in Majha region, and four in Doaba region.A five-time MLA, Amarinder has won from Patiala Urban three times in the past. Besides being a part of his stronghold of Patiala district, the assembly segment also falls in his MP wife Preneet Kaur’s Patiala Lok Sabha constituency. “Will contest from Patiala, won’t leave my family’s home of 300 years. Will seek votes on my government’s achievements and Modi govt’s accomplishments at the Centre,” Amarinder’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted, quoting him. In this seat, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has fielded turncoat and former Patiala mayor Ajitpal Singh Kohli, who jumped ship from the SAD two weeks, to take on the former chief minister, while Harpal Juneja is the Akali nominee. The Congress is yet to name its candidate. In Malwa, the PLC has fielded Farzana Alam Khan, a former SAD legislator and wife of late DGP Izhar Alam Khan, from Malerkotla. She is the only woman among the first batch of candidates. The list includes eight Jat Sikhs, four from the Scheduled Caste community, three from the OBC community, and five Hindus. One of the candidates from the Malwa region is the current Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma, who was the president of District Youth Congress for several of years. He will contest the Patiala Rural seat.Kamaldeep Saini, former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee secretary, has been fielded from Kharar, while Jagmohan Sharma, former president of the Ludhiana district Congress committee, will contest from Ludhiana East. The Ludhiana South seat will be contested by Satinderpal Singh Tajpuri, the son of the former cooperation minister in the previous SAD government.Prem Mittal, a former SAD MLA from Mansa and former senior deputy Mayor of Ludhiana, has been fielded from Atamnagar, while Damanjeet Singh Mohi, an active Youth Congress functionary and former chairman of Market Committee Mullanpur, has been named as the PLC candidate from Dakha. Retired bureaucrat Mukhtiar Singh has been fielded from Nihalsinghwala. Other candidates include Ravinder Singh Garewal from Dharamkot, Dr Amarjeet Sharma from Rampura Phul, Raj Nambardar from Bathinda, Sawera Singh from Bathinda Rural, Subedar Bhola Singh Hasanpur from Budhlada and Dharam Singh Fauji from Bhadaur.Bikramjit Inder Singh Chahal, son of Capt Amarinder Singh’s close associate and adviser BIS Chahal, has been named from Sanaur, and former Punjab Congress secretary Surinder Singh Kherki will contest from Samana. In the Majha region, the party has fielded Tejinder Singh Randhawa, former vice president of DCC Gurdaspur, from Fatehgarh Churrian, while former MLA Harjinder Singh Thekedar will fight from the Amritsar South seat. Amandeep Singh, former Punjab Congress spokesperson, has been fielded from Bholath and Satvir Singh Palli Jhikki from Nawanshahr in Doaba. AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said Amarinder has lost his political relevance. “There can be no bigger proof than the PLC’s first list of candidates which is nothing more than a document. He is just banking on the BJP for survival.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-elections-capt-amarinder-singh-releases-punjab-lok-congress-s-first-list-of-candidates-to-contest-from-patiala-101642963444022.html
24-01-2022||India||Mamata Banerjee’s UP drive part of TMC’s national plan||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Mamata Banerjee’s decision to campaign for the Samajwadi Party (SP) in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh is not a one-off political move but a model that can be replicated in other states as well, two senior party leaders said.Banerjee is expected to hold a virtual campaign for the SP and subsequently address a joint press conference with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow on February 8. The TMC president is also likely to visit Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency, to campaign exclusively for the SP ahead of the February 10 elections. The Bengal chief minister’s plan to get involved in the Uttar Pradesh elections for the SP also comes in the backdrop of TMC’s growing tension with the Congress (after TMC poached several lawmakers and senior leaders and attacked the Congress in the last few months) and her ambition of bringing together opposition parties for a united battle against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the next national election. “We are fighting in states such as Goa or Tripura. But it doesn’t mean we would be fighting in all states. Like, we have no long term plan to contest in Maharashtra. We would not fight the polls in Tamil Nadu or Kerala,” TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said. According to Trinamool leaders, it is in states where the BJP is in power that the Bengal-based party would try to take on the ruling side. The TMC is unlikely to contest in states where there is a strong regional party or a strong opposition party on the ruling side. “In Uttar Pradesh, it is in our best interest to support the SP. In other states, if the local parties want Mamata di to support them, she will definitely try to help the regional parties,” another senior TMC leader said, seeking anonymity. TMC leaders also point out that Banerjee herself has been advocating this model. “Wherever an opposition party is strong, other opposition parties should try to support it. This can be a solid foundation for an opposition unity,” a second leader said, also seeking anonymity.The second leader also pointed out that a major reason behind the friction between the Congress and the TMC is the fact that the Grand Old Party, in alliance with the left parties, had contested in all 294 seats in the West Bengal assembly elections last year. A senior Congress strategist, however, argued that Banerjee’s decision to campaign in other states for opposition parties, other than the Congress, would have “little impact.”“She is certainly the biggest leader in Bengal. But her appeal is restricted in Bengal and perhaps in other Bengali speaking areas. But beyond that, Banerjee is not a vote catcher,” a senior Congress strategist said, wishing not to be named.
24-01-2022||India||Netaji’s statue at India Gate an attempt to save face: Former Tripura CM Manik Sarkar||Former Tripura Chief Minister and opposition leader Manik Sarkar on Sunday criticised the Centre’s rejection of a proposed Republic Day tableau on Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s role in India’s freedom movement and said that the Centre’s decision of setting up the freedom fighter’s statue at India Gate was an attempt to save face. Pointing out that the Centre had rejected tableaus of Tamil Nadu and Kerala, apart from West Bengal, the former Tripura CM said, “The Centre only selected the tableaus of their choice. The states didn’t have any rights or freedom. The Centre’s decision to set up Netaji’s statue at India Gate was in order to save their faces. They can better explain how much respect they pay to Netaji through unveiling the statue.”On the rejection of West Bengal’s tableau, Sarkar said, “What mistake did the Bengal government make by choosing Netaji as the theme for the Republic Day Parade? Netaji’s birthday is of importance as this year is his 125th birth anniversary. Why did they (Centre) reject the tableau?”The Tripura opposition leader added that though Netaji was born in Odisha, studied at Presidency College and moved to London for his IAS, he had started his revolution from Bengal. Sarkar was attending a blood donation programme at Bamutia, a few kilometres away from Kolkata.After their proposed tableau was rejected by the Union government, the West Bengal government decided to display a similar tableau during the Republic Day Parade held annually in Kolkata. The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) did not make any comment on the issue. However, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said, “His comments show a secret understanding between CPM and the Trinamool Congress. Regarding paying respect to Netaji, I must say that setting up of his statue at India Gate happened only during the BJP government’s tenure. No such honour was given to Netaji in the earlier government’s regime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netajis-statue-at-india-gate-an-attempt-to-save-face-former-tripura-cm-manik-sarkar-101642962724166.html
24-01-2022||India||Assam to probe police firing on former student leader: Himanta||The Assam government on Sunday constituted a one-man-inquiry commission to probe the incident of police firing on a former student leader in Nagaon district on Saturday.Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the committee comprises additional chief secretary Pawan Borthakur and will submit its report in a week.Kirti Kamal Bora, a former general secretary of students union of Nagaon college, was shot at by police after he allegedly attacked a police team which was probing a narcotics case. The youth, who sustained a bullet injury in his leg, is undergoing treatment at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH).While the police allege that Bora was shot at after he attacked a police team and some vials of heroin were found in his possession, the youth’s family members maintain he is innocent and accused the police of targeting him without reason.“I had earlier issued strict instructions to the police to deal with criminals with a firm hand. But if any innocent is hurt by police actions, it won’t be tolerated. Measures will be taken against policemen, if they are found involved in wrong doing,” said Sarma on Sunday.Earlier, Assam Police had informed that the police personnel involved in the shooting have been sent to the police reserve with immediate effect and assured that if there’s any lapse, “guilty personnel will be taken to task”.“Police in police clothes were questioning a person suspected of carrying drugs. At that time, Bora reached the spot and asked the police team if they were police personnel. When the team members replied in affirmative, Bora started attacking the policemen,” Nagaon police superintendent Anand Mishra told journalists.“It was while trying to overpower Bora that the police team resorted to firing. If they had not done it, there could have been a fatal injury. If there is any lacuna on the part of the police, it will come out during investigation,” he added.Bora is a member of the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU). On Sunday, its members and representatives from other student groups staged a protest rally outside Nagaon police station demanding the arrest of the police personnel who shot at Bora.“I strongly condemn police action against Bora, an innocent youth. Incidents such as this one have created an atmosphere of police terror in the state. It is an example of a brutal state. We want strict action against those guilty and warn police to refrain from such things in future,” AASU chief advisor Samujjal Bhattacharya tweeted.Opposition parties also picked the issue to target chief minister Sarma.“I visited Bora’s home on Sunday. He comes from a simple family and was trying to earn a living by giving tuitions. Police attack on such a youth is a reflection of licence to shoot given to police by the CM,” said Congress state president Bhupen Kumar Borah.“We have been witnessing such extra-judicial shootings in the state in past months. Today it was Bora, but tomorrow it could be anyone of us. Public should come out against such police acts,” he added.Raijor Dal president and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi condemned the shooting and demanded the arrest of the accused policeman. He also sought suspension of the Nagaon superintendent of police.On January 11, the Gauhati High Court had directed the Assam government to file a detailed affidavit within two weeks on alleged fake encounters by the state police since May last year.Hearing a petition filed by lawyer Arif Jwadder, a division bench of justices Sudhanshu Dhulia and Soumitra Saikia had directed that a detailed counter affidavit should be filed by Secretary (Home) or Additional Secretary (Home).In his petition filed in December, Jwadder mentioned that 80 incidents of fake encounters had happened in the state since May 2021 (since the new government under Sarma took charge) and they resulted in 28 deaths and left 48 injured.
24-01-2022||India||124k people with varied backgrounds apply for ‘Covid Warrior’ courses||From those who dropped out after Class 5 to those with postgraduate degrees, a total of 124,000 people from diverse backgrounds have enrolled for a government crash course on how to become “Covid warriors”, according to data from the Union ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship seen by HT.The programme, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0 in June last year, envisages reducing the burden on health care and front-line professionals amid the pandemic by training at least 100,000 people in various essential activities.According to the ministry, 124,000 people in 425 districts across 33 states and Union territories have signed up as on January 13, 2022, and many of them have already started working after completing their training.The qualification breakdown of the candidates shows that 59,000 had either studied till Class 12 or undergone certificate courses from ITIs (industrial training institutes), and around 54,000 were educated till Class 10, 289 till Class 9, 559 till Class 8, and 33, 26 and 64, till classes 7, 6 and 5 respectively.Nearly 1,400 candidates had a Bachelor’s degree in arts (BA), 199 in commerce (B.Com), 63 in engineering (Btech/B.E), 593 in science (B.Sc), and 29 in business administration (BBA). There were also several people with postgraduate degrees -- 90 in arts (MA), 41 in science (MSc), 11 in business administration (MBA), and 25 masters in Commerce -- who opted for the course. Apart from this, some other people with other postgraduate degrees, including M.Ed, M. Arch , and MCA, also signed up.Six customised course have been developed under two larger categories – fresh training and upskilling – by the Healthcare Sector Skill Council (HSSC). The training duration is between three and four months. The candidates are trained in working basic equipment such as oxygen concentrators and pulse oximeters, and to provide support in handling clinical, trauma, and mass casualty emergencies. They are also trained to provide support in home aide services, maintain record of patients, collect samples including swabs, and conduct rapid antigen tests (RAT). The training programmes are being conducted at Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras (PMKKs) and other affiliated government training centres.“I was working as a data entry operator in a private firm in Lucknow and was earning ₹8,000 a month when I got to know about this course. I have had interest in the medical field since the beginning, and it was a great opportunity for me. I am soon going to complete the course and hope to get a decent paying job in a hospital after this,” said Atiq-ur-Rahman, a resident of Gorakhpur, with a Master’s degree in Hindi Literature.Officials at the ministry said that they are yet to compile the data of candidates who have been placed in different jobs after completing the course. “A large majority of the candidates opted for the fresh training category that was meant for persons new to the medical field, and therefore, they are yet to reach the placement stage. However, some of those from the first batches have started getting placed,” said a senior official who asked not to be named.Nitu Kumari, a resident of Darbhanga in Bihar, recently got a job in a private hospital in Noida as a nursing assistant at a salary of ₹12,000 per month after completing the crash course. “I wanted to further study after my graduation but I could not pursue my dream due to the poor financial situation of my family. When I got to know about this crash course I decided to take it. Also, I wanted to help people amid this pandemic in any possible way. I have seen people dying at home during the second wave of pandemic last year,” she said.
24-01-2022||India||Omicron in community transmission: INSACOG||The Omicron variant of the coronavirus is now in community transmission in India and has become the dominant strain in multiple major cities, according to the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) based on whole genome sequencing results of positive Covid-19 samples.The findings by INSACOG are in line with what has been observed by scientists across the world regarding the Omicron variant’s key characteristic of high transmissibility, which enables it to quickly outstrip the circulation of all other variants in any region.Experts said that this development is not a cause of immediate concern as Omicron is known to cause milder infections compared to other variants such as Delta. This means that it will likely lead to a rapid spike in cases, which cause a far smaller proportion of hospitalisations, and an equally sharp fall in cases – all trends that are already visible in several metros across the country that were the early hot spots of India’s third Covid wave.“Omicron is now in community transmission in India and has become dominant in multiple metros, where new cases have been rising exponentially,” read the latest INSACOG bulletin, dated January 10, released on Sunday.A senior expert from INSACOG, a consortium of 10 central laboratories and 28 regional ones, said that the results were not surprising.“This particular variant is known to spread much faster and it would have spread rapidly once it entered into the community. Therefore, the extent of spread is not surprising that way. The silver lining being it does not seem as severe clinically as the Delta variant,” said the expert, who asked not to be named.The data further shows that while cases continue to rise nationally, cases appear to have already peaked in the major metropolitan areas (the earliest outbreak centres of Omicron variant in India) such as Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai, without leading to any crisis in hospital resources such as beds, medical oxygen, and medication.In Mumbai, the seven-day average of new cases has dropped more than 67% from the peak of 17,523 cases a day witnessed on January 12. In Delhi, this number has dropped 45% from the January 15 peak of 23,529 cases a day. In Kolkata it has dropped 70%, while it has dropped 10% in Chennai. Most importantly, neither of the cities mentioned above were on the cusp of facing a crisis like they did during the Delta wave. Despite the rapid rise in cases, nearly 80% of beds earmarked for Covid were consistently available through these cities.Experts said that the Omicron variant is very different from the original virus detected first in Wuhan in 2019, and is far less lethal. “Omicron is a different disease than the original Covid-19; it’s not a killer disease like Covid-19 as show the mortality data. It is a deviant as it has shifted so far antigenically its virulence,” said T Jacob John, former head, virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore.“As for national peak, rural areas have to be saturated for that and it has not happened yet. However, cities individually may attain peak, like it happened with Mumbai a few days ago, and is currently happening in Delhi. At most of the other places cases are going up,” he added.The INSACOG bulletin added that India may not be able to utilise screening for Omicron based on “S-gene dropout”, like many countries have been able to, as a substantial proportion of Omicron infections in India appear to be a lineage (BA.2) that may give higher false negatives in S-gene dropout screening.“Tests suitable for PCR-based screening applicable to all Omicron lineages have been approved for use,” the researchers from INSACOG said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research regulator, has begun approving test kits that it says are capable of detecting all sub-lineages of the heavily mutated Omicron variant. “Among the non-genome sequencing method of detecting Omicron, there is an S-gene target failure which is being used in the UK (TaqPath RT-PCR kits); however, Omicron has three lineages— BA. 1, BA.2, and BA.3, and sub-lineage BA.2 does not cause S-gene dropout and that is 30% of the times and is a problem with the TaqPath kit. Now, an innovative solution has been developed in India which is detecting the S-gene drop-out as well as all three sub-lineages with very high sensitivity and specificity that has been developed by TataMD, and is validated by ICMR,” said Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR, in one of the recent weekly Covid briefings.The overall aim of INSACOG has been to monitor the genomic variations in the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, on a regular basis through a multi-laboratory network. There are 269 sentinel sites identified across the country from where samples are being collected for testing.Of the total number of samples sequenced so far, 127,697, sequences have been analysed.The bulletin also says that the recently reported B.1.640.2 lineage is also being monitored.The World Health Organization (WHO), in November last year, classified B.1.640.2 as a variant under monitoring.“There is no evidence of rapid spread and while it has features of immune escape, it is currently not a variant of concern. So far, no case detected in India,” confirmed the INSACOG bulletin.The rate of hospitalisation during this wave has been much lower compared to the previous wave with Delta, which caused India’s brutal second wave of infections in April-May 2021. The researchers at INSACOG said that due to very high rate of new infections, the absolute number of hospitalisations has crossed previous highs in many countries and is therefore creating stress on health care systems.However, such a phenomenon of hospitals being overburdened has not yet been observed in India. According to a hospitalisation tracker by HT, which covered 13 regions, more than 85% of Covid beds are currently unoccupied in the country.While deaths have also been much lower during the new wave, the majority of severe cases and deaths have been seen in unvaccinated subjects or those with severe comorbidities. “The broadest possible protection is going to be through hybrid immunity, which is a result of previous infection plus vaccination,” said Gagandeep Kang, senior vaccine expert, and faculty at Christian Medical College, Vellore.
24-01-2022||India||Assam woman who was declared foreigner gets citizenship after HC intervention||Shefali Rani Das, an Assam resident who was declared an illegal migrant in 2017, has become Indian citizen again after intervention of the Gauhati high court.She was declared as foreigner in an ex-parte judgement by member (judge) of Silchar’s Foreigners Tribunal because her lawyer didn’t appear before the court on the days of hearing. The 2017 opinion was challenged in the Gauhati high court last year and Shefali got another chance to prove her identity. She has now proven her claim before the tribunal court and become Indian citizen again.Daughter of Lakhi Das, Shefali Rani Das is a resident of Mohankhal village under Sonai constituency of Cachar district. A case was filed against her in 2015 questioning her citizenship. Foreigners Tribunal court sent Shefali a notice and asked her to appear with necessary documents to prove her Indian identity.Shefali appeared before the court accordingly and appointed a lawyer in her support. Tribunal Court gave her dates to appear further and she depended on the lawyer she appointed. But the lawyer didn’t appear before the court on several dates. The lawyer didn’t even communicate with her resulting in Shefali becoming a declared foreigner on 19 September 2017.Advocate B.P. Sinha challenged tribunal court’s 2017 opinion on behalf of Shefali Das in the Gauhati high court last year. The HC agreed that the claims made by Shefali Das are true and on July 20, last year asked the Silchar’s FT-6 to hear the case again.Member (judge) of Silchar’s FT-6 Dharmananda Deb accordingly heard the case again and declared Shefali an Indian on January 17 this year.Deb’s judgement/opinion copy read as, “on the basis of the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunal) Act, 1983 (which was struck down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in Sarbananda Sonowal -Versus- Union of India 2005) the case of Shefali Rani Das reached to the Foreigners Tribunal No.1, Silchar, Cachar for opinion as to whether the proceedee (Shefali Rani Das) is a foreigner or not under the Foreigners Act, 1946. The case was registered in Foreigners Tribunal No.1, Silchar as FT Case No. 3433/2012.Thereafter, the case was transferred to the Foreigners Tribunal No.6, Silchar and the said case was again registered on 04.12.2015 as FT-6 Case No. 404 of 2015. Notice was duly served upon the Opposite party in accordance with the provisions of para 3(5) of the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 to appear and file written statement (representation).Upon receiving the Notice, the O.P. appeared and filed her written statement (representation) on 16.06.2016 along with some copies of documents.However, Sefali Rani Das failed to appear before this Tribunal to face the cross-examination on 20.02.2017, 09.03.2017, 26.05.2017, 25.07.2017 and 11.09.2017 without any steps and the reference was proceeded exparte judgement and declared her as foreigner.”“As the Gauhati high court opined that citizenship being a very important right of a person which should not be decided one sided, we heard the case again. We found that Shefali Rani Das’s documents are authentic and genuine. After examining the case thoroughly, we are in opinion that she is an Indian citizen,” Deb wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-woman-who-was-declared-foreigner-gets-citizenship-after-hc-intervention-101642931038859.html
24-01-2022||India||German Navy chief quits after controversial Ukraine remarks at Delhi think tank||The German Navy chief, Vice Admiral Kay-Achim Schönbach, has resigned following a controversy over his remarks on the situation in Ukraine at a think tank in New Delhi, casting a shadow over Berlin’s maiden effort to project its role in the Indo-Pacific.Schönbach’s visit to India last week coincided with a port call in Mumbai by the German frigate Bayern, the first visit to India by a German warship in almost a decade. The warship was deployed in the region for seven months and sailed through the South China Sea as a manifestation of Germany’s new Indo-Pacific policy.During an interactive session on Friday at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA), a government-backed think tank, Schönbach said he didn’t believe Russia intends to occupy Ukraine and that all Russian President Vladimir Putin is looking for is respect, and complying with this would be a “low cost” option.In unusually blunt remarks, Schönbach also said China is “giving money to dictators, to killers, to criminals” to gain access to the natural resources of their countries, and that India and Germany need Russia to take on China.The remarks – especially Schönbach’s contention that the Crimean Peninsule will “never come back” to Ukraine following its annexation by Russia in 2014 – caused consternation in European security circles, and Ukraine’s foreign ministry summoned the German envoy on Saturday to stress “the categorical unacceptability” of the German Navy chief’s comments.As pressure grew on the German government to fire the navy chief, Schönbach resigned late on Saturday. “I have asked Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht to relieve me from my duties with immediate effect,” he said in a statement. “The minister has accepted my request,” he said.Earlier, Schönbach apologised for his remarks on Twitter, saying his security policy statements at a think tank event in India were his personal opinion and didn’t correspond in any way to the official position of the German defence ministry. “There is no need to quibble, it was clearly a mistake,” he tweeted in German.Russia is accused of having amassed 100,000 troops at the border with Ukraine and the US and its allies have demanded these forces be withdrawn. The European Union (EU) and the US also contend that Russia’s annexation of Crimea from Ukraine is unacceptable and must be rolled back, and Schönbach’s remarks directly contradicted this position.Schönbach’s resignation also comes at a time when Germany is facing criticism for blocking Estonia from providing German-origin weapons to Ukraine. The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday that Germany refused to issue permits for the weapons to be sent to Ukraine.The three Baltic states – Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania – have decided to send US-made Javelin and Stinger missiles to Ukraine as part of defence-related assistance. The US state department has permitted Estonia to send US-made weapons to Ukraine.In a video of his interaction posted on the YouTube channel of IDSA, Schönbach is heard saying: “Is Russia really interested in having a small, tiny strip of Ukraine soil to integrate in their country? No, this is nonsense.”He added, “I think Putin is probably putting pressure on it because he can do it, and he knows that if [he does it], he splits the European Union. But what he [Putin] really wants is respect...and my God, giving some respect is low cost, even no cost.“So, if I was asked, it is easy to even give him the respect he really demands and probably also deserves.”Schönbach described Russia as an “important country” while referring to its background as a Christian nation. “Even we – India, Germany – we need Russia because we need Russia against China,” he said.His remarks reflect divisions among European nations and the US in responding to the situation in Ukraine.Schönbach was tougher on China while responding to questions. He said the Belt and Road Initiative was getting countries in Africa mired in debt while the Chinese side made inroads into the infrastructure and security sectors.He said he spoke about the money that China gives to countries under its Belt and Road Initiative with the foreign ministers of Mali and Niger and noted that China is the biggest lender in Africa. “When you do this, you can never pay back the credit. This is impossible,” Schönbach said.“Who is working there? Chinese engineers and workers. Who is controlling this infrastructure? Chinese. Who is installing CCTV cameras for controlling the whole society? China. What is your outcome? Zero,” he said.He added, “China is giving money to dictators, to killers, to criminals. It doesn’t matter as long as they give their resources to China.”
