25-01-2022||India||B’luru police to fine bikers over substandard helmets||Bengaluru traffic police on Tuesday decided to impose a fine on any motorcyclist or pillion rider found commuting with substandard helmets. The traffic police who are currently conducting an awareness program on the need for better quality helmets said that as soon as the awareness campaign is over, enforcement will begin. Anyone violating the helmet rule will be fined ₹ 500, said a senior traffic police official, privy to the matter. The officers also added that apart from the penalty, the motorist’s licence will be impounded and sent to the regional transport office (RTO) concerned recommending suspension, a period of which may vary between six to eight weeks. “We have decided to consider any person commuting without a good quality helmet as helmet-less traveller. Our biggest concern is those who travel with plastic helmets as these helmets don’t help in case of an accident,” said BR Ravikante Gowda, joint commissioner of police, traffic. According to Gowda, a study conducted by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) and the traffic police at 15 locations across the city revealed that only 44% of motorists use quality helmets that could prevent a road accident. He said that the study also revealed that 70% of pillion riders use helmets. The enforcement campaign is based on the findings of the study, the officer added.  Deputy commissioner of police (traffic west), Kuldeep Jain said that police will keep a tab on the commuters wearing the helmets which don’t cover the back of the head or doesn’t provide adequate protection. He clarified that front open helmets are not banned completely. “Such plastic helmets look like a hat. They are made of poor-quality material and don’t provide protection. We want the commuters to wear helmets that would cover the back of the head up till the beginning of the spinal code and it should be made as per the quality requirements prescribed by the government,” he said. Under the awareness campaign, the police ran road-rollers over several sub-standard helmets in several parts of the city on Tuesday. The enforcement however will not be an easy task. In 2018 also, Bengaluru police had introduced an enforcement drive against commuters not using helmets without an ISI mark. The move came under criticism since the ISI was not an internationally accepted quality standard. Several high-quality imported helmets didn’t have these marks, resulting in a stand-off between the motorcyclists and traffic police. Later, the traffic police withdrew the campaign since they were unable to verify if the helmet was indeed ISI certified as several fake ISI marked helmets flooded the market. “As per the Bureau of Indian Standards, the visual inspections cannot ascertain the quality of the helmets. Hence it is not possible for the police to check the quality of the helmet on the spot. Bengaluru Traffic Police (BTP) advises riders to use helmets as prescribed by law,” BTP had tweeted. When asked if these issues have been sorted before the latest campaign DCP Jain said that instead of cracking down on people wearing helmets without an ISI mark, the traffic police will identify those wearing “helmet of sub-standards quality”. “As I said earlier, we have given clear instructions on which are sub-standard helmets and helmets made with poor material. We will be specifically looking for such cases instead of enforcing the ISI mark requirement,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-police-to-fine-bikers-over-substandard-helmets-101643135308860.html
25-01-2022||India||Defection politics heats up in Karnataka||The leader of the opposition in Karnataka assembly and senior Congress leader, Siddaramaiah, on Tuesday said that several legislators from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) are in touch with him, indicating the possibility of more defections ahead of the 2023 assembly elections in the state. “People from both the BJP and JD(S) are in touch with me and I cannot name them. But only those people who believe in the party’s ideology, accept the leadership and join unconditionally can come,” Siddaramaiah said on Tuesday. Siddaramaiah’s claims lend to the statements made by BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), who on Monday said there were several persons within the saffron outfit who had already “booked their ticket” to return to the Congress. He was making an indirect reference to MLAs who defected from the Congress-JD(S) coalition government in 2019. On Tuesday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, DK Shivakumar also hinted that several BJP legislators were in touch with the grand old party, waiting to return to the fold. “Unlike Yatnal, I cannot speak on such things on the road,” Shivakumar said on Tuesday. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday, however, brushed aside the Congress’s “big claims”. “A sense of insecurity is haunting the Congress. Two top leaders of the party are issuing statements with big claims. There is no question of any one from BJP jumping the ship. We have many who quit Congress and joined us,” Bommai said. He added that the BJP will gain further strength in the coming days. With just over a year to go in the 2023 assembly elections and several other polls before that, all major parties are wary of defections likely to increase. At least three people aware of the developments said some of the legislators who engineered the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led Congress-JD(S) government in 2019 were now in talks with their former parties to return. Political observers also point at an evident divide within the BJP. Members of the old guard nurse a feeling of neglect as they have been constantly overlooked to accommodate the new entrants, a political observer said, requesting anonymity. Former chief minister and senior BJP leader BS Yediyurappa had gone out of his way to accommodate the 17 legislators, whose support helped him get to the top post. Members of the old guard or those who have always been with the BJP have also expressed their unhappiness of being left out of the current Basavaraj Bommai-led state cabinet. There is a clear factionalism within the saffron outfit, the political observer added. At least three legislators, who defected to the BJP in 2019, on Tuesday denied any plan to part ways with the ruling party. State minister N Nagaraj was one of them. “Many people ask us to return to the Congress and I have told them that we cannot take a different decision for every election,” Nagaraj said. He added that Siddaramaiah was in touch with him, but it was “not to discuss politics”. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar, meanwhile, brushed aside Yatnal’s statements, calling them his “personal opinion”. People aware of the developments said no preferential treatment will be given anymore to those who had switched sides in 2019. Though the BJP benefited from the defections in 2019, it also caused a significant amount of disenchantment among its core party workers, who were snubbed in favour of the new entrants. The fear now is that the same leaders will want their supporters to be given preference in the upcoming elections to zilla and taluka panchayats and Bengaluru city corporation polls, the political observer said. Chief minister Bommai has had a difficult six months in the top office, with his term being plagued with allegations of widespread corruption, discontentment among BJP legislators and workers as well as fuelling a divide that continues to widen ahead of the crucial polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defection-politics-heats-up-in-karnataka-101643135128792.html
25-01-2022||India||Farmers attack Telangana MP’s convoy, clash with BJP workers||A mob of farmers attacked the convoy of Telangana BJP MP Dharmapuri Arvind with stones and sticks on Tuesday in Nizamabad district, alleging that he has failed to fulfil his pre-election promise of securing a turmeric board for the state from the Centre.Arvind, who represents Nizamabad parliamentary constituency, was going to Nandipet block to attend party programmes, when he was waylaid by a mob of over 200 farmers at Issapally village of Armoor block.Holding placards demanding the setting up of the turmeric board and raising slogans against the MP, the farmers demanded his immediate resignation for failing to live up to his promise.The windshield of the MP’s car was damaged in stone pelting. The BJP workers accompanying the convoy retaliated, sparking clashes between the two groups.With the situation going out of control, police swung into action and carried out baton charge to disperse the warring groups. Arvind returned to Nizamabad in another vehicle without attending his scheduled programmes.Arvind, who defeated Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) president K Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha in the 2019 general election from Nizamabad, promised during the electioneering that he would secure the much-awaited turmeric board from the Centre for the farmers within a month of getting elected as MP.He also signed a bond on a stamp paper to that effect and got it registered, saying he would resign from his MP seat if he failed to fulfill his promise.However, the Centre refused to create a separate board for turmeric as there is already a spices board which includes turmeric. Arvind got a promise from the Centre that a regional office of the spices board would be set up at Nizamabad.Soon after the incident, the BJP activists squatted on the Armoor road and staged a dharna, in protest against the attack on the MP. Traffic came to a grinding halt for over an hour. Special police pickets were posted in Issapally and Nandipet to prevent any untoward incidents.The BJP MP alleged that those who attacked his convoy were not turmeric farmers, but the TRS activists. “They have been issuing statements saying they would stall my visit to the constituency. Yet, the police have not taken any action to prevent the mob attack,” he told reporters.“I called up local police officials, but they failed to control the TRS workers, who blocked my convoy by burning tyres on the road. It clearly showed that the police are acting at the behest of the ruling party,” he alleged.Arvind said he would lodge a complaint with the privileges committee of the Lok Sabha and also bring it to the notice of the BJP national leadership.He later lodged a complaint with Nizamabad police commissioner KR Nagaraju and demanded that a case of attempt to murder be filed against the protestors.Senior TRS legislator from Armoor constituency A Jeevan Reddy said the TRS had nothing to do with the incident. “It was the turmeric farmers who prevented the MP from entering their villages, as he has miserably failed to fulfill his pre-election promise,” Reddy said.He demanded that Arvind should answer the queries of the angry farmers before making wild allegations against the TRS. “Is it not true that the MP has betrayed the farmers?” he asked. BJP national vice-president D K Aruna and legislator Eatala Rajender also condemned the attack on the Nizamabad MP.
25-01-2022||India||Andhra CM inaugurates new DBT scheme for EBC women||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday started a direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme for financial upliftment of women belonging to the Economically Backward Classes (EBC) amongst open category (OC).Launching the scheme, named YSR EBC Nestham, at his camp office at Tadepalli in Amaravati, the chief minister transferred ₹589 crores directly into the account of 392,674 women beneficiaries.Jagan said the YSR EBC Nestham was not an election promise, nor was it included in the YS Congress Party’s manifesto. “It has been brought with the intention of uplifting poor women from the upper castes, including Reddy, Kamma, Arya Vysya, Kshatriya, Velama, Brahmin, and other OC communities,” he said.Under the latest scheme, the state government will provide ₹45,000 to each woman from OC communities in the 45-60 years age group in 3 tranches – ₹15,000 per annum for three years.Jagan said the scheme aimed at improving the livelihood and financial empowerment of women from the EBC category. “This is the first of its kind scheme to benefit the poor women from upper castes,” he said.Stating that his government was fulfilling the objectives of the welfare state envisaged in the Constitution, the chief minister said in the last two and a half years, several women-centric schemes like Amma Vodi (cash incentive for women for sending their children to schools), Swechha (free Sanitary Napkins for Adolescent), YSR Cheyutha (Financial assistance for SC/STs), YSR Aasara, YSR Sunna Vaddi, YSR Pension Kanuka, and the distribution of wholesome nutritious food for holistic nutrition (for the health care of pregnant women, nursing mothers, and children).“To ensure that women become self-sufficient, the state government brought out EBC Nestham. These women from OC category families who come from economically unsound circumstances deserve a platform where they can become financially self-sufficient and support their families in any way they can,” he said.He pointed out that over 51% of nominated posts had been given to women in Andhra Pradesh. “As a person who strongly believes that if a woman is happy, healthy, and content, the community around her will flourish, we are taking steps forward,” Jagan added.
25-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu district engages youth to solve issues||In a bid to involve educated youngsters in local government operations, the collector of Tamil Nadu’s Thiruvallur district, Alby John, has introduced a 3-month paid internship programme to help find solutions for real time issues in the district.Youngsters from across the state are eligible to apply and five interns will be hired following a selection process, said a district administration official.Though the government has involved youngsters as interns in projects such as the Smart Cities Mission, this is a novel step at the district level. The idea came from the youngsters themselves, says John.“Several of them were informally approaching me on the social media and in person saying that they have ideas for solid waste management, water bodies restoration and they wanted to know how they should go about it,” says the doctor-turned-IAS officer.“I discussed this with my team here and we thought it would be a good idea to institutionalise and streamline this as an internship so youngsters who are genuinely interested can work with the administration in policy implementation.”This informal interaction has a pandemic context. During the lockdown, students were tweeting district collectors cheekily asking for holidays, exams to be postponed.A section of Tamil Nadu’s bureaucrats is active on the social media. And young officers like John, Virudhunagar collector Meghanath Reddy respond in equal banter. Reddy has been hosting students for a “Coffee with Collector” at his office and on Tuesday, it was with the winners of a quiz competition. Named after Bollywood’s Karan Johar’s show, Reddy is on season three.The internship is for those below the age of 32 who must have a bachelor’s or master’s degree and must be fluent in English and Tamil. “We believe they will bring in a new perspective which we can channelise in the government sector,” says John. The interns will get to be on the field and sit in on meetings with district officials.“We will give them the exposure and they will get to see if their ideas can be scaled up and how their initiatives progress. We may extend this up to six months too.”The internship is likely to start from mid-February and the interns will receive a monthly stipend of ₹10,000 from the state government. “We want to invite the best talent. We want this to be a productive affair,” John says while explaining the purpose of a paid internship when internships across the country including in private sector have been unpaid.
25-01-2022||India||Madras high court expunges judge’s remark against actor Vijay||The Madras high court on Tuesday expunged scathing remarks made against Tamil actor C Joseph Vijay by a single judge in the Rolls Royce case.A bench of justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and Mohammed Shaffiq passed the order stating that the observation made by the learned single Judge SM Subramaniam on July 8 was unwarranted and irrelevant to decide the issue.Actor Vijay had sought an exemption of Entry Tax for his Rolls Royce Ghost car, imported from England in 2012. Justice Subramaniam dismissed his petition and made critical remarks against the actor.The judge had pointed out that Vijay has a large fan base and those fans consider actors like him real heroes. “In the State of Tamil Nadu, cine heroes have risen as rulers of the State and therefore, the people are under the impression that they are real heroes. Thus, they are not expected to behave like reel heroes. Tax evasion is to be construed as an anti-national habit, attitude and mindset and unconstitutional,” he had observed.Vijay eventually paid the entry tax as demanded by the transport authorities and filed another writ aggrieved over the adverse remarks and sought the expunction for the same. “The order of the learned single Judge, wherein, certain disparaging remarks were made, appears to be wholly unwarranted, as there was uncertainty as to the state of the law relating to Entry Tax and divergent views were expressed not only by the High Courts but by the Supreme Court as well,” the court said in its orders on Tuesday. “Thus, to impute motives to a litigant or castigating him for taking a particular legal position or exercising his constitutional right under Article 226 is unwarranted.”The court also observed that it is difficult to suggest that the petitioner, Vijay, had acted with malafide and deliberate intention. It observed that the previous order overlooks the fact that the stand taken by the petitioner relates to certain cases regarding the demand and collection of entry tax on imported vehicles and goods under the scope of Part XIII of the Constitution. A nine-bench judge of the Supreme Court had examined whether an entire state can be notified as a local area and left open the question of whether entry tax can be levied on goods entering into the land mass of India from another country to be determined by appropriate proceedings. Following that, a two-judge bench of the Supreme Court reversed a judgement by the division bench of Kerala high court and ruled that entry tax on imported goods and vehicles is permissible. “The above sequence of litigation will clearly demonstrate that the appellant cannot be imputed with motive whatsoever, and therefore, the disparaging remarks are clearly unwarranted,” the court said.The court explained the background for the uncertainty over the matter by recalling that the Supreme Court had dealt with a batch of appeals questioning the competence of states to levy entry tax on vehicles and goods imported from outside India, including Orissa, Bihar and Kerala. “The history of litigation has been set out in great detail only to show that there has been grave uncertainty not only with the reference to parameter/test to be applied for determining the question of the validity of the levy of Entry Tax but also the question whether Entry Tax can be levied on imported goods stood resolved only by the decision of the Supreme Court in the State of Kerala and Others Vs. Fr. William Fernandez Etc. which was delivered on 9 October 2017,” the court said. Following the SC verdict, in this case, a division bench of the Madras high court delivered a judgement on January 29, 2019, in a batch of writ petitions in the case of V.Krishnamurthy Vs. State of Tamil Nadu.
25-01-2022||India||Kerala reports highest single-day Covid spike||There is no let-up in pandemic woes for Kerala as it reported the highest single day spike of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with 55,474 fresh infections with a test positivity rate of 49.4 per cent after 121, 281 samples were tested, according to the data released by the state health department.Data shows every second person tested is a Covid-positive in the state. Worried health minister Veena George has asked people to take extreme caution as the state was in the midst of a severe outbreak. The minister said there was a four-fold increase in cases in last two weeks and asked people not to lower their guard. Active cases also rose to 285,365 – the highest since the outbreak began.“We are in the midst of a severe outbreak. No need to panic but we have to be extremely careful. Among the infected only 0.7 per cent need oxygen beds and 0.4 per cent need ICU. Among active caseload of 285,365 only 3.8 per cent are hospitalised,” said the minister, adding that 4,971 medical workers will be recruited on emergency basis to tide over the crisis.On Tuesday, more than 600 health workers were tested positive. She said control rooms were opened in all medical college hospitals and government made all preparations by augmenting hospital infrastructure and there won’t be a shortage of beds or oxygen.Ernakulam district topped with 9,405 fresh cases followed by Thiruvananthapuram 8,606 and Thrissur 5,520. For the first time, all 14 districts have recorded more than 1,000 cases a day. Covid-related fatalities also reached 52,141 after 70 deaths and added 84 previously undocumented deaths, health department data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-highest-single-day-covid-spike-101643134769447.html
25-01-2022||India||Drugs case: HC stays Majithia’s arrest for 3 days||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted a three-day protection from arrest to SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia for approaching the Supreme Court to challenge its order in which the anticipatory bail plea of the former minister had been dismissed.The court of Justice Lisa Gill on Monday had dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of Majithia, who had been booked in a drug case earlier. “….petitioner is afforded three days to enable him to approach the Hon’ble Supreme Court for challenging this order. Till then, petitioner be not arrested,” according to the order which came out on Tuesday. Majithia’s counsel had prayed for protection for seven days from the court. The dismissal of the anticipatory bail plea has come as a setback to Majithia, who is the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate from the Majitha Assembly constituency in Amritsar district.The process for filling of nomination papers for the February 20 Punjab Assembly polls began on Tuesday. Majithia (46), who was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act last month, had moved the High Court seeking anticipatory bail.The High Court on January 10 had granted an interim protection to Majithia from the arrest in the matter while directing him to join the investigation on January 12.The HC had also imposed some conditions, including not leaving the country.The court had extended the interim protection on January 18.Majithia is the brother-in-law of SAD president Sukhbir Badal and the brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.The former Punjab minister was booked under the NDPS Act on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drugs racket operating in the state.The report was filed by anti-drug special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2018.The 49-page FIR in the matter was registered by the state Crime Branch at its Mohali police station.Majithia was booked under Sections 25 (punishment for allowing one’s premises for its use for the commission of an offence), 27A (for financing sale, purchase, production, manufacture, possession, transportation, use or consumption, import and export or any act pertaining to narcotics) and 29 (abetting or plotting an offence) of the NDPS Act.In his bail plea, the SAD leader had submitted that the Congress government in Punjab had “left no stone unturned to misuse its powers and position for wreaking vengeance upon its political opponents”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-case-hc-stays-majithia-s-arrest-for-3-days-101643134709168.html
25-01-2022||India||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee declines Padma Bhushan award after MHA announcement||KOLKATA: Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee on Tuesday declined to accept the Padma Bhushan award shortly after the Union ministry of home affairs released the list of the Padma awardees for 2022.Bhattacharjee, 77, and veteran actor Victor Banerjee were among the 17 people named for the Padma Bhushan from West Bengal. To be sure, a third Padma Bhushan recipient, Ustad Rashid Khan, lives in Bengal but in the home ministry list, is classified under Uttar Pradesh where he was born.“I do not know anything about the Padma Bhushan award. Nobody said anything to me about this. If I have been given the award, then I refuse it,” Bhattacharjee said in a short statement circulated by the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M).Bhattacharjee was the chief minister from 2000 to 2011. The former chief minister has been unwell for some time and never leaves home. He was treated for Covid-19 last year.A senior home ministry official said a phone call was made to Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s house on Tuesday morning, which was picked by his wife and she was informed about his Padma award. There is no provision of taking consent for giving Padma awards to anyone; the awardees are only informed after the decision has been made, the official said.To be sure, Bhattacharjee’s predecessor, Jyoti Basu, also refused the Bharat Ratna award when the Manmohan Singh government reportedly proposed to confer the award on the communist leader.No CPI(M) leader has accepted civilian awards from the Centre in the past. Bengal CPI(M) state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra said in a statement that this has always been the party’s stand.Tabla maestro Anindya Chatterjee and veteran playback singer Sandhya Mukherjee have said they were informed about a decision to confer the Padma Shri award on them but they declined. While Chatterjee said he was being awarded by people who know nothing about him or his career, Mukherjee said accepting the award at the age of 90 would be demeaning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-declines-padma-bhushan-award-after-mha-announcement-101643132428311.html
25-01-2022||India||‘Be Azad, not Ghulam': Jairam Ramesh lauds Buddhadeb move to decline Padma award||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Tuesday showered praises on veteran Communist leader and former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee after the Communist Party of India (Marxist) announced his decision to decline the Padma Bhushan, the country's third-highest civilian honour.“Right thing to do. He wants to be Azad not Ghulam,” wrote Ramesh in what is seen as a reference to his party colleague Ghulam Nabi Azad, who too has been named by the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre as a recipient of the Padma.Right thing to do. He wants to be Azad not Ghulam. https://t.co/iMWF00S9IbWhile a statement from Bhattacharjee on his refusal of the honour has been shared by his party colleague Sitaram Yechury, there is no word yet from the Congress veteran and former Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha on the same.Bhattacharjee and Azad among the key political figures across the political spectrum to have been named as recipients of the Padma Bhushan by the Union ministry of home affairs. “Former Party PB member & WB CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya had this to say on the Padma Bhushan award announcement I don't know anything about Padma Bhushan award, none has said anything about it. If I have been given Padma Bhushan I refuse to accept it,” Yechury wrote on Twitter a while ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-azad-not-ghulam-jairam-ramesh-lauds-buddhadeb-move-to-decline-padma-award-101643130774851.html
25-01-2022||India||‘Unlawful’: Protesting on tracks can now bar one from railway jobs, says govt||Protesting on tracks and disruption of train operations have now been categorised by the central government under “unlawful activities” that may get one banned for life from obtaining railway jobs. According to an official release issued by the ministry of railways on Tuesday, videos of such activities will be analysed by “specialised agencies” and can result in police action as well.The railways ministry said that such activities include protesting on railway tracks, disruption of train operations, damaging railway properties, and the like.“It has come to notice that aspirants of railway jobs have indulged in vandalism/unlawful activities like protesting on railway tracks, disruption of train operations, damaging railway properties, etc,” the ministry said in a public notice.The notice further read “such misguided activities are the highest level of indiscipline rendering such aspirants unsuitable for railway/government job”.The government release added that videos of such activities will be “examined with the help of specialised agencies”, following which candidates or aspirants found indulged in such acts “will be liable for police action as well as lifetime debarment from obtaining a railway job.”The notice said Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) are committed to conducting a “fair and transparent recruitment process, maintaining the highest standards of integrity”.The ministry also advised railway job aspirants and candidates to not be “misguided” or “come under the influence of such elements who are trying to use them for fulfilling their own selfish ends”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlawful-protesting-on-tracks-can-now-bar-one-from-railway-jobs-says-govt-101643127180469.html
25-01-2022||India||R-day 2022 parade: DRDO to display two tableaux; Here’s what in store||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will have two tableaux at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday and display defence technological advancements of the country.According to a press release, the DRDO will display indigenously developed sensors, weapons and electronic warfare systems for light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas and air independent propulsion (AIP) systems for Indian submarines.The first tableau will display an indigenously developed Advanced Electronically Scanned Array Radar; five different aerial launched weapons and an Electronic Warfare Jammer to further enhance the capabilities of fourth generation LCA (Light Combat Aircraft) Tejas.The second tableau will showcase indigenously developed AIP System for propelling the Indian naval submarines underwater, the release said.The AIP system is powered by indigenously developed fuel cells with a novel onboard hydrogen generator, the statement said.Twenty-five tableaux of different states, departments and armed forces will be part of the parade on January 26.Only about 5,000-8,000 people will be allowed to attend this year's Republic Day parade on January 26 due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.According to the guidelines, children below 15 years of age and unvaccinated people will not be allowed at the parade.Before the pandemic, around 1.25 lakh people used to attend the parade at Rajpath in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rday-2022-parade-drdo-to-display-two-tableaux-here-s-what-in-store-101643128622251.html
25-01-2022||India||BSF installs surveillance system to strengthen Indo-Bangla border infrastructure||AGARTALA: In order to strengthen the India-Bangladesh international border infrastructure, the Border Security Force (BSF) has adopted many initiatives by following several measures and technological intervention, officials said. As part of their initiatives, eight gaps of single row fence that remained pending for long, were completely plugged last year. Besides, they have blocked total 44 drains and culverts by installing iron gates along them. “We have taken several initiatives to complete the fencing work on the border. Initiatives have also been taken to install smart surveillance system in 24 locations that are mostly smuggling and infiltration-prone areas,” said inspector general of BSF, Tripura Frontiers, Sushanta Kumar Nath. Of the total 856-kilometres-long international border shared between Tripura and Bangladesh, some parts are yet to be fenced. As there are people living within 150 yards of the border in many places, single row fencing is expected to be erected in most of the unfenced border areas. On the other hand, the BSF apprehended a total of 221 persons including 97 Bangladeshi nationals, 118 Indians and another six foreign nationals for illegal infiltration last year. According to their previous reports, a total of 131 illegal infiltrators were apprehended in 2020 while in 2019, the number of detained infiltrators was 236. Besides, the BSF seized huge quantity of contraband items including narcotics, phensidyl, yaba tablets and cattles worth Rs. 35.64 crores across the state last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-installs-surveillance-system-to-strengthen-indo-bangla-border-infrastructure-101643128047770.html
25-01-2022||India||Communist veteran Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee refuses Padma Bhushan||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee on Tuesday refused to accept the Padma Bhushan that was conferred on him by the Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Centre on the eve of Republic Day. Bhattacharjee, a former member of the politburo of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), and chief minister of West Bengal from 2002 to 2011, said he was not informed about being given the award.However, a senior home ministry official rejected the claim and said a call was made to his residence earlier in the day, while adding there is no provision of taking consent for giving Padma awards. Also read | Full list of 128 recipients named for Padma Awards 2022CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury, shared the ailing leader's statement on Twitter.  “Former Party PB member & WB CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya had this to say on the Padma Bhushan award announcement I don't know anything about Padma Bhushan award, none has said anything about it. If I have been given Padma Bhushan I refuse to accept it,” Yechury wrote.Former Party PB member & WB CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya had this to say on the Padma Bhushan award announcement.“I don't know anything about Padman Bhusan award,none has said anything about it. If I have been given Padma Bhushan I refuse to accept it.”Later, the senior MHA ministry official said a call was made at Bhattacharjee's residence on Tuesday morning and it was received by his wife and she was informed about the Padma award being conferred on the Communist veteran. There is no provision of taking consent for giving Padma awards to anyone, awardees are only informed after the decision has been made, the official added.Among other notable political leaders from across the spectrum to receive the country’s third-highest civilian award of Padma Bhushan is Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad. The Union ministry of home affairs announced the Padma Awards hours ago and named 128 eminent personalities for country highest civilian awards. (With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communist-veteran-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-refuses-padma-bhushan-101643127073965.html
25-01-2022||India||Padma Awards: Ghulam Nabi Azad, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee among political veterans honoured||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, his Bengal counterpart and Communist leader Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee were conferred with Padma Vibhushan (posthumous) and Padma Bhushan, respectively. Among other notable political leaders from across the spectrum to receive the country’s third-highest civilian award of Padma Bhushan is Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad.Singh, who was the chief minister of the BJP-led government in UP during the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992, passed away on August 21, 2021. Bhattacharjee, a former member of the politburo of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), was the chief minister of West Bengal from 2001 to 2011. Bhattacharjee has refused the award. The Narendra Modi-led union government announced the Padma awards on the eve of the country’s 73rd Republic Day on Tuesday.Meanwhile, Azad, who was elected to Rajya Sabha for five terms and twice to Lok Sabha, had been given an emotional adieu as the Leader of Opposition in the Upper House of Parliament when his term came to an end on February 16, 2021.Lauding the senior Congress leader's contribution to the causes dear to him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said, "The person who will replace Ghulam Nabi ji (as Leader of Opposition) will have difficulty matching his work because he was not only concerned about his party but also about the country and the House."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-azad-bhattacharjee-among-political-veterans-across-spectrum-honoured-101643126152198.html
25-01-2022||India||Several organisations in Nagaland to abstain from Republic Day celebrations||KOHIMA: Several tribal bodies and civil society organisations in Nagaland have said that they will abstain from participating in the Republic Day celebrations on January 26. The decision comes against the backdrop of the killing of 14 civilians at Oting village in Mon district on December 4 and 5 last year by the security forces. Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO), the apex body of several Naga tribes of at least five districts- Mon, Tuensang, Longleng, Kiphire, and Noklak- declared non-cooperation with the armed forces until justice is delivered to the victims’ families. The non-cooperation will include refraining from any national celebrations, therefore, the people of Eastern Nagaland shall not participate in the forthcoming Indian Republic Day celebration on 26th January 2022, said ENPO president R Tsapikiu Sangtam and general secretary C Manlang Phom. They said this decision was taken in line with the resolution of ENPO during its joint consultative meeting with all Eastern Nagaland civil society organisations on December 14, 2021 at Longleng. The ENPO’s major constituent tribes are Konyak, Khiamniungan, Phom, Sangtam, Yimkhiung and Chang. Meanwhile, the Naga Students Federation (NSF), an influential organisation, has also directed Naga youth and students community to refrain from taking part in the upcoming Republic Day celebration, taking forth its protest against the imposition of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act [AFSPA]. “The Federation reiterates that the Naga people should disassociate themselves from such celebrations for as long as the Government of India continues with its policy of militarising our Naga homeland. This is not in defiance of any forces on earth but the assertion that the voices of the Naga people cannot be muted despite the continued subjugation by forces reeking of colonial ideologies and practices,” said a release from the NSF. The student body further appealed to the state government to ensure that the special investigation team (SIT) report on the Oting massacre is made public and that the culprits be awarded befitting punishments at the earliest. Chief minister Neiphiu Rio, reacting to the decision of the organisations, said as a democracy, it was up to them, but the government will carry on with the Republic Day programme and do what is necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-organisations-in-nagaland-to-abstain-from-republic-day-celebrations-101643126307690.html
25-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: President Kovind says India among top 50 innovative economies in world, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.President of India Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday addressed the nation on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day, wherein he said this is the occasion to celebrate our “Indian-ness”. Read morePresident Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday addressed the nation on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day. The President said it is this spirit of unity of being one nation that is celebrated every year on Republic Day. He said diversity and vibrancy of our democracy is appreciated worldwide. Read moreGlobal economic growth will dip from 5.9% in 2021 to 4.4% in 2022, half a percentage point less than it estimated just three months ago, and 3.8% in 2023, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) noted in its World Economic Outlook released on Tuesday. Read moreFormer Indian cricketer Harbhajan Singh feels that it is time for India to look beyond Ravichandran Ashwin in the ODI format, after the veteran spinner had a lukewarm return to the format after 5 years. Read moreTelevision actor Rubina Dilaik said that she was ‘scared’ of love after one of her relationships with an actor did not work out. She revealed that it took such a toll on her that she was afraid of even going out on a date with someone. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-president-kovind-says-india-among-top-50-innovative-economies-in-world-and-all-the-latest-news-101643123159605.html
25-01-2022||India||Padma Awards 2022: Full list of 128 recipients named for civilian honours||The Union ministry of home affairs announced the Padma awards on the eve of the country’s 73rd Republic Day on Tuesday.Among the notable names, India's first chief of defence staff (CDS) – the late General Bipin Rawat – was posthumously awarded the Padma Vibhushan, while Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra was among Padma Shri recipients.Key names from Big Tech, including Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Alphabet and Google CEO Sundar Pichai, were named as Padma Bhushan recipients, according to the Padma awards list issued by the government.Following are some notable names from the Padma awards:Padma Vibhushan: Kalyan Singh, former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh (posthumous); General Bipin Rawat, India's first chief of defence staff (posthumous)Padma Bhushan: Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech's chairman Krishna Ella and his co-founder wife Suchitra Ella, Serum Institute of India (SII) managing director Cyrus PoonawallaPadma Shri: Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra, Olympians Pramod Bhagat, and Vandana Kataria, singer Sonu NigamHere is the full list of the Padma awards recipients:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-awards-2022-india-honours-128-personalities-with-highest-civilian-fame-full-list-here-101643121913642.html
25-01-2022||India||President Kovind addresses nation on eve of 73rd Republic Day | Full text||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday extended his greetings to the citizens of the country on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day. Addressing the nation, Kovind remembered the contributions of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and other freedom fighters who fought for India's independence.With Republic Day taking place under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic, Kovind acknowledged that even though the celebrations will be held in a muted manner, the spirit of the country is as strong as ever. He urged the citizens of the country to exercise caution as the country battled the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Further, Kovind remembered India's first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat who died along with 13 others in a plane crash last month near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.Here's the full text of his speech:Dear Fellow Citizens!Namaskar!My heartiest greetings to all of you, in India and abroad, on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day! It is an occasion to celebrate what is common to us all, our Indian-ness. It was on this day in 1950 that this sacred essence of us all assumed a formal shape. That day, India was established as the largest democratic republic and ‘we the people’ put into effect a Constitution that is an inspired document of our collective vision. The diversity and vibrancy of our democracy is appreciated world-wide. It is this spirit of unity and of being one nation which is celebrated every year as Republic Day. This year’s celebrations may be muted due to the pandemic, but the spirit is as strong as ever.On this occasion, let us also remember the great freedom fighters who showed incomparable courage in their pursuit of the dream of Swaraj and fired up the people to fight for it. Two days ago, on 23rd January, all of us observed the one hundred twenty-fifth birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, who had adopted the energising salutation of ‘Jai-Hind’. His quest for independence and his ambition to make India proud inspire all of us.We are immensely fortunate that the Constituent Assembly which prepared the document included some of the best minds of their generation. They were the leading lights of our great Freedom Struggle. After long years, the soul of India was re-awakening, and these exceptional men and women were the harbingers of a new dawn. They discussed threadbare every Article, every phrase and every word, on behalf of the people. The churning went on for close to three years. Eventually, it was Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar who, as chairman of the drafting committee, prepared the final version that has become our founding document.While the text of the Constitution, dealing with the details of the workings of the State, is quite long, the Preamble sums up its guiding principles – Democracy, Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity. They form the bedrock on which our Republic stands. These are the values that form our collective inheritance.These values have been accorded primacy in our Constitution in the form of Fundamental Rights and Fundamental Duties of the citizens. Rights and duties are two sides of the same coin. The observance of the Fundamental Duties mentioned in the Constitution by the citizens creates the proper environment for enjoyment of Fundamental Rights. By fulfilling the fundamental duty of rendering national service when called upon to do so, crores of our people have transformed the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and the COVID vaccination drive into mass movements. A great deal of credit for the success of such campaigns goes to our dutiful citizens. I am sure that our people will continue to strengthen the campaigns of national interest with their active participation and will demonstrate the same dedication.The Constitution of India was enacted and adopted by the Constituent Assembly on 26th November 1949, which we now celebrate as Constitution Day. But it was made effective two months later. This was done to mark that day in 1930 when India resolved to win complete freedom. From 1930 to 1947, every year 26th January was celebrated as ‘Purna Swaraj Day’, and that was the day chosen to put the Constitution into force.Writing in 1930, Mahatma Gandhi had advised fellow citizens how ‘Purna Swaraj Day’ was to be celebrated. He had said and I quote:“Remember that since we desire to attain our end by non-violent and truthful means only, we can do so only through self-purification. We should therefore devote the day to doing such constructive work as lies in our power to do.” [UNQUOTE]Needless to say, Gandhiji’s advice is timeless. He would have liked us to celebrate the Republic Day in the same manner. He wanted us to look inside, introspect and strive to become better human beings, and then also look outside, join hands with others, and contribute towards the making of a better India and a better world.Dear Fellow Citizens,The world has never been in so much need of help as now. It has been over two years now and humankind is still battling with the corona-virus. Hundreds of thousands of lives have been lost, and the world economy has been reeling under the impact. The world has suffered from unprecedented misery, and surge after surge of new variants have been posing new crises. It has been an extraordinary challenge to humankind.The pandemic management was bound to be all the more difficult in India. We have high population density, and as a developing economy we did not have the level of resources and infrastructure needed to battle this invisible enemy. But it is only in such difficult times that the resilience of a nation shines forth. I am proud to say that we have shown an unmatched resolve against the corona virus. In the first year itself, we raised the healthcare infrastructure and also reached out to help others. By the second year, we had developed indigenous vaccines and launched the world’s biggest vaccination drive in history. The vaccination drive is progressing at a quick pace in our country. During the pandemic, we have reached out to several other countries with vaccines and other medical help. This contribution by India has been appreciated by international organizations.There have been setbacks, unfortunately, as the virus makes a comeback with new mutations. Countless families have gone through a harrowing time. There are no words to express our collective trauma. The only saving grace is that many lives could be saved. As the pandemic is still wide-spread, we must remain alert and not let our guard down. The precautions we have taken till now have to be continued. Wearing mask and maintaining social distancing have been essential parts of COVID appropriate behaviour. In the fight against the COVID pandemic, it has now become a sacred national duty of every citizen to follow the precautions suggested by our scientists and experts. We have to discharge this duty till the crisis is behind us.A time of crisis has also made us appreciate how we all Indians are connected as one family. The time of social distancing has brought us close to each other. We have realised how much we depend on each other. Doctors, nurses and paramedics have risen to the challenge, working long hours in difficult conditions even at the risk of their lives to attend to patients. Others have kept the nation moving, managing supply chains and utilities. The leadership, policy-makers, administrators and others at the central and state levels have made timely interventions.Due to such interventions the economy is on the move again. It is a testimony to India’s spirit in the face of adversity that the economy is projected to grow at an impressive rate in this fiscal, after going through contraction last year. This shows the success of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan launched in the previous year. The government has shown relentless focus on reforming every economic sector and providing a helping hand wherever necessary. The impressive economic performance is made possible due to improvement in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors. I am happy to note that our farmers, especially young farmers with small holdings, are enthusiastically adopting natural farming.Small and medium enterprises have played an important role in providing employment to people and imparting impetus to the economy. Our innovative young entrepreneurs have set new benchmarks of success by making effective use of the start-up eco-system. It is a testimony to the success of our country's massive and robust digital payment platform that millions of digital transactions are being done every month.To reap the demographic dividend, the government has created the right environment with the National Education Policy that makes a perfect blend of traditional values and modern skills. It is gratifying to note that India has found a place among the top 50 innovative economies. It is all the more satisfying to note that we have been able to promote merit while also stressing upon all-round inclusion.Ladies and gentlemen,In the past year, our sports-persons also brought cheers as they made their mark at the Olympics. The self-confidence of these young champions inspires millions today.In the recent months, I have witnessed remarkable examples of our people strengthening the country and the society through their commitment and action in diverse areas. However, I will mention only two such instances. The dedicated teams of the Indian Navy and Cochin Shipyard Limited have built an indigenous state-of-the-art aircraft carrier IAC Vikrant which is to be inducted into our Navy. Due to such modern military capabilities, India is now counted among the world's leading naval powers. This is an impressive example of moving towards self-reliance in the field of defence. Apart from this, I found one special experience very touching. In a village called Sui in Bhiwani district of Haryana, some enlightened citizens who belong to that village have transformed the village under the 'Swa-Prerit Adarsh ​​Gram Yojana', demonstrating sensitivity and diligence. This example of expressing affection and gratitude for one’s village or native land is worth emulating. There remains life-long love and reverence for their native land in the hearts of grateful people. This example strengthens my belief that a new India is emerging – a Strong India and a Sensitive India; Sashakt Bharat, Samvedan-sheel Bharat. I am sure that taking inspiration from this example, other resourceful people will also contribute for the development of their villages and cities.In this context, I would like to share a personal experience with all of you. I had the privilege of visiting my birth-place, that is, my village Paraunkh at Kanpur Dehat district in the month of June last year. On reaching there, I naturally felt the urge to express respect for the sacred soil of my village and applied it on my forehead because I believe that I have been able to reach Rashtrapati Bhavan only due to the blessings of my village. Wherever in the world I may be, my village and my country remain in my heart. I request the people of India who are successful in life due to their hard work and talent, to always remember their roots, their village, town or city. Also, all of you must serve your place of birth and your country in whatever way you can. If all the successful people of India work sincerely for the development of their birth-places, then the whole country will benefit from the outcome of such local development.Dear Fellow Citizens,Today, it is our soldiers and security personnel who carry on the legacy of national pride. In the unbearable cold of the Himalayas and in the excruciating heat of the desert, far away from their families, they continue to guard the motherland. It is thanks to the constant vigil of the armed forces securing our borders and the police personnel maintaining internal security within the country that their fellow citizens enjoy peaceful life. When a brave soldier dies on duty, the entire country feels sad. Last month, in an unfortunate accident, we lost one of the bravest commanders of the country - General Bipin Rawat - his wife and many brave soldiers. The entire country was deeply saddened by the tragic loss.Ladies and gentlemen,Patriotism strengthens the sense of duty among citizens. Whether you are a doctor or a lawyer, a shopkeeper or office-worker, a sanitation employee or a labourer, doing one’s duty well and efficiently is the first and foremost contribution you make to the nation.As the supreme commander of the Armed Forces, I am glad to note that it has been a water-shed year for women empowerment in the Armed Forces. Our daughters have broken a glass ceiling, and permanent commission has now been allowed for women officers in new areas. Also, the talent pipeline for the forces will be strengthened with women coming through Sainik Schools and the prestigious National Defence Academy. Consequently, our Armed Forces will benefit from better gender balance.I am confident that India is better placed today to meet the challenges of the future. The twenty-first century is turning out to be the age of climate change, and India has taken a leadership position on the world stage in showing the way, especially with its bold and ambitious push for renewable energy. At the individual level, each one of us can remember Gandhiji’s advice and help improve the world around us. India has always considered the whole world as one family. I am sure that, inspired by this spirit of universal brother-hood, our country and the entire global community will move towards a more equitable and prosperous future.Dear Fellow Citizens,This year, India will cross a milestone when it completes 75 years of Independence. We are celebrating this occasion as ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’. It is heartening to note that our people, especially youngsters, are participating enthusiastically in a variety of events and programmes organised to commemorate the landmark year. It is a great opportunity for not only the next generation but all of us to re-connect with our past. Our freedom struggle was an inspiring chapter in our splendid saga. In this seventy-fifth year of Independence, let us re-discover the values that animated our glorious national movement. Many men and women laid down their lives for our freedom. Our freedom fighters have suffered un-imaginable torture and made countless sacrifices for us to enjoy the festivals of Independence Day and Republic Day. Let us gratefully recall their immortal sacrifices on the occasion of Republic Day.Ladies and gentlemen,India is an ancient civilisation but a young republic. For us, nation-building is a constant endeavour. As in a family, so in a nation; one generation works hard to ensure a better future for the next generation. When we won independence, the exploitation of colonial rule had left us in utter poverty, but in seventy-five years, we have made impressive progress. New opportunities await the next generation. Our youth have taken advantage of these opportunities and set new benchmarks of success. I am sure that with this energy, confidence and entrepreneurship, our country will continue to march ahead on the path of progress and will definitely secure its rightful place, befitting its potential, in the global community.I once again wish all of you a Happy Republic Day!Thank you,Jai Hind!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-addresses-nation-on-eve-of-73rd-republic-day-full-text-101643120477541.html
25-01-2022||India||Padma Vibhushan for late CDS Rawat, Kalyan Singh; Neeraj Chopra gets Padma Shri||General Bipin Rawat, India’s first chief of defence staff, will be posthumously awarded the Padma Vibhushan, the government said on the eve of 73rd Republic Day.Issuing a statement, the Union ministry of home affairs further said Krishna Ella and Suchitra Ella of Bharat Biotech and Cyrus Poonawalla of Serum Institute of India will receive Padma Bhushan. While Krishna Ella and Suchitra Ella have pioneered the Covaxin initiative, Poonawalla is instrumental in bringing the Covishield vaccine, a dose developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, to India.The government said Olympic medalist Neeraj Chopra will be given the Padma Shri. Chopra is the first track and field athlete to win a gold medal for India at the Olympics.Also read | President Kovind remembers late CDS Bipin Rawat in Republic Day addressVeteran politician Kalyan Singh will receive the Padma Vibhushan posthumously. Also, late Communist leader and West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad will be awarded Padma Bhushan.Tech leaders – Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Google's Sundar Pichai – will be with the Padma Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-vibhushan-for-late-cds-rawat-kalyan-singh-neeraj-chopra-gets-padma-shri-101643121951549.html
25-01-2022||India||President Kovind remembers late CDS Bipin Rawat in Republic Day address||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday remembered the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat who died in a helicopter crash late last year along with his wife and 12 other defence personnel.Addressing the nation on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day, the President said when a brave soldier dies on duty, the entire country feels sad.The late general would be posthumously given the PadmaVibhushan award.“Last month, in an unfortunate accident, we lost one of the bravest commanders of the country - General Bipin Rawat - his wife and many brave soldiers.”Fourteen people, including the late CDS and his wife Madhulika Rawat, were killed in the Indian Air Force chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8.Further, the President hailed the inclusion of women in armed forces as a watershed moment for women empowerment. “As the supreme commander of the Armed Forces, I am glad to note that it has been a water-shed year for women empowerment in the Armed Forces. Our daughters have broken the glass ceiling and permanent commission has now been allowed for women officers in the armed forces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-remembers-late-cds-bipin-rawat-in-republic-day-address-101643121365975.html
25-01-2022||India||India among top 50 innovative economies in world: President Kovind in Republic Day eve address||President of India Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday addressed the nation on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day, wherein he said this is the occasion to celebrate our “Indian-ness”. Stating that India is currently much better placed on the global map than ever before, the President said it is “gratifying” to note that the country has secured a place among the top 50 innovative economies in the world.Kovind said the central government has shown “relentless focus” on reforming every economic sector and providing a helping hand wherever necessary. With the government's innovative efforts, “crores of digital transactions” are being done today in India, he said.“To reap the demographic dividend, the government has created the right environment with the National Education Policy that makes a perfect blend of traditional values and modern skills,” said the President. “It is gratifying to note that India has found a place among the top 50 innovative economies.”“It is all the more satisfying to note that we have been able to promote merit while also stressing upon all-round inclusion,” he added.Kovind said the “impressive economic performance” has been made possible due to improvements in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors.“I am happy to note that our farmers, especially young farmers with small holdings, are enthusiastically adopting natural farming,” he said.The President said small and medium enterprises have played an important role in providing employment to people and imparting impetus to the economy.“Our innovative young entrepreneurs have set new benchmarks of success by making effective use of the start-up ecosystem. It is a testimony to the success of our country's massive and robust digital payment platform that millions of digital transactions are being done every month,” he said.The President further said it is this spirit of unity of being one nation that is celebrated every year on Republic Day. He said the diversity and vibrancy of our democracy are appreciated worldwide.With a word of caution amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the President said, “It (the infectious disease) has been an extraordinary challenge to humankind. I am proud to say that we have shown an unmatched resolve against the coronavirus. Doctors, nurses, and paramedics have risen to the challenge, working long hours in difficult conditions even at the risk of their lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-among-top-50-innovative-economies-in-world-president-kovind-in-republic-day-eve-address-101643119670286.html
25-01-2022||India||Army has shared details of missing Arunachal teen with China: Kiren Rijiju||GUWAHATI: Union minister Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday said that the Indian Army has shared details of a missing teenager from Arunachal Pradesh with China to help establish his identity and ensure his safe return. Miram Taron, hailing from Zido village in Upper Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh, went missing from near the border with China on January 18 during a hunting trip. Following his disappearance, it was alleged that he was abducted by China’s Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA) from inside the Indian territory. “To assist Chinese side in corroborating the identity, personal details and photo of the individual has been shared with the Chinese side by the Indian army. Response from the Chinese side is awaited,” the minister for law and justice, who is a Lok Sabha MP from Arunachal West seat, tweeted on Tuesday. Following Taron’s disappearance, which was informed to authorities by his friend (who was part of the hunting trip), BJP MP from Arunachal-East Tapir Gao tweeted saying the teenager was abducted by PLA from Indian side and urged authorities to take action for his safe return. “Some people reported that Chinese PLA had taken him (Taron) into their custody,” Rijiju tweeted on Tuesday without taking Gao’s name. On January 23, the Indian Army informed about the Chinese side confirming locating an Indian youth, whose identity was not established, on their side. But talking to HT the same day, Gao said that the youth located by the Chinese side was Taron. As earlier reported, as soon as news of Taron’s disappearance spread, the Indian Army got in touch with PLA and requested help to trace the teenager. On January 20, the Chinese side informed that they found a boy on their side and requested further details to establish his identity. “We are constantly following the case from day one. I appeal everyone to be cautious in making statements which are not based on facts because the safety and safe return of our young Arunachal Pradesh youth is the priority,” Rijiju said in his tweet. 
25-01-2022||India||In R-Day eve address, Prez Kovind says Covid extraordinary challenge on humankind, hails India's vax drive||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday hailed the ongoing vaccination drive against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease as part of the country's efforts to battle the third wave of the pandemic.Addressing the nation on the eve of 73rd Republic Day, the President said the Covid-19 pandemic has been an extraordinary challenge on humankind.“I am proud to say that we have shown an unmatched resolve against coronavirus. Doctors, nurses and paramedics have risen to the challenge, working long hours in difficult conditions even at risk of their lives.”He urged the citizens to not lower their guards and abide by the precautionary measures in place, including wearing masks and maintaining social distance.He said the Republic Day celebrations may be muted due to the ongoing pandemic, but the spirit of the country is as strong as ever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-r-day-eve-address-prez-kovind-hails-india-s-covid-19-vaccination-drive-urges-caution-101643118990537.html
25-01-2022||India||Convoy of West Bengal minister, who earlier survived bomb attack, hit by a van||BERHAMPORE: The convoy of West Bengal minister Jakir Hossain, who survived a bomb attack in February 2021 ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections, was hit by a pickup van in Murshidabad district on Tuesday. Even though the minister was travelling in another car and didn’t suffer any injuries, at least four persons, including the driver of the pickup van, were injured in the accident. “I could have sustained a major injury today. Three of my security personnel were injured. I want a high-level probe into the incident,” said Jakir Hossain, minister of state for labour in the Mamata Banerjee-led government. The TMC legislator from Jangipur in Murshidabad suffered serious injuries when a bomb exploded on a railway platform at Nimtita station in the district on February 17, 2021. At least 26 others were injured. Hossain had gone to the station to board a train. Later the National Investigation Agency (NIA) started a probe into the incident. In August the central agency submitted its charge sheet. Two persons were named and charged under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and the Explosives Act. “I am going to inform the chief minister about today’s accident. I am not happy with the Nimtita probe,” he said. On Tuesday afternoon, around 1.30 pm, Hossain was returning home at Aurangabad from his rice mill. The pilot car of his convoy was hit by a pickup van on National Highway 34. “Hossain’s car was moving towards Berhampore from his factory at Raghunathganj. The car was about to take a U-turn to change lane when the front tyre of a SUV got punctured and it hit a pickup van. The pickup van in turn hit the pilot car of the minister’s convoy,” said Mantu Rahaman, a close aide of Hossain and a member of Murshidabad zilla parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/convoy-of-west-bengal-minister-who-earlier-survived-bomb-attack-hit-by-a-van-101643118337477.html
25-01-2022||India||Let celebrity client do some good: Delhi HC proposes to cut Juhi Chawla's 5G fine||The Delhi high court on Tuesday proposed to cut down a fine worth ₹20 lakh imposed on Bollywood actor Juhi Chawla and two other petitioners to ₹2 lakh in connection with their lawsuit against setting up of 5G networks in India.A division of the court issued a notice to the member secretary of the Delhi State Legal Service Authority (DSLSA) in the matter. The DSLSA had recently moved the court seeking payment of the amount that was imposed on the plaintiffs on June 4 last year.The bench, comprising Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh, said they cannot propose to “waive off the costs” but can reduce it to ₹2 lakh. However, they placed a condition for the same. “Since your client is a celebrity, we would want her to do some good for society,” the bench said.The court said a programme can be conducted in which the DSLSA can contact the actor for featuring in it and “promoting the cause (5G matter).”Senior advocate Salman Khurshid, Chawla's counsel, later informed the bench that his client would be honoured to participate in such a programme and help the DSLSA for such a good cause. The matter was posted for further hearing for Thursday (January 27).Chawla and the two other petitioners had in December last year moved the high court with an appeal, challenging the dismissal of their lawsuit against the rolling out of 5G networks. They called the dismissal bad in law, citing that a suit can only be rejected once it has been permitted to be registered as a suit by the court. The petitioners also challenged the single-bench judge's earlier ruling that said the 5G lawsuit was filed only to gain publicity.Notably, in June last year, a single bench of Justice JR Midha dismissed the lawsuit and imposed ₹20 lakh cost on the petitioners, noting that they abused the process of law. It also stated that Chawla circulated the link of the hearing on social media, which led to disruption in court proceedings thrice during the particular day.The plea against 5G networks in India was moved in May last year. The Bollywood actor had virtually joined the court proceedings that took place during the second wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.In the plea, the petitioners sought directions to certify that 5G technology is safe for humans and all forms of living organisms and also asked for efficient research to be conducted on the issue, if not already done.After the plea was dismissed by the single-bench judge, Chawla had released a video clarifying that she is not against 5G technology, but was only seeking the government's stand on the same being safe.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-celebrity-client-do-some-good-hc-proposes-to-cut-juhi-chawla-s-5g-fine-101643111431746.html
25-01-2022||India||Watch Live: President Kovind's address to the nation on eve of Republic Day||President of India Ram Nath Kovind will on Tuesday evening address the nation on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day. According to a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique issued on Monday night, the address will be broadcast from 7pm on the entire national network of the All India Radio (AIR) and telecast over all channels of Doordarshan in Hindi followed by the English version.The broadcast of the address in Hindi and English on Doordarshan will be followed by a broadcast in regional languages by regional channels of Doordarshan, the communique said.Follow our live updates from President Kovind's Republic Day eve address here.The AIR will broadcast regional language versions from 9.30pm onwards on its respective regional networks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-president-kovind-s-address-to-the-nation-on-eve-of-republic-day-101643116277475.html
25-01-2022||NA||In Republic Day eve address, President Kovind pays homage to ‘Indian-ness’: Highlights||President of India Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday evening addressed the nation on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day. The address was broadcast from 7pm on the entire national network of the All India Radio (AIR) and telecast over all channels of Doordarshan in Hindi followed by the English version.Follow all the updates here:Our soldiers carry on the legacy of national pride: PrezToday, it is our soldiers and security personnel who carry on the legacy of national pride. In the unbearable cold of the Himalayas and in the excruciating heat of the desert, far away from their families, they continue to guard the motherland: President KovindGovt has shown relentless focus on reforming every economic sector: Prez KovindThe government has shown relentless focus on reforming every economic sector and providing a helping hand wherever necessary. It is gratifying to note that India has found a place among the top 50 innovative economies. It is all the more satisfying to note that we have been able to promote merit while also stressing upon all-round inclusion: President Kovind on the eve of 73rd Republic Day.Time of social distancing has brought us close to each other: PrezTime of social distancing has brought us close to each other. We've realised how much we depend on each other. Doctors, nurses & paramedics have risen to challenge, working long hours in difficult conditions even at the risk of their lives to attend to patients: President KovindPresident pays tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, his contributions towards India's freedom struggleTwo days ago, on 23rd January, all of us observed the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose who had adopted the energising salutation of ‘Jai Hind’. His quest for independence and his ambition to make India proud inspire all of us: President Ram Nath KovindPrez remembers India's freedom fighters who showed ‘incomparable courage’On this occasion, let us also remember the great freedom fighters who showed incomparable courage in their pursuit of the dream of Swaraj and fired up the people to fight for it: President KovindCelebrations may be muted this year but spirit as strong as ever: PrezThe diversity and vibrancy of our democracy are appreciated worldwide. It's this spirit of unity and of being one nation that's celebrated every year as Republic Day. This year’s celebrations may be muted due to pandemic but the spirit is as strong as ever: President KovindPresident Kovind to shortly address nation on eve of 73rd Republic DayShortly at 7 PM!Hon'ble President Shri Ram Nath Kovind will address the Nation on the eve of #RepublicDay2022 .Listen to it LIVE on the entire network of All India Radio.Livestreaming on - https://t.co/xbWBzNiayV@rashtrapatibhvn pic.twitter.com/CTDKmc8mqC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-updates-president-ram-nath-kovind-addresses-nation-on-eve-of-73rd-republic-day-101643116877917.html
25-01-2022||India||Republic Day: Six Army personnel awarded Shaurya Chakra, gallantry honours for others||On the eve of the 73rd Republic Day, as many as six personnel of the Indian Army were awarded the Shaurya Chakra, the third-highest peacetime gallantry award in the country, in recognition of their distinguished service. Of them, five were awarded posthumously, according to officials at the ministry of defence familiar with the development.Naib Subedar Sreejith M of the 17 Madras regiment was awarded the Shaurya Chakra (posthumously) for killing a terrorist in an operation in July 2021 in Jammu & Kashmir while carrying out search operations.Havildar Anil Kumar Tomar of the Rajput Regiment was awarded the Shaurya Chakra (posthumously) for killing two terrorists while leading a Combat Action Team in Jammu & Kashmir in December 2020.Havildar Kashiray Bammanalli of the Corps of Engineers was awarded the Shaurya Chakra (posthumously) for killing a terrorist in an operation around an orchard in the Pulwama district of Jammu & Kashmir. The havildar had also saved the lives of his team members during the operation.Havildar Pinku Kumar of the Jat Regiment was awarded the Shaurya Chakra (posthumously) for killing a terrorist while blocking their escape route during an operation. He had seriously injured another terrorist before laying down his life.Sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Kumar Reddy was awarded the Shaurya Chakra (posthumously) for killing a terrorist in a face-to-face gunfight in Jammu & Kashmir. He also saved the life of his team commander during the operation.Rifleman Rakesh Sharma of 5 Assam Rifles was awarded the Shaurya Chakra for killing two insurgents in an operation in Assam in July 2021.According to the ministry of defence, the Indian Army received a total of 317 awards for the gallantry and distinguished service of its personnel. In addition to the six Shaurya Chakras, there were 19 Param Vishisht Seva Medal (PVSM), four Uttam Yudh Seva Medal (UYSM), 33 Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM), and 84 Sena Medal (gallantry), including three "Bar to Sena Medal (gallantry) and four of them posthumous.Additionally, 10 Yudh Seva Medal (YSM) were conferred, along with 40 Sena Medal (distinguished), 77 Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM), including three “Bar to VSM”, and 44 mention-in-dispatches, including three posthumous honours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-six-army-personnel-awarded-shaurya-chakra-gallantry-honours-for-others-101643109120642.html
25-01-2022||India||J&K: Terrorists launch grenade attack in Srinagar, 4 injured||A day ahead of Republic Day celebrations, militants on Tuesday hurled a grenade towards security personnel in the busy Hari Singh High Street area of the city, resulting in injuries to four persons including a police officer and two women, officials said. The ultras lobbed the grenade towards a team of security personnel at Hari Singh High Street at around 3:30pm, they said, adding the grenade exploded by the roadside.Four persons were injured in the blast. They have been identified as police inspector Tanveer Hussain who is posted with ACB, Mohammad Shafi, his wife Tanveera, and another woman Asmat.The injured were rushed to a hospital where their condition was stated to be stable, the officials said.The security forces have cordoned off the area and launched searches to man the ultras.Security has been beefed up in the city and elsewhere in the valley to ensure smooth Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-terrorists-launch-grenade-attack-in-srinagar-4-injured-101643114148265.html
25-01-2022||India||Stalin writes to PM Modi over reports of Sri Lanka's decision to auction TN fishing boats||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to register its protest against the Sri Lankan government’s decision to reportedly auction fishing boats belonging to the state.He urged the Centre to "register its disapproval in strongest possible terms at appropriate level and to prevail upon the Sri Lankan Govt to recall the advertisement published for auctioning TN fishing boats on which they do not have any legal rights".Stalin said Lanka’s department of fisheries and aquatic resources has initiated the process of auctioning 105 such fishing boats that have been in the custody of the neighbouring nation. The auctioning is slated to take place between February 7 and 11.Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin writes to PM Modi, urging to "register GOI's disapproval in strongest possible terms at appropriate level & to prevail upon Sri Lankan Govt to recall the advertisement published for auctioning TN fishing boats on which they do not have any legal rights" pic.twitter.com/Oonw8u26GjThe chief minister said the development came at a time when the Indo-Sri Lankan Joint Working Group on Fisheries is set to meet again soon. The move has created alarm and distrust among Tamil Nadu’s fishermen, he added.He said the state government, as directed by the Centre, had issued orders to deputing officials to oversee the disposal of 125 unsalvageable fishing boats and transfer of its proceeds to their owners in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-writes-to-pm-modi-over-reports-of-lanka-auctioning-boats-of-tn-fishermen-101643110753457.html
25-01-2022||India||Evening brief from HT: Delhi Police puts up posters of suspected terrorists with Al-Qaeda links and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Republic Day 2022: Delhi Police puts up posters of suspected terrorists with Al-Qaeda linksThe Delhi Police on Tuesday put up posters of suspected terrorists near Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place, in the heart of the national capital. Read more.Mandaviya asks states to ramp up tests, share timely vax data at Covid meetUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday held a meeting with representatives of nine states and Union territories wherein he asked the latter to ramp up testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and share updated data on vaccination with the Centre. Read more.Shiv Sena mouthpiece hits out at Modi over his ‘correcting the mistakes’ remarkDays after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the government was “correcting the mistakes” made after Independence, Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana criticised him, saying destroying the old does not mean creating a new history. Read more.Here's how much screen time should parents allow their children, as per doctorsWith lockdowns continuing in the third year of Covid-19 pandemic, children are spending far too much time in front of smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, TVs and computers screens and in today's world, it can be even tougher to keep babies and toddlers away from them. Read more.As We See It review: Amazon Prime show is a deeply empathetic, endlessly huggable look at life on the spectrumSome shows feel like they have a direct line to your heart. Read more.'Pick up the phone and talk to each other. Put country before yourself': Kapil Dev wants Kohli, BCCI to bury the hatchetFormer India captain Kapil Dev has urged the BCCI and Virat Kohli to sit together, have a long chat and let bygones be bygones for the betterment of Indian cricket. Read more.2022 Honda CBR650R goes on sale in IndiaHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India on Tuesday announced the launch of the new 2022 CBR650R motorcycle in the Indian market. Read more.Star Wars fan from Russia creates retractable real life lightsaber. WatchGuinness World Records often takes to Instagram to share about such records that leave people amazed and intrigued. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evening-brief-from-ht-delhi-police-puts-up-posters-of-suspected-terrorists-101643109180813.html
25-01-2022||India||Kerala HC dismisses plea questioning Modi’s photo on Covid vaccine certificate||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala high court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal against a single bench order rejecting a petition questioning the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Covid-19 vaccine certificates. The single-judge bench also slapped a fine of ₹1 lakh on the petitioner.A division of bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly observed that the photo is not an advertisement and PM Modi has every right to give a message.In his petition, activist Peter Myaliparamphil challenged the inclusion of Modi’s photo on the certificates of those who paid for the vaccines. He argued the inclusion of the photo in the private certificate of an individual serves no public purpose or utility and violated the petitioner’s rights guaranteed in the Constitution.Myaliparamphil contended the messaging and campaigns, especially when they use government funds, should not personify a leader such as the Prime Minister as he is the leader of a political party as well. He added this will affect his independent choice of voting, which has been recognised as the essence of the electoral system.The bench rejected these contentions and agreed with the observation of the single bench that the Prime Minister has assumed the office in pursuant to the mandate of the citizens and once a person is appointed to the office, he ceases to be a leader of the party and is simply the Prime Minister. It also rejected the contention that the vaccine certificate may affect the petitioner’s right to vote.The bench informed the petitioner that a detailed judgment will be uploaded later. The petitioner moved the court in October questioning Modi’s photo on the vaccine certificates saying “it has no substance, utility or relevance”. He reiterated that the vaccine certificate was his private space and he has certain rights over it. Myaliparamphil said since he paid for the vaccine, the state cannot take undue credit for this. He pleaded that if the government insisted, there should be an option to issue certificates without the photo. Myaliparamphil pointed out that vaccination certificates of other countries do not have the images of their heads of the government. But the single bench rejected the plea on December 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modis-image-on-jab-certificates-hc-dismisses-appeal-against-order-rejecting-plea-for-its-removal-101643109735782.html
25-01-2022||India||Mandaviya asks states to ramp up tests, share timely vax data at Covid review meet||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday held a meeting with representatives of nine states and Union territories wherein he asked the latter to ramp up testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and share updated data on vaccination with the Centre.The country is battling a third wave of the pandemic with cases seeing a declining trend over the past few days.Mandaviya held a virtual interaction with his counterparts in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Ladakh, Uttar Pradesh and Chandigarh.As part of the meeting, Mandaviya reviewed public health preparedness towards the pandemic and vaccination coverage in the nine states/UTs. He called for focussing on tele-consultation facilities like eSanjeevani and efficient monitoring of those in home isolation.Also read | Covid curbs to ease soon as Delhi reporting dip in positivity rate: KejriwalMandaviya has been holding periodic review meetings with various states and UTs to take stock of the pandemic situation across the country and share necessary advice and assistance to battle the latest resurgence in cases.In his earlier meeting, Mandaviya had interacted with the health ministers and principal secretaries of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Goa and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman Diu.At the meeting, he had advised them to review the strengthening of health infrastructure, establish teleconsultation hubs in every district and focus on raising awareness on available services.Also read | Covid: Why some people with symptoms don’t get testedIndia reported 2,55,874 cases of the Covid-19 infection in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally of infections in the country to 3,97,99,202, according to Union health ministry’s updated data. The downfall in the daily caseload came five days after the country started witnessing cases crossing the three-lakh mark.The ministry said active cases have decreased to 22,36,842 and comprise 5.62 per cent of the total infections. The death toll climbed to 4,90,462 with 614 fresh fatalities, the data further showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-asks-states-to-ramp-up-tests-share-timely-vax-data-at-covid-review-meet-101643105418502.html
25-01-2022||India||‘She’s the victim’: Shilpa Shetty discharged by court in Richard Gere kissing case||MUMBAI: A metropolitan magistrate court at Ballard Pier has discharged actor Shilpa Shetty from a criminal case originally filed against her in 2007 in Alwar, Rajasthan. The actor was accused of obscenity and indecency after Hollywood star Richard Gere, a co-accused in this case, twirled Shetty in his arms, arched her over and planted three pecks on the cheek at an AIDS awarness event in Rajasthan. Metropolitan magistrate Ketaki M Chavan while discharging the actor observed that she was the victim of the alleged act of accused number 1,Richard Gere. “I pursued record, especially the complaint which has given rise to case in hand. On kind reading of said complaint, it seems that present accused i.e. Shilpa Shetty is the victim of alleged act of accused No 1. Not single element of any of the alleged offence is being satisfied in complaint,” said the magistrate. “Thus, after considering police report and documents sent with it under section 173 of CrPC, after giving the prosecution and accused an opportunity of being heard, I am satisfied that charge against present accused i.e. Shilpa Shetty is groundless,” the magistrate added. A complaint was filed before the judicial magistrate in Mundawar in Rajasthan seeking registration of offence against both the actors. Later a case was registered under sections 292, 293, 294 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for doing obscene acts in public and under the Information Technology act and Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, 1986. The actor moved a petition to transfer all the cases registered against her to Mumbai which was allowed by the Supreme Court and all the complaints were transferred to Mumbai. Shetty filed discharge plea through her counsel, advocate Madhukar Dalvi. In her plea, the actor said that she did not protest when she was kissed by Richard Gere and this by no stretch of imagination made her a conspirator or perpetrator of any crime and therefore the complaint filed against her was baseless and frivolous. The judge accepted the actor’s contention and discharged her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-court-discharges-shilpa-shetty-in-2007-richard-gere-kissing-case-101643107398793.html
25-01-2022||India||Ordinance seeks to dilute Kerala Lokayukta’s powers, triggers row||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala government has sent for approval to governor Asif Mohammad Khan an ordinance, which seeks to empower the chief minister or the Cabinet as “competent authority” to either accept or reject verdicts of anti-corruption ombudsman Lokayukta by conducting a final hearing.The ordinance comes as the Lokayukta is probing three complaints against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan for allegedly misusing funds meant for disaster relief. It has prompted an angry reaction from the Opposition parties, which asked Khan to refuse assent to the executive order seeking to clip Lokayukta’s wings.People aware of the matter said the executive order was approved at the last Cabinet meeting on Wednesday last and sent for approval discreetly two days back on Saturday. The government rushed with the ordinance as the state assembly is set to meet next month. Ordinances lapse if legislative bodies do not approve laws to replace them within six months.The ordinance, a person cited above said, says the “competent authority” can go through the verdict in detail and make a decision within three months of the verdict. It has been promulgated as Vijayan is accused of sanctioning lakhs of rupees to the families of former ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M) lawmaker K K Ramachandran, former Nationalist Congress Party leader Uzhavoor Vijayan and that of a gunman, who died while on security duty of the party’s state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan.Higher education minister K T Jaleel was earlier forced to resign last year after the Lokayukta found him guilty of nepotism. Jaleel was found to have lobbied for a relative to be appointed as the general manager of State Minority Welfare Corporation. He allegedly diluted some of the qualifications required for the post. Jaleel moved the high court but it refused to entertain his plea against Lokayukta’s ruling. Congress leader Ramesh Chennitahala last month moved the Lokayukta against Jaleel’s successor, R Bindhu, citing two letters she wrote to Khan recommending the reappointment of Kannur University vice-chancellor Gopinath Raveendran. Chennithala said Bindhu had no right to send such letters to Khan and that it was a clear case of nepotism and misuse of power.Chennitahala said the government was forced to take the shortcut and issue the ordinance in view of the pending decisions on some of the cases before the Lokayukta. “Three complaints against...Vijayan and one against higher education minister R Bindhu are pending (before Lokayukta). It is a naked violation of the rules to make the anti-corruption ombudsman toothless,” said Chennitahala.Former high court judge Kemal Pash called the ordinance a move to cripple the Lokayukta. “All democratic forces should oppose it.”State law minister P Rajeev justified the ordinance, saying it was long pending and the government moved as per the advice of the Advocate General. “Many states have brought amendments to the Lokayukta Act and in Kerala, this was not done. The latest move is aimed at bridging this gap,” he said.
25-01-2022||India||RPN Singh colluded with BJP to bring down Jharkhand govt, says Congress MLA||Hours after Congress leader and former Union minister RPN Singh quit the party and made his way into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Jharkhand Congress MLA Amba Prasad said the former had colluded with the saffron camp “for more than a year” to “overthrow” the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM)-Congress government in the state.“The party leadership was also being frequently warned over this,” wrote Prasad in a post from his official handle on Twitter. “Every true Congress worker and supporter of Jharkhand is happy with his (Singh's) going to the BJP.”पिछल एक साल से ज्यादा से बीजेपी के साथ सांठ-गांठ कर आरपीएन सिंह जी झारखंड की कांग्रेस-जेएमएम सरकार को अपदस्थ कराने की कोशिश कर रहे थे। पार्टी नेतृत्व को लगातार इस बारे में आगाह भी किया गया था। इनके बीजेपी जाने से झारखंड का हर सच्चा कांग्रेसी खुश है। @RahulGandhi @kcvenugopalmpJharkhand Congress chief Rajesh Thakur earlier said Singh's decision to resign from the Congress party was “wrong”.Speaking to the ANI news agency, Thakur said, “We are true soldiers of the Congress, we will live and die here. We think his decision is wrong.”Stating that Singh's exit from the party is “sad” too, Thakur said that it ultimately does not matter because “many in-charges have come and gone”. “He (Singh) must have decided after a lot of thinking,” said the Jharkhand Congress chief.Singh announced his resignation from Congress earlier in the day. In a letter addressed to interim party president Sonia Gandhi, Singh wrote, “Today, at a time, we are celebrating the formation of our great Republic, I begin a new chapter in my political journey. Jai Hind.”Popularly known as Raja Saheb of Padrauna, the Congress party's Jharkhand in-charge had previously served as the Union minister of state from 2012 to 2014.On his way to the BJP headquarters ahead of joining the saffron camp, Singh said that he was looking forward to his new beginning and contributing towards nation-building under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president JP Nadda, and Union home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rpn-singh-colluded-with-bjp-to-bring-down-jharkhand-govt-says-congress-mla-101643101572626.html
25-01-2022||India||RPN Singh joins BJP hours after resigning from Congress, talks of new beginning||RPN Singh, a former minister in the UPA government, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, former party colleague Jyotiraditya Scindia and other BJP leaders in Delhi, hours after resigning from the Congress. Later, addressing a conference, he said the Congress in its current format was no more the way it was before, including its ideology. “I spent 32 years in one political party. But that party has not remained the same as it was before. I will work as a 'karyakarta' towards fulfilling Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dreams for India,” he said.When asked about speculations about his wife, Sonia Singh, contesting the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, he said, "I am the only one in politics. I will definitely do what the party asks me to." Minutes before joining the saffron camp, Singh shared a post on Twitter stating this was a new beginning for him and he looked forward to his contribution towards nation building under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah. #WATCH Former Union minister & Congress leader RPN Singh joins Bharatiya Janata Party in Delhi, ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections pic.twitter.com/HTGrFoNHDK“This is a new beginning for me and I look forward to my contribution to nation building under the visionary leadership & guidance of the Honourable Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi, BJP President Shri @JPNadda ji & Honourable Home Minister @AmitShah ji,” the former Union minister in the previous Congress-led UPA government wrote.pic.twitter.com/b4SXdsQ0stIn his resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi from the party's primary membership, Singh thanked the party head for giving him an opportunity to serve the nation and its people. Singh, who was a member of Parliament from the Kushinagar constituency in the 15th Lok Sabha, shared his resignation letter on social media."I hereby tender my resignation from the primary membership of the Indian National Congress with immediate effect," the letter stated. "I thank you for providing me an opportunity to serve the nation, its people and the party."The letter was followed by a confirmation that he will be starting a ‘new chapter’ in his political journey. “Today, when the entire nation is celebrating Republic Day, I am starting a new chapter in my political life. Jai Hind,” Singh tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rpn-singh-talks-of-new-beginnings-pm-s-guidance-after-resigning-from-congress-101643101244621.html
25-01-2022||India||To help tsunami-hit Tonga, India announces immediate aid of $200,000||NEW DELHI: India on Tuesday announced an immediate assistance of $200,000 for relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts in Tonga, which was hit by a massive volcanic eruption and a tsunami on January 15. The eruption of Hunga-Tonga-Hunga-Ha’apai volcano sent tsunami waves across the Pacific Ocean and was heard 2,300 km away in New Zealand. According to NASA, the volcanic eruption was hundreds of times more powerful than the atomic bomb the US dropped on Hiroshima during World War 2. The tsunami impacted large sections of Tonga’s population and caused significant infrastructural damage. The death toll from the volcanic eruption and tsunami has risen to six, according to information provided by Tonga’s emergency department on Sunday. “As a close friend and partner under the Forum for India-Pacific Islands Cooperation (FIPIC) and as a gesture of solidarity with the friendly people of Tonga, Government of India extends an immediate relief assistance of US$ 200,000 to support relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts in the Kingdom of Tonga,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. India also extended deep sympathy to the government and people of Tonga for the damage and destruction caused by the unprecedented disaster. “India has firmly stood by Tonga during times of crisis and devastation caused by natural disasters, as during Cyclone Gita in 2018. Disaster risk reduction and management is an important pillar of India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans’ Initiative (IPOI) announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November 2019,” the statement said. The volcanic eruption “obliterated” a volcanic island north of Tonga’s capital Nuku’alofa, NASA said. Authorities in Tonga said more than four-fifths of the population was affected by the tsunami and volcanic ash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-help-tsunami-hit-tonga-india-announces-immediate-aid-of-200000-101643100435306.html
25-01-2022||India||Republic Day: 939 police personnel awarded medals; J&K Police bags 115 | Complete list here||A total of 939 police personnel have been awarded medals, including Police Medal for Gallantry, on the occasion of Republic Day 2022. Police personnel from Jammu and Kashmir have been awarded 115 Police Medals for Gallantry, the highest number from any police force this year, followed by CRPF with 30, Chhattisgarh Police with 10, Odisha Police with nine, and Maharashtra Police with seven.As many as 134 personnel have been awarded for their gallant action in Jammu and Kashmir region, 47 personnel for their gallant action in Left Wing Extremist affected areas and one for gallant action in North-East Region. While 88 police personnel have been awarded President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service, 662 have been awarded Police Medal for Meritorious Service.Apart from gallantry and service medals for police, 42 personnel of fire services have been awarded Fire Service Medals on the occasion of Republic Day. Out of 42 medals, one has been awarded President’s Fire Service Medal for Gallantry while two have been awarded Fire Service Medal for Gallantry for their respective acts of valour and gallantry.President’s Medal for Gallantry, President’s Medal for Distinguished Services, Gallantry Medal and Meritorious Services Medals are awarded to the personnel of fire services, civil defence and home guards every year on Republic Day and Independence Day.Republic Day celebrations started on January 23 with the 125th birth anniversary of iconic freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-939-police-personnel-awarded-medals-j-k-police-bags-115-complete-list-here-101643093839780.html
25-01-2022||India||SC notice to Centre, EC on plea seeking deregistration of parties over freebies promise||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the central government and the Election Commission of India (ECI) on a petition seeking seizure of election symbols and deregistration of political parties who make "irrational promise of freebies using public funds" ahead of assembly elections.The plea has been filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and advocate Ashwini Upadhyay.Catch all latest updates of assembly elections hereA bench constituting Chief Justice NV Ramana and Justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli sought the response from both the BJP-led Centre and the EC within four weeks.The petition stated that there should be a complete ban on such populist tactics in order to achieve undue political favour from voters since they flout the constitutional norms, and the ECI should take relevant preventive measures against them.Also Read | Ek Mauka Kejriwal Ko: AAP kicks off drive for assembly electionsThis development comes ahead of a total of five states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur going into polls next month. Several leaders have over the past few months promised free electricity and water supply, among others, to the citizens of the poll-bound states.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has promised free electricity up to 300 units per billing cycle in both Punjab and Goa. Samajwadi Party (SP) president and former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Akhilesh Yadav has also promised 300 units of free electricity to every household of the northern state should they win next month's elections.Also Read | ‘Futuristic Goa’: Arvind Kejriwal’s mixed bag of 13 guarantees has a pie for all“This will be the first promise in the SP's manifesto,” Akhilesh had said during the announcement, adding that everyone knows what “SP promises, it delivers.”Congress leader and the chief minister of Punjab Charanjit Singh Channi has also announced such “freebies.” In October last year, Channi announced waiving off pending electricity as well as water bills for consumers of rural and urban regions of the state.Kejriwal later slammed the Congress chief minister by terming him “fake Kejriwal” for repeating his promises. The AAP chief soon after promised to transfer ₹1,000 every month into the accounts of each woman in Punjab who is aged above 18 if his party wins the upcoming state election.Also Read | UP assembly polls: EC seeks report on Samajwadi Party’s free power supply campaignPolling will occur in as many as seven phases in Uttar Pradesh between February 10 and March 7, while it will take place in a single phase in Uttarakhand and Goa on February 14. In Manipur, the assembly elections will occur in two phases on February 27 and March 3, and in Punjab, it will be held in a single phase on February 20. The counting of votes and declaration of results in all the five poll-bound states will happen on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/sc-notice-to-centre-ec-on-plea-over-freebies-promise-by-political-parties-101643093081364.html
25-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Indians set to benefit from changes to Britain’s travel rules||NEW DELHI: Indian nationals will benefit from changes announced by the UK to Covid-19 testing measures for travellers arriving in Britain from next month, including the removal of all tests for fully vaccinated arrivals. The changes will become effective from 4 am on February 11. All testing requirements will be removed for eligible fully vaccinated arrivals, and they will be required to fill a passenger locator form (PLF). The travellers who aren’t recognised as fully vaccinated will need to take a pre-departure test and a PCR test on or before the second day after their arrival in the UK. The changes in travel rules will be in place ahead of the February half term for educational institutions and follow the success of Britain’s booster programme, according to a statement from the UK government. “All testing measures for eligible fully vaccinated travellers arriving in the UK will be removed from 4 am on 11 February, as the government goes one step further to reopen the travel sector,” the statement said. The changes, announced on January 24, mean the UK “has one of the most free-flowing borders across Europe in addition to having the most open economy and society”, it added. The UK government said it was able to reduce the number of travel restrictions due to the success of the Covid-19 vaccine and booster rollout, “ensuring there is a more proportionate system in place for passengers”. Before the end of February, eligible fully vaccinated travellers will only need to fill the PLF, which will be simplified and will confirm their vaccination status, travel history and contact details. For inward travel, all under-18s, regardless of their individual vaccination status, will continue to be considered as fully vaccinated. The new framework aims to provide stability for travellers and the travel industry throughout 2022, and will result in savings of around £100 for an average family with the removal of testing. UK transport secretary Grant Shapps said: “We made the right calls at the right time and thanks to our vaccine and booster rollout it’s paying off – allowing us to safely remove nearly all Covid-19 travel restrictions for vaccinated travellers.” The UK will also scale back travel restrictions for unvaccinated arrivals. From February 11, individuals who aren’t fully vaccinated will only need to take a pre-departure test and a PCR test on or before the second day after they arrive in the UK, and fill out the PLF. They will not need to self-isolate on arrival, and will only need to do so on receipt of a positive result.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-indians-set-to-benefit-from-changes-to-britain-s-travel-rules-101643096655007.html
25-01-2022||India||‘Focus on increasing voter turnout’: PM Modi’s message to parties, citizens||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked political parties and citizens to focus on increasing the voter turnout from panchayat to the general elections. “In the 75th year of India’s independence, we should resolve that we will ensure a 75% turnout for elections,” he said addressing ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers on the occasion of the National Voters’ Day. He urged the workers to ensure that the overall voter turnout in every election is at least 75%.Modi said the voting percentage since the first general election (45%) has gone up but is still low and needs attention from all political parties. He added in the last general election in 2019, the percentage went up to 67. “The percentage of women voters...has gone up. In some places, women outnumbered men in turning up for voting. But the voting percentage is still low and this needs everyone’s attention. All political parties and citizens need to think about this.”Modi expressed concern that in the urban areas, where people have better education and more resources, voter apathy continues and the voting percentage is low. “In urban areas... people discuss issues on social media, (but) still do not vote. This needs to change in a vibrant democracy like India.”Modi commended the Election Commission of India (ECI) for its initiatives to increase voter participation. He added the ECI made it possible for people to register as voters four times a year and made provisions for postal ballots for those above 80 and for people with disabilities.Also Read: PM Modi condoles loss of lives in Selsura road accidentModi referred to the idea of “one nation, one election”, which he supports, and added discussions on doing away with elections at frequent intervals should continue. He said in a democracy, discussion leads to churning. Modi said how repeated elections affect development needs to be debated. “ “Because of frequent elections, every move is seen through the political prism. For instance, today I wanted to reach out to the Panna Pramukhs (BJP’s workers in charge of each polling list page) and speak to party workers, but I noticed on social media some people commented that Modi is already thinking of elections.”Modi urged the BJP workers to ensure they remain connected with people and encourage them to participate in the party’s micro-donation exercise. He asked them to ensure participation in the government’s programme to weed out malnutrition.
25-01-2022||India||Afternoon brief: Man beaten for travelling with Hindu woman in Madhya Pradesh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Man beaten for travelling with Hindu woman booked under anti-conversion lawA 26-year-old Muslim man was on Monday booked under Madhya Pradesh’s anti-conversation law 10 days after he was assaulted for travelling on a train with a Hindu woman in Ujjain. Read more1000 Made-in-India drones rehearse for 1st ever show in Beating Retreat CeremonyAhead of the Republic Day celebrations, 1000 made-in-India drones were spotted in the sky in New Delhi. A drone show consisting of 1,000 drones will be held during the Beating Retreat event in R-Day celebrations. Read more'Send him back. He doesn't have that level of maturity': Gambhir wants India to use promising 27-year-old only in T20IsFormer Indian cricketer Gautam Gambhir refused to mince words on promising 27-year-old Indian player's fate in the ODI squad, as he felt that young Venkatesh Iyer shouldn't be considered for the 50-over format anymore and can be considered for selection only in T20Is. Read moreBadhaai Do trailer: Rajkummar Rao, Bhumi Pednekar’s marriage of convenience is disrupted by her girlfriend. WatchBadhaai Do trailer: Rajkummar Rao and Bhumi Pednekar enter into a marriage of convenience but chaos ensues when her girlfriend comes to stay with them. Read more  Bhavish Aggarwal hints about an Ola electric car in offingOla CEO Bhavish Aggarwal just hinted that an electric car from the ride-hailing startup turned EV manufacturer is in offing. Responding to a Tweet Aggarwal wrote that the person who purchased a Tata Nexon EV and an Ola S1 e-scooter would next buy an Ola electric car.Read more&amp;nbsp;Katrina Kaif or Pooja Hegde: Who wore the ₹10k floral bikini top and shorts better at Maldives?Katrina Kaif wore a floral printed bikini top and shorts for her vacation in the Maldives with Vicky Kaushal. Pooja Hegde wore the same ensemble during her holiday in the island nation. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-brief-man-beaten-for-travelling-with-hindu-woman-in-madhya-pradesh-and-all-the-latest-news-101643092405579.html
25-01-2022||India||MP: Man beaten for travelling with Hindu woman booked under anti-conversion law||BHOPAL: A 26-year-old Muslim man was on Monday booked under Madhya Pradesh’s anti-conversation law 10 days after he was assaulted for travelling on a train with a Hindu woman in Ujjain. Arun Solanki, a local police officer, said the case was registered against Asif Sheikh, a resident of Indore, for extortion and allegedly forcing the 25-year-old woman from Mhow to marry him. He said Sheikh was booked on the woman’s complaint.In her complaint, the woman said Sheikh, a friend of her husband, would come to her house frequently, and a few months ago, clicked her “objectionable photos”. She alleged Sheikh threatened to defame her and was blackmailing her for money. Solanki said recently he allegedly started pressuring her for conversion for marriage. The woman claimed she was under pressure and was following what he was instructed her to do. She added the accused was “forcefully taking her to Ajmer” when some people stopped them. The woman said she got scared and did not file any complaint at Ujjain.Police said they were trying to arrest the accused, who was on January 14 dragged out of the train and thrashed at the Ujjain railway station for allegedly misguiding the woman, who is married and a mother of a child.Government railway police superintendent (Ujjain) Nivedita Gupta earlier said the man and woman were family friends. “The woman’s mother has confirmed the same. We allowed them to go.”Madhya Pradesh is among the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states, which have criminalised what they call forced religious conversion, including through interfaith marriages. Critics of the legislation say they are being misused to target Muslims and tend to infantilise women to prevent them from choosing who they wish to marry.Vigilante groups have targeted interfaith couples and the anti-conversion laws were passed after a campaign against “love jihad”, the term Hindu groups use to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women. The groups believe “love jihad” is an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to trick Hindu women into marriage.
25-01-2022||India||Impersonation of customs officers to extort money, Customs dept warns public||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Customs Office this week issued a public notice warning against individuals impersonating as customs officers to extort money after the department was informed about such instances.The con persons first become friendly with their victims and subsequently promise them to send parcels of various articles to India. “They then impersonate as customs officers by using their names and instruct the consignees (i.e., general public) to deposit money in the bank account created by them for fraudulent purpose to extort money,” said the office of the commissioner of customs.The public notice further says that officers will never approach the public and ask them to pay customs duty into an individual’s account; customs duty can only be deposited in favor of the government account of the commissioner of customs.Moreover, if any such instance takes place, then the public can “perform the due diligence by confirming the veracity of the tracking number of the parcels through the tracking service sites provided by authorized couriers or postal department,” said the public notice. The office of the commissioner of customs advised the public to not pay any amount in the name of customs to any person or private account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impersonation-of-customs-officers-to-extort-money-customs-dept-warns-public-101643091374531.html
25-01-2022||India||No negative marking for failure in meeting timelines, says environment ministry||NEW DELHI: Days after it issued an office memorandum (OM) on incentives for states based on how quickly they accord environmental clearances to infrastructure and development projects, the Union environment ministry on Monday clarified there will be no negative marking for failure in meeting timelines.The ministry clarified State Environment Impact Assessment Authorities (SIAA) or expert appraisal panels have the freedom to do all necessary due diligence before making decisions on clearances. It added in case of a deficiency in project proposals, the authorities are free to ask for essential or additional details related to a project.The OM dated January 17 said the ministry has taken initiatives for streamlining the environmental clearance process and reducing the time taken to grant clearances. The average time taken to grant environmental clearance has reduced considerably to 75 days against the time stipulated in the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2006, the OM said. It added the Cabinet Secretary cited “ease of doing business” and recommended a ranking of states based on efficiency in granting environmental clearances.Environmental and legal experts criticised the OM.In its clarification, the ministry said EIA reports are prepared as per prescribed terms of reference and projects are appraised based on the same. “Therefore, there is no question of EIA report quality being compromised due to ranking system, rather it would encourage the project proponent/ consultants to improve the EIA quality fearing the EDS/ADS or return of proposals.”The EIA notification of 2006 provides 105 days for granting environmental clearance, which includes 60 days for appraisal and 45 days for decision by the regulatory authority. This criterion was introduced to encourage efficiency and to abide by the timeline given in the notification. The ministry said marks will not be reduced for SEIAA, which takes decisions in over 120 days, but an extra mark will be granted in case a decision is made between 80-105 days. There is no negative marking proposed for not meeting the criteria, the clarification said.“The idea is to improve efficiency and ensure there is no wastage of time. State authorities are free to assess every project carefully,” an official said.Legal experts have said such a ranking system will water down the process of appraising projects and ensuring their ecological footprint is minimal.“State impact assessment and appraisal authorities are meant to foreground their scientific rigour and technical knowledge to appraise each proposal for its environmental viability and social legitimacy. These are complex subjects, requiring detailed deliberation and seeking clarifications from project proponents. This is especially because EIAs and related studies are designed to secure approvals and not truthfully represent project impacts. Incentivising quicker decisions needs to move away from looking environment clearances in the same vein as booking profits. A hasty appraisal and decisions, when crucial studies are pending, can be a matter of life and death for people living around facilities or working at a project site. It can also seriously put in question the economic futures of projects in case of industrial disasters,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.Ritwick Dutta, an environmental lawyer, cited the criteria and added a greater weightage was is given for projects where due diligence is less. “Thus, if SEIAA members conduct ‘site visits’ to ascertain the local conditions and ecology, marks are attributed for the same – and ironically the more the members visit the field to see the ecology less marks they get. Thus, if SEIAA members undertake sites to visit in less than 10% of the proposals that come to them for appraisal, they will be given one mark. However, if they do a site visit in more than 20%, SEIAA will get 0 marks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-negative-marking-for-failure-in-meeting-timelines-says-environment-ministry-101643090294415.html
25-01-2022||India||Family members claim the deceased in Naryanpur encounter was not a Maoist||RAIPUR: The family members of the suspected Maoist killed in an encounter with security personnel in Bastar’s Narayanpur district on Monday raised questions over the encounter and claimed that the deceased was not a Maoist. Police said the Maoist, Manu Ram Nureti, was killed in an encounter with security forces on Monday night. The brother of the killed Maoist, Renu Raam Nureti, who is presently in district reserve guard (DRG) of the Chhattisgarh police, talking to media persons in Narayanpur district, alleged that his brother was not a Maoist. Renu is a surrendered Maoist and was inducted in DRG in 2014 and is posted in Narayanpur district. “My brother was not a Maoist… He had also applied for recruitment in the police force recently… I will talk to my senior officials about why they are branding my brother as Maoist,” said Renu. On Monday morning, Superintendent of Police, Narayanpur, Girja Shankar Jaiswal said that the encounter took place at around 1 am. “A team of the district reserve guard (DRG) was out on a search operation when the encounter started. The encounter lasted for 20 minutes and after it stopped, the body of a Maoist and a muzzle loading gun were recovered from the spot,” the SP said, adding that a huge cache of Maoist-related items was also seized from the encounter site. The wife of the deceased also alleged that the theory of the police is false and her husband was out for hunting when he was killed. “At around 10 pm , my husband went outside with a slingshot for hunting birds ..He was wearing my sweater and also slippers but the body which the police are showing is with a uniform along with a muzzle rifle,” Manvati, the wife of the suspected Maoist said. Meanwhile, police denied the allegations. “The allegations that the encounter was fake are completely baseless. On Monday night, a team of DRG was sent for an area domination exercise and at around 1 am, Maoists opened fire on the DRG and the encounter started. On Monday morning, we recovered Bhanu Ram Nureti’s body. We have also recovered an arm and also Maoist related items from the spot,” said additional superintendent of police, Neeraj Chandrakar, answering the questions of media.
25-01-2022||India||BSF new recruits undergo 'rigorous training' at J-K's Udhampur||Border Security Force (BSF) new recruits undergo rigorous training to hone their skills to fight against terrorism and other cross-border crimes at Subsidiary Training Centre (STC) Border Security Force Udhampur.BSF new recruit gets Advance Combat Training to perform duties on the border and in the counter-insurgency operations.Speaking to ANI, Pardeep Katyal, Inspector General, STC, BSF, Udhampur, said that the new recruit gets advanced training as BSF is the first line of defence for the country and it is their primary duty to ensure the sanctity of the borders."In the training schedule of 44 weeks, we give them comprehensive training so that they can fight in any terrain of the country, be it in Rajasthan or Jammu and Kashmir or Punjab or on the northeastern borders," he said.Mentioning that it is the preliminary training of the recruits, the IG said that they are given the training like anti-drones measures."Since this is their basic training, we provide them preliminary training like anti-drone measures and anti-tunnelling measures to avert any anti-national activities," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-new-recruits-undergo-rigorous-training-at-j-k-s-udhampur-101643086652848.html
25-01-2022||India||Projects of 8 girl innovators to be presented before startup advisory council||NEW DELHI: On the occasion of National Girl Child Day on Monday, union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal announced that projects of eight girl innovators will be presented before the Startup Advisory Council after three months.Interacting with the girl innovators, the minister said there is huge potential in each of the sectors that the eight innovators have shown. Their products included low-cost biodegradable sanitary napkins, smart gloves which convert sign language to text and speech and the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and GPS.During the event, the women & child development minister Smriti Irani complimented Goyal for his initiative and leadership in promoting innovation among girl students “in tribute to the Prime Minister’s clarion call of ensuring that new India will see women-led development.”“I am very inspired to see these girl innovators, making the nation as well as their parents proud at such a young age (10-18 yrs). You are the true leaders of India,” said Goyal, during the event held over video conference.Goyal said women today are challenging the status quo and have stepped up as nation builders and change-makers. Citing the example of Meerabai Chanu, Mary Kom, Indira Nooyi and Kalpana Chawla, he added that India has been a powerhouse of strong women across fields.He urged the innovators to make “vocal for local” a “jan andolan” and increase consumer awareness and create sustainable goods with utmost focus on quality. He further asked them to collaborate with each other and with other fellow women entrepreneurs in an attempt to harness the immense potential of women in Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/projects-of-8-girl-innovators-to-be-presented-before-startup-advisory-council-101643086875036.html
25-01-2022||India||Rain, severe cold wave conditions likely in these states, UTs till Saturday||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted severe cold day conditions in several states for the next two to three days. Cold day to severe cold day conditions is very likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, East Madhya Pradesh and some parts of West Madhya Pradesh during the next two days, according to the MeT department.The forecast suggests that Rajasthan will witness severe cold wave conditions on January 27-28 while cold wave conditions will prevail in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana-Chandigarh over the next four days. Isolated places in Saurashtra and Kutch are also expected to reel under cold to severe cold wave conditions during the next 24 hours.The weather department has predicted dense to very dense fog conditions in the night and morning hours in isolated places over Punjab and West Uttar Pradesh during the next 24 hours. Dense fog conditions in isolated pockets are very likely over West Bengal and Sikkim on January 26; over Haryana-Chandigarh-Delhi, East Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura over the 24 hours and in Odisha during the next two days.Delhi wakes up to ‘cold day’; yellow alert issued for today and tomorrowThe Western Disturbance is lying over Punjab and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels as a cyclonic circulation. According to IMD, a trough runs from cyclonic circulation over Punjab to cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand at lower tropospheric levels.Under these synoptic situations, light isolated rainfall or snowfall is very likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit Baltistan, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand today and dry weather thereafter. Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha is expected to receive isolated light rainfall on January 25 while Northeast India is likely to receive scattered to fairly widespread light to moderate rainfall till January 27.“Under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance from 29th January, 2022, light isolated to scattered rainfall/snowfall is likely over Western Himalayan Region from 29th to 31st January, 2022,” the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-severe-cold-wave-conditions-likely-in-these-states-uts-101643085139846.html
25-01-2022||India||Maharashtra: PM Modi condoles loss of lives in Selsura road accident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday morning condoled the loss of lives in a road accident in Maharashtra, in which the son of a local lawmaker was killed. He also announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF)."Pained by the loss of lives due to an accident near Selsura in Maharashtra. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with those who have lost their loved ones. I pray that those injured are able to recover soon," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said on Twitter, quoting PM Modi.Pained by the loss of lives due to an accident near Selsura in Maharashtra. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with those who have lost their loved ones. I pray that those injured are able to recover soon: PM @narendramodi"PM @narendramodi announced that Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who have lost their lives in the accident near Selsura. Those who are injured would be given Rs. 50,000," the PMO said in a subsequent tweet.Seven people, including some medical students and the son of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Vijay Rahangdale, were killed in Wardha district of Maharashtra when the car they were travelling in fell off a bridge early on Tuesday.The incident occurred around 1:30am near Selsura village in the district in east Maharashtra, an official said.The police said that prima facie it appears that the driver of the car lost control of the vehicle which fell off a bridge.The police said that the students were on their way to Wardha from Deoli when their vehicle fell.The deceased have been identified as students of Sawangi Medical College in Wardha. While Neeraj Chauhan, Vivek Nandan, Pratyush Singh and Shubham Jaiswal were final year MBBS students, Avishkar Rahangdale and Pawan Shakti were first year MBBS students and Nitesh Singh a medical intern, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-pm-modi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-selsura-road-accident-101643084439554.html
25-01-2022||India||India's daily Covid cases down by over 50,000, positivity rate dips to 15.52%||India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to see a downward trend on Tuesday after 255,874 infections were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. This is a decrease of more than 50,000 than Monday's tally when 306,064 cases were recorded. The total cases in the country are nearing 39.8 million.The daily tally on Tuesday has been the lowest since January 19, when 282,970 cases were reported.The fresh deaths, however, spiked at 614, which took the total toll to 490,462. As many as 267,753 patients recuperated in the last 24 hours and the total number of recoveries stands at 37,071,898.The active cases have come down to 2,236,842 and constitute 5.69% of the caseload.On Monday, 439 deaths and 243,495 recoveries.The daily Covid-19 positivity rate has also declined to 15.52% but the weekly positivity is slightly up at 17.17%, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The overall recovery rate is at 93.15%, the ministry added.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 1,649,108 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and the total figure has climbed to 718,802,433The country's vaccine coverage is nearing 1.63 billion with more than 6.2 million doses administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours. More than 42.7 million children between the ages of 15-18 have been jabbed with the first dose and the precautionary dose has been given to 8,802,178 beneficiaries so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-down-by-over-50-000-positivity-rate-also-dips-101643081908760.html
25-01-2022||India||Cold wave likely in parts of northwest India this week||NEW DELHI: A cold wave and cold day conditions are likely in parts of northwest India for the next two to three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday as a fresh Western Disturbance is expected to affect the western Himalayan Region this week.Isolated rainfall or snowfall is very likely in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand on Tuesday. Dry weather is likely thereafter for the subsequent three days. Scattered to fairly widespread light or moderate rainfall is very likely in sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim from Tuesday to Wednesday. Isolated light rainfall is expected in Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, and Odisha on Tuesday.“The combination of moisture from the rain caused by the western disturbance and northerly winds are causing the formation of a layer of low clouds. Due to lack of sunshine, day temperatures will be low for the next two days. Thereafter, northerly winds will pick up to about 20 kmph when a cold wave is likely between January 26 and 29. That will be the first cold wave of this January. So far, January has been marked by higher night temperatures and very low day temperatures over northwest India,” said R K Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre, IMD.Under the influence of a fresh western disturbance from January 29, light isolated to scattered rainfall or snowfall is likely in the Western Himalayan region till January 31. Dense to very dense fog conditions in the night and morning hours are likely in isolated pockets in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-likely-in-parts-of-northwest-india-this-week-101643083514315.html
25-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Mandaviya to hold Covid-19 review meet with 9 states, UTs, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Health minister Mandaviya to hold Covid-19 review meet with 9 states, UTsUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will interact with the health ministers of nine states and Union territories (UTs) on Tuesday over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. The virtual interaction will take place at 10.30am, news agency ANI reported. Read more…Parliament to run in shifts for Budget session: OfficialsParliament will go back to working in shifts, with the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha functioning at different times of the day, and a highly dispersed seating arrangement in place for lawmakers during the Budget session starting on January 31, officials aware of the matter said on Monday. Read more…Ukraine crisis: 8,500 US troops on ‘heightened alert’ as Russia shows 'no intention' de-escalatingThe US is putting 8,500 troops on ‘heightened alert’ for possible deployment in Eastern Europe in view of the Russian aggression near the Ukraine border. Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said that US defense secretary Lloyd Austin's order to place 8,500 military personnel to heightened preparedness would allow America to rapidly deploy additional brigade combat teams, along with units. Read more…Pakistan is a better side than India in T20: Shoaib AkhtarFormer Pakistan cricketer Shoaib Akhtar has given his verdict on the high-octane clash between India and Pakistan in the ICC T20 World Cup 2022 in Australia. The match will be played at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG). Read more…Aamna Sharif kept a prop gun at home to prepare for Damaged: 'I had never used a gun in life'Actor Aamna Sharif is back, this time not as a homely girl from TV show Kahiin Toh Hoga or as the glamorous Komolika from Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2, but as a cop in the third season of the web show, Damaged. The actor feels proud to headline a show, along with co-star Shrenu Parikh, and is glad to have found a role which allowed her to challenge the actor in her. Read more…Deepika Padukone takes internet by storm in ₹48k orange cut-out dress for Gehraiyaan promotions: All picsActor Deepika Padukone kickstarted promotions of her much-anticipated upcoming film Gehraiyaan on a fashion high note. After stunning the internet in a plunging neck hot red Miló Maria gown that took inspiration from Kourtney Kardashian, the star is back with another glamorous look in an orange cut-out dress that has left the internet in awe of her style game. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mandaviya-to-hold-covid-19-review-meet-with-9-states-uts-and-all-the-latest-news-101643078765542.html
25-01-2022||India||‘Clear dues after corrections, or else...’: Air India pilots warn management||NEW DELHI: Ahead of Air India’s handover to the Tata Group by the end of this week, the airline’s pilots have written to the management seeking corrections to deductions in their arrears paid recently. The pilots sought payment of the pending arrears or else they will initiate legal proceedings.In a letter dated January 24, the pilots said, “We appreciate that the company is attempting to settle the long overdue arrears; however, we are disappointed in the unprofessional manner the process is being carried out. Multiple deductions and recoveries have been projected in the arrears statement of many of our member pilots. We strongly protest against this illegal act.”The pilots said they should have been intimated about reasons rather than simply deducting their money. “The data on which the recovery is based has not been disclosed. This proves the ill intent of the management on the eve of handover. This recovery exercise is entirely illegal, and we demand that this anomaly is rectified and the amount due is repaid with immediate effect.”“Should the issue not be settled in a timely manner, then we would have no option but to seek legal recourse. This would cause an unnecessary burden on the new buyer post-handover,” said the letter, a copy of which HT has seen.Also Read: Air India’s handover to Tatas expected soon after Republic DayThe letter was written after an internal message sent to Air India employees said the closing balance sheet was to be submitted by the end of Monday before it is forwarded to the Tata Sons for review. The message said the airline is aiming the handover to Talace Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, by Thursday.Talace Pvt Ltd will get 100% equity shares of Air India, Air India Express, and the government’s 50% stake in ground-handling company AISATS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-handover-air-india-pilots-seek-corrections-to-deductions-in-arrears-101643080394297.html
25-01-2022||India||Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to hold Covid-19 review meet with 9 states, UTs today||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will interact with the health ministers of nine states and Union territories (UTs) on Tuesday over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. The virtual interaction will take place at 10.30am, news agency ANI reported.Full Coverage: Covid-19 situation in IndiaThe states and UTs which will take part in the virtual interaction are Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Ladakh, Uttar Pradesh and Chandigarh.In an earlier interaction with states and UTs, Mandaviya advised them to keep a tab on infrastructural matters regarding medical oxygen. He also asked them to establish teleconsultation hubs in every district and focus on widespread awareness regarding available infrastructure and healthcare services.Also Read | Third Covid wave now spreading faster in rural districtsMandaviya has been holding such meetings to review the Covid-19 situation in various parts of the country. Some of these meetings were held with a particular group of states where the positivity rate and the spread of the infection were higher than other parts of the country.India has witnessed a surge in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the past few weeks, especially after the emergence of the new Omicron variant. The highly-mutated strain is believed to be more resistant to vaccines.Prime Minister Narendra Modi too reviewed the pandemic situation in the country earlier this month where he directed officials to ensure adequate healthcare infrastructure at the district level and accelerate the vaccination drive for adolescents in mission mode.The Prime Minister also said that intensive containment and active surveillance should continue in clusters reporting higher cases and required technical support be provided to states which are reporting higher cases.Meanwhile, India reported 3,06,064 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, nearly 28,000 less than the day before. The Union health ministry said that the positivity rate in the country has reached 20 per cent.The ministry also said that India's active caseload stands at 22,49,335 and accounts for 5.69 per cent of the total cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-mandaviya-to-hold-covid-19-review-meet-with-9-states-uts-today-101643078503069.html
25-01-2022||India||Students protest against RRB results in Bihar, block railway tracks for 5 hours||Train services were affected in parts of Bihar on Monday after students, who appeared for Railway Recruitment Board's (RRB's) Non-Technical Popular Categories exam 2021, staged a protest at Rajendra Nagar Terminus in Patna and blocked railway tracks. The protesters were unhappy over the "inaccurate exam results".The results of the RRB Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) for computer-based test (CBT) was released on January 15 for shortlisting the candidates for the CBT-2.The students were opposed to the government’s move to hold two exams.Patna district magistrate Dr Chandrashekhar Singh said that the protests hampered the train services for nearly five hours. He added that action will be taken against the culprits.“This is not the way to resolve any issue. We'll take action against the main culprits and register case against them,” said Dr Singh.East Central Railway’s (ECR) chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar said five trains originating from the station had to be canceled for the day because of the squatting on the tracks. These included the New Delhi-bound Tejas Rajdhani, Sampoorn Kranti Express and Mumbai-bound Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Express. Five other trains which pass through the station, had to be diverted.The district administration used “mild” force to disperse the protesters after efforts by Dr Singh and SSP Manavjeet Singh Dhillon to pacify the agitators yielded no results."An FIR has been registered in this connection. It is suspected that the protesters might have been instigated by those running coaching institutes for competitive exams. All those found complicit will face action," the district administration said in a release.The protesters were finally removed at 10.05pm.What the protesters are sayingThe protesters claimed that there was only one examination mentioned in the RRB notification issued in 2019. They accused the officials of playing with the future of the students.They alleged cheating by the RRB. The students gathered at the Rajendra Nagar Terminus in the afternoon and launched their protest.What the Railways ministry is sayingThe issue was highlighted when the results were declared on January 15. At that time, the Ministry of Railways issued a clarification in which it said that second stage exam was clearly mentioned in the notification."While the first stage CBT was a common examination for all the candidates, Para 13.2 of the notification clearly states that in the 2nd stage CBT there would be a separate examination for each group (viz., Levels 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6) with differing graded levels of difficulty. Accordingly, all posts falling within the same level shall have a common 2nd stage CBT,” the ministry had said.If a candidate is eligible and has opted for more than one level (as per educational qualification), he/she will have to appear in the corresponding 2nd stage CBT for each level, it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/students-protest-against-rrb-results-in-bihar-block-railway-tracks-for-5-hours-101643076195942.html
25-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Kerala reviews situation, state capital Thiruvananthapuram faces highest curbs||The Kerala government imposed more restrictions across the state as the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases continue to rise. The decision was taken after a review meeting chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.Full Coverage: Covid-19 in IndiaThe chief minister chaired the meeting virtually from the United States where he is undergoing treatment, news agency PTI reported.As per the new measures, educational institutions which have less than 40 per cent attendance for consecutive three days will be closed for two weeks.“The categorisation of districts based on the infection and hospitalisation will come to effect from Tuesday," the chief minister's office (CMO) said in a release.The officials present in the meeting noted that Covid-19 spread is rapid and the hospitalisation has increased in the state.Also Read | Third Covid wave now spreading faster in rural districtsThe state government has categorised districts in A, B and C based on the spread of the infection. While rules are relaxed in districts falling under A category and people living there can attend social, cultural, religious, political and public events, no such gatherings are allowed in the B and C category districts.Those falling in category C have the highest number of curbs where movie theaters, swimming pools and gyms are not allowed to function. State capital Thiruvananthapuram is the only district in category C.All classes (including tuition centres) - except undergraduate and postgraduate level final year classes besides 10 and 12 classes - are allowed online only in C category districts.Status of vaccinationThe CMO also informed that 83 per cent of the people in the state received both the doses of vaccine while 66 per cent of children received their vaccination in Kerala.Health minister Veena George denied media reports that the ICUs and ventilators in the state were fully occupied. She said more beds, ICUs and ventilators will start functioning in the state if the number of patients go high in Kerala.Daily Covid-19 numbers still highKerala recorded 26,514 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease on Monday, which took the total caseload to 56,46,665.The state had recorded 5,449 cases on Sunday and 45,136 infections on Saturday. On January 20, Kerala had registered 46,387 cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-kerala-reviews-situation-state-capital-faces-highest-curbs-101643073961379.html
25-01-2022||India||National Voters' Day today: History, Theme and celebrations this year||The National Voters’ Day is celebrated every year on January 25 to encourage the country’s voters to participate in the electoral process. This year, it is the 12th edition which is being celebrated.HistoryThe first-ever National Voters’ Day was celebrated on January 25, 2011, to encourage more young voters to take part in the electoral process. The Union government, then led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, approved a proposal of the law ministry to this effect.Former information and broadcasting minister Ambika Soni at that time pointed out that new voters who attained the age of 18 were showing less interest in getting enrolled in the electoral rolls.To address this issue, the Election Commission decided to launch a nationwide effort to identify all eligible voters who reach the age of 18 on January 1 of each year in all polling stations across India, Soni said.Such voters would be enrolled and be given the Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC) on January 25 every year.Also Read| National Voters’ Day: EC to focus on inclusive polling to mark event; awards for achieversThemeThe theme for this year’s National Voters' Day is ‘Making Elections Inclusive, Accessible and Participative’. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu was supposed to be the chief guest for this event. However, he won’t be physically attending the event after getting infected with Covid-19 and will deliver a virtual message.Union law minister Kiren Rijiju will be the Guest of Honour. During the event, National Awards for the Best Electoral Practises for the year 2021-22 will be given to state and district level officers for their outstanding performance in the conduct of elections in different areas.On the other hand, the newly enrolled voters will be handed over the EPIC during the event.Koo launches multi-lingual guide on voter rights and responsibilitiesOn the occasion of National Voters' Day, microblogging platform Koo has released a multi-lingual guide on voter rights and responsibilities to empower first-time voters to make informed decisions during the upcoming assembly elections in five states. According to a statement, the guide focuses on the basic rights of the Indian voter as enshrined in the Constitution, and enumerates the responsibilities voters need to consider before and after casting their votes.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-voters-day-today-history-theme-and-celebrations-this-year-101643069775416.html
25-01-2022||NA||Breaking News: Congress releases 2nd list of 23 candidates for Punjab polls||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Punjab polls: Congress releases 2nd list of 23 candidatesThe Candidates selected by the Congress Central Election Committee for the ensuing general elections to the Legislative Assembly of Punjab pic.twitter.com/V4H4GJBhGBCongress has released its second list of 23 candidates for the Punjab assembly elections.Protesting on tracks now among 'unlawful' activities, says govtProtesting on tracks now among 'unlawful' activities that can get one banned from getting Railway jobs, the government said in a notification on Tuesday.Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra receives Padma Shri; Padma Bhushan for Krishna Ella and Suchitra Ella and Cyrus PoonOlympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra receives Padma Shri.Padma Bhushan awarded to Krishna Ella, Suchitra Ella and Cyrus Poon.Bipin Rawat, India's first CDS, posthumously awarded Padma VibhushanBipin Rawat, India's first chief of defence staff (CDS), posthumously awarded Padma Vibhushan.IMF cuts 2022 global economic growth forecast to 4.4% on US, China slowdownThe International Monetary Fund (IMF) on Tuesday cuts 2022 global economic growth forecast to 4.4% on US, China slowdown, reports news agency AFP.Mumbai reports 1,815 new Covid-19 cases, 753 recoveries and 10 deaths in last 24 hoursMumbai has reported 1,815 fresh Covid-19 cases, 753 recoveries and 10 related deaths in the last 24 hours.Ram Nath Kovind addresses nation on the eve of 73rd Republic DayPresident of India Ram Nath Kovind is addressing the nation on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day. Watch live coverage hereDelhi records 6,028 Covid cases, 31 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi on Tuesday recorded 6,028 fresh Covid-19 cases, 9,127 recoveries and 31 deaths in last 24 hours.Congress appoints Avinash Pandey as Jharkhand in-chargeCongress appoints Avinash Pandey as Jharkhand in-charge as RPN Singh moves to BJP.29 officers, staff of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs get Presidential awards, announces finance ministry29 officers and staff of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs get Presidential Awards on the eve of Republic Day: Ministry of FinanceNaib Subedar Sreejith M awarded Shaurya Chakra for killing terrorist in Jammu and Kashmir, reports ANINaib Subedar Sreejith M of 17 Madras awarded the Shaurya Chakra (Posthumously) for killing a terrorist in an operation in July 2021 in Jammu and Kashmir while carrying out search operations.Shaurya Chakra awarded to 6 Army personnel, five posthumously, reports ANISix Army personnel, including five posthumously, were awarded the Shaurya Chakra – third highest peacetime gallantry award, reports news agency ANIGrenade attack by militants in Srinagar, 4 injuredMilitants on Tuesday hurled a grenade towards security personnel in the busy Hari Singh High Street area of the city, resulting in injuries to four persons including a police officer and two women, officials told news agency PTI. RPN Singh joins BJP, hours after resigning from Congress#WATCH Former Union minister & Congress leader RPN Singh joins Bharatiya Janata Party in Delhi, ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections pic.twitter.com/HTGrFoNHDKFormer Union minister and Congress leader RPN Singh joins Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in New Delhi.Russia adds Putin critic Alexei Navalny to 'terrorists and extremists' listRussia has added opposition leader and President Vladimir Putin's critic Alexei Navalny to 'terrorists and extremists' list, reports news agency AFP.UK removes all Covid restrictions for fully vaccinated peopleThe United Kingdom has removed all Covid-19 restrictions including travel for people who have been fully vaccinated against the virus. Canada advises citizens to avoid non-essential trips to UkraineThe Canadian government has advised citizens to cancel plans for non-essential trips to Ukraine amid growing tension between Russia and Ukraine border. Ex-UPA minister RPN Singh resigns from Cong, set to join BJPToday, at a time, we are celebrating the formation of our great Republic, I begin a new chapter in my political journey. Jai Hind pic.twitter.com/O4jWyL0YDCRPN Singh, the former minister in the UPA government, resigned from the Congress on Tuesday and is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In a letter addressed to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Singh said, “I thank you for providing me an opportunity to serve the nation.”Singh's resignation comes after the Congress named as the party's star campaigner for the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh. Union budget likely to presented at 11 am on Feb 1Union Budget 2022 is likely to be presented at 11 am on 1st February, despite staggered timing for Lok Sabha & Rajya Sabha: SourcesThe Union budget is likely to be presented at 11 am on February 1, news agency ANI reported citing sources. Navjot Singh Sidhu condemns alleged sacrilege bid in PatialaPunjab Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday condemned the alleged sacrilege bid in Patiala by saying that the incident is deplorable. Read moreDelhi MP Gautam Gambhir tests positive for Covid-19After experiencing mild symptoms, I tested positive for COVID today. Requesting everyone who came into my contact to get themselves tested. #StaySafeBJP MP from East Delhi Gautam Gambhir said on Tuesday that he has tested positive for the Covid-19 disease.  939 cops awarded medals on occasion of Republic DayA total of 939 police personnel have been awarded medals on the occasion of Republic Day. Out of these, the Jammu and Kashmir has been awarded the highest number of medals at 115. Covid positivity reduced in Delhi by 20% in last 10 days, says CMDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital has reduced by 20% in the last 10 days. 23 sailors on Australian military ship test positive for Covid-19Nearly two dozen sailors on an Australian military ship delivering aid to Tonga, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Selsura accident: PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh as ex-gratia for kin of victimsPM Modi announces Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives in the accident near Selsura, Maharashtra. Injured to be given Rs. 50,000: Prime Minister's Office https://t.co/nFuhX61bHZPrime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday that the kin of victims of the Selsure accident will receive an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each. India adds 255,874 new Covid-19 cases, active cases down by 12,493India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease dropped for a second consecutive day with 12,493 infections reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard.  Read moreThane's Covid-19 caseload nearing 695,000; new cases at 1,745Maharashtra's Thane district recorded 1,745 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours and the overall tally has climbed to 694,580. With 12 fatalities, the Covid-19 death toll in the district has climbed to 11,725.Chinese mainland records 18 new local Covid-19 casesThe Chinese mainland has reported 18 locally transmitted Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, local media reported citing the National Health Commission on Tuesday.Mizoram reports 2,223 new Covid infections; active cases cross 10,000COVID-19 | Mizoram reported 2,223 new cases. Active cases 10,704 pic.twitter.com/kWGf3TngWxMizoram on Tuesday added 2,223 new cases of Covid-19, which pushed the caseload to 162,371, according to the health department's bulletin. The active cases in the state have crossed the 10,000-mark and stand at 10,704. Health minister to hold meeting with 9 states, UTs over Covid situationUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will on Monday hold a meeting with the health ministers of 9 states and UTs over the Covid-19 situation. The meeting will be held at 10.30 am12th edition of National Voters' Day to be celebrated todayThe 12th edition of the National Voters' Day will be celebrated today and the theme is 'Making Elections Inclusive, Accessible and Participative’. Read moreTwo killed, dozens injured after 2 earthquakes jolt HaitiTwo mild earthquakes struck southwest Haiti on Monday, killing two people, hurting dozens, and destroying hundreds of homes in a region still reeling from a huge tremor that killed over 2,000 people last summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-25-2022-101643071199144.html
25-01-2022||India||National Tourism Day 2022: Theme, significance and events scheduled||National Tourism Day is celebrated across the country on January 25 every year to appreciate India’s beauty and spread awareness about the importance of tourism and its impact on the economy. The ministry of tourism is observing National Tourism Day under the aegis of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, a 75-week grand celebration to mark 75 years of India’s independence. This year’s theme for National Tourism Day is ‘Rural and Community Centric Tourism’.As part of National Tourism Day, seminars, cultural events and other programmes will be organised by the Centre in association with the Telangana government. While several states have organised events to promote tourism in their region, the central government is organising the main event in Telangana’s Pochampally village, a weavers' hamlet on the outskirts of Hyderabad.Known for its famous hand-woven Ikat saris, Pochampally was selected as one of the best tourism villages by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) in November 2021. Programmes including cultural events, light and sound shows will also be organised at 75 major tourism centres and all tourist destinations across the country.Somnath Temple circuit house inauguration: PM Modi lists 4 ways to boost tourism sectorOn Monday, the tourism ministry unveiled the Indian Tourism Pictorial Quiz. The objective of the quiz is to showcase India’s varied tourism products, architecture, culture, and cuisine, and test the knowledge regarding the tourism opportunities available within the country.Union minister G Kishan Reddy said last month that the Centre has decided to organise an All India Conference on Temple Architecture during the last week of February either at Ramappa temple premises in Telangana, which was recently inscribed as a Unesco World Heritage Site, or in Warangal.The tourism industry has been heavily hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The World Tourism Organization has said that tourist arrivals around the world are not expected to return to their pre-pandemic levels until 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-tourism-day-theme-significance-and-events-scheduled-101643069758470.html
25-01-2022||India||Unbecoming of Tripura govt to indulge in whataboutery, SC told||It is “totally unbecoming” of the Tripura government to indulge in “whataboutery” on the issue of alleged communal violence in Tripura last year, the petitioner seeking an independent probe into the matter has told Supreme Court.Appearing for the petitioner Ehtesham Hashmi, advocate Prashant Bhushan condemned the state government’s remarks that why such probes were not sought during violence in West Bengal and other states.“For a state to indulge in whataboutery is so unbecoming. We can expect it from news channels. This doesn’t show the state in good light,” Bhushan told a bench comprising Justices DY Chandrachud and Dinesh Maheshwari.Bhushan was referring to the affidavit filed by the state last week in response to Hashmi’s plea alleging complicity and inaction of the state police in it.“It is very surprising to note that just few months back, a series of pre-poll and post-poll violence took place in West Bengal which were definitely wider in geography and very severe in magnitude. The so-called public spirit of the petitioners did not move few months back in a larger scale of communal violence and suddenly their public spirit aroused due to some instances in a small state like Tripura,” the state said.To this, Bhushan told the bench: “This reply does not state why the government did not carry out any investigation.”The top court bench allowed Bhushan to file his reply to the state’s affidavit by Thursday and agreed to hear the matter on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unbecoming-of-tripura-govt-to-indulge-in-whataboutery-sc-told-101643063537528.html
25-01-2022||India||Israeli envoy recalls key role of India in WW-I||Israeli ambassador Naor Gilon on Monday recalled the role of soldiers of the British Indian Army in World War 1 in liberating areas that later became Israel and said India was a country where Jews had lived with total equality for more than 2,000 years.Gilon was speaking at virtual event that he addressed along with Sanjeev Singla, the Indian envoy to Israel, to mark the launch of a commemorative logo for the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two nations.The Israeli envoy recalled his visits last year along with external affairs minister S Jaishankar to “some places commemorating more than 900 Indian soldiers buried in Israel”. These were soldiers “who fought during World War 1 as part of the British Indian army to liberate this area that later became Israel”, he said.Gilon said Jews have lived “for over 2,000 years in India in total equality and peacefully”. He added, “And as someone who arrived [in India] after serving quite extensive periods in Europe, I was very much surprised to see how much love and appreciation there is in India towards Israel. There is another element – there is no anti-Semitism in India, this phrase just doesn’t exist.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israeli-envoy-recalls-key-role-of-india-in-wwi-101643063289962.html
25-01-2022||India||Parliament to run in shifts for Budget session: Officials||Parliament will go back to working in shifts, with the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha functioning at different times of the day, and a highly dispersed seating arrangement in place for lawmakers during the Budget session starting on January 31, officials aware of the matter said on Monday.This will be second time, after 2021, that rising Covid-19 cases have caused the two Houses to function in a staggered manner during a Budget session, with the Upper House likely to work during the morning shift, and the Lower House to convene in the afternoons.According to a senior official, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla spoke to each other and decided to implement a plan that was used during sessions held in 2020 and 2021.“For the Budget session, RS to meet first and LS later in the day, as was the case for 252nd session in 2020 and first half of budget session in 2021,” said a senior Rajya Sabha official aware of the matter, asking not to be named.Another functionary said that doubts remain if the session will run its scheduled course in the shadow of the third wave of Covid-19 cases, with several lawmakers and officials from both Houses affected. A third Parliament official said that elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, are another key factor that might result in a curtailed session.The Union Budget will be presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Lok Sabha at 11am on February 1. The Lower House will meet from 4pm-9pm every day. The timings of Rajya Sabha sessions are to be decided by chairman Venkaiah Naidu but officials said the House would meet for five hours in the first half of the day.The Budget session is perhaps the most crucial sitting of Parliament, and also its longest.“Our main target is to ensure lawmakers and other people who come to Parliament remain safe. So, to minimise the crowd and keeping in mind social distancing, we might opt for two different timetables for the two houses...” said a fourth functionary involved in the discussions.“In the monsoon session of 2020, we decided that the Rajya Sabha sits in the morning and the Lok Sabha in the afternoon...” he added.The same arrangement may be followed now, the official indicated.
25-01-2022||India||Ahead of Republic Day, BSF ups Indo-Pak border vigil amid high alert||Ahead of Republic Day celebrations and amid intelligence inputs of possible strikes by rogue elements from Pakistan, the Border Security Force (BSF) has put its troops on a high alert on and along the Indo-Pak international border and the Line of Control (LoC), said officials on Monday.BSF Jammu Frontier IG, DK Boora said, “Keeping in view the forthcoming Republic Day and security situation to deal with any nefarious attempt of anti-national elements from across the border, troops of the BSF Jammu frontier have been on high alert since last week.”He confirmed that the intel agencies have alerted the forces of attempts by the anti-national elements to try and disrupt R-Day celebrations.“Keeping in mind the present security scenario and intelligence inputs on the eve of Republic Day, the BSF, Jammu, has been on high alert on Jammu, the IB and the LoC. The BSF is carrying out extensive anti-tunnelling drive, special patrolling and depth area domination despite extremely hostile weather conditions,” said the BSF IG. “To strengthen the border domination, mobilisation of troops have been done. Regular monitoring of suspicious activities of counterpart is being carried out through surveillance equipment,” he added.He informed that the joint patrolling exercises are also being conducted along with Army, CRPF and state police to pre-empt any nefarious attempts of the enemy.“The BSF troops deployed on the Jammu International Border have been quite successful and consistent in foiling attempts from across the border by eliminating Pakistani intruders, seizing huge caches of arms and ammunition, narcotics and detecting tunnels in the past one year,” he said Boora also informed that drone activities by Pakistan have also decreased for the past quite some time but the BSF was 24x7 vigil on the border.“With anti-drone technology and a slew of other measures, the drone activities by Pakistan have reduced for the past quite some time,” he said.Boora also informed that in absence of any foolproof anti-tunneling technology, the BSF was still relying on physical domination and using tractors and other heavy machines to dig the ground and check the IB for trans-border tunnels.Since 2013 Pakistan had been digging such tunnels in the plains of Jammu to push armed terrorists for staging terror attacks.CIBMS, including smart fence, being extended on entire IBThe IG said that the Comprehensive Integrated Border Management System (CIBMS), including smart fence (also called laser fence), was continually being extended on the 200-km-long International Border in the Jammu region.When asked whether Israel’s technology has also gone into it, the IG said, “Now the focus is more on indigenous technology and we are constantly improving and upgrading the CIBMS. Entire IB is being fortified with the technological advancements but it is always the man behind the machine, who matters.”India had successfully launched two pilot projects of laser fence on the IB in 2018.On laser fencing the then DG BSF SS Deswal on August 16 last year had said that part of the CIBMS, two pilot projects were launched in Jammu and Kashmir and they are under action. Defence minister Rajnath Singh in the capacity of home minister had inaugurated a stretch of laser fence in September 2018.The pilot project meant to provide round-the-clock surveillance on the border uses thermal imagers underground sensors, fibre optical sensors, radar and sonar technologies to make “vulnerable stretches of the IB foolproof”.The IG also informed that work on ditch-cum-bundh (DCB) to fortify the entire international border was being carried out in a phased manner.“The land is being acquired and the work is also being carried out in phases. The basic idea is to fortify our border,” he said.R-Day full dress rehearsal held across Jammu division districts Impressive parades and colourful programmes depicting rich culture and heritage of India and Jammu Kashmir marked the Republic Day 2022 Full Dress Rehearsal across the all the 10 districts of Jammu region on Monday. The full dress rehearsals were held amid strict adherence to Covid SoPs. The main rehearsal was held here at MA Stadium in the winter capital where various contingents of police, CAPFs, Home-Guards, Fire & Emergency Services besides students from various schools and colleges participated. Additionla Director General of Police (ADGP) Mukesh Singh, Divisional Commissioner Raghav Langer; Deputy Commissioner Jammu Anshul Garg, SSP Jammu Chandan Kohli -IPS and other senior officers from police and security forces were present. The lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha will be the chief guest at the main function. 
25-01-2022||India||‘Half-hearted reply an injustice’: Centre asks HC for time to reply in marital rape hearing||“A half-hearted reply” may affect the lives of several citizens, the Union government told the Delhi high court on Monday, as it sought more time to respond categorically on whether it was in favour of doing away with the exception in the rape law that provides immunity to husbands from the offence of marital rape.A bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar, while hearing pleas seeking to criminalise marital rape, was informed by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, that the issue should not be seen from a “microscopic angle” and several considerations would be considered by the government while formulating its stand.The court gave the Centre 10 days to clarify its position.“It may not be looked at from that microscopic angle. Here, the dignity of a woman is at stake. There are family issues. There would be several considerations which would weigh with the government to take a position to assist your lordships. This would also perhaps need consultations with other stakeholders,” Mehta said.The SG also said it will not be possible for the Union government to respond immediately on the issue, particularly when there is no imminent threat to someone. He sought 10 days to have a detailed consultation with stakeholders and place the government stand before the court.“I feel I would be doing an injustice to the citizens of India if I put the reply in a half-hearted way,” the SG submitted.The court, however, said the issue of criminalising marital rape is not going to end in the high court and whichever party felt aggrieved by its judgment, will challenge it in a superior court.“...come back to me in 10 days. I know you can if you want. Beyond that, it would become difficult for me,” the court said.Exception of Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) decriminalises marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15, is not rape.On Monday, senior advocate Rebecca John, the amicus curiae in the matter, completed her arguments. She submitted that 498A (domestic violence) cannot be a substitute for 375 (2) as it is a different offence.While concluding her arguments, John said she received a “lot of hate mail” in connection with the case and was even asked to recuse from the matter because she has an opinion on the subject.To this, the court said that if having a view was a ground for recusal, then judges would have to recuse themselves from every case. The hearing will continue on Tuesday.
25-01-2022||India||In rebuttal to Gadkari, Stalin says TN prioritises NHAI projects||Amid the Tamil Nadu government feeling snubbed after the union government rejected the state’s tableau for the Republic Day parade, came another blow from union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari who complained that they were facing several bottlenecks to move projects in the state.On Monday, chief minister MK Stalin responded to him taking a defensive position that many of the current issues causing project delays are from the past decade during the AIADMK’s regime but he assured to cooperate.Gadkari was speaking at The Hindu’s Business Line Countdown to Budget 2022 last week when he said, “my problem is with Tamil Nadu” and sought the state’s cooperation making a comparison with Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan whom he said was proactive despite some issues.In a detailed reply, Stalin says a team to specifically look into National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) projects is meeting every fortnight and that they are putting their best efforts to sort them out at the earliest. “Considering the efforts taken by the state government and the resultant progress in the field, your statement made during the above-mentioned event has been a bit surprising to me,” Stalin said in the letter.He recalled that he had given a detailed reply on the action taken when Gakari had written to him on these issues in the past. “After my government took over, NHAI projects have been given very high importance by us,” he said. “We fully realise the significance of road connectivity for an industrialized state like us and hence I have given specific instructions to all departments to give top priority to NHAI projects.”The DMK government took over in May after a decade of AIADMK rule.Stalin said he held a review meeting and as a follow up, the minister for public works (EV Velu) has so far conducted four meetings with all the departments concerned with the NHAI projects. He said the chief secretary and the principal secretary, highways and minor ports department have conducted 13 different meetings on the same matters along with the district collectors and line departments along with NHAI officials. Overall, there has been a high-level meeting for NHAI projects every fortnight during the last six months.Stalin said the public works minister had met Gadkari in Delhi on October 12 last year to brief him on the steps that are being taken for speedy implementation of NHAI projects. Following that minister Velu had convened a joint meeting on December 16 last year with officials from the state and general manager of NHAI from Delhi.“All the issues and action taken on them were discussed during this full day meeting and it was noted that about 80% of the NHAI issues have been resolved,” Stalin said. Taking up specific projects such as Vikaravandi – Kumbakonam – Thanjavur Road and Melur – Karaikudi Road, Stalin said that they have been resolved with specific interventions by the state government. “The above position may also kindly be verified with the NHAI team in Tamil Nadu,” he said.The chief minister also blamed the NHAI for causing certain delays. For instance, he said the system of approval of land valuation for land acquisition under the National Highways Act needs to be streamlined. “In some cases, NHAI has not agreed to valuation fixed by the Competent Authority for Land Acquisition (CALA) or the arbitration awards given by the district collectors, putting the process in limbo,” he said.He said applications for borrow earth permission were not scrutinised properly and were being given without necessary documents in place and some sites aren’t feasible as there is water stagnation. However, Stalin said that as requested by the NHAI, steps are being taken to amend the Mining Rules to give borrow earth permits for longer periods in government lands.As of now, they are currently being given for three months since Tamil Nadu had two spells of monsoon and generally tanks/ponds are under water for six months. For private lands, the permission already is being given for nine months or more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rebuttal-to-gadkari-stalin-says-tn-prioritises-nhai-projects-101643053091439.html
25-01-2022||India||AP employees reject govt’s talk offer on pay revision||Rejecting a reconciliatory gesture from the Andhra Pradesh government for negotiations on the contentious pay revision issue, the state employees’ unions on Monday served a strike notice with effect from February 7.The employees’ unions, which have formed a joint action committee “PRC Sadhana Samithi” (committee to achieve pay revision), issued a notice to Principal Secretary (General Administration Department) Shashi Bhushan, stating the employees would be going on an indefinite strike from the midnight of February 6.“The pay revision announced by the state government would cause immense loss to the employees. We are not going to accept it. For the first time, all sections of employees, including teachers, secretariat staff, non-muster roll (NMR) staff, public transport employees and of all the other departments would stall the work,” joint action committee chairman Bandi Srinivas Rao said after serving the strike notice.In the morning, a five-member committee of ministers and officials constituted by the government invited the employees’ union leaders for fresh negotiations on the pay revision issue. The committee members waited at the secretariat for talks, but the union leaders did not turn up.“We made an effort to talk to the employees’ representatives and explain them the factual position to remove their apprehensions. But they were firm on their stand saying there would be no negotiations unless the government revokes the orders on the pay revision. We shall wait for talks on Tuesday as well and are hopeful of settling the dispute,” said state government advisor (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy.Meanwhile, a single judge bench of the state high court refused to hear the petition filed by a section of the employees, challenging the pay revision announced by the state government.The judge, which took up the petition in the morning, referred it to Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra, stating that it involved larger public interest litigation.State advocate general Subrahmanyam Sriram said the government had all the rights to fix the pay hike based on so many considerations. He argued that various allowances such as house rent allowance (HRA) and city compensatory allowance (CCA) cannot be taken into consideration for working out the gross package. He said the policy of enhancing the retirement age, increasing the gratuity amounts to pensioners, 20 percent rebate in the plots etc, ought to be seen as a holistic view of the government.The advocate general further argued that the notice for indefinite strike was impermissible in law, as strike is prohibited. “The government employment is a status and not a contract and therefore the government servants do not have option of keeping the sword of strike hanging over the head of the government, that too in Covid-19 times,” he said.The employees’ unions are upset with the state government for launching a campaign in the social media as well as through pamphlets, justifying the pay revision and projecting the agitating staff in bad light.“The state government has been circulating messages in WhatsApp groups and other forms of social media to all sections of people, stating that our demands are just and projecting us as greedy. The government is also using the services of village and ward volunteers to circulate pamphlets against the striking employees. We shall effectively counter the government arguments,” a JAC leader asserted.
25-01-2022||India||KCR writes to Modi against IAS rule change||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday expressed his strong protest against the proposed amendments to the All India Services (Cadre) Rules, 1954, by the central government, seeking to acquire overriding powers to transfer IAS and IPS officers through central deputation and doing away with the requirement of taking the approval of the state governments.The department of personnel and training (DoPT) wrote to the states on January 12 that the central government proposes to amend Rule 6 (deputation of cadre officers) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules 1954.So far, 10 opposition party chief ministers have opposed the proposed amendment to the rules, even though the central government has said the change was proposed to meet shortage of officials in central department and ministries.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Telangana chief minister said the proposed amendments were totally against the federal structure of the Indian Constitution, both in letter and spirit. “They will also seriously erode the all-India service character of IAS, IPS and IFS. We, therefore, strongly oppose the proposed amendments,” he said.KCR, as the chief minister is called, said considering the criticality of functions discharged by AIS officers in the states, the present rule position and practice provides for concurrence of state governments in matter of deputation of officers to the central government.He said the central government assuming the power to take officers on deputation without concurrence of the officers or state government concerned was a dangerous move which is against the constitutional framework and spirit of cooperative federalism.“If the proposed amendments are effected by the Centre, the state governments would be reduced to be insignificant entities,” he said.Stating that the proposal is clearly a move to exercise indirect control by the Central government on officers working in the States, the chief minister said it amounted to interfering in the functioning of the State governments, targeted harassment of officers and their demoralisation, besides impacting accountability of officers to the State governments.KCR said the amendments were nothing but amending the Constitution of India relating to the Centre-State relations. “Instead of such a backdoor method of amending the AIS Rules, Govt. of India should muster courage to amend the provisions by the Parliament,” he said.He further said the proposal showed scant regard to the administrative exigencies and requirements of the States. They threaten the spirit of mutual adjustment and accommodation between states and central governments in the matter of shared All-India Services and will further strain the Centre-State relationship.“I demand that the Centre cease and desist from the proposed amendments in the interest of administrative fairness and federal polity of our constitution,” KCR added.
25-01-2022||India||TN girl suicide: HC asks man who shot video to submit phone to police||The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday directed the man who recorded the video of a 16-year-old girl, who later committed suicide, to appear before the investigating officer and hand over his mobile phone for forensic examination.While Thanjavur police were investigating the girl student’s suicide, a video purportedly recorded just before her death emerged, in which she says that her school warden urged her parents to convert her into Christianity two years ago with the promise of a free education. A man recording the video asks her if the warden has harassed her because she refused to convert, the girl responds, “Could be.” Since then the BJP and Hindu outfits have held statewide protests seeking justice for her through a CBI probe and for action to be taken against forced religious conversions. The girl’s father on Friday moved the Madurai bench of the Madras high court seeking a CB-CID probe. Justice G R Swaminathan said in his orders that the father (petitioner) and mother of the deceased girl have confirmed the attempt to convert. The investigation officer also confirmed to the court that the video that has been circulated in the social media is in the voice of the deceased. “In other words, the authenticity of the video is beyond dispute. However, this confirmation is not sufficient,” the court said. “An appropriate forensic analysis will have to be made. Therefore, the original mobile phone from which the video was recorded is required.” The parents and the man who recorded the video have been asked to appear before the investigation officer on Tuesday. The court has directed the Tamil Nadu Forensic Science Lab in Chennai to give a report on the materials of the case by January 27. The case been posted to January 28 for the next hearing. On Monday, school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told reporters in Chennai that they have conducted a departmental enquiry of students and alumni of the school to which the girl belonged. Their statements have been handed over to the police. “We do not want any religious, caste and political bias in our schools,” he said. The minister said that though the school is run by Christians, it has more of Hindu students. The school’s hostel warden was last week arrested on charges of abetment to suicide for harassing the girl. “Several times this warden has paid for her school fees when her parents were not able to meet the expenses. But no matter what she has done, given that she caused distress to this child, we have taken action against her,” Poyyamozhi said. “Going and taking that video and provoking the child was wrong. Please do not politicise this. We will investigate this and without any bias we will take action.” Amidst this issue, a church in Coimbatore was vandalised by unidentified people and police are conducting an inquiry. The BJP held an internal meeting on Monday in Chennai following which its former national secretary H Raja said the deceased child had scored 489 out of 500 in her class 10 board examination. “So they (school) have gone to their house thrice and tried to brainwash them that if she converts she will get a free education and that they can train her to be a nun,” Raja said. “But the student stayed strong so they made her clean toilets and classrooms. So the girl died by suicide.” The BJP blamed the ruling DMK government for such instances in the state and demanded the suspension of Thanjavur superintendent of police Ravali Priya Gandhapuneni for saying that the parents had not mentioned troubles of religious conversion in their first complaint. “The only solution to this is bringing an anti-conversion law.” Congress leader and commissioner of TN’s minority commission Peter Alphonse released a statement, dismissing allegations of religious conversion. “Of the approximately 1,000 students currently studying (in the same school), 70% are Hindus, 5% are Muslim and 25% are Christians,” he said. “Hindu teachers also work in the school. Conversion that has not happened in three centuries (in this school) will take place now? Tamil Nadu will not allow hate politics as the state is known for social unity and religious harmony.” The police had earlier said that the child’s dying declaration has been recorded by the judicial magistrate and that they cannot consider the unverified video as a dying declaration but they are proceeding with investigations considering the content in the video. 
25-01-2022||India||Court asks CBI to file reply on Indrani’s plea claiming Sheena is alive||Mumbai: A special court on Monday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to reply by February 4 to a plea filed by Indrani Mukerjea, seeking probe into her claim that her daughter Sheena Bora is alive.Indrani has also sought to know the steps taken on her application addressed to CBI director Subodh Kumar Jaiswal in November 2021 requesting the agency to investigate this aspect.Indrani is being prosecuted along with three others for allegedly killing Sheena Bora.Special CBI judge AS Sayyad asked special public prosecutor Manoj Chaladan to file a reply and adjourned the matter for further hearing.Indrani moved the plea through her counsel Sana Raees Khan after she failed to get any reply from CBI on her application. Indrani, 49, said she had met an inmate of Byculla jail on November 25, police officer Asha Korke, arrested in an extortion case.She said the officer told her in Byculla Women’s Prison, where she is lodged, that she had met Sheena on June 21, 2021, near Dal Lake, while she was vacationing in Srinagar.According to Indrani, Korke had told her that she saw a woman similar to Sheena. When she addressed her as “Sheena”, she asked how she knew her. After Korke said she was a police officer, Sheena asked if she had come to arrest her. Korke said Sheena should go to Mumbai as her mother was arrested for killing her. Sheena responded, “I have started my new life and do not wish to return to my old life anymore.” She later left on a bike with a person who looked like a foreigner.Indrani has said in her plea, “Overcoming strong emotions, I relooked at certain compelling evidence that had come on record during the course of trial which had given us every reason to believe that my daughter was ‘definitely alive’ after the alleged day of murder on April 24, 2012. The same can be elaborated and explained if this court directs us to do so for the purpose of understanding the facts.”CBI officials had then told HT that they were not taking the application seriously as they had ample evidence to prove that Sheena was killed.“The DNA analysis of recovered femur bones and cervical bones exhumed in 2015, when the case came to light, concluded that Indrani was the biological mother of the dead woman,” a CBI officer said.The trial in the case started on February 24, 2017, and is at an advanced stage. Several prosecution witnesses have already been examined. The court has taken cognisance of the CBI charge sheet. The forensic superimposition of the recovered skull has matched with the face of Sheena.According to the police, Indrani and her ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna strangulated 25-year-old Sheena, Indrani’s daughter from her previous relationship, on April 24, 2012, in a car in Mumbai. The following day, they disposed of the body in a forest area in Gagode village of Raigad district.The murder came to light after Khar police arrested Shyamvar Rai, Indrani’s former driver, in another case in August 2015. Indrani was arrested on August 25, followed by Khanna’s arrest. Peter Mukerjea was arrested on November 19, 2015, after the case was transferred to CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-asks-cbi-to-file-reply-on-indrani-s-plea-claiming-sheena-is-alive-101643052553036.html
25-01-2022||India||Solar case defamation suit: Achuthanandan ordered to pay ₹10.10 lakh damages to Chandy||A court in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday ordered former chief minister and CPI(M) leader V S Achuthanandan to pay ₹10.10 lakh to Oommen Chandy, former CM and senior Congress leader, in a defamation suit filed in connection with the solar scam case. In an interview to a news channel in July 2013, Achuthanandan, then the opposition leader, alleged that CM Chandy was behind the fictitious solar firm and that he knew about the cheating case. He also alleged that Chandy had accepted a portion of the commission from the main accused, Saritha S Nair, for the help given to her. Chandy filed a defamation suit in 2014, saying that the grave charges invited embarrassment to him and sullied his image. He first sought damages of ₹1 crore but later reduced it to ₹10.10 lakh. The principal sub-court found his contention right and ordered Achuthanandan to pay damage with 6 per cent interest and with court fees. In 2019, Chandy appeared before the court in person to explain his position. Though the counsel for Achuthanandan repeated the allegation, he failed to substantiate charges with evidence, the court found. “These charges were made without any basis and they intended to sully his image, so the petitioner has every right to claim damage,” said the court. Chandy has hailed the verdict, saying truth will prevail always. “Many hands and conscience are clear. The CPI(M) cooked up stories after stories to portray me in bad light. I was sure truth will prevail,” said Chandy, who is a general secretary of the AICC. The counsel for Achuthanandan said he will move an appeal in a higher court soon. Achuthanandan is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in the state capital. The solar cheating case relates to an alleged con woman, Saritha Nair, and her second husband Biju Radhakrishnan, who floated a company called ‘Team Solar’ in 2013 and cheated many promising them stakes in the firm and good returns after selling imported solar panels. They allegedly cultivated good contacts in corridors of power and flaunted them to attract investors. Radhakrishnan was later convicted in a murder case. The cheating incident surfaced in 2014 and 60 cases were registered against the two. Then CM Chandy had sacked two of his private secretaries and the state public relations director when their names allegedly cropped up in the case. Later the main accused Nair had raised sexual assault charges against many Congress leaders, including Chandy, K C Venugopal, Adoor Prakash MP, A P Anil Kumar, Hibi Eden MP and Abdullha Kutty. Later the government had constituted a judicial commission. The case was one of the reasons for the Congress’s drubbing in 2016 assembly elections. In her complaint, Nair alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by the accused in return of favours granted to her. Later, the judicial commission also recommended a probe into sexual assault charges. Saritha Nair is in judicial custody now in connection with another cheating case. She was convicted in seven cases related to solar cheating case, but out on bail, she allegedly cheated some people promising them government jobs. She also tried to contest against Rahul Gandhi in Wayanad but her papers were rejected. Later the Supreme Court had slapped a fine on her when she approached it. The solar scam case was handed over to the CBI last year after Nair had petitioned the CM complaining that she was yet to get justice in sexual assault cases and sought a central agency probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-case-defamation-suit-achuthanandan-ordered-to-pay-10-10-lakh-damages-to-chandy-101643052551384.html
25-01-2022||India||Andhra cop suspended for ‘torturing’ Dalit woman in custody||Hyderabad A police constable was suspended on Monday for allegedly torturing a Dalit woman in custody in connection with a theft in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor town five days ago. The constable, V Suresh Babu of Chittoor Town-1 police station, has been suspended on charges of manhandling a woman in the theft case, pending further inquiry, S Senthil Kumar, deputy inspector general of police, said in a statement. Giving details about the case, Kumar said the Chittoor Town-1 police registered a case against a 34-year-old woman, M Uma Maheshwari, following a complaint from Chittoor district superintendent of prisons Venugopal Reddy on January 19. The woman, who was a domestic worker at the residence of Reddy, was booked under Section 381 (theft in the house of the employer) of the Indian Penal Code. On January 22, the woman told reporters that she was tortured in custody. Kumar ordered a probe soon after the allegation. “Based on the complaint, the constable has been suspended. We have asked additional superintendent of police (admin) DN Mahesh to conduct a comprehensive inquiry into the incident,” Kumar said, adding that further action will be taken after obtaining the report. Earlier, a video of the Dalit woman, a resident of Lakshminagar Colony in Chittoor town, went viral on social media. In the video, the woman, showing injuries on her body, alleged that she was beaten up while in custody. The woman can be seen sitting on steps, unable to walk to an auto-rickshaw. A man and a woman take her towards the vehicle. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video. She told reporters that the superintendent of prisons had alleged that she had stolen ₹2 lakh from his house and handed her and her husband to police. “Police beat me indiscriminately and brought pressure on me to admit the theft. They abused me in filthy language. They did not allow me to return home till late in the night,” she said. Telugu Desam Party (TDP) politburo member Varla Ramaiah on Monday lodged a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to probe into the alleged custodial torture of the Dalit woman. Ramaiah also urged the chairperson of National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) to investigate and take deterrent action against the persons responsible for the illegal detention of Maheshwari. In separate letters to the chairpersons of NHRC and NCSC, Ramaiah claimed Andhra Pradesh has been witnessing illegal detentions, house arrests, false cases, midnight arrests, custodial torture, and police harassment. He further claimed that somebody known to the superintendent of prisons had taken the amount but the case was booked against the Dalit woman. “The police have completely ignored not only the principles of human rights, but also went against the judgments of the Supreme Court with regard to arrests and custodial torture,” he alleged.
25-01-2022||India||Jharkhand: 17 arrested over ‘Kolhan Estate’ recruitment, attack on police||Jharkhand police on Monday arrested 17 persons for allegedly recruiting people for the “Kolhan Government Estate” to establish self-rule under the British-era Wilkinson rule, and for attacking the Chaibasa police station on Sunday.The police resorted to a lathi charge and tear gassed a mob armed with bows and swords that pelted stones, protesting police action that, on Sunday, sought to stop them from recruiting people for the Kolhan Estate. Kolhan means home of the coal people.At least 10 policemen and one civilian were injured in incident; police constable Brijmohan Mishra was hit in the stomach by an arrow. Those arrested have been booked under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, including sedition, Chaibasa’s deputy superintendent of police Dilip Khalko said.“In total, 17 persons have been arrested till now. Eight among them, including one of the main conspirators of the recruitment drive, Ajay Padeya, were arrested from Ladrubasa village, where the recruitment was being done, while another nine persons have been arrested for being involved in arson and violence near the police station,” said Khalko.Preliminary investigations have revealed that Padeya, a deserter from Central Reserve Police Force’s Cobra Battalion posted in Latehar, and Anand Chatar, who recently came out of jail, have emerged as the main conspirators in the recruitment drive in the name of Kolhan Goverment Estate under the Wilkinson Rule of 1837, Khalko said.The Kol rebellion took place in the area in 1832 against high rent and usurpation of land by outsiders. The then British agent, Thomas Wilkinson, decided to declare the Kolhan region as “Kolhan Separate Estate” with headquarters in Chaibasa, and implemented the Wilkinson Rule in 1837.Under the arrangement, a quasi-police forum of Mankis at the panchayat level and quasi-judicial and revenue collection forum of Mundas at the village level were created. Until 1947, Mankis looked after a group of villages, both in terms of civil, petty criminal cases and land settlement matters, and Mundas collected tax as decided by local villagers in consultation with the British representative.According to proponents of the separate Kolhan Estatate, since no explicit legislation in Parliament has scrapped, amended or modified the Wilkinson Rule, the Manki-Munda system is still in place in the Kolhan region, comprising West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts, bordering Odisha and West Bengal in southern Jharkhand.While the incident turned violent on Saturday following the police crackdown at the ongoing recruitment camp in Ladrubasa village under town police station limits, such hiring has reportedly been going on in the area for the past few months.Chatar and Padey were leading this drive, inviting applications and issuing appointment letters for policemen and teachers.The move for a Kolhan Estate revived in 2017, when Ramo Birua, a 83-year-old resident of Bhagabila village in Chaibasa, had issued a call to hoist the flag for a separate Kolhan Estate.A former block development officer, Birua retired as additional district magistrate in undivided Bihar. He began issuing certificates like for caste, income and age, under the letterhead of Kolhan Estate Government. Birua claimed that it was a separate estate and only he could be appointed its Khewatdar No. 1 (main revenue collector).Birua was booked for sedition and arrested by police and subsequently died in jail. Chatar, who is reportedly the brain behind the fresh recruitment drive for Kolhan Estate, was also booked along with Birua. He recently came out of prison and has reportedly been promoting himself as the Khewatdar No. 1, as appointed by Birua in jail before he died.Though the police cracked down on Saturday, questions are being raised at the lax approach of the district civil and police administration for allowing the group to function.The Hindustan Times has reviewed pictures of applications and appointment letters dated November 2021. Applicants were reportedly being asked to submit ₹50 as application fee and ₹500 against the appointment letters, with a promise that they could join six months later.A picture of Chaibasa Sadar circle officer Gopi Oraon allegedly handing over appointment letters at recruitment camp in the village is also doing the rounds. Oraon clarified that he visited the village to conduct an inquiry and was not part of any recruitment drive.“I don’t know what happened on Sunday as I am on leave. On Friday, I had gone to the village on instruction from Sadar SDO (subdivisional officer) to conduct an inquiry about an alleged recruitment drive. When I went there, I could not meet the organisers. However, the applicants present there told me that they were applying for recruitment for Kolhan police and school teachers. They said they have been promised that the salary would be paid to them from the Kolhan Fund of the administration. Some of them also submitted few letters to me. Someone might have clicked a picture of that,” said Oroan.Police received no prior official complaint against the recruitment drive, Khalko said.Rights activists demanded action against people taking advantage of the traditional laws by misinterpreting them, and said the government’s failure to implement Panchayat Extension of Scheduled Areas (PESA) Act is also adding to the confusion.“The (PESA) Act was made in the mid 1990s but no government has dared to implement it, which would promote the customary local governance system at the panchayat level,” said Siraj Dutta of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a civil rights organisation. “Many a time, vested groups take advantage in misinterpreting and fooling innocent tribals, who later end up being a harassed by the administration.”
25-01-2022||India||Kerala orders probe against hospital after transgender’s suicide||Six months after a 28-year-old transgender activist died by suicide allegedly due to medical complications from her sex re-assignment surgery, the Kerala government on Monday ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident. The activist underwent the surgery at a private hospital in Ernakulam in 2020. According to those close to her, she approached the same hospital with post-surgery complications but received no treatment. They said the severe physical discomfort she was facing led her to die by suicide. Three days after the incident, her male partner was also found dead in Kochi.On Monday, the government directed the additional director of health to make a detailed inquiry and submit a report in a month’s time. The government announced its decision in a circular.The private hospital said it will co-operative with the probe. “We have inquired about the incident when allegations cropped up last year. We found all procedures and formalities were met during the operation and she was also given enough counselling. Let the government probe it again,” said a hospital spokesman. Days before the activist’s death, she posted a message in social media about her “botched operation and how painful after-effects immobilised her”. LGBTQIA+ activists and members have been seeking a probe into the deaths. “There is no uniform protocol in sex re-assignment surgeries and LGBTQ community members often end up in traps set up by private hospitals. We need ethical committees to end this exploitation. We need a proper protocol, standard and treatment methodology,” said Syama S Prabha, state transgender justice board member. Activists say Section 15 of the Transgender Act stipulates that the government provide various health care facilities for transgender people such as sex re-assignment surgeries, hormonal therapy and treatment and separate sero surveillance centres but that the implementation is lethargic and abysmal. “Hospitals need qualified healthcare professionals associated with sex re-assignment surgery equipped with queer affirmative surgical and counselling practices. We need a health manual guided by world professional association for transgender health guidelines,” said activist Renju who used only one name. Renju added that many private hospitals view such surgeries as a money-making exercise. Kerala was the first state to formulate a transgender policy in 2015 aimed at ending discrimination against members of the community. In 2017, it also set up a transgender justice board to deal with their complaints and a separate column called “third sex” was introduced in birth and death registration forms in the state. It was also made mandatory for all government buildings to have separate washrooms for the third sex. According to the transgender board, there are at least 35,000 trans-sexual persons in Kerala. Activists working in the area say more work is required to bring them into the mainstream. ( If you need support or know someone who does, please reach to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: 0484-2540530, 0471-2533900)
25-01-2022||India||Kolar: Row after school allows students to offer namaz||Kolar district administration has ordered an inquiry into claims that a government school allowed Muslim students to offer prayers inside their classroom last week, the state’s education minister B C Nagesh said on Monday.The development comes amid an ongoing controversy in the state after a group of students at the government college in Udupi were not allowed to attend classes while wearing a hijab.The Kolar district collector ordered the probe after a group of Hindu organisations barged into the Mulbagal Someswara Palaya Bale Changappa Government Kannada Model Higher Primary School and also held a protest on Sunday.A video of the students offering namaz inside the classroom, which was allegedly shot on Friday, surfaced on social media on Sunday. The right-wing activists barged into the school the same day.Minister Nagesh said action will be taken against the school officials.“The incident in Kolar is too bad. No institution can allow such things. We have asked all concerned officers to visit the school at the earliest. Since the two days after the incident were weekends, a visit to the school was not possible. Now, they will visit the school and give a detailed report on what transpired there. We will take strict action based on the report,” said Nagesh.Protesters alleged that prayers have been allowed in the school since December last year. A local resident and member of a right-wing group, Ramakrishna, told media that the principal permitted the students without consulting any officials. “She has allowed students to pray inside the school on her own. This is not acceptable. We demand action be taken,” he said.However, school headmistress, Uma Devi, told media that she was not aware of any prayer meeting in the school. “The students did it themselves. I was not here when this happened. The block education officer called and said this was happening at school and I rushed there,” she said.There are around 165 students from the Muslim community in the school out of a total strength is 375, according to block education officer Girijeshwari Devi. “There is a mosque right next to the school. There is no issue in them going there for prayers, but there is no provision for allowing a prayer inside,” she said.A preliminary investigation had found that the students were allowed to pray in class as they were they were found to be skipping classes after going for the Friday prayers, two officials of the education department said. A final report will be given to the district administration, they said, requesting anonymity.Since early January, eight students in Udupi’s Women’s Government Pre-University College were barred from attending classes for wearing a hijab. One of the girls, Alia Banu, said the college has been seeking leave applications on the ground of ill health. Another student Aliya Assadi said that they were threatened to be pushed out of the classroom if they didn’t remove their headscarves.“One day, we had gone inside the classroom, but the teacher’s response was, ‘If you don’t go out of class, I will push you out,” she said. Responding to the hijab controversy, minister Nagesh on Thursday alleged that it was politically motivated, keeping elections in mind.A similar incident was reported in Chikkamangaluru district on January 1.
25-01-2022||India||BSF on high alert along India-Pak border for Republic Day, security beefed up in J&K||JAMMU: Border Security Force (BSF) troops deployed on India-Pakistan border in Jammu and Kashmir have been put on high alert ahead of Republic Day celebrations and amid intelligence inputs of possible strikes by rogue elements from across the border, senior officials from the force said on Monday.BSF Inspector General for Jammu Frontier, DK Boora, said intelligence agencies have alerted the force of possible attempts by the “anti-national elements” from across the border to disrupt Republic Day celebrations.“Keeping in view the forthcoming Republic Day and security situation to deal with any nefarious attempt of anti-national elements from across the border, troops of BSF Jammu frontier have been on high alert since last week,” Boora said.He also said the BSF has launched a number of operations along the International Border (IB) and Line of Control (LoC), including anti-drone exercises and those related to detecting tunnels.“BSF is carrying out extensive drive to detect tunnels, besides special patrolling and depth area domination despite extremely hostile weather conditions. In order to strengthen the border domination, mobilisation of troops has been done. Regular monitoring of suspicious activities of counterpart is also being carried out through surveillance equipments,” he added.The BSF is also conducting joint patrolling with the Indian army, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and police to thwart nefarious attempts of terrorists, the IG said.“BSF troops deployed on Jammu IB have been quite successful and consistent in foiling attempts from across the border by eliminating Pakistani intruders, seizing huge caches of arms and ammunition, narcotics and detecting tunnels in the past one year,” he said.BSF IG, Kashmir, Raja Babu Singh, on Monday said that about 135 terrorists are present at launch pads across the border and are waiting to infiltrate into India. Asserting that the overall situation at LoC is “peaceful”, Singh said the number of infiltration bids was lesser in 2021 in comparison to previous years.“The overall scenario along the LoC is peaceful. Since the signing of the ceasefire agreement, there has been a general peace all along the LoC in the Kashmir frontier,” he told reporters in Srinagar. Giving details on infiltration bids, he said in 2021, 58 attempts were made, in which five terrorists were killed, 21 returned and one surrendered. “There have been reports that 31 infiltrated in 2021, 130 in 2019, and 36 in 2020,” the IG said.Meanwhile, high-level security arrangements have been made across Kashmir, especially in Srinagar where main Republic Day function of the valley will be held on Wednesday, police said on Monday.Union territory’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will unfurl the national flag at MA stadium in Jammu while one of the advisors RR Bhatnagar will unfurl the Tricolour at SK Stadium in Srinagar, a police spokesperson said, adding that District Development Council (DDC) chairpersons will be chief guests at their respective district headquarters.On Monday, a full-dress rehearsal parade was held in Srinagar and different district headquarters. “Since last one week, police along with Army and the CRPF have been busy in area domination in the city and other townships of Kashmir for peaceful Republic Day function. Entire security arrangements are in place,” Inspector General of Police, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar, said on the sidelines of the full-dress rehearsal parade.According to the police, to avert any possible attack on security installations or the venue of Republic Day functions, aerial surveillance are been done on a daily basis. “Sharpshooters have been placed at high-rise buildings across the city, especially around R-Day venue,” a police spokesperson said, requesting anonymity.A three-tier security will be in place in the city on Wednesday. Meanwhile, police on Sunday conducted surprise checking at several places in the city and on all important roads in the valley. Even in rural areas, the army has been conducting area domination operations at different places, the spokesperson added.(With inputs from Srinagar bureau and agency)
25-01-2022||India||Whitefield locality residents step in to fund civic works in neighbourhood||A small group of residents in Bengaluru’s upscale Whitefield locality is pooling in funds to help build a duct for cables that would help prevent frequent digging of roads in the neighbourhood, which leaves the streets in a mess and turns commuting a nightmare. While the initiative, like several others undertaken by the group, is part of an innovative approach to keep the neighbourhood clean, the necessity for residents to use their own funds, which is above and beyond the taxes they pay for the same services to the city corporation, comes into question. “We collect funds from our own residents to maintain the place, clean the place daily, fix potholes and get to the root of problems, such as flooding and lack of walkways. We actually put in money to build it ourselves,” said Arvind Keerthi, a retired software professional and now a full-time community organiser. Keerthi calls the initiative part of the ‘innovation’ which he and his fellow neighbours in Brookefields have put together to resolve teething issues. The proposal comes at a time when the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) budgets thousands of crores of taxpayer money each year for public works. No amount of criticism has worked so far for the agency and state government over shoddy civic infrastructure, corruption, inadequate waste management, flooding due to encroachment of lakes and water bodies, and lack of planning in a city which aspires to be ‘global’. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai retains the Bengaluru development portfolio and the BBMP budget for 2021-22 was worth ₹9,200 crore. By his own admission, Bommai had said ₹20,000 crore was spent on road-related works in Bengaluru over the last five years, leaving most of the city’s 12 million residents wondering whether the expenditure was on paper as in reality they have to endure torturous commutes every day. Civic apathy killed at least 18 people in 2020 in Bengaluru, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), which is higher than that of other major cities of the country combined. In its latest proposal, the Brookefields residents have come forward to build a duct-cum-rainwater drain to prevent repeated digging of their road by various agencies and prevent floods. “The city government (administration) is not good structurally, and I believe, institutionally too. It is not able to send pourakarmikas to our neighbourhood. It is not able to clean drains on time. Institutionally, because of whatever reasons,” Keerthi said. He added that there was “no shame” in bringing more hands and funds to the table. But residents of other localities in Bengaluru may not be able to afford funding small civic works and administration has had no solutions so far other than spending more money on ‘quick fixes’, which have proved to be just as dangerous to lives as their earlier conditions. Interestingly, the legislator of Mahadevapura (Arvind Limbavalli) has tweeted the same proposal and “lauded” the initiative. “Their plan is self-funded and self-executed (crowd sourced by the residents themselves), that is, there is no financial commitment from the government or any government agency like BBMP or Bescom,” he wrote in a letter posted on Twitter. “Such a system of neighbourhood self-improvement and development, funded and led by the residents themselves, is to be lauded, as it gives the residents a powerful sense of neighbourhood engagement and self-governance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whitefield-locality-residents-step-in-to-fund-civic-works-in-neighbourhood-101643051830609.html
25-01-2022||India||CM Bommai retains Bengaluru, announces district in-charge ministers||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai on Monday announced the list of district in-charge ministers for 28 out of the 31 districts in the state. The CM retained Bengaluru, continuing the trend set by his predecessor as well as trying to contain the already growing divide within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The names of at least two senior ministers in the cabinet, R Ashok and JC Madhuswamy, was left out from the list.“They were left out maybe because they are seniors. There are other departments like law and order, minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs. They may not have the time to focus on this,” said a BJP legislator, requesting not to be named.R Ashok is the minister for revenue while JC Madhuswamy is the minister for law, parliamentary affairs and minor irrigation. Both leaders are considered to be close to BS Yediyurappa though there is no indication yet to suggest that they were left out solely because of this reason alone.The list comes almost six months after Bommai replaced BS Yediyurappa for the top job in July last year.There were several contenders for the Bengaluru portfolio that include V Somanna, Dr CN Ashwath Narayan and Ashok among others as the capital city is considered a cash cow and the biggest district portfolio in the state.Narayan was made in-charge of Ramanagara while health minister Dr K Sudhakar was made in-charge of Bengaluru Rural.Yediyurappa too had retained Bengaluru to contain the conflict between his cabinet.While some leaders were happy with the decision, the allocation of districts is unlikely to sit well with several others. Mainly since many legislators who were dislodged from their home districts where holding the to build their political might as well as to make a statement for rivals challenging their positions.N Nagaraju (MTB) was made in-charge of Chikkaballapur when he had specifically demanded Kolar. Similarly, KS Eshwarappa, who is one of the senior BJP leaders, was made in-charge of Chikmagaluru district while he sought the Shivamogga portfolio.Yediyurappa and Eshwarappa share a tempestuous relationship and the two have locked horns in the district over their long political careers with the latter also claiming to be in the race for the top job.Though it remains unclear on who helped Bommai allocate the districts, the CM is believed to be acting on the orders of the BJPs high command and has often been termed a “puppet” in the past as well.Anand Singh, who was already unhappy with the environment, ecology and tourism portfolio, was made in-charge of Koppal district while he believes he was instrumental in the carving out of the newest Vijayanagara district from Ballari.Shashikala Jolle was made in-charge of Vijanagara, much to the dismay of supporters of Singh who had raised their objections to the allocations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cmbommai-retains-bengaluru-announces-district-in-charge-ministers-101643051711286.html
25-01-2022||India||Former Lok Sabha MP, businessman DN Patodia dies at 94||Former Lok Sabha member and prominent businessman DN Patodia died on Monday, a statement by his family said. He was 94.Born on January 14, 1928, Patodia was a member of the Fourth Lok Sabha (1967-1971) representing Jalore in Rajasthan. As secretary of the Swatantra Party in Parliament, he was a part of several parliamentary committees during his term in the Lower House.Patodia studied at Calcutta University, and went on to serve as president of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) in 1985-86. He was also on the board of directors of leading companies, including Hindustan Times, Pilani Investment and Industries Corporation, and Orient Paper & Industries.He was named president of the Indian Council of Arbitration in 1985, headed the Economic and Scientific Research Foundation from 1990 to 1993, and was founder president of the All India Bank Depositors Association (1968).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-lok-sabha-mp-businessman-dn-patodia-dies-at-94-101643051651120.html
25-01-2022||India||At 50%, Karnataka district logs highest test positivity rate in state||According to the data released by the state’s Covid war room Karnataka district Chikkaballapura has recorded a test positivity rate (TPR) of over 50%, the highest across the state. While the positivity rate for Monday stood at 32.95%, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.06%. Incidently, Chikkaballapura is the home constituency of the Karnataka health minister Dr Sudhakar.The Covid war room data stated that out of the 30 districts in Karnataka, 24 have a case positivity rate higher than 10%.The total number of active cases across the state on Monday was 3.6 lakh.Meanwhile, Karnataka logged 46,426 new cases and 32 fatalities, on Monday, taking the tally to 35.6 lakh and the death toll to 38,614.In keeping with the growing infections, chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday that the decision to further ease Covid-19 restrictions will be taken after analysing the pandemic situation in the state.The overall positivity rate reported in Chikkaballapura district stood at 50.43% as of Sunday. According to the district administration, concentrated testing in the district has resulted in a high positivity rate. “We have been focussing on testing the contacts of the Covid positive patients and students who have come for outside the state. Because of this targeted testing, we have a higher positivity rate and most of the patients have no or mild symptoms,” said a health department official in the district. The second highest positivity rate in the state was reported in Mandya with 40.48%. According to bed availability data, no general, ICU and ventilators in the districts have been used. Similarly, 4,516 Covid care centre beds and 198 beds in hospitals remain available. The state had recorded 50,210 fresh infections on Sunday.There were 41,703 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 31.6 lakh, a health department bulletin said.Of the new cases today, 21,569 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 27,008 people being discharged and nine virus-related deaths.Of the 32 deaths, nine are from Bengaluru Urban, three each from Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru and Udupi, two each from Haveri and Kalaburagi, followed by others.Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru recorded the second highest with 4,105 new cases, Tumakuru 2,960, Hassan 1,908 and Mandya 1,837.Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 16,07,226 cases, followed by Mysuru 2,07,135 and Tumakuru 1,43,552. According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 13,64,333, followed by Mysuru 1,85,834 and Tumakuru 1,27,269.Cumulatively, a total of 60.6 million samples have been tested, of which 1.4 lakh were tested on Monday alone. The state’s average positivity rate is 20.63% and more than half of the districts have reported a positivity rate greater than the state average as of Sunday. The state government had recently lifted the weekend curfew but decided to continue the night curfew and there is all likelihood that restrictions will be lifted from districts with lowest Covid test positivity rate. “Keeping in consideration the Covid spread, we have already taken a few decisions such as removing the weekend curfew. We have to observe the situation in the state further. All the future regulations will be based on how the state responds to the pandemic,” the CM said. Bengaluru Urban district which has been reporting the highest number of cases in the state recorded a positivity rate of 20.13%. The district stood at the 18th spot in terms of positivity rate. Meanwhile, leader of Opposition in legislative assembly Siddaramaiah on Monday said that the spike in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka is not connected with the Mekedatu padayatra led by Congress. Talking to reporters in Hubli, he said that the BJP is making political statements over Covid. “Did Basavaraj Bommai, R Ashoka, and others get Covid due to our padayatra?” he asked. Meanwhile, state health minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said that all adults across Karnataka have been administered the first anti-Covid vaccine jab. “We made it! It took us exactly 1 year and 7 days to achieve 100% first dose coverage! Karnataka is the first state in the country (>4 cr adult population) to achieve this feat. Kudos to all health workers and district administration on this stellar achievement! (sic),” Sudhakar said in a tweet. According to the data shared by him, Gadag district achieved 105% vaccination of its eligible population with the first dose whereas inoculation coverage in Bidar, Bagalkote and Vijayapura districts, was 104% of the population.With Agency Inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-50-karnataka-district-logs-highest-test-positivity-rate-in-state-101643051472849.html
25-01-2022||India||HT This Day: January 25, 1950 -- Indonesian Republic President in Delhi||NEW DELHI-A rousing reception was given to Dr Soekarno, President of the Indonesian Republic, on his arrival here this afternoon The Governor-General. Mr Rajagopalachari, and the Prime Minister, Pandit Nehru, received President Soekarno and Mrs Soekarno at Willingdon airport as they got from a Dakota which was flying the flag of the new Republic.Looking pretty in her pale-brown national costume, Mrs Soekarno and her husband, who was wearing the full star-studded uniform of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Indonesia, were first received by their old friend, Pandit Nehru, who introduced them to the Governor-General. Pandit Nehru and Dr Soekarno embraced each other affectionately and the Governor-General clasped the Indoneslan leader’s hand with touching warmth. Mrs Soekarno received a bouquet of roses from Mrs Soedarsono, wife of the Indonesian Charge d’Affaires here in Delhi. Rajkumari Amrit Kau,. India’s Minister of Health, Sheikh Abdullah, the Kashmir Premier; Mr Lamping. Netherlands Ambassador who is the Doyen of the Diplomatic Corps! and his wife; Mr Gollan, Australian High Commissioner, Mr Ismail Kamel Bay, E ptian Ambassador; Sardar NajibKhan. Afghan Ambassador; Mr Mohd. Salim Al-Radi, Minister for Iraq; Mr Emmanuel Abraham, Minister for Ethiopia; and Dr Casco Vieira Garin, Minister for Portugal; and Dr P. Subbaroyan. Indian Ambassador to Indonesia, were also present. An enthusiastic friend of Indonesia, Pandit Nehru, arrived several minutes before the landing of the plane and was seen busy arranging people collected to receive President Soekarno in rows. But these vanished almost immediately as everybody rushed toward the plane as soon as it halted. Dr Soekarno and party are staying at Government House. Dr Soekarno is visiting Agra on January 28 and will leave for Karachi on January 29. A member of Indonesian Information Ministry said that Dr Seokarno’s visit to India was purely a goodwill and courtesy visit and that he had no definite subjects to discuss with the Government of India. He was here to participate in the celebrations marking the inauguration of the Indian Republic, he added. Dr Soekarno will lay a wreath on Mahatma Gandhi’s samadhi at Rajghat on January 27, and will also address the staff and students of the Delhi University at 11-30 a.m. Pandit Nehru will also be present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-january-25-1950-indonesian-republic-president-in-delhi-101643051355788.html
25-01-2022||India||Four seats vacant: Clamour over Cabinet expansion gains momentum, divide grows||The clamour over the cabinet expansion within the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka continues to grow even as several leaders have been openly expressing their concerns, including making explosive claims of possible defections before the next assembly elections.Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand legislator from Bijapur city (Vijayapura), on Monday, said that there were many MLAs who are currently with the BJP but had already made deals with senior leaders of the Congress to defect.“Many people have already booked their tickets by going to the homes of DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah,” Yatnal said on Monday.He added that the BJP high command, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi were well aware of the identities of these people, making an indirect reference to the legislators who defected to the saffron outfit after engineering the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government in 2019.The statements come even as several party leaders continue to express disappointment over not being included in the Cabinet in Bommai’s government, which has four vacant berths.Yatnal said, “The same people cannot be allowed to continue in the Cabinet and if the expansion does not take place, it can threaten the party’s chances and its very survival.”At least 17 legislators from the Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) had resigned from the coalition government and joined the BJP in a move engineered by BS Yediyurappa and others. They were suitably rewarded with ministerial berths even at the cost of overlooking seniors from the party.While Yediyurappa had most of this dissent under check, the divide grew wider after Bommai, who has been in the party for just over 13 years and replaced the former as chief minister, antagonising the senior fold within the state leadership.“There are four vacant berths and filling them up will help the government expand its influence and strengthen the organisation. Same people are being given chances repeatedly,” MP Renukacharya, the BJP legislator from Honnali said.The growing divide within the BJP has been helping the opposition grow stronger and arm themselves to attack the ruling government as well as dent its chances in other upcoming crucial elections like zila and taluka panchayati, Bengaluru city corporation and the 2023 assembly elections.Chief minister (CM) Bommai on Monday allocated the district in-charge ministers nearly six months after he came to power. Talking about the appointments to boards and corporations, he said that it depends on discussions within the party. “There is no proposal on the issue of appointments to boards and corporations. The party leadership would examine the issue and submit a report. Action would be taken based on that,” Bommai said.He also feigned ignorance about other meetings of BJP legislators who were purportedly discussing the cabinet expansion.A meeting was held at the residence of BJP leader and minister Umesh Katti on Saturday. The meeting was attended by several legislators from the party in Belagavi.“There are four vacant berths in the ministry. Naturally there are aspirants for them. Nothing wrong with that. Top leadership will decide on when and how to go about it. I too have brought it to the notice of the top leadership. I will provide all the details as soon as the party high command calls me for discussion,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-seats-vacant-clamour-over-cabinet-expansion-gains-momentum-divide-grows-101643051052567.html
25-01-2022||India||Nagaland keen to pursue out-of-court settlement of border dispute with Assam||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Monday said the state government is in favour of settling its decades-old border dispute with Assam out of court. This was decided at a meeting of the state assembly’s select committee to examine the Assam-Nagaland border dispute, Rio said. The Nagaland CM is hopeful that the Assam-Meghalaya model of setting up of a local body from both sides and resolving the division of disputed areas can be done to sort out the Assam-Nagaland border dispute. The select committee on Monday identified the Assam-Nagaland border into four sectors, the chief minister said.Rio, who met Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma in Guwahati on Sunday, said the out-of-court settlement of the border row was also discussed during the meeting. However, Sarma told journalists after the meeting that he hoped the border dispute case with Nagaland which is pending in Supreme Court would get sorted in another 2-3 years.After the meeting, Rio indicated that his team from Nagaland along with Sarma, will be meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah in February to formulate how to go about settling the long-pending border row between the two states.Nagaland and Assam share about 500 km boundary and disputes along the border between the two states are believed to have been going on from 1963 after Nagaland attained statehood. Past attempts made by the two state governments to resolve the issue did not work out. Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by the Centre to solve the issue and a case is pending in the Supreme Court on the issue since 1988.The Supreme Court also attempted to resolve the dispute amicably through mediation in 2010 but the report submitted by the mediators which consisted of two senior advocates, was rejected by both Assam and Nagaland governments. Then the apex court in 2015 ordered both the governments to file the list of their witnesses along with their testimonies in the form of affidavits with the court’s registrar. But the progress has been slow because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.A fresh standoff occurred in the Dissoi Valley reserved forest and Tsurangkong valley between the armed police forces of the two states last year, after which a chief secretary level meeting was held on July 31 where an agreement was signed to de-escalate the situation. Both states agreed to withdraw their respective forces from the disputed area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-keen-to-pursue-out-of-court-settlement-of-border-dispute-with-assam-101643051051045.html
25-01-2022||India||‘IAS rule change not Centre-state issue, it’s about country’s governance’||The secretary of information and broadcasting Apurva Chandra on Monday said that proposed amendments to the Indian Administrative Service cadre rules need to be viewed not from the perspective of a Centre-state conflict, but from overarching need for the smooth governance of the country, as states continue to challenge the proposed changes and say that these would destroy the country’s federal structure.“This is not just a Centre-state issue; it needs to be viewed from the perspective of the governance of the country,” Chandra said. “It cannot be a question of individual comfort when the governance of the country suffers.”Among the amendments proposed is one that says the Centre will arrive at the number of officers on CDR in consultation with states, another that in case of any difference of opinion between the Centre and the state, the latter will go with the decision of the former, and within a specified time and a third that the Centre could pick a specific officer from a state in public interest.The union government has sought state government responses to the proposed amendments to IAS cadre rules by January 25, after the last reminder on this was sent on January 6, and at least 10 chief ministers have written to the Prime Minister terming this a blow to the federal structure of governance as they will be forced under the new rules to relieve officers for central deputation.Chandra added that state-level stints are immensely helpful for officers, as it allows to take the learnings from the ground and implement them on a larger policy scale. “My Maharashtra stint, as controller of rationing in Bombay, helped me realize that there were many issues concerning the diversion of kerosene and LPG,” he said. “When I came to the petroleum ministry, we helped enact laws that could prevent such diversions.”He stressed that implementation experience at the state level can be leveraged by IAS officers at the central level to enact better policies. “What happens is that officers at the secretary and additional secretary-level (in states) agree to come to the Centre,” he said. “It is at the lower levels that people don’t take deputation. My three stints with the government of India have helped me immensely expand my oeuvre.”According to a government note seen by HT, a a trend of decreasing representation of IAS officers up to joint secretary level in GoI has been noticed as most of the States are not meeting their CDR obligations and the number of officers, sponsored by the States to serve in GoI are much lesser than the CDR. “The number of IAS officers on CDR has gone down from 309 in 2011 to 223 as on date,” states the note. “The percentage of CDR utilization has gone down from 25% in 2011 to 18% as on date. This is despite an increase of IAS officers at deputy secretary/Director level in IAS from 621 in 2014 to 1130 in 2021, the number of such officers on central deputation has gone down from 117 to 114 during the period.” HT first reported some of the contents of this note on January 21.The note adds that the reason quoted by most of the state cadres for not sponsoring officers as per prescribed CDR is a shortage of officers in the cadre. “Considering the same and the fact that shortage of AIS officers in the cadres, if any, has to be shared mutually between the Centre and the States, it has been proposed that the state cadre may now provide such number of offices as part of CDR only after adjusting the same proportionately with the number of officers available in the cadre,” states the note.The union government states that this would address the issue of genuine shortage of officers in any particular cadre. “It may be mentioned that the requirement from the states is only to sponsor adequate number of officers for posting in the Centre. The actual number of officers to be deputed to the Central Government shall be decided only in consultation with the State Government,” the note added.It further notes that for dealing with specific situations like major disasters, national security, services of an AIS officer may be warranted in the Centre. “Similarly, services of an AIS officer with a specific Domain expertise may be required for any important time bound flagship programme/project of GoI. The extant Cadre Rules do not have specific provisions to cater to such situations, which have now been proposed through these amendments,” the note said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-rule-change-not-centre-state-issue-it-s-about-country-s-governance-i-b-secretary-101643050991601.html
25-01-2022||India||Uttarakhand elections: Congress fields Harish Rawat from Ramnagar||The Congress on Monday announced a second list of 11 candidates for the upcoming state assembly elections. The party has fielded former chief minister Harish Rawat from Ramnagar constituency in Nainital district. The party released its first list with 53 names on Saturday late night, and is still to name six candidates for the polls to the 70-member assembly. Aside from Rawat, the list also named party state vice president Suryakant Dhasmana, who would be contesting from the Dehradun Cantonment constituency. Anukriti Gusain, daughter-in-law of former cabinet minister Harak Singh Rawat, will contest from Lansdowne. She joined the Congress about a week ago along with Harak Singh after defecting from BJP -- Harak Singh has not been named in the second list. The party is yet to announce its candidates for Narendra Nagar, Tehri, Salt, Haridwar rural, Roorkee and Chaubattakhal constituencies. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is also yet to release its second list of candidates on the remaining 11 seats after announcing candidates for 59 seats on Thursday.
25-01-2022||India||Punjab elections: EC notice to AAP over breach of poll code by Bhagwant Mann||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has sought an explanation from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over its Punjab chief ministerial (CM) candidate Bhagwant Mann allegedly holding a roadshow in Sangrur on Sunday in violation of the model code of conduct. The poll panel has imposed some restrictions on holding rallies and other electioneering activities in a bid to check the spread of Covid-19 during the assembly elections in the five states.Mann, along with his party’s supporters had allegedly held a roadshow at Dhuri in Sangrur district on Sunday.Dhuri Returning Officer Ismat Vijay Singh on Monday said the show cause notice was issued to the AAP’s district chief, asking him to explain why no action should be taken against the party for violating the model code. The he model code of conduct came into force on January 8 after the poll schedule for the five states, where assembly elections are slated to take place, was announced.Voting in Punjab is scheduled to take place in a single phase on February 20 while counting of votes will take place on March 10, the poll panel had earlier announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-elections-ec-notice-to-aap-over-breach-of-poll-code-by-cm-candidate-bhagwant-mann-101643050511002.html
25-01-2022||India||Ek Mauka Kejriwal Ko: AAP kicks off drive for assembly elections||Ahead of the crucial assembly elections next month, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Monday asked Delhiites to join the party’s digital campaign by highlighting “good work” of the Delhi government on social media platforms.Launching his party’s “Ek Mauka Kejriwal Ko” (one chance to Kejriwal) campaign, the AAP chief urged residents of Delhi to upload short videos of their “good experience” of the achievements by the AAP-led Delhi government on social media and appeal to voters in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Goa to vote for the party. “Make videos on good works of Delhi government telling how you benefitted, and share them on Twitter, Instagram Facebook, Whatsapp, etc., appealing to people to give one chance to Kejriwal if they want similar good works in their states too,” the Delhi chief minister said. “Also, WhatsApp your videos to people known to you in these states appealing them to give a chance to Kejriwal,” he added.The AAP has already announced to contesting all seats in the assembly elections to be held in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Uttarakhand. Saying his party did not have “crores of money” to spend on elections, Kejriwal said the support of the people of Delhi is the most valuable asset for the AAP. “We could transform Delhi because the public showed faith in us and gave us a chance to form the government. We will be able to replicate the Delhi model in other parts of the country, if people in other states too trust and support us like Delhiites,” he said.Kejriwal also promised to host a dinner for the creators of top 50 videos after the elections.“The videos can depict how measures taken by the Delhi government have helped the public. If there’s a mohalla clinic around one, they can show what all facilities these clinics provide. They can be living proof of the education revolution of Delhi and show how our ‘happiness curriculum’ or entrepreneurship curriculum has helped the children,” Kejriwal said.“In the last seven years, the AAP government has done a lot of remarkable work in Delhi. People from the United Nations came to visit mohalla clinics and the former US president’s (Donald Trump’s) wife (Melania Trump) came to see Delhi’s schools. We are providing 24-hour free electricity to people,” he said, adding it was possible only because people of Delhi gave the opportunity to the AAP.“Do you want this good work to be replicated in other parts of the country? People of these (poll-bound) states should also get free 24-hour electricity, good roads, better schools, and better healthcare facilities,” he said.Prof Tanvir Aeijaz, an associate professor of political science at Delhi University’s Ramjas College, said campaigns by political parties during Covid-19 pandemic are done largely on social media, and AAP’s initiative by asking residents to upload videos of “good work by Kejriwal” on social media can be seen as a novel idea of political mobilisation for state elections. “It does give a veneer of participatory democracy, but largely the party workers would be uploading it. However, people at large do not understand the nuances of multilevel federalism operating in Delhi, and hence uploading videos may lead to intense propaganda in terms of blame game. The biggest casualty would be truth,” Aeijaz said. He pointed at the fact that Delhi Dialogue Commission does not have reports to back the authenticity of AAP’s claims of development. “Campaigns on social media by parties could lead to anyone’s advantage, or perhaps to the party that has major control over it. It would be better for AAP to fight on a more realistic turf, with more authentic reports than on social media,” he added. 
25-01-2022||India||UP elections: Azam, Shivpal figure in SP’s first list of candidates||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, his uncle Shivpal Yadav and jailed leader Azam Khan were among 159 candidates who figured on the party’s first list of candidates for the impending assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, on Monday.As many as 66 leaders belonging to the other backward classes, over 30 Dalits, 31 Muslims and 12 women were also fielded by the party for the polls starting February 10. “The list is balanced with due representations to all caste and community groups. The candidates are strong and will help the party to form the next government. The list is in sync with the party president’s motto of amalgamation of ‘Samajwadi (socialists)’ and ‘Ambadkarvadis (Ambadkarites)’,” SP national spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi told reporters here while releasing the first list. As reported by HT earlier, Akhilesh will contest the polls from Karhal (Mainpuri) constituency, while former minister and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia chief Shivpal was declared the party’s candidate from the family bastion of Jaswantnagar in Etawah district.The party has fielded jailed leader Azam Khan from his traditional Rampur seat while his son Abdullah Azam from Suar Tanda. Azam has been in Sitapur jail since February 2020 in various cases filed against him. Abdullah, who was also in jail, was released on January 15.The party, meanwhile, has decided to re-nominate SP MLA Nahid Hasan from Kairana seat in Shamli. Hasan, who is facing a case under the Gangsters Act, was arrested by Uttar Pradesh Police on January 16 and sent to judicial custody.The party has also decided to retain sitting MLA and one of its Brahmin faces, Manoj Pandey, from Unchahar constituency. Utkrist Maurya, son of ex-BJP minister Swami Prasad Maurya, who also joined the SP recently, was denied the ticket from this seat.With Monday’s list, the SP and its allies have released the names of a total of 194 candidates: 159 of SP, 33 of Rashtriya Lok Dal, one Nationalist Congress Party, and one Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party. Former state minister Dharam Singh Saini, who switched over to the SP from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) a few days ago, was named as the party’s nominee from Nakur in Saharanpur district. Former BJP leader Roshan Lal Verma (Tilhar in Shahjahanpur) was also among the turncoats who got an SP ticket on Monday. Supriya Aron, former mayor of Bareilly, who just joined the SP, was fielded from the Bareilly Cantt seat.Taking a jibe at the SP list, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said: “Many thanks to the Samajwadi Party for finally declaring its list of candidates whose names the party had been releasing secretly. Now that the list is finally out, SP’s brand ambassadors have been revealed. It contains names of people with a tainted record and even now it appears to be just a trailer. The entire film is yet to be released.” The BJP leader said the release of the list coincided with Balika Diwas or National Girl Child Day. “The list has names like Nahid Hasan, Azam Khan, Abdullah Azam, Sultan Baig, Mehboob Ali, Aslam Chaudhary, Irfan Solanki some of whom are in jail or out on bail. There are some other names of people on the list who have been accused of other crimes. So, this list is new but the trend is old of fielding candidates with a dubious track record,” he said. The SP and its allies have decided to contest all 403 seats in the state assembly. However, they are yet to provide details on the seat-sharing between them.
25-01-2022||India||Top court refuses to revisit Shaheen Bagh protest order||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to revisit its judgment on Shaheen Bagh protest and dismissed an application moved by a lawyer stating that the condition to seek prior permission for staging protest at a designated site should not be mandatory as it curtails right of citizens to protest peacefully.The application was moved on behalf of advocate Tasneem Ahmadi who was also part of the earlier proceedings in the Supreme Court which led to the judgment of October 7, 2020 where the Court held that while democracy and dissent go hand in hand, right to protest cannot be at the cost of public inconvenience and hence, it must be restricted to designated sites of protest and not on public roads and spaces.Dismissing the application, a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh said, “No clarification of our judgment is required. The judgment speaks for itself.”The application, drafted by advocate Mehmood Pracha, said, “The conditions of permission and designated public place ought not to be made mandatory in case of peaceful protests expressing dissent. Inconvenience to the public has to be seen in the light of all relevant facts and a clarification in that respect is necessary to uphold the right to peaceful dissent as enunciated by this Court in its judgment of October 7, 2020.”Presenting practical situations where permission of protest is denied by authorities or a small place is designated as protest site which cannot accommodate many protestors, the application said, “Taking the instance of the protest at Shaheen Bagh, the same could not have been shifted to Jantar Mantar which has a maximum capacity of only 1000 people…The repeated attacks and attempts to attack the ladies who were sitting in peaceful protest at Shaheen Bagh only underscores the point that if they were forced to commute to Jantar Mantar every day, they would have to face and bear the brunt of violent physical attacks.”When the Court took up the application, advocate Mansoor Ali informed the Court that Pracha, who is to argue the plea, was stuck in another Court. Having gone through the plea, the Court found no reason to entertain the application and dismissed the same.The applicant said, “The observations regarding protests at designated places, in the judgment as well as the observation regarding action to be taken by the administration, defeats the pious intention of this Court, of upholding the right to protest as an integral part of democracy which cannot be crushed.”It said that the authority, when it raises a plea of public inconvenience to block protests, should be duty bound to provide a suitable site to enable the protestors to demonstrate their strength in numbers. “A suitable clarification is required to ensure that the right to dissent, as upheld by this Court, is not defeated by refusal to grant permission,” the application said, adding, “It is important to strike a balance between public convenience and the right to protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-refuses-to-revisit-shaheen-bagh-protest-order-101643049851275.html
25-01-2022||India||UP elections: BJP to finalise candidates’ list today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership, including Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, met in the capital on Monday to discuss the names of the remaining candidates for the seven-phase assembly election in the state. The party has already announced the names of 197 candidates. The remaining names will be announced after the party’s central election committee meets on Tuesday, said functionaries aware of the development. The BJP, which is contesting the upcoming UP assembly polls in alliance with the Apna Dal and the Nishad Party, is likely to put up candidates in about 380 seats of the 403-member assembly, a party functionary said. “The BJP has nearly finalised the seat-sharing agreement with the allies, the Apna Dal and the Nishad Party, and last-minute negotiations are underway for a handful of seats in the purvanchal,” the functionary said, requesting anonymity. Last week, party president JP Nadda addressed a press conference flanked by Anupriya Patel of the Apna Dal and Sanjay Nishad of the Nishad Party to assert that the allies are geared up to “jointly” contest all the 403 seats.In 2017, the Apna Dal had contested on 11 seats and won nine. This time, the party has been pushing the BJP to increase its quota in the seat distribution. Nishad Party is also pushing for a double-digit seat allocation. The BJP is also expected to shift some of the sitting legislators from their existing constituencies to boost its chances of improving the overall tally. While about a dozen legislators will move to new constituencies, between 70-80 will be dropped to buck anti-incumbency, the functionary said.“The party also follows the practice of giving newer faces a chance. This time we have announced that requests for multiple tickets per family will not be entertained ,” said a second functionary. The BJP has had to revisit its initial plan of dropping over 40% of the siting MLAs following the exit of three ministers from the other backward classes and a clutch of legislators. The party is mindful of the resentment such a move can set off, the second functionary said, declining to be named. “The anti-incumbency is usually against the sitting lawmaker and the BJP for long has followed a practice of dropping up to 30% of the sitting candidates,” the second functionary said. “But overall, ticket distribution is based on winnability.” 
25-01-2022||India||Steps taken for ‘absolutely Covid safe’ elections; use democratic right: CEC||Weeks before the assembly elections begin in five states, chief election commissioner(CEC) Sushil Chandra on Monday said that all necessary arrangements have been made for “absolutely Covid safe” polls and urged voters to exercise their democratic right enthusiastically.Chandra also said that holding elections in the past two years amid the coronavirus pandemic had proven to be “extremely challenging”.“For the last two years, the Covid-19 pandemic has made the conduct of elections far more challenging. It is with the confidence and the support of the voters that we have managed to conduct six assembly elections and many more by-elections,” he said in a video message to the public on the eve of the 12th National Voters’ Day.Referring to the elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur to be held in seven phases between February 10 and March 7, he said the poll panel has emphasised on increasing the pace of Covid-19 vaccination in these states.The CEC also pointed out that the number of voters in the country stood at 95.14 crore as against 17.3 crores during the first ever national elections in 1951-52.“Voters are our true heroes, our true inspiration. This year marks 70 years of India’s independence, which began with 17.3 crore voters. Now, we have 95.14 crore voters, of which over 49 crore are male and 45 crore are female. We also have 1.72 crore newly registered voters this time,” he said.The Election Commission came into being on January 25, 1950, a day before India became a republic. For the past 12 years now, January 25 has been celebrated as National Voters’ Day.The theme for this year’s National Voters’ Day is ‘Making Elections Inclusive, Accessible and Participative’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-elections-use-democratic-right-enthusiastically-cec-sushil-chandra-tells-voters-101643049190874.html
25-01-2022||India||Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh among Congress’ star campaigners for first phase||The top leadership of the Congress will campaign for the party for the first phase of Uttar Pradesh’s assembly elections, according to a list released on Monday. They would include party chief Sonia Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, party MP Rahul Gandhi and All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, senior leaders RPN Singh and Ghulam Nabi Azad, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot will also campaign in UP. Former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar, who joined the Congress in September last year, was also named. This is the first time that the student leader will be campaigning for the grand old party ahead of a key assembly election, after he jumped ship from the Communist Party of India (CPI) amid a barrage of criticism last year.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal has sent the list of the star campaigners to the chief electoral officer of Uttar Pradesh. “The following leaders of the Indian National Congress, who would be campaigning as per Section 77(1) of Representation of People Act, 1951, for the ensuing first phase of elections to the legislative assembly of Uttar Pradesh to be held on 10th February 2022,” he said in a letter. The first phase will be held on Februrary 10. Six other phases of the election are scheduled for February 14, 20, 23, 27, and March 3 and 7. The results will be declared on March 10.Last week, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had released its list of 30 campaigners for the UP elections. While many star campaigners like Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah were named, party MPs and mother-son duo Maneka Gandhi and Varun Gandhi were excluded.Given the constraints of campaigning because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the parties are likely to hit the campaign trail in Uttar Pradesh in a phased manner, including door-to-door campaigning and closed-door meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-sonia-gandhi-manmohan-singh-among-congress-star-campaigners-for-first-phase-101643048713453.html
25-01-2022||India||Number Theory: How did lockdown affect jobs in election states?||Jobs (or actually, the promise of jobs) are a big part of election campaigns in India. The forthcoming election cycle is no exception. Lack of timely data makes it difficult to analyse the latest employment trends in a state before elections. Jobs (or actually, the promise of jobs) are a big part of election campaigns in India. The forthcoming election cycle is no exception. Lack of timely data makes it difficult to analyse the latest employment trends in a state before elections. |#+|Data from the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), the official source of employment statistics in India, is released in two formats. Quarterly bulletins give estimates of urban employment without many details, while annual data provides a comprehensive picture of the employment scenario across quarters. The latest quarterly and annual figures from PLFS are available until March 2021 and June 2020. This data can be used to answer an important question. Which of these states suffered the most on the employment front in the April-June quarter of 2020, when India had its most stringent lockdown?While the April-June 2020 quarter seems a long time ago, the fact that India went through a bruising second wave, albeit without any nationwide lockdown, and is now in the midst of a third wave may imply, at the least, some overhang from that period. Whether it will have a political impact remains to be seen.Unemployment rateIndia’s average unemployment rate saw a big jump during the quarter ended April-June 2020. At 14.7%, it increased 1.7 times compared to April-June 2019. Three out of the five states (Goa, Punjab, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand) going to polls saw unemployment rates higher than the national average during this period. Having increased from 8.2% to 24.4%, Uttarakhand’s unemployment rate saw the sharpest increase.To be sure, the official unemployment rates given in PLFS underestimate the degree of joblessness in the Indian economy. This was explained in an August 2021 HT analysis by Ishan Anand and Anjana Thampi. It is because the official category of employed persons includes the sub-category of people looking for jobs. Accounting for this fact, Goa appears to have been the worst-hit state during the lockdown, where almost half of the labour force could be considered unemployed.Quality of employment worsenedBecause regular workers are the best paid in India, a decline in their share among all workers signifies a worsening in the quality of unemployment. A simple comparison of the share of three major employment categories – regular, self-employed and casual – shows that the share of regular workers actually went up in three of the five poll-bound states between the quarter ended June 2019 and June 2020. This is more a statistical anomaly than proof of workers moving to better jobs during the lockdown. It can be seen clearly once we break up regular wage and self-employed workers in the relevant categories. The data show an increase in regular workers and self-employed workers who were employed and not working, or doing unpaid labour.Shift towards agricultural employmentIn all states, except Punjab, the distribution of workers shifted towards agriculture. If we leave aside Goa, where the share of such workers remained comparatively low even despite this shift, the biggest such shifts happened in Manipur and Uttarakhand. In the former, the major shift was from the services sector, whereas in the latter the major shift was from industries. That such a shift was relatively less in Uttar Pradesh is not a cause for cheer either, as the agriculture sector in the state already employed 50% of workers in April-June 2019.People moved back to villages in lockdown, but did not find jobsThe quarterly bulletins of urban employment are available up to March 2021, but this analysis has avoided looking at those bulletins alone. It is not just because of detailed categories of employment are absent in quarterly bulletins, but also because of the bigger contribution of rural areas in the employment crisis.In April-June 2019, in all states except Manipur and Uttarakhand, labour force participation was higher in urban than in rural areas. Unemployment rate was also, perhaps because of the trend in the labour force participation rate (LPFR), which was higher in urban areas generally in all states (except Manipur).This changed during the lockdown months in 2020. Either the rural LFPR became higher than urban LFPR, or closed the gap, which is consistent with anecdotal accounts of migrants returning to their villages. These returning migrants did not necessarily find jobs. Except in Manipur, whose trends were opposite to other states even in 2019, the proportional increase in rural unemployment rate was higher than in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-did-lockdown-affect-jobs-in-election-states-101643048710319.html
25-01-2022||India||Punjab elections: BJP to contest on 65 seats, Amarinder’s PLC 37||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will contest 65 seats in the 117- member Punjab assembly, while its two allies, the Punjab Lok Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), will contest 37 and 15 seats, respectively. It is the first time since the 1997 assembly elections that the BJP is contesting elections in the state without its former ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, which was a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance. The SAD snapped ties with the BJP following disagreements over the farm laws that were recently repealed.Announcing the seat-sharing agreement in the capital on Monday, BJP chief JP Nadda, flanked by Amarinder Singh of the Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Dhindsa of the SAD Sanyukt, said the arrangement was arrived after detailed discussions. The new alliance has been stitched together on concerns the three parties share over the security of the nation and stability in the state that shares its border with Pakistan, Nadda said. “Punjab has 600 km of border with Pakistan. And we know what activities take place. There is drug, arms and sophisticated weapon smuggling happening. At the same time, they use drones to send drugs and ammunition,” Nadda said. “Security is a very important issue as far as Punjab election is concerned.” The BJP chief said the NDA does not see elections as just a means to change the regime, but also to “secure the future generations and give stability to Punjab.”He criticised the Congress government, saying the state was reeling under a ₹3 lakh crore debt. “Despite being a progressive state, it has slipped on the development index,” Nadda said. The security concerns was reiterated by Singh, former chief minister and Congress leader who now heads the Punjab Lok Congress. Addressing the media at the BJP headquarters, Singh said the alliance in the state came together following a consensus that the coalition was for the sake of stability and security of the nation.During his tenure, Singh was privy to the illegal activities carried out in the border state, which included sending over arms and ammunition, he said. “This has been my stand from the beginning. The weaponry that has come in the last four and a half years includes at least 100,000 rifles and 500 pistols and RDX and lakhs of rounds of ammunition. Drones were making drops. The purpose was to carry out nefarious activities,” he said. To a separate question on his allegation that Pakistan made a recommendation to include state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in his cabinet, the former chief minister said he did not approve of the cricketer turned politician and found him “incompetent and useless.”Soon after dropping Sidhu from his cabinet, Singh received a phone call on the behest of the Pakistan prime minister requesting him to change his decision, he alleged. “I was told to take back Sidhu into the cabinet and remove him if he did not work,” the former chief minister said. Dhindsa said the alliance will focus on the need for industry and other employment opportunities in the state. “The situation is bad; there is no industry, agriculture loans have gone up and there are no other means of brining it back on its feet,” the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) leader said. “There are other issues too. I have twice given memorandum to the union home ministry that those who have completed their terms should be released from prison.”In the backdrop of protests against the BJP government at the Centre against the farm laws and the party’s perceived alienation from the Sikh community, Nadda listed a clutch of measures that the BJP government announced for the community, which included allowing donations for Harmandir Sahib, exempting the langars or community kitchens from goods and serves tax, and setting up of a special investigation team to probe the 1984 riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-elections-bjp-to-contest-on-65-seats-amarinder-s-plc-37-101643048652538.html
25-01-2022||India||Omicron offshoot now under watch||Over the weekend, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) and the World Health Organization said they have designated BA.2, one of the four Omicron variant lineages, as under investigation. The reason for this designation was early signs that the lineage is outcompeting the other three, which in themselves are among the most transmissible already. Why is BA.2 different?The Omicron variant comprises four sister lineages. The earliest, detected in South Africa, was the B.1.1.529. Then came BA.1, which is now globally the predominant one, followed by BA.2 and BA.3. It is not unusual for variants to mutate and branch off into such lineages. It happened with Delta, which grew into AY.4.2, which was found in large samples in the UK.What makes BA.2 different from BA.1 is 28 unique mutations, including 12 in what is known as the receptor binding domain (RBD) – a portion of the virus that has a key role in infection. BA.2 also has 32 shared mutations with BA.1, but the 28 unique ones are not a small number. To be sure, the number of mutations does not alone determine if the virus’s function changes. They can depend on individual or a certain set of mutations, or even a new combination that may have arisen. Is it worrying?At the outset, it does not appear so, and the most crucial sign of this may come from India. In submissions by Indian labs recently, BA.2 accounts for 33% of genomes sequenced from patients in the past month. This means the particular offshoot is already present in large numbers in India, at least in some parts of the country. According to outbreak.info, the Indian regions where most of these samples came from are Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. At present, none of the Indian regions are reporting a significantly different hospitalisation or death trajectory from others, which means almost all Omicron lineages in India are behaving in a similar manner.This has also been borne out by Denmark’s experience, where severity estimates have not changed even as BA.2 is estimated to now account for 81% of cases.Why it must be monitoredThat it is outcompeting the other Omicron lineages still makes it worth investigating because scientists need to understand what traits exactly are giving it that advantage. Remember, even Omicron’s transmissibility advantage as a whole has not been well understood. In this light, a change in the variant that makes it even fitter is important to decode. The other parameters that will be monitored are if it is more resistant, which too can give it a transmission advantage. Imperial College London virologist Tom Peacock, who was among the first to spot Omicron’s vastly mutated nature, said last week that he believes there would be a “minimal difference in vaccine effectiveness against BA.1 and BA.2” and that it is “highly likely” that an infection with BA.1 will protect against a BA.2 infection. More studies are awaited.
25-01-2022||India||Omicron forms nearly 75% of the recently submitted samples to GISAID||The Omicron variant of Covid-19 was found in nearly 75% of the recent genome sequencing test results submitted by India to a global database in January, compared with about 19% in end December, people familiar with the matter said, which shows the fast-rising presence of the highly transmissible variant in the infected population.The Omicron variant is now in community transmission in India, INSACOG, the Indian Sars-CoV-2 genomics consortium of 10 central and 28 regional laboratories, announced in its Sunday bulletin, based on whole genome sequencing results.The heavily mutated Omicron variant spreads three times faster than any other variant, but is believed to be less than half as likely as Delta to lead to serious infections, according to current scientific evidence.“The sequencing results reflect the trend that the Omicron variant is gaining prominence over Delta, especially in the cities that are worst affected,” a government official said on condition of anonymity. “But that does not mean Delta is not present anymore within the community. We are also getting samples positive for the Delta variant. Therefore, people need to be very cautious.”The Indian samples are both from international travellers and from within the community that tested positive for Covid-19. “These are results of Covid-19 tests conducted in all dedicated labs from across the country, and is a mix from travellers and sentinel surveillance samples,” said the official.Although traveller samples dominated the mix earlier, the number of samples testing positive from within the community is rising fast.“We need to do more genomic sequencing as not every case is due to the Omicron variant. As recent data from Karnataka show, around 49% of samples sequenced from the state in December and January so far were of the Delta variant,” said Giridhara R Babu, head of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health.“It’s definitely not the time to drop guard, and observing Covid-appropriate behavior is as important now as it was earlier to prevent getting infected,” he said..
25-01-2022||India||Third Covid wave now spreading faster in rural districts||India’s villages have now overtaken its big cities in reporting the rise in fresh cases of Covid-19 in the pandemic’s third wave, an analysis by HT shows, even as the growth in daily numbers is on the wane.Although urban districts continue to report a higher volume of cases than rural areas, daily cases there are now decreasing, while they continue to rise in rural districts. This shift in rising infections from urban to rural parts of the country was seen in both of India’s previous Covid-19 waves as well. The HT analysis is based on district-level data provided by How India Lives compiled up to January 21.The data shows that Delhi and Mumbai – the first two outbreak centres of the Omicron surge – have seen their seven-day average of new cases decrease everyday since January 16 and January 13, respectively. They are also not the only major cities to do so – infections are also dropping fast in other metropolitan cities such as Chennai and Kolkata.While​ the seven-day average for India continues to increase, it’s rate of growth is now much lower than the rapid pace characteristic of the Omicron surge, data showed. The seven-day average of daily infections was 309,244 for the week ended January 23. A week ago, this number was 239,100, which means it has grown 29.3% in seven days. At its peak, the weekly growth rate had touched a monstrous 528% in the week ended January 8, nearly six times of the highest growth rate seen in the second wave.In Maharashtra, while the seven-day average of Mumbai and Mumbai Suburban districts decreased from 14,038 on January 15 to 6,934 on January 21, this average increased from 28,080 to 35,315 in the rest of the state. It suggests that the growth in cases is now being led by districts that are less urban.To check whether the current wave is now being driven by rural areas, HT classified districts on the basis of the share of their population living in rural areas in the 2011 census. Districts with less than 20% population living in rural areas are classified as entirely urban, and those with more than 80% population living in rural areas are classified as entirely rural, with the largely urban, mixed, and largely rural districts falling at similar 20% intervals in between.This classification shows that in the entirely urban districts – 16 in number and including all metros and some capital cities – the seven-day average of cases has decreased in the past week – from 74,651 on January 15 to 70,142 on January 21. For these 16 districts combined, the decline so far, apart from being more recent than Delhi and Mumbai, is also less consistent. The average grew by 0.8% on January 18, for example, although it decreased on all other days from January 16 to January 21.In all other kinds of districts, the cases are still growing, but the growth is higher in districts that are more rural. The growth rate of the seven-day average on January 21 was 4.5% in largely urban districts (20%-40% population is rural), 4.4% in mixed districts (40%-60% population rural), 6.7% in largely rural districts (60%-80% population rural), and 6.9% in entirely rural districts (over 80% rural population).In absolute numbers, new infections are still somewhat higher in the urban districts. The seven-day average on January 21 was 70,142 in entirely urban districts, 60,637 in largely urban districts, 53,024 in mixed districts, 61,914 in largely rural districts, and 41,226 in entirely rural districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-wave-now-spreading-faster-in-rural-districts-101643048112676.html
25-01-2022||India||Stakeholders push to lift curbs, open schools in Delhi||The Delhi government’s health department has recommended that businesses activities in the national capital should be allowed to resume without restrictions,and private schools have urged the authorities to bring children back to the classroom as the clamour to start unlocking the Capital gained momentum amid a fall in Covid-19 cases and consistently low hospitalisation rates.A decision, however, is likely only after three more days, when the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meets on January 27 to discuss changes to restrictions.There have been growing demands in recent days from the city’s elected government, the business community, and parents of schoolchildren for the DDMA to ease Covid-19 related restrictions, which several medical experts regard as unnecessarily stifling at a time when the outbreak is under control.“Covid cases have been on a decline over the last week. On January 20, there was a minor spike but we had more tests that day and the positivity rate was lower, which was another indication of receding cases. Our assessment is that we can remove restrictions in a phased manner, and we have communicated that to the DDMA,” a health department official said on Monday, asking not to be named.Numbers released on Monday further reinforced the assessment. The city recorded 5,760 new infections from 11.79% of all tests conducted the day before, the lowest rate at which the tally grew in 20days. The number of people in hospitals with Covid-19 too shrunk significantly to 2,394, the lowest since January 16.DDMA, headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, has called a meeting for 12.30pm on January 27 to discuss the Covid-related public health measures in the city. Last week, the agency rejected a request from the Delhi government to lift the weekend curfew and allow all shops to open instead of the odd-even rule at present, although it accepted the proposal to let private offices call back 50% of staff to their locations.“The larger opinion of the government is that we can ease restrictions so that the economy is not burdened. There are people whose livelihoods are being impacted by these prolonged restrictions, which were needed during the peak Covid period, but since that phase has passed we should not burden them,” a second health department official said, asking not to be named.Over the last week, the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and a variety of trade groups made repeated appeals to Baijal to rethink continuing restrictions such as the weekend curfew, the night curfew and a rule to allow only alternate shops in marketplaces to open in light of the infection trends. Since hitting a peak on January 13, the number of new cases in the city has only shrunk.Trader groups told HT that a survey of business across the city showed that 86% of them reported their business to have shrunk to 40% of what they routinely earn as they stay shut or work in limited hours, while markets and malls in neighbouring regions are open for regular operations.They reiterated their appeal on Monday with a stronger warning of unavoidable jobs cuts due to the strain of fixed costs like rent while their earning days are significantly limited. “Due to this financial crunch, the traders are left with no other option (but) to cut down expenses, terminate employees to sustain their business, which in fact would lead to a huge unemployment situation in Delhi,” said a letter signed by the New Delhi Traders Association president Atul Bhargava, sent to Baijal.Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trader and Industry, an association of traders, said a group of traders protested in Rohini on Monday against the DDMA’s Friday decision not to lift the curbs.Similar appeals have also come from schools and parents of school-going children.“We are vaccinating students in eligible categories but the government should reopen schools for students in all classes. Complete reopening is the need of the hour,” said Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools.The government had urged schools to ensure 100% vaccination of eligible children so that a stronger case could be made to the DDMA to allow classes to resume.Between the first lockdown, the four past Covid waves in Delhi and the period of air quality crisis, children in Delhi have spent some of the longest time out of school over the last two years in the country. Experts have warned not only will the learning loss from these be severe, particularly among those that cannot afford digital devices to learn from home, but children will have missed days of social interactions that are critical for their early age development even though their infection risk is starkly low.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said that the closure of schools over the past two years had derailed the overall growth of children and it was necessary for the government to reopen schools for all children. “Children have been heavily affected in the past two years. Children in the younger age group are particularly vulnerable and need to be in classrooms for the development of interpersonal relationships. The government should reopen schools without any ifs and buts. It should educate parents that children are least affected by Omicron or Covid,” said Kishore.“My children wait for turns to use the one mobile phone that we have. Despite the financial constraints caused by the pandemic, we are taking all efforts to educate our children. If other states can reopen schools, the same can be done in Delhi,” said Dharam Pal, who works with a transport company.Monday marked the first day that schools in several parts of Maharashtra opened. The state, particularly its capital Mumbai, was among the earliest to be hit by the Omicron variant along with Delhi.Students in most cities can now go back to in-person classes after the outbreak there appeared to be under control.The third nationwide outbreak of Covid-19 began in late December and has since swept across much of the country. But in keeping with other regions of the world where the Omicron variant has spread, there was a significant decoupling in the rate of hospital admissions and deaths from new infections. Even when cases reached sharp, high peaks – deaths and hospital admissions have remained a low – a trend reflected in Delhi’s numbers as well.For instance, even when the number of new cases reached close to an all-time high of over 28,000, the hospital bed occupancy rate remained under 20% throughout the month.Dr Suneela Garg, professor and member of the Lancet Commission Covid India Task Force, said that life and livelihood will have to go hand in hand now. “Life and livelihood has to be in the forefront but Covid appropriate behaviour needs to be strictly followed. For the last four days, Delhi is recording a steady decline in infections and from around 28% positivity rate during the peak period we have come down to around 11% very quickly. If the situation remains similar for the next two-three days, we can surely ease restrictions in a phased manner,” said Dr Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stakeholders-push-to-lift-curbs-open-schools-in-delhi-101643047990225.html
25-01-2022||India||PM hails youth power in Bal Puraskar meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday handed the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar to children picked for the honours and asked them to support the “Vocal for Local” campaign, even as he added that the awards came with a huge responsibility for the youngsters.The Prime Minister awarded the Bal Puraskar recipients certificates digitally using the “blockchain technology” during a virtual event held on Monday, an official statement said. Twenty-nine children, including 14 girls, were recognised for their exceptional abilities and outstanding achievements in six fields – innovation, scholastic achievement, sports, arts and culture, social service, and bravery.Modi said the youth was at the centre of all policies being framed by the government.Applauding the children for playing a key role in the success of the government’s Swachh Bharat campaign, Modi asked them to become ambassadors for the “Vocal for Local” drive, too. “Just like you came forward for the cleanliness campaign, you should also come forward for the Vocal for Local campaign. Make a list of the products that you use at home and are not made in India. Then urge your family members to use similar products that are made in India. This way you will help India to become an Atma Nirbhar nation,” the Prime Minister said.During his interaction with Meedhansh Kumar, 11, who has developed a web portal for providing information regarding Covid-19, Modi said: “In children like Meedhansh, the government efforts to promote entrepreneurship are bearing fruit and a tendency to become job providers instead of being job seekers is becoming more pronounced.”While speaking to Tarushi Kumar, a 12-year-old from Chandigarh who had her name registered in the Guinness Book for her Taekwondo skills, the Prime Minister asked about her opinion on the balance between sports and studies, and also assured that the government is committed to providing all the facilities to sportspersons.During the interaction, the Prime Minister also talked about the unveiling of a hologram statue of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose at the India Gate on Sunday and said the “biggest inspiration we get from Netaji is – duty and nation first”. “Taking inspiration from Netaji, you have to proceed on the path of duty for the country,” he said.“You have been given these awards when the country is celebrating 75 years of its Independence. With this award, you have been given a huge responsibility. Now, everyone’s expectations have also increased from you. You do not have to feel stressed by these expectations but draw inspiration instead.”He also asked the children to study the bravery and sacrifice of the sons of Guru Gobind Singh. “The Sahibzadas had sacrificed themselves with immense valour at a very young age. Their sacrifice for India’s civilization, culture, faith and religion is incomparable. Youngsters should know more about the Sahibzadas and their sacrifice,” the Prime Minister said.He also lauded children for their participation in the Covid-19 vaccination programme. “Children of India have shown their modern and scientific temperament in the vaccination programme and since January 3, in just 20 days, more than 40 million children have taken the Corona vaccine,” Modi said.The Prime Minister praised the youngsters for their contribution in the field of startups and innovation. “Your own generation is leading this new era not only in India but outside India as well. Today, we feel proud when we see that the CEOs of all the big companies of the world, everyone is discussing about them. Who are these CEOs? They are the children of our own country. It is the young generation of this country which is dominant in the world today. Today, we feel proud when we see that the CEOs of all the big companies of the world are young Indians. We feel proud when we see the youth of India excelling in the world of startups,” he said.The Prime Minister also greeted the daughters of the country on the National Girl Child Day. He also remembered the contributions of women freedom fighters, including Birbala Kanaklata Barua, Khudiram Bose and Rani Gaidinilu, in India’s struggle for freedom. “These fighters made the country’s freedom the mission of their lives at a very young age and dedicated themselves to it,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-hails-youth-power-in-bal-puraskar-meet-101643047870164.html
25-01-2022||India||Air India’s handover to Tatas expected soon after Republic Day||Air India (AI) is likely to be formally handed over to the Tata group by the end of this week, officials with knowledge of the matter said on Monday, signaling that process to transfer the debt-laden national carrier was nearing an end.AI officials said the final handover date was not finalised but they aimed to hand over the airline by Thursday. “We cannot confirm a date, but the final handover has to happen this week,” an AI official said, declining to be named.An AI spokesperson refused to comment on the matter.The national carrier, which began its journey under the Tatas 90 years ago before the government nationalized the sector in 1953, was sold to the autos-to-steel Tata conglomerate, which will pay ₹18,000 crore for a 100% stake. The sale was announced on October 8 by the Union government.Talace Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, will get 100% equity shares of AI and AI Express, along with the government’s 50% stake in ground-handling company AISATS.An internal message sent to AI employees said that the closing balance sheet was to be submitted by the end of Monday, said the officials cited above. The balance sheet was then to be forwarded to the Tata Sons for review.“The closing balance sheet as of 20th January has to be provided today (Monday) 24th January so that it can be reviewed by Tatas and any changes can be effected on Wednesday,” the message, which HT has seen, said.It added the next three days will be hectic and requested airline employees to give their best before the firm is divested. “We may have to work late in the night to complete the task given to us,” the message added, seeking cooperation of the employees.Officials are working round the clock to complete all procedures this week. They may have to work even on January 26 so that the handover can be done on Thursday, said a second AI official, requesting anonymity. “We have done an excellent job till now in providing support for the disinvestment exercise,” the official added.On October 8, the Tatas beat the ₹15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of ₹12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100% stake in the loss-making carrier.The bid amount includes Tata’s taking on of about ₹15,300 crore of the national flag carrier’s ₹61,562 crore debt. The remaining will be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Limited (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle formed by the government.On October 11, a Letter of Intent (LoI) was issued to the Tata group confirming the government’s willingness to sell its 100% stake in the airline. On October 25, the Centre signed the share purchase agreement (SPA) for this deal.The deal was a boost for the government’s disinvestment drive and financial books. In the 2021 financial year, which was battered by the pandemic, the airline was estimated to have lost ₹27 crore a day.For Tata Group, AI is the third airline in its stable – it already holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd. It will also fetch the company prized landing and parking slots. At present, AI has control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas such as London’s Heathrow and New York’s JFK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-s-handover-expected-after-republic-day-101643016728739.html
